# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document analyses the IETF QUIC protocol and its potential use as
a transport protocol for the 5GC Service Based Interfaces.
**This technical report provides an analysis of the following aspects:**
\- Features of transport protocol required for 5GC SBI;
\- Features of QUIC applicable to 5GC SBI;
\- Comparison of the applicable features of QUIC against TCP for the 5GC SBI;
\- Key requirements for 5GC SBI in order to support QUIC as a transport
protocol;
\- Solutions for supporting the key requirements;
\- Impacts to 5GC Service Based Interfaces due to introduction of QUIC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.500: \"5G System; Technical Realization of Service Based
Architecture; Stage 3\".
[5] IETF draft-ietf-quic-transport-29: \"QUIC: A UDP-Based Multiplexed and
Secure Transport\".
[6] IETF draft-ietf-quic-tls-29: \"Using Transport Layer Security (TLS) to
Secure QUIC\".
[7] IETF draft-ietf-quic-http-29: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) over
QUIC\".
[8] IETF draft-ietf-quic-recovery-29: \"QUIC Loss Detection and Congestion
Control\".
[9] IETF draft-ietf-quic-invariants-09: \"Version-Independent Properties of
QUIC\"
[10] IETF draft-ietf-quic-qpack-16: \"QPACK: Header Compression for HTTP over
QUIC\"
[11] IETF RFC 5246: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.2\".
[12] IETF RFC 8446: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.3\".
[13] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[14] IETF RFC 7541: \"HPACK: Header Compression for HTTP/2\".
[15] Void
[16] IETF RFC 5682: \"Forward RTO-Recovery (F-RTO): An Algorithm for Detecting
Spurious Retransmission Timeouts with TCP\".
[17] IETF draft-dukkipati-tcpm-tcp-loss-probe-01: \"Tail Loss Probe (TLP): An
Algorithm for Fast Recovery of Tail Losses\".
[18] IETF RFC 6582: \"The NewReno Modification to TCP\'s Fast Recovery
Algorithm\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"Network Function Repository Services\".
[20] IETF RFC 7838: \"HTTP Alternative Services\".
[21] IETF draft-pardue-httpbis-http-network-tunnelling-01: \"HTTP-initiated
Network Tunnelling (HiNT)\".
[22] IETF RFC 7231: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Semantics and
Content\".
[23] IETF RFC 7230: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Message Syntax
and Routing\".
[24] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[25] GSMA NG.113: \"5GS Roaming Guidelines\".
[26] IETF RFC 8312: \"CUBIC for Fast Long-Distance Networks\".
[27] 3GPP TR 23.742: \"Study on Enhancements to the Service-Based
Architecture\".
[28] IETF RFC 8164: \"Opportunistic Security for HTTP/2\".
[29] IETF RFC 7657: \"Differentiated Services (Diffserv) and Real-Time
Communication\".
[30] Taking a Long Look at QUIC:
\"https://conferences.sigcomm.org/imc/2017/papers/imc17-final39.pdf\".
[31] IETF RFC 5288: \"AES Galois Counter Mode (GCM) Cipher Suits for TLS\".
[32] Developing and deploying a TCP replacement for the Web:
\"https://www.netdevconf.org/0x12/session.html?developing-and-deploying-a-tcp-
replacement-for-the-web\".
[33] Optimizing UDP for content delivery:
\"http://vger.kernel.org/lpc_net2018_talks/willemdebruijn-lpc2018-udpgso-
paper-DRAFT-1.pdf\".
[34] UDP segmentation offload:
\"https://www.netdevconf.org/0x12/session.html?udp-segmentation-offload\".
[35] Multiplexed Application Substrate over QUIC Encryption (MASQUE) charter
text: \"https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/charter-ietf-masque/\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
RTT Round Trip Time
TLS Transport Layer Security
# 4 Architectural Baseline
3GPP Release 16 Service Based Architecture as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]
and the 3GPP Release 16 Technical Realization of the Service Based
Architecture as specified in 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] shall be taken as the baseline
for studying QUIC\'s use as a transport protocol for the 5GS Service Based
Interfaces.
In particular the following architectural assumptions shall be taken into
account:
\- Replacing the transport protocol from TCP to QUIC shall not lead to any
change in the semantics of the NF services and shall not lead to any change in
API.
\- SEPP shall be used as the security protection and edge proxy even when the
NF service consumer in VPLMN and the NF service consumer in HPLMN both use
QUIC as the transport.
\- For inter PLMN NF service communication, even if both the NF service
consumer and NF service producer support QUIC, the IPX providers and
intermediaries on path between the two NF\'s first hop and the last hop shall
not be mandated to support QUIC. In other words, the NF service consumer and
the NF service producer shall be able to communicate when using QUIC as
transport even in the presence of TCP based IPX or intermediaries on path
between the first hop and the last hop.
\- A NF Service Consumer and NF Service Producer may communicate indirectly
via Service Communication Proxy (SCP). The indirect communication options
defined in Annex E of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]) and listed hereafter shall be
permitted:
\- Option C - Indirect communication without delegated discovery;
\- Option D - Indirect communication with delegated discovery.
SCPs act as HTTP proxies. SCPs require the ability to look into the HTTP
message for delegated discovery and selection functionality.
# 5 Transport Protocol Features Required For 3GPP 5GC SBI
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause will identify the requirements from transport protocol for the
3GPP 5GC service based interfaces and then subsequently highlights the
features of the QUIC protocol. Among the features of QUIC, those features that
are applicable for the 3GPP 5GC service based interfaces are then explicitly
identified.
## 5.2 Requirements from Transport Protocol for 3GPP 5GC SBI
The following are the key requirements from transport layer protocols for the
3GPP 5GC service based interfaces. The 3GPP 5GC service based interfaces use
HTTP/2 as the application layer protocol. As of 3GPP Release 15, TCP is used
as the transport protocol for the 5GC service based interfaces. TCP suffers
from Head of Line blocking issues and any new transport protocol that is
considered as a replacement to TCP for the 3GPP 5GC service based interfaces
shall not have the same limitation.
REQ#1: The transport layer protocol shall support reliable message delivery.
REQ#2: The transport layer protocol shall support flow control and congestion
control mechanisms.
REQ#3: The transport layer protocol shall support connection semantics as
required by IETF RFC 7540 [13].
REQ#4: The failure to deliver one message shall not block subsequent messages.
REQ#5: The transport layer protocol shall have mechanisms to allow
authentication of the peer transport endpoint and shall have mechanisms for
the secure transfer of application layer messages.
REQ#6: The transport layer protocol shall have mechanisms to allow processing
of the HTTP/2 messages over it by intermediaries (e.g. proxies like SCP).
REQ#7: The transport layer protocol should support troubleshooting and
Monitoring, e.g. message trace and parse in the middlebox for the scenarios of
testing, monitoring, troubleshooting and etc.
REQ#8: The transport layer protocol, along with the upper layer application
protocol shall support the distributed architecture for PNFs and VNFs, e.g.
the front-end load-balancer and back-end service process-units architecture.
REQ#9: The performance and resource efficiency (i.e. CPU, Memory and other
processing requirements) shall be one of the evaluation criteria of the
transport layer protocol.
REQ#10: The complexity and cost of development and deployment of the transport
layer protocol shall be one of the evaluation criteria.
REQ#11: The transport layer protocol shall be mature enough for adoption of
the protocol in the 5GC, e.g. fully standardized and has mature open source
support, not only for the QUIC protocol, but also the full stack of HTTP/3
protocols.
## 5.3 Features of QUIC
### 5.3.1 General
QUIC is a multiplexed and secure transport protocol that runs on top of UDP.
QUIC aims to provide a flexible set of features that allow it to be a general-
purpose secure transport for multiple applications. The main parts of QUIC are
defined in a set of documents IETF draft-ietf-quic-transport [5], IETF draft-
ietf-quic-recovery [8], IETF draft-ietf-quic-tls [6], IETF draft-ietf-quic-
invariants [9]. The highly integrated HTTP/2 over QUIC specification (now
called HTTP/3) IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7] and HTTP header compression IETF
draft-ietf-quic-qpack [10] are developed in parallel with the core protocol.
The protocol is developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).
QUIC is mainly designed for the communication across insecure and untrusted
internet, it integrates some features to tackle the performance, security and
privacy related challenges, the applicability of applying QUIC in 5G Core
shall be evaluated.
### 5.3.2 Framing and Multiplexing
Provisions in this clause are based on IETF draft-ietf-quic-transport [5].
QUIC endpoints communicate by exchanging QUIC packets in UDP datagrams. One or
more QUIC packets can be encapsulated in a single UDP datagram. QUIC packets
may have long or short headers, for packets sent prior or after the completion
of version negotiation and establishment of 1-RTT keys respectively. A sender
multiplexes one or more QUIC frames of the same or different type(s) into a
QUIC packet. The header contains only a limited set of fields, including
Destination Connection ID field (see clause 5.3.7) and encrypted Packet Number
field. Data sent by an application is encapsulated in STREAM frames which are
carried in 0-RTT packets, if send as early data during the handshake, or
afterwards in 1-RTT packets. An endpoint uses the Stream ID and Offset fields
in STREAM frames to place data in order. The usage of the Offset field is
further explained by the below example.
EXAMPLE: Let\'s say a QUIC transport entity sends data via three STREAM
frames. The first one is e.g. 10 octets long, starts at offset 0 and ends at
offset 9. The second one is e.g. 20 octets long, starts at offset 10 and ends
at offset 29. The third one is e.g. 7 octets long, starts at offset 30 and
ends at offset 36. Let\'s also assume these frames are carried by separate
QUIC packets A, B and C. In a sunny day scenario all three packets arrive at
the receiving entity, which successfully acknowledges them. In a rainy day
scenario, retransmissions are necessary. Let\'s say, packets A and B were lost
and only packet C is delivered and acknowledged. The sender obviously needs to
retransmit the content with offset 0..9 and 10..29. The sender can do this
either by resending these two frames as initially sent (i.e. the three frames)
or by sending a single, 10+20=30 octets long frame with offset 0..29.
This is one of the differences with TCP, as TCP only provides one stream and
all data therefore are delivered in order, which means multiplexing is not
supported in TCP. A sender can wait for a short period of time to bundle
multiple frames into the same QUIC packet, e.g. to minimize the computational
costs of packets sending.
QUIC supports multiple parallel data streams multiplexed on a single QUIC
connection. Streams, which can be unidirectional or bidirectional in QUIC
provide a lightweight, ordered byte-stream abstraction to an application.
Packets transmitted in each stream use Authenticated Encryption with
Additional Data (AEAD) to provide confidentiality and integrity protection.
Streams can be long-lived, even during the lifetime of a connection to
increase the reusability and limit the cost of opening stream (See IETF draft-
ietf-quic-transport [5]). An endpoint of a bidirectional stream can terminate
one direction and even encourage prompt termination in the opposite direction.
For each stream QUIC now only supports reliable and in-order delivery, but the
implementations may choose to offer the ability to deliver data out of order.
However, the QUIC layer is capable of delivering to the higher layer each
stream independently as the streams in QUIC are independent of each other,
thus it avoids blocking the delivery of any of the other streams when a packet
loss contains only part of a stream which would be the case for HTTP/2 over
TCP. Note that to achieve this efficiency the implementation needs to pay
attention to pack payload from one stream into a single QUIC packet.
The HTTP/3 mapping for QUIC IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7] utilizes this stream
concept when realizing the different HTTP/2 (See IETF RFC 7540 [13]) streams.
HTTP/3 also had to improve the HTTP header compression scheme HPACK (See IETF
RFC 7541 [14] into QPACK (See IETF draft-ietf-quic-qpack [10]). With these
changes HTTP can deliver independent requests and responses in the order they
are successfully delivered to endpoints, without head of line blocking between
HTTP streams which would be the case for HTTP/2 over TCP.
### 5.3.3 Improved Recovery and Acknowledgement
The QUIC definition of its packet format and acknowledgement frame results in
several improvements over TCP. The packet number is transmission-time ordered
and strictly increasing. QUIC never retransmits a particular packet, only the
lost data frames that need to be retransmitted. QUIC facilitates better way to
calculate RTT by encoding the delay between packet reception and transmission
of the acknowledgement. The QUIC acknowledgment also supports a very larger
number of received and gap ranges.
Compared to TCP, QUIC will not be limited to a three blocks of selective
acknowledgement (SACK) when using the timestamp option. Each ACK Frame in QUIC
can contain variable number of ACK ranges, up to 62 bits (See IETF draft-ietf-
quic-transport [5]), which helps to ease network throughputs in case of
sending packets frequently. The strict packet numbers and explicit
acknowledgement removes ambiguity between which packet is lost and which is
acknowledged. Avoiding any unnecessary retransmissions of data that have
reached the receiver. QUIC also avoids the retransmission uncertainty if the
received packet was a delayed or retransmitted. QUIC\'s RTT samples are more
accurate than what TCP can provide due to no ambiguity about which packets are
used in measurement as well as the receiver side delay can be taken into
account.
The congestion control algorithm of the current QUIC version is based on
NewReno (See IETF RFC 6582 [18]), but implementations can use other congestion
control algorithms, such as Cubic (see IETF RFC 8312 [26]), and endpoints are
allowed to use different algorithms from one another. QUIC can customise
different congestion control algorithms for different connections of the same
application, and even alter it during the lifetime of a connection, see clause
5.3.15. QUIC provides generic congestion control signals to support different
algorithms. QUIC also uses some additional modern loss recovery mechanisms by
default, such as F-RTO (See IETF RFC 5682 [16]), and Tail Loss Probing (See
IETF draft-dukkipati-tcpm-tcp-loss-probe [17]). These improvements give QUIC a
better recovery mechanism.
### 5.3.4 Encrypted and Integrity Protected Transport details
QUIC uses TLS 1.3 (See IETF draft-ietf-quic-tls [6], IETF RFC 8446 [12]), for
key establishment, QUIC integrates the TLS 1.3 as its own encryption and
integrity layer that protects the QUIC packets, but the security capability of
HTTP/3 over QUIC/UDP is consistent with HTTP/2 over TLS1.3/TCP. Each QUIC
packet has a packet header, using a short or a long format with a small number
of fields that are unencrypted, but integrity protected. It is primarily the
connection ID that is unencrypted and three reserved bits for experimentation
in the short header. Even the packet number is encrypted using an independent
mechanism from the payload.
The encryption and integrity protection provide confidentiality, privacy and
source authenticity for the user of QUIC. However, the protection is also
intended to prevent any middlebox in the network from interfering with the
protocol, nor make assumptions about what the possible values any specific bit
in the UDP payload can take. Ossification of the network has prevented a lot
of improvements from being applied to TCP as middleboxes would either block or
remove such changes.
Compared to TCP, this level of encryption does make certain type of network
performance monitoring using middlebox basically impossible. Due to this, the
QUIC short header introduces a latency spin bit (See IETF draft-ietf-quic-
transport [5]) that is intended to enable middlebox to measure round-trip time
between the middlebox and either endpoint of the connection if enabled by both
end-points. The latency spin bit partially overcomes the drawback of
impossible network performance monitoring caused by encryption in QUIC layer,
but cannot support the message tracing by content inspection for the testing,
monitoring and troubleshooting related scenarios.
### 5.3.5 Connection Setup Improvements
QUIC is capable of completing establishment of a connection between a client
and a server in one and half RTT. The protocol combines TLS (See IETF RFC 8446
[12]) handshake with transport protocol level mechanisms to achieve this. A
client\'s request to a server can be included after one RTT and be sent
combined with the last step of the crypto handshake from the client to the
server.
Holding state in the server for the initial connection establishment packets
prior to having verified the client\'s return path can expose the server to a
denial of service risk. Servers that like to mitigate that risk can use the
Retry packet to verify the path and not hold any state for the first round-
trip.
How big improvement this is depends on what one compares against. As 3GPP TS
33.310 makes support for TLS 1.3 (See IETF RFC 8446 [12]) mandated from Rel-15
it is reasonable to compare with both TLS 1.2 (See IETF RFC 5246 [11]) and TLS
1.3. TLS 1.2 session resumption requires that the client has talked to the
server recently enough, so it still has session state stored. The below table
indicates number of RTTs until the first HTTP request can be sent by the
client.
Table 5.3.5-1: Number of RTTs until first HTTP request
* * *
Protocol New Connection Connection State Exists TCP/TLS 1.2 3 2 TCP/TLS 1.3 2
1 QUIC 1 0
* * *
QUIC can achieve faster connection establishment times until an HTTP request
has been sent than existing TLS and TCP combinations. This improvement is
significant when establishing a new connection, but not when clients have a
long lived one to the server.
### 5.3.6 0-RTT Data
TLS 1.3 (IETF RFC 8446 [12]) includes support for early data or 0-RTT data, as
it is also called. This is potentially usable by both HTTP/2 over TLS1.3/TCP
as well as HTTP/3. This functionality can be used when client and server share
a Pre-Shared Key (PSK), which can be arranged out of band or exist from an
earlier connection. 0-RTT data has other security properties than for data
sent after the handshake completes. Data sent as 0-RTT data will be possible
to replay by an attacker that has seen the client to server exchange.
Therefore, the use of 0-RTT data requires that the data is safe to replay.
When using HTTP requests as 0-RTT data, the request performed must be one that
is idempotent. Server may refuse to accept 0-RTT data for this reason.
A server accepts 0-RTT data on a connection needs more processing and
computation cost. Servers need to consider the probability of replay and all
associated costs when accepting 0-RTT (See IETF draft-ietf-quic-tls [6], IETF
RFC 8446 [12]).
### 5.3.7 Connection ID
QUIC uses a set of connection IDs, one connection ID for the server and one
connection ID for the client to identify a particular connection for an
endpoint. During the handshake, QUIC packet with the long header is used to
exchange the connection ID that each endpoint assigned. The endpoint is
allowed to change the own connection ID to another available one at any time
during the connection without any interruption in the transmission. This
solution makes the connection not hard bound to a particular 5-tuple (Source
and Destination IP, protocol, and source and destination port), instead the
connection can be moved between different network interfaces on client and
with some limitations on the server side. The protocol has a feature for
migrating connections from using one 5-tuple to another, see clause 5.3.8.
When knowingly changing the used 5-tuple a new connection ID is necessarily to
be used. The peers exchange additional connection IDs when needed to ensure
that the peer have one or more previously unused CIDs that can be used in case
of connection migration. The middlebox is difficult to correlate the received
packet to the connection as the procedure used to changing connection is in
encryption.
The length of connection ID is variable, and it provides certain flexibility
in how the implementers realize network equipment architecture, e.g. front-end
load-balancers, for QUIC.
### 5.3.8 Connection Migration
QUIC allows its connection to migrate while the HTTP/3 session progresses.
This means for a client with multiple network interfaces an ongoing QUIC
session can be moved to newly validated path via a newly discovered network
interface, for example, in the case of a data session handover from WLAN to a
3GPP radio access technology. This is possible as QUIC sessions are identified
by a set of connection IDs hence a particular QUIC session is not tightly
coupled with a specific client IP address and port number. If a network
interface appears with new IP addresses or an existing one disappears but the
client has alternative network interfaces, the QUIC session does not need to
be established again. The QUIC session can continue on a new interface after
the client has validated the path to the server from the new interface address
using PATH_CHALLENGE frames, with potentially a new connection ID from the
previously communicated set of connection IDs.
NOTE: IETF draft-ietf-quic-transport [5] does not mandate a new connection ID
after connection migration. However such reuse is not recommended as this
allows on path observers to link multiple source IP addresses to the same
connection and identify the topological relationship of clients. See clause
9.5 of IETF draft-ietf-quic-transport [5].
It is possible that the server also has multiple IP addresses and has some
preferences on which interface it would like to serve a particular client for
load balancing or other management. QUIC allows server to receive a connection
request to one IP address and migrate the connection to a preferred address in
connection response immediately, this achieve faster connection migration than
HTTP redirect. Currently, QUIC does not support change of server IP address in
the middle of an ongoing session however, the server preferred address can be
conveyed to the client during the TLS handshake as \"preferred_address\"
transport parameter (see clause 9.6 of IETF draft-ietf-quic-transport [5]). If
the new path to the preferred server address is valid then client sends all
the future packets to the new server address. Here the client also uses a new
connection ID for the new connection to the server\'s preferred address.
### 5.3.9 Stream Prioritization
Being a multiplexed transport protocol, QUIC supports stream prioritization
for boosting the application performance. However, QUIC itself neither
provides mechanism to negotiate prioritization information nor implements any
strict prioritization scheme. It relies on the application to provide priority
information that QUIC will follow when it comes to packet transmission or
retransmission. HTTP/3 uses the same prioritization mechanism as HTTP/2.
### 5.3.10 Flow Control
Flow control is a mechanism to set boundaries to the senders to avoid
overwhelming receiver with data that the receiver cannot process. Like TCP,
QUIC deploys connection level flow control, moreover, it applies a secondary
stream level flow control to prevent a particular stream from consuming the
receiver buffer for a connection. As QUIC provides multiplexing, flow control
from the HTTP/2 layer is moved to the QUIC layer, avoiding head of line
blocking and simplifying HTTP/3.
### 5.3.11 Protocol Versioning
QUIC has a 32-bit version field. It can be expected that QUIC will eventually
exists in a number of proprietary and standardized versions. IETF is currently
working on defining version 0x00000001. There exists a mechanism for the
client to ask the server to enumerate all versions it support. The client when
requesting to create a connection it will indicate the version desired to use.
If supported then that is what will be used, otherwise it triggers the version
negotiation. Some of the non-encrypted fields are defined as not being
changeable independent of version as defined by the document for invariants
(See IETF draft-ietf-quic-invariants [9]).
The QUIC versioning enables a very large degree of flexibility for future
changes of QUIC. All aspects except for the invariants can be changed. This
enables the tuning of QUIC to a specific use case or implementation of future
improvements in transport protocol technology. This flexibility also indicates
the need to be explicit about which QUIC version(s) that are to be supported
by a specific SBI. Any analysis of benefits and downsides of QUIC must be
explicit about which version is discussed.
### 5.3.12 QUIC Extensibility
QUIC payloads are consists of one or more frames. Each frame starts with frame
types followed by type specific flags. All the streams with data are carried
over the STREAM frame type. QUIC\'s current specification defines a number of
essential frame types. However, new frame types can be created and can be even
application specific.
QUIC allows extensions to the protocol within the constraints of the protocol
invariants (see properties of the QUIC transport protocol that are expected to
remain unchanged as new versions of the protocol are developed, in IETF draft-
ietf-quic-invariants [9]). Extensions can change the semantics of existing
protocol components, but they need to be negotiated before being used.
Permitted extensions include new frame types, new settings, error codes and
uni-directional streams. This gives QUIC a unique way of to be extensible and
customizable.
The usage of new frame types does not necessarily imply using a new protocol
version. A peer can use transport parameters to indicate support to the peer
that it can use a new frame type. However, this has the downside that the
support of a certain frame type cannot be determined before establishing the
transport connection; on the other hand, using a specific protocol version can
be leveraged by a peer to determine this support prior to establishing the
connection.
### 5.3.13 Connection Configuration
QUIC allows a connection to be configured in a particular way with a set of
transport parameters and frames. The transport parameters are exchanged in the
cryptographic handshake. QUIC frames are used to configure how endpoints
communicate. For example - the PADDING frame allow to vary the packet size,
MAX_STREAM_ID frame indicates the maximum bidirectional or unidirectional
stream ID permitted to open for the connection. Moreover, new transport
parameters and frames can be added to extend the configuration.
### 5.3.14 User-Land Implementations
User space implementations of QUIC do not require elevated permissions. This
allows application to include a QUIC implementation without any operating
system changes. This simplifies deployment of QUIC, where only the application
intending to use QUIC needs to be updated. This flexibility can also be used
to fine tune the protocol behaviour to a particular application. However,
there exists some risk with this, as even if an implementation is following
the requirement of a certain QUIC version, the choices to optimize the
implementation may result in poorer performance between two differently
optimized implementations. Running separate QUIC applications in each
application\'s user space has the impact on performance and resource
efficiency in large-scale deployment scenario, which may not be a big problem
for equipment with specific function in 5G Core.
The implementation in user space also results in certain challenges that can
affect performance. Efficiency of the API towards the UDP receive and send
functions is one such case. Other complications can be access to high
performance timers and operating system\'s scheduling granularity.
### 5.3.15 Pluggable Sender Side Congestion Control
As QUIC implementation can reside in an application, it allows more experiment
with congestion control algorithms. QUIC can customise different congestion
control algorithms for connections of the same application. Compare to TCP,
pluggable sender side congestion control makes it pretty flexible and
effective on updating or terminating congestion control algorithms without
upgrading operation system. However, the fairness of the bandwidth competition
within the same network among applications using different congestion control
algorithms needs to be considered.
Now depending on the operational environment, network and service requirement
very specific congestion control algorithm can be deployed in the sender as
long as the information in the acknowledgement from receiver is sufficient.
### 5.3.16 Checking that the QUIC connection is alive
Another difference with HTTP/2 is that each QUIC endpoint declares an idle
timeout during the handshake. If the connection remains idle (no packets
received) for longer than the advertised idle timeout, the peer will assume
that the connection has been closed.
HTTP clients are expected to use QUIC PING frames to keep connections open if
necessary, to verify that their peers are still alive or to check reachability
to the peer. Without using QUIC PING frames, an inactive connection will time
out. The frequency of sending PING frames is controlled by applications.
### 5.3.17 62 bits stream identifiers
QUIC stream identifiers are coded as variable length integers allowing upto a
length of 62 bits, instead of 31 bits with HTTP/2. Out of the available 62
bits for stream ID encoding, 2 least significant bits are used to indicate who
initiates the stream (client / server) and whether the stream is
unidirectional or bidirectional. Hence for client initiated bidirectional
streams to carry the requests and responses of 3GPP Service Based Interfaces,
the available space is 2\^60 stream IDs.
NOTE: For variable length integer encoding the 2 MSB bits are used to derive
the length of the integer. The 2 MSB bits are coded as base 2 logarithm of the
total length of the variable length integer in octets. Thus for a 64 bit sized
entity, the 2 MSB bits are 11 (i.e. value 3), indicating that the length of
the integer is 8 octets of which only 62 bits are usable. See clause 16 and
clause 2.1 of IETF draft-ietf-quic-transport [5].
Stream ID exhaustion becomes nearly impossible during the lifetime of a QUIC
connection. This may simplify the management of connections in 5GC.
### 5.3.18 Running atop of UDP
When comparing HTTP/3 with HTTP/2, one should compare the complete protocol
stack. HTTP/2 runs either on top of TCP or on top of TLS/TCP, while HTTP/3
runs on top of QUIC/UDP, where QUIC natively incorporates TLS. In other words,
the difference goes well beyond replacing TCP with UDP, as TCP is mainly
replaced by QUIC/UDP from the transport layer point of view. The purpose for
using UDP in HTTP/3 stack is to ensure that QUIC packets pass transparently
through legacy middleboxes including OS, router, firewall etc. However, due to
DDoS attack avoidance, or other network operating consideration, network
operators configure the network to limit the peak rate of UDP packets, which
will heavily impact the exact performance behavior of QUIC and delay the
popularity of QUIC deployment in particular districts. It could be a kind of
deadlock for QUIC traffic used in internet until HTTP/3 is wildly accepted.
For SBI being used within Telco network, this will not be a big issue.
## 5.4 Features of QUIC Applicable to 3GPP SBI
### 5.4.1 General
This clause reviews the features of HTTP/3 and QUIC that are applicable to
3GPP SBI and under which cases and conditions they are applicable.
### 5.4.2 Framing and Multiplexing
This feature allows QUIC to multiplex multiple streams in to a single
connection and avoid head of line blocking. The upper layer protocols can use
the QUIC transport in efficient ways to prioritize, parallelize and even
cancel standing data sent or received without having to manage multiple
connections. Hence, to get the most of a QUIC connection this feature is
important. When it comes to SBI, there are definitely cases where one NF
consumer will have number of multiple standing requests to one of the NF
providers. The HTTP/3 and QUIC framing and multiplexing provides essential
support to perform the task efficiently. The efficiency gain in HTTP/3 and
QUIC, compared to HTTP/2 over TLS/TCP, exists only when the transport
connection is subject to packet loss. This is when TCP\'s head of line
blocking will not allow releasing received data to higher layer, even if the
data is completely received for independent HTTP/2 requests or responses.
### 5.4.3 Encrypted and Integrity Protected Transport details
Encryption and integrity protection are a very important aspect of the whole
SBI concept. 3GPP has mandated the support of TLS 1.2 or 1.3 for 5G core. The
NF provider needs to be sure about the identity of the NF consumer before
serving. Even though a higher layer authentication could serve the purpose of
the NF consumer authentication, protection in the transport layer can be very
important for a PLMN to function properly. Moreover, the SBI opens up the
possibility to run packet core in a general-purpose cloud environment where
the communication between inter PLMN and intra PLMN need to be secure and
integrity protected.
Having transport layer integrity and authentication mechanism the transport
protocol is harden against both attacks and random corruptions that could
affect the transport protocols action. For example, cryptographic integrity
protection is many magnitudes better at detecting modifications of the
transport protocol packet. Cryptographic integrity protection captures packet
modifications of both random types, as well as hostile modifications, where
checksums only have a weaker protection against random errors. This
improvement prevents fouling up the transport protocol state, affecting
performance and loss recovery. Data errors in IP/TCP packets that the TCP
checksum fails to detect will result in the corrupt data being passed to TLS.
TLS integrity verification of the TLS record will detect this corruption.
Normally in this case, there are no alternative to terminating the TCP
connection and restart it and re-issue the outstanding HTTP requests. QUIC\'s
integrity verification will in this case only result in the individual packet
being dropped, request retransmission, and not affect the connection state.
### 5.4.4 Connection setup improvements
QUIC can achieve faster connection establishment compared to TCP+TLS
combination. The applicability of this features depends on the model is used
for inter-NF communication. When long lived connection is used in between NFs
which uses SBI for communication even if QUIC provides faster connection it
will not impact the performance of the inter-NF communication significantly as
only the initial request for a connection will see any improvement. However,
if short lived connection models are used where NF-NF connection will be
created for each request and response pair, QUIC will provide a faster
experience of executing task via HTTP request/response as one or two RTT are
saved. Overall the faster connection setup time will provide faster connection
between NFs in start-up and/or recovery phase while lots of connection
supposed to be made at once or in parallel.
### 5.4.5 Connection ID and Connection Migration
The connection ID provides certain flexibility in how the implementers realize
front-end load-balancers for QUIC as the QUIC connection is not bound to 5
tuples (protocols and ports). In the case of SBI, both for cloud native
implementation or bare metal implementation, this connection ID will provide
the ability to establish network interface agonistic connection and move the
connect between the interfaces as required without terminating the QUIC
connection.
Server-side migration is currently only specified to be done shortly after
connection handshake using the Server Preferred Address mechanism discussed in
Clause 9.6 of IETF draft-ietf-quic-transport [5]. This mechanism requests that
the client sends the packet destined to the server to this preferred address
instead of the original one. Future versions or extensions may specify mid
connection server side migration.
Client-side migration may occur at any point after the handshake has
completed. This can be done intentionally by the client when another network
interface has become available, where it first probes the new path from this
other interface to the server, and after path verification starts using non-
probing packet, thus completing the migration. It can also occur implicit, due
to a NAT rebinding where the server-side observable source address and port
has changed due to this rebinding. Here the use of non-probing packets results
in immediate path migration to the new path, and at the same time the server
initiates a path validation.
### 5.4.6 Improved Recovery and Acknowledgement
When the transport connection is subject to packet loss, QUIC recovery and
acknowledgment mechanisms allow to optimally retransmit the lost frames and to
avoid unnecessary retransmissions of data that have reached the receiver.
## 5.5 Features of QUIC Not Applicable to 3GPP SBI
### 5.5.1 General
This clause reviews the features of QUIC that potentially are not applicable
to 3GPP SBI and why they are not applicable.
### 5.5.2 0-RTT DATA
0-RTT Data has very limited applicability to 3GPP SBI for several reasons. The
foremost is the security properties of 0-RTT data. As the 0-RTT data is
protected using a Pre-Shared Key (PSK) and not a connection specific
established state, the 0-RTT data is possible to replay by an adversary. It is
also does not have full forward secrecy, i.e. if the PSK key is later
compromised, then this message can be decrypted at that point.
The possibility for replay has multiple impacts. If the HTTP request in the
0-RTT data was not idempotent then the state of the NF could be changed (so
IETF draft-ietf-quic-tls [6] specifies that \"0-RTT MUST NOT carry a self-
contained trigger for any non-idempotent action\"). Secondly, when replaying
the order of requests can be changed by an adversary. Thus, changing the
effect of them, e.g. moving a delete after a create. If multiple replays are
allowed additional attacks are possible, including timing and measurement to
attempt to determine other state. Overload concerns are also present both on
the server side, as well as using 0-RTT as a method for amplifying the amount
of data a spoofed source address attack results in.
Due to that many 3GPP SBI requests are not idempotent the potential use of
0-RTT data is very limited. By not allowing its use at all several
vulnerabilities are avoided, resulting in a safer and less complex systems as
no mitigations are needed.
In any case, given that the considerations on applicability of this feature
are essentially related to security, it should be up to SA3 to determine
whether it is recommended or not to use this feature in 3GPP networks; also,
the recommendation may be dependent on intra vs inter -PLMN scenarios.
## 5.6 Comparison of Applicable Features with Rel-15 Transport
Table 5.6-1 provides a comparison of the features supported by HTTP/3 that are
applicable to the 5GC SBI with HTTP/2 over TLS/TCP, based on the requirements
from Transport Protocol for 3GPP 5GC SBI defined in clause 5.2 and additional
evaluation criteria.
Table 5.6-1: Comparison of HTTP/3 and HTTP/2
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Requirement/ | HTTP/2 over TLS/TCP | HTTP/3 | | Evaluation Criterion | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | R1. Reliable message | TCP supports | QUIC supports | | delivery | reliable and | reliable and | | | o | o | | | rder-of-transmission | rder-of-transmission | | | delivery of data. | delivery of data per | | | | stream. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | R2. Flow control and | Flow control is | Flow control is | | congestion control | supported at | supported at | | mechanism | connection and | connection and | | | stream levels. | stream levels. | | | | | | | TCP provides | QUIC supports | | | end-to-end | advanced mechanisms | | | congestion control, | for loss detection | | | but with significant | recommending TCP | | | throughput reduction | NewReno for | | | in case of packet | congestion control. | | | loss. | Implementations may | | | | use other | | | | algorithms. | | | | | | | | QUIC treats a | | | | Congestion Explicit | | | | Congestion | | | | Notification (ECN) | | | | in the IP header as | | | | a signal of | | | | congestion. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | R3. Support of | One HTTP connection | One HTTP connection | | connection semantics | maps to one TCP | maps to one QUIC | | | connection. | connection. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | R4. Failure to | Head-Of-Line (HOL) | QUIC avoids blocking | | deliver one message | blocking occurs if | the delivery of data | | shall not block | TCP segments get | for any other | | subsequent messages | lost, delaying the | streams when a | | | delivery of all | packet loss contains | | | subsequent HTTP | only part of a | | | requests/responses | stream. | | | until the lost | | | | segments are | How much benefits | | | retransmitted. | this brings depends | | | | on how much packet | | | | loss occurs in the | | | | network. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | R5. Transport | Authentication and | QUIC uses TLS 1.3 | | protocol supports | secure transfer of | for key | | mechanisms to | application messages | establishment, but | | authenticate peer | are provided by TLS | it has its own | | endpoint and to | (unless security is | encryption and | | secure transfer of | provided by other | integrity layer that | | application messages | means). | protects the QUIC | | | | packets. | | | NF service access | | | | authorization relies | NF access | | | on OAuth2 using TLS. | authorisation is | | | | FFS. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A1. Framing and | HTTP/2 supports | HTTP/3 supports | | Multiplexing | multiplexing | multiplexing of | | | multiple parallel | multiple parallel | | | requests in separate | requests in separate | | | streams in a | streams in a | | | non-blocking fashion | non-blocking fashion | | | (at HTTP level) over | over the same QUIC | | | the same TCP | connection. | | | connection. | | | | | | | | See also R4 for HOL | | | | at TCP level. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A2. Connection Setup | 1 ½ RTT is required | By combining | | Improvements | to setup the TCP | connection setup and | | | connection. 1 ½ RTT | TLS handshakes, QUIC | | | is required to setup | improves connection | | | the TLS connection. | setup latency and | | | | security allowing | | | Clients can start | 0-RTT connection | | | sending HTTP | setup. However, the | | | requests after 1 RTT | precondition of the | | | (without using TLS) | improvement is that | | | or 2 RTT (with TLS). | the NF service | | | | consumer has had an | | | | earlier connection | | | | with the NF service | | | | provider so that it | | | | can reuse the | | | | earlier learnt | | | | connection settings | | | | including the | | | | security keys for | | | | 0-RTT. When using | | | | stateless services, | | | | no earlier | | | | connection to the | | | | same service | | | | instance can be | | | | assumed. In | | | | addition, if the | | | | connection is | | | | persistent the | | | | impact of 0-RTT | | | | connection setup is | | | | minimal to the | | | | overall performance. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A3. Failover to | TCP does not support | QUIC does not | | Alternate Path | multi-homing. | support multi-homing | | | | (_like supported by | | | Failover to | SCTP_). | | | alternate paths can | | | | be supported by | QUIC supports | | | setting up | client-side | | | additional TCP | migration after the | | | connections. | handshake has | | | | completed, and | | | This requires the | server-side | | | client to detect | migration shortly | | | path failures (e.g. | after the connection | | | based on PING | handshake, giving | | | frames) and to | some flexibility to | | | switch to | move the connection | | | alternative TCP | between interfaces | | | connection(s). | without terminating | | | | the QUIC connection. | | | The server cannot | | | | send responses on an | Failover to | | | alternate path. | alternate paths can | | | | also be supported by | | | | using additional | | | | QUIC connections. | | | | | | | | This requires the | | | | client to detect | | | | path failures (e.g. | | | | based on PING | | | | frames) and to | | | | migrate the | | | | connection to | | | | another network | | | | interface / local | | | | address, or to | | | | alternative QUIC | | | | connection(s). | | | | | | | | There is no | | | | mechanism defined by | | | | QUIC that correlates | | | | heart beats and | | | | switching to | | | | failover paths; this | | | | has to be provided | | | | at the application | | | | layer. | | | | | | | | The server cannot | | | | migrate the | | | | connection to a | | | | different network | | | | interface / local | | | | address during the | | | | lifetime of the | | | | connection. | | | | | | | | The server cannot | | | | send responses on an | | | | alternative path, | | | | unless the client | | | | has migrated the | | | | connection on the | | | | client side. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A4. Low Response | Significant | Throughput reduction | | Time | throughput reduction | due to congestion | | | by TCP in overload | response for QUIC is | | | and TCP head-of-line | similar to TCP\'s. | | | blocking are | | | | potential issues. | QUIC based transport | | | See R4. | avoids head of-line | | | | blocking. See R4. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A5. Scalability | FFS | FFS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A6. Time of | Already available. | Planned completion | | Availability of used | | by July 2019. | | standards | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A7. Ease of | Many tools exist to | Many tools exist to | | troubleshooting and | trace/monitor HTTP | trace/monitor HTTP | | Monitoring | REST APIs. | REST APIs, but less | | | | widespread support | | | If TLS end-to-end | for QUIC so far. | | | encryption is used, | | | | this renders | QUIC requires | | | centralized logging | end-to-end | | | at intermediates | encryption that | | | impossible. | would render | | | | centralized logging | | | An HTTP response | at intermediates | | | follows the same | impossible or much | | | path as its request | more complex. QUIC | | | as it is sent on the | exposes a spin bit | | | same TCP connection. | in short packet | | | | header to measure | | | | the RTT of a | | | | connection. | | | | | | | | An HTTP response | | | | follows the same | | | | path as its request | | | | as it is sent on the | | | | same QUIC | | | | connection. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A8. Ease of | Need to configure | Need to configure | | traversal of | operator-grade | operator-grade | | carrier-grade | firewalls to pass | firewalls to pass | | ALG/NAT/firewall | TCP/TLS/HTTP. For | UDP/QUIC. For | | | bidirectional | bidirectional | | | communication, | communication, | | | configuration for | configuration for | | | two connections may | two connections may | | | be required, but | be required, but | | | security gateways | security gateways | | | can reduce the | can reduce the | | | number of required | number of required | | | connections (see | connections (see | | | 3GP | 3GP | | | P TS 33.210 [24]). | P TS 33.210 [24]). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A9. Impacts to GSMA | Support being | No HTTP/3 support so | | GRX/IPX | defined for Rel-15 | far. | | | | | | | (see | | | | GSMA NG 113 [25]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A10. Use of proxies | HTTP/2 supports the | HTTP/3 Proxy | | | use of proxies in | functionality still | | | the path. | at very early stage | | | | (see clause 6.2). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A11. Idle HTTP | PING frames are used | PING frames are used | | connections | to test whether a | to test whether a | | | connection is still | connection is still | | | alive. | alive and to keep | | | | the connection | | | | alive. | | | | | | | | QUIC endpoint | | | | declares an idle | | | | timeout during the | | | | handshake. If the | | | | connection remains | | | | idle (no packets | | | | received) for longer | | | | than the advertised | | | | idle timeout, the | | | | peer will assume | | | | that the connection | | | | has been closed. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A12. Availability of | Many libraries to | QUIC support is not | | standard APIs (e.g. | choose from for | yet so widespread. | | socket APIs) | HTTP/2. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A.13 Stream IDs | HTTP/2 stream | QUIC stream | | | identifiers are | identifiers are | | | coded with 31 bits. | coded with 62 bits. | | | Stream IDs can | Stream IDs | | | exhaust during the | exhaustion becomes | | | lifetime of the | nearly impossible | | | HTTP/2 connection, | during the lifetime | | | which complexifies | of a QUIC | | | the management of | connection, which | | | connections. | simplifies the | | | | management of | | | | connections. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | A14. Message | Client and Server | QUIC relies on | | Prioritization | can set the priority | receiving priority | | | of an HTTP request | information from the | | | and response. | application. QUIC | | | | frames do not allow | | | Multiple HTTP/2 | to exchange priority | | | connections between | information between | | | two HTTP/2 end | peers. | | | points are | | | | necessary: one per | Only the client is | | | DSCP value (see | allowed to send | | | clause 6.8.8 of | HTTP/3 PRIORITY | | | 3G | frames over the | | | PP TS 29.500 [4]), | request or control | | | which complexifies | stream. | | | the management of | | | | connections. | There is an assumed | | | | integration between | | | | the HTTP/3 layer and | | | | QUIC to enable QUIC | | | | packet sender to | | | | prioritize the | | | | different streams | | | | based on what is | | | | configured on the | | | | HTTP/3 layer. | | | | | | | | Multiple QUIC | | | | connections may | | | | still be necessary | | | | for messages with | | | | different SBI | | | | message priorities / | | | | DSCP to handle | | | | congestion control | | | | correctly, since | | | | using multiple DSCP | | | | on the same QUIC | | | | connection could | | | | confuse the | | | | congestion control | | | | algorithm, as it | | | | does not separate | | | | information on the | | | | different priority | | | | levels. The general | | | | problem is discussed | | | | in clause 5.1 of | | | | I | | | | ETF RFC 7657 [29]. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 6 HTTP/3
## 6.1 Introduction
This clause will contain description about the mapping and usage of HTTP/3
including some of the not so well understood/documented aspects.
Figure 6.1-1 provides an overview of the HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 protocol stacks,
highlighting key features of the HTTP and transport layers. See clause 5.3 for
a detailed description of the QUIC features.
Figure 6.1-1 HTTP/3 vs. HTTP/2 protocol stacks
With HTTP/2 protocol stack, TLS is used conditionally when the security is not
provided by other means.
With HTTP/3 protocol stack, TLS is integrated into QUIC and is used always,
i.e. TLS is mandatory.
## 6.2 HTTP/3 Proxies
### 6.2.1 General
HTTP clients can be configured to route their outgoing HTTP requests via a
HTTP proxy. If the NF service consumer (i.e. HTTP client) is configured to
route its message via a HTTP proxy, the NF service consumer will try to setup
a transport connection towards the proxy. If the NF service consumer knows
that the proxy supports QUIC based on configuration or other offline means,
the transport connection towards the HTTP proxy may use QUIC. Thereafter how
the HTTP/3 proxy further communicates with the NF service producer for various
scenarios are explained in the clauses below.
Figure 6.2.1-1 NF Service Consumer to NF Service Producer Communication with
HTTP/3 Proxy on Path
### 6.2.2 When NF Service Consumer Side Uses QUIC
#### 6.2.2.1 Case A: Invoking http API Supporting Only TCP Transport
This case is not describe in IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7].
In this scenario:
\- NF service consumer supports QUIC and has established a QUIC transport
connection with its next hop HTTP proxy;
\- NF service consumer discovers that NF service producer supports only TCP.
\- The URI scheme of the API exposed by the NF service producer is http
In this case, the NF service consumer has the following options:
\- Option#1: The NF service consumer uses TCP transport towards the proxy as
well. This implies the proxy also supports TCP transport (which is a
reasonable assumption considering that during the migration from TCP to QUIC
many HTTP entities will support both transports).
\- Option#2: The NF service consumer uses QUIC transport towards the HTTP
proxy and the proxy uses TCP transport towards the NF service producer. The
HTTP proxy discovers whether the NF service producer supports TCP or QUIC
based on apriori connection setup. For example, in the case of SEPP all NFs in
a PLMN connect to the SEPP and establish a HTTP/2 or HTTP/3 connection
depending on what transport is supported by both the SEPP and the NF service
producer. IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7], clause 2.3 specifies that HTTP/3
clients shall indicate the target domain name during the TLS handshake of QUIC
connection setup. The certificate provided at connection setup shall be valid
for the target domain name.
Editor\'s Notes: It is unclear what domain name shall be used for the target
domain name when the connection is with a proxy (proxy domain name or the
origin server one).
The draft also says in clause 2.4 that a connection to a server endpoint may
be reused for requests with multiple different URI authority components. The
client may send any requests for which the client considers the server (the
one at the existing connection endpoint) authoritative.
Editor\'s Notes: In our case the client knows that existing QUIC connection
ends at a proxy and not at a server. So it is unclear if we can reuse an
existing QUIC connection to a proxy endpoint. Also it is unclear if a client
can consider a proxy as an authoritative server as proxies and servers are
essentially different HTTP entities.
The draft loosely specifies in clause 2.4 how the client knows that the server
at the endpoint of the reused QUIC connection (the proxy in our case) is
authoritative for requests directed to other domains. It mentions that
typically the client discovers that a particular server is the authoritative
HTTP/3 endpoint based on the client having received Alt-Svc HTTP response
header or the HTTP/2 ALTSVC frame (see IETF RFC 7838 [20]).
Editor\'s Note: Whether other mechanisms other than use of IETF RFC 7838 [20]
can be considered to discover a particular HTTP/3 endpoint is the
authoritative endpoint for a URI authoritative component is FFS.
Finally, the clients shall check that the nominated server can present a valid
certificate for the Origin Server before considering it authoritative.
Therefore, the HTTP proxy has to present a certificate to the HTTP/3 client on
behalf of the HTTP Origin Server (NF service producer) that is valid for
multiple domain names and signed by the client network\'s own certificate
authority. In roaming, the client network owner (the VPLMN) and the origin
server network owner (the HPLMN) are different authorities and such a
certificate is impossible to issue by a regular certification authority (e.g.
Verisign). The only possibility is that the HTTP client should be configured
to trust the HTTP proxy as the certificate authority. Only then this option#2
will work.
\- Option#3: The NF service consumer uses QUIC transport towards the HTTP
proxy. The proxy provides a certificate only valid for itself at QUIC
connection setup. When the NF service consumer needs to send a request to an
NF Service producer it first establishes a tunnel through the proxy by sending
an HTTP CONNECT message in a new stream with an \":authority\" pseudo-header
field identifying the NF Service producer. The proxy then creates a TCP
connection towards the NF service producer. Once the TCP connection is
completed, a tunnel is created between the NF service consumer and producer.
This tunnel is used by the NF service consumer to create a direct HTTP/2
connection (without an end to end TLS) with the NF service producer. HTTP/2
messages can now flow between the two entities. This is illustrated by the
figure below.
Figure 6.2.2.1-1: http via HTTP/3 Proxy to NF Service Producer Supporting TCP
NOTE 1: Option 3 is not described by IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7] which only
describes the use of the CONNECT method to setup a TLS session between an HTTP
client and an Origin server.Most of the existing implementation also restricts
the usage of CONNECT to https URIs. This option excludes the use of current
implementations available on the market. However for 3GPP NF services, the
HTTP clients will be the HTTP client libraries supported in various
programming languages. One could program in such a way to use HTTP CONNECT via
a proxy for http URI too.
NOTE 2: IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7] doesn\'t explicitly say if the
verifications listed in clause 2.4 of the draft that authorize the reuse of an
existing QUIC connection are applicable to the CONNECT method.
#### 6.2.2.2 Case B: Invoking http API Supporting QUIC Transport
In this scenario:
\- NF service consumer supports QUIC and has established a QUIC transport
connection with its next hop HTTP proxy;
\- NF service consumer discovers that NF service producer also supports QUIC.
\- The URI scheme of the API exposed by the NF service producer is http
In this case the NF service consumer uses QUIC transport towards the HTTP
proxy and the HTTP proxy also uses QUIC transport towards the NF service
producer. The QUIC connections on the both side of the leg of HTTP proxy are
separate QUIC connections. As TLS is integrated in QUIC, this means this setup
would also terminate the TLS at the proxy which is undesirable. In case of
proxying with HTTP/2 only the TCP connection is terminated at the proxy but
the TLS connection on top of TCP is end-to-end.
The figure below illustrates the case where the HTTP client and server are
connected with two QUIC connections through an HTTP proxy.
The connection with the HTTP proxy would be reused for requests sent to
multiple domains. When the proxy needs to forward a message to a new HTTP
server, it establishes a new QUIC connection with it. The server provides a
valid certificate for itself.
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: http via HTTP/3 Proxy to NF Service Producer Supporting QUIC
Case B is not described in IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7] and the same
questions regarding the QUIC connection with the proxy as specified for Case A
remains open with Case B.
As per IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7], clause 2.4, a HTTP client MUST verify if
the nominated HTTP server it is communicating with (i.e. HTTP proxy in this
case) can present a valid certificate for the origin before considering it
authoritative. Hence in order to setup an end to end QUIC connection between
the HTTP client and the HTTP server via a HTTP/3 proxy, an equivalent of HTTP
CONNECT to setup a tunnel is required. Currently such an option does not
exist. HTTP CONNECT is used only when the URI scheme is https and upon getting
a HTTP CONNECT request a HTTP/3 proxy establishes a TCP connection with the
HTTP server (and not a QUIC connection) as specified in clause 5.2 of IETF
draft-ietf-quic-http [7].
NOTE: The use of HTTP CONNECT by HTTP clients when accessing https URI via a
proxy is not mandated in IETF RFC 7231 [22]. However many browsers by default
use HTTP CONNECT when accessing https URIs via a proxy. For 3GPP NF services,
the HTTP clients will be the HTTP client libraries supported in various
programming languages. One could program in such a way not to use HTTP CONNECT
via a proxy and trust the certificates issued by the proxy effectively
allowing the proxy to act as man in the middle.
IETF draft-pardue-httpbis-http-network-tunnelling-01 [21] tries to provide a
solution that permits a UDP-based HTTP/3 client behind an HTTP proxy to
establish an HTTP/3 session with the origin. As the successor approach, IETF
is reviewing a working group formation proposal to work on a HTTP based
proxying solution for end to end encrypted traffic, named MASQUE [35]. This
result of this working group will allow the end point to communicate with end
to end QUIC encryption while use the proxy on the path. This means the HTTP
client (consumer) will maintain a QUIC tunnelling connection towards the
HTTP/3 proxy and inside that tunnel the consumer will have an end to end QUIC
connection towards the HTTP server (provider).
#### 6.2.2.3 Case C: Invoking https API Supporting Only TCP Transport
In this scenario:
\- NF service consumer supports QUIC and has established a QUIC transport
connection with its next hop HTTP proxy;
\- NF service consumer discovers that NF service producer also supports only
TCP.
\- The URI scheme of the API exposed by the NF service producer is https
In this case the following sequence of events happen
\- HTTP client establishes a QUIC connection with the HTTP proxy, if not setup
earlier.
\- HTTP client sends a HTTP CONNECT request to the proxy with \":authority\"
pseudo-header set to the NF service producer FQDN or IP address.
\- HTTP proxy sets up a TCP connection with NF service producer (HTTP server).
\- HTTP proxy sends a HTTP CONNECT response to the HTTP client.
\- HTTP client does end to end TLS connection setup with the NF service
producer. An encrypted tunnel between the client and the server is now setup
and HTTP/2 connection can be setup on top.
NOTE 1: The HTTP client has to do encryption twice - one for the TLS tunnel
and one for the QUIC connection with proxy.
NOTE 2: The current design of CONNECT-based tunnelling reserves an ordered
byte stream (HTTP/2 and HTTP/3) for the client-to-proxy hop. This is subject
to head of-line (HoL) blocking. See IETF draft-pardue-httpbis-http-network-
tunnelling-01 [21] clause 3.6.
This scenario is illustrated in the figure below
Figure 6.2.2.3-1: https via HTTP/3 Proxy to NF Service Producer Supporting TCP
According to RFC 7230 [23] clause 2.7.3, the client shall ensure that its
connection to the origin server is secured through the use of strong
encryption, end-to-end, prior to sending the first HTTP request when the https
URI scheme is used.
When an HTTP proxy is deployed, end-to-end security is ensured by setting-up a
tunnel between the client and the Origin server using the HTTP CONNECT method
which is then secured with TLS.
A HTTP client implementation may decide not to enforce E2E security with TLS
though the https URI scheme is used and connection to the Origin server is
done via a proxy. IETF RFC 7231 [22] does not mandate the use of HTTP CONNECT
for accessing https URI via a proxy. If a HTTP client decides not to use
CONNECT, then it may trust the certificates issued by the HTTP/3 proxy on
behalf of the HTTP/TCP server signed by the proxy\'s certificate authority,
thus allowing the HTTP/3 proxy to act as man in the middle. This would violate
the requirement for the HTTP client in RFC 7230 [23] clause 2.7.3.
Alternatively the NF service consumer may decide to use TCP transport towards
the HTTP/proxy similar to option#1 provided in clause 6.2.2.1. In this case,
the NF service consumer avoids double ciphering.
#### 6.2.2.4 Case D: Invoking https API Supporting QUIC Transport
In this scenario:
\- NF service consumer supports QUIC and has established a QUIC transport
connection with its next hop HTTP proxy;
\- NF service consumer discovers that NF service producer also supports QUIC.
\- The URI scheme of the API exposed by the NF service producer is https
In this case the following sequence of events happen
\- HTTP client establishes a QUIC connection with the HTTP proxy
\- HTTP client sends a HTTP CONNECT to the proxy with URI set to the NF
service producer API URI.
\- As specified in IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7] clause 5.2, the proxy
establishes a TCP connection to the HTTP server. However it is desirable that
a mechanism is available for the HTTP/3 proxy to instruct the use of QUIC
connection to a HTTP server instead of TCP.
\- Currently there is no mechanism that exists in IETF draft-ietf-quic-http
[7] where a HTTP/3 proxy is instructed to use a QUIC connection to a HTTP
server instead of TCP.
IETF draft-pardue-httpbis-http-network-tunnelling-01 [21] tries to provide a
solution that permits a UDP-based HTTP/3 client behind an HTTP proxy to
establish an HTTP/3 session with the origin. But at this moment this is an
individual draft and is in very early stage.
According to RFC 7230 [23] clause 2.7.3, the client shall ensure that its
connection to the origin server is secured through the use of strong
encryption, end-to-end, prior to sending the first HTTP request when the https
URI scheme is used.
A HTTP client implementation may decide not to enforce E2E security though the
https URI scheme is used and connection to the Origin server is done via a
proxy. IETF RFC 7231 [22] does not mandate the use of HTTP CONNECT for
accessing https URI via a proxy. If a HTTP client decides not to use CONNECT,
then it may trust the certificates issued by the HTTP/3 proxy on behalf of the
HTTP/3 server signed by the proxy\'s certificate authority, thus allowing the
HTTP/3 proxy to act as man in the middle. This would violate the requirement
for the HTTP client in RFC 7230 [23] clause 2.7.3.
### 6.2.3 When NF Service Consumer Side Uses TCP
#### 6.2.3.1 Invoking http API Supporting QUIC Transport
In this scenario:
\- NF service consumer supports only TCP and has established a TCP transport
connection with its next hop HTTP proxy;
\- NF service consumer discovers that NF service producer supports QUIC.
\- The URI scheme of the API exposed by the NF service producer is http
In this case the HTTP proxy has to act as a HTTP/TCP proxy on one side and as
a HTTP/3 client on the other side. The proxy simply relays the message
received on TCP connection to the QUIC connection. But in order for the proxy
to setup a QUIC connection with the NF service producer, the proxy has to
discover that the NF service producer supports QUIC. This can be achieved by
using solution described in clause 8.2.2. This means the NF service producer
also should support TCP.
#### 6.2.3.2 Invoking https API Supporting QUIC Transport
In this scenario:
\- NF service consumer supports only TCP and has established a TCP transport
connection with its next hop HTTP proxy;
\- NF service consumer discovers that NF service producer supports QUIC.
\- The URI scheme of the API exposed by the NF service producer is https
When https scheme is used, the HTTP client first sends a HTTP CONNECT request
to the HTTP proxy. However as per IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7], clause 5.2
and IETF RFC 7231 [22], clause 4.3.6, when a HTTP proxy receives a HTTP
CONNECT method, it establishes a TCP based tunnel towards the NF service
producer (the HTTP destination origin server) so that a TLS connection end to
end from the HTTP client to the HTTP destination origin server can be setup.
Since the semantics of HTTP CONNECT demands this, the HTTP proxy will not use
QUIC towards the HTTP server (NF service producer) even if it supports QUIC.
A HTTP client implementation may decide not to use HTTP CONNECT to access a
https URI via a proxy. IETF RFC 7231 [22] does not mandate the use of HTTP
CONNECT for accessing https URI via a proxy. If a HTTP client decides not to
use CONNECT, then it may trust the certificates issued by the HTTP/3 proxy on
behalf of the HTTP/TCP server signed by the proxy\'s certificate authority,
thus allowing the HTTP/3 proxy to act as man in the middle. This would violate
the requirement for the HTTP client in RFC 7230 [23] clause 2.7.3.
## 6.3 Considerations for HTTP/3
### 6.3.1 General
3GPP TS 29.500 [4] mandates HTTP/2 over TCP as protocols to be use for SBI.
Running HTTP/3 requires special consideration as many of the HTTP/2 features
can be taken care of by QUIC. HTTP/2 and QUIC contains similar features like
stream, framing, multiplexing. Moving from HTTP/2 over TCP to HTTP/3 will
require the application layer protocol behavior and implementation to be
changed. Hence, it is important to identify the changes required both in
HTTP/2 and QUIC implementations. This clause details the features and
properties need special attention when HTTP/32 is used.
### 6.3.2 Connection setup and management
To use HTTP over QUIC requires explicit discovery of QUIC protocol support in
the client and server. The server can advertise the support for the QUIC as a
transport protocol then client can use some explicit information provided by
the server or prior knowledge of the previous contact to the server to select
QUIC as a transport protocol. Different alternatives to do the discovery of
QUIC support in the NFs are discussed in clause 7.2.
QUIC connection level settings are communicated between client and server at
the crypto handshake. However, the HTTP/3 specific settings (see IETF draft-
ietf-quic-http [7]) are set via SETTINGs frame sent by the client and server
via the HTTP/3 control stream after QUIC connection is established.
As QUIC allows stream multiplexing the HTTP clients can multiplex multiple
HTTP/3 requests on to same QUIC connection as long as the server has the
authority to serve the request. This reduces the need for multiple connections
and improves performance by avoiding the time it takes to establish new
connections. In case of SBI, every consuming NF will originate request to a
specific provider NF. Hence, there will be one to one mapping between the
server and origin. However, it is also possible to install a frontend proxy to
hide a number of provider NFs that is managed by one administration. In this
case the NF consumer will establish single connection towards the frontend
proxy and multiplex request towards different NF providers over a single QUIC
connection, treating the frontend proxy as a server endpoint.
### 6.3.3 Streams, framing and multiplexing
The QUIC stream number space is larger than that of HTTP/2. HTTP/3 uses a
completely new framing concept. The HTTP/2 framing is completely changed,
including the basic HTTP/2 Frame Header layout. Consequently HTTP/3 uses only
the QUIC streams and does not have a stream Identifier in the HTTP/3 frame
header..
Another important difference is the HTTP/3 only guarantee ordered delivery on
the stream level while HTTP2 expects absolute ordering on the frames across
multiple streams. HTTP/3 will break any such ordering assumption.
When HTTP runs over QUIC the HTTP layer does not require to do any stream
multiplexing. QUIC maps each of its streams to a HTTP transaction. A stream is
closed when the RESET_STREAM is received in QUIC. In HTTP/2, a stream is half-
closed when the frame with END_STREAM bit set is received, and is closed when
the RESET_STREAM is received. The additional difference is that in the current
specification, HTTP/3 does not use server initiated bidirectional stream. This
means unidirectional streams are created from both the client and server with
indication of the purpose of the stream as stream header at the beginning of
the streams. All client initiated bi-directional streams are used for requests
and responses.
Editor\'s Note: Some aspects of connection management are still not clearly
defined in the IETF drafts, such as the usage of client-initiated vs. server-
initiated streams, and bi-directional vs. unidirectional streams. A more
accurate description and analysis of these aspects is FFS, once the IETF
drafts are further developed.
The HTTP/3 frame type definition follows QUIC encoding concept. QUIC uses a
variable length integer encoding which allows a larger number of stream IDs
compared to HTTP/2 encoding. This change results in different HTTP/3 frame
types and requires a mapping from HTTP/2 to HTTP/3 frame types. HTTP/3 (see
IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7]) defines this mapping of HTTP/2 over HTTP/3.
### 6.3.4 Prioritization
In case of HTTP/2 the clients can set stream priority as defined in IETF RFC
7540 [13], at the creation of the stream and update the priority using
PRIORITY frame. However, in case of HTTP/3, only the client is allowed send
PRIORITY frames over control stream. The priority clause on the HEADER frame
is removed.
### 6.3.5 Server Push
HTTP/3 uses a different server push mechanism than what is defined for HTTP/2
in IETF RFC 7540 [13]. HTTP/3 uses two new frames to accomplish server push --
a) a modified PUSH_PROMISE frame and b) a MAX_PUSH_ID. The modified
PUSH_PROMISE frame does not refer to a stream as originally designed in IETF
RFC 7540 [13], it uses as PUSH_ID that uniquely identifies a server push.
HTTP/3 defines the use of PUSH_IDs in PUSH_PROMISE frame, DUPLICATE_PUSH
frame, CANCEL_PUSH frame and PRIORITY_FRAME in addition to their use in Push
Stream headers (a unidirectional server initiated stream) for now. The server
can only push, and it can initiate pushing only one it receives a MAX_PUSH_ID
frame from the corresponding client. Details of the modified server push
mechanism is described in IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7].
### 6.3.6 Compression (HPACK vs QPACK)
The Header Compression for HTTP/2, HPACK (see IETF RFC 7541 [14]), provides
compression of HTTP header fields. Significantly reducing the headers,
especially for sequential HTTP/2 request responses to the same server, where
repeated and redundant information is efficiently compressed. The use of HPACK
in HTTP/2 is one of the more significant performance improvements compared to
HTTP 1.0 or 1.1. HPACK was defined based on one important assumption, namely
the TCP in-order delivery of the different HTTP/2 frame types across all the
streams. Thus, the encoder knows in which order the decoder will receive and
process the various frames, and how the decoder state will be updated. HTTP/3
does not provide the same deterministic and guaranteed in order delivery
mechanism between different HTTP requests. HTTP/3 can avoid this head of line
blocking and provide improved performance by delivering to higher layers the
HTTP messages in the order they are successfully delivered to the peer.
However, if one would use HPACK without modifications, this could result in
the decoder blocking or producing the wrong output. Therefore, header
Compression for HTTP/3, QPACK (see IETF draft-ietf-quic-qpack [10]), is being
defined.
QPACK is a redesigned version of HPACK that can support out-of-order delivery.
It allows flexibility in the encoder to perform trade-offs between compression
ratios and likelihood of head of line blocking due to out of order delivery.
The changes in QPACK allows for much reduced head of line blocking at similar
compression efficiency for a given packet loss rate. It also provides the
implementation freedom to select how robust the transaction should be against
packet loss. This at the cost of requiring HTTP/3 servers to implement the new
QPACK mechanism, even if some reuse of the HPACK implementation is possible.
# 7 Key Requirements for Supporting QUIC
## 7.1 Introduction
This clause contains the key requirements to be solved in order for QUIC to be
considered as a transport replacement for 5GC SBI. For each of the key
requirements listed below, solutions are described in clause 8.
## 7.2 Discovery of QUIC support
As Release 15 of 3GPP TS 29.500 [4] defines SBI implementation with protocol
combination of HTTP over TCP, the deployment of QUIC as a replacement
transport protocol for TCP will require a discovery method for the NF acting
as HTTP client for both interoperability and backward compatibility. The
discovery of a support of QUIC for a particular SBI must be done at the
beginning of connection establishment and if QUIC is supported by the NF
acting as server then QUIC should be used for all future communication towards
that NF.
## 7.3 Discovery of NRF\'s Support for QUIC
One of the potential solutions for discovering the support of QUIC by an NF is
to use to the NF discovery service of the NRF (see clause 8.2.1). In order for
an NF service consumer to use the NF discovery service if the NRF, the NF
service consumer should know the transport protocol capability of the NRF
itself. This key issue will address the following aspects:
\- How to discover the transport protocol capability of a NRF?
\- How to provide the transport protocol capability of a remote PLMN NRF to a
local PLMN NRF for home routed roaming scenarios?
## 7.4 Migration to QUIC
Since 5GC deployments based on release 15 will happen initially, any attempt
to introduce NF service instances that support QUIC as transport protocol need
to be carefully thought about in order to avoid interoperability issues. This
key issue will study the following aspects with respect to the migration to
QUIC.
\- Steps to follow when adding NF service instances that support QUIC as
transport protocol, into the network.
\- Deployment topologies where NF service instances that support QUIC as
transport protocol can be introduced.
\- When the NF service consumers can use the added NF services supporting
QUIC?
\- Steps to follow to decommission NF services that support TCP, when
required.
## 7.5 Support of Indirect Communication
Indirect Communication refers to the communication between a NF Service
Consumer and an NF Service Producer using a Service Communication Proxy (SCP),
in the Rel-16 Service Based Architecture.
Indirect communication may be supported (see 3GPP TS 23.501 [2]):
\- without delegated discovery (Option C): Based on query result, the consumer
does the selection. The consumer sends the request to the SCP containing the
address of the selected producer (e.g. an NF instance or NF Service instance
set), the SCP may select an instance and it routes the request to the targeted
producer instance.
\- with delegated discovery (Option D). Consumers do not do any discovery or
selection. The consumer adds any necessary discovery and selection parameters
required to find a suitable producer to the request. The SCP uses the request
address and the discovery and selection parameters in the request message to
route the request to a suitable producer instance.In both options, the SCP
needs to access and optionally modify the contents of the HTTP messages
exchanged between the NF Service Consumer and NF Service Producer. This
entails that the HTTP/3 connection cannot be established end to end between
the NF Service Consumer and NF Service provider. Instead, standalone HTTP/3
connections need to be set up between the NF Service Consumer and the SCP,
between the SCP and the NF Service Producer, and between SCPs if there is more
than one SCP between the NF Service Consumer and NF Service Producer.
This key issue will analyse how to support HTTP/3 for Indirect Communication.
NOTE: See clause 6.2 for a general description of HTTP/3 in presence of
proxies on the path.
# 8 Solutions for Key Requirements
## 8.1 Introduction
This clause contains the solutions for the key requirements identified in
clause 7.
## 8.2 Solutions for Discovery of QUIC support
### 8.2.1 Using the Discovery Service of the NRF
Using the Discovery Service of the NF Repository Function (See 3GPP TS 29.510
[19]) is a possible solution for discovering if a NF instance\'s SBI supports
using QUIC as transport protocol.
When a consumer is performing service discovery of NF instances for a service,
it will also learn which if any of the instance support using QUIC by having
IpEndPoint definitions in the NFProfile with the transport protocol set to
QUIC.
This solution enables the NF consumer to know of the support even prior to
attempting to establish a transport connection to the NF producer. The
consumer has to use the NRF service discovery irrespectively of the
determination of QUIC support.
The realization of this solution requires definition of the QUIC as
TransportProtocol in the NFProfile, see clause 6.1.6.3.5 of 3GPP TS 29.510
[19].
The solution will have to determine if this discovery should be only for a
general support of QUIC independent of version or if also all the versions
should be encoded in the NFProfile.
A QUIC supporting NF can potentially support several different versions of
QUIC, thus efficient enumeration of versions would be desired.
However, assuming that at least one mandatory to implement version of QUIC
will be defined for SBA, it might be sufficient to simply indicate that QUIC
in general is supported and rely on the version negotiation mechanism built in
in QUIC as that would also avoid any interoperability issues.
For consumers of NF services that specifically want to determine which
instances that support QUIC, extending the set of query parameters defined for
the Nnrf_NFDiscovery Service API (clause 6.2.3.2.3.1 of 3GPP TS 29.510 [19])
will be needed.
A parameter such as transport-protocol which takes an array of protocol
enumerations would solve this issue.
Here enumerating individual QUIC versions would create some extra complexity.
### 8.2.2 Using Alt-Svc Header
The current QUIC working group draft on HTTP over QUIC (HTTP/3) (See IETF
draft-ietf-quic-http [7]) defines a discovery method of QUIC support using
Alt-Svc HTTP response header defined in IETF RFC 7838 [20]. In this case the
NF as HTTP server can notify the NF as HTTP client about the support of QUIC
protocol with a HTTP response header with any HTTP response. An example of
such response will look like below:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Alt-Svc: h3=\":50443\";quic=\"1,1abadaba\"
Here, the \" h3\" is the ALPN token identifies HTTP/3 and \"quic\" is a new
parameter defined to advertise the versions supported by the NF. The syntax of
Alt-Svc is defined in IETF RFC 7838 [20] and the \"quic\" parameter for Alt-
Svc header to provide the QUIC version hints, is defined in HTTP/3 IETF draft
(See IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7]).
In this method, the HTTP client acting as NF consumer needs to start
connection using TCP for the first contact with a HTTP server acting as NF
provider. If the HTTP server response includes the Alt-Svc header then the
HTTP client will re-establish HTTP connection over QUIC and save the protocol
preference for further connection. After new QUIC connection established
towards the HTTP server, the HTTP client must send all the requests over QUIC
connection. The HTTP client then can terminate the previously established TCP
connection.
As described, the downside of this method is that the HTTP client for the
first contact with a HTTP server has to establish TCP connection to discover
the QUIC support and terminate the already establish TCP connection. However,
this should be only one-time event after discovering that one HTTP server
supports QUIC the client must not repeat this discovery event.
This method allows a gradual deployment of QUIC in the PLMNs and does not
require extra information exchange at the NF service discovery phase.
This solution requires that the HTTP server (NF Service Producer) can be
reached over TCP in addition to QUIC, so a server supporting only QUIC would
need additional mechanisms to let NF Service Consumers discover such support.
## 8.3 Solutions for Discovery of NRF\'s Support for QUIC
### 8.3.1 Providing NRF Transport Capability from NSSF
When network slicing is used, the NSSF is queried during
\- Registration procedure; and/or
\- PDU session establishment procedure
to select a network slice instance for the UE / PDU session. The NSSF may
optionally return the network slice instance information (NsiInformation)
which contains the NRF URI to be used for that network slice instance. In this
solution it is proposed to return the NRF\'s transport capability also as part
of the NsiInformation so that the NF service consumer that gets the NRF
information from the NSSF knows which transport protocol(s) can be used
towards the NRF.
The NSSF is provided the transport capability of the NRF when OAM configures
the network slice instance information into the NSSF.
### 8.3.2 Providing Remote PLMN NRF\'s Transport Capability during NF
Discovery
For home routed scenarios, the NRF in VPLMN contacts the NRF in HPLMN, via the
SEPP. The issue of how HTTP requests over QUIC are routed when there is a
proxy in between (i.e. if SEPP acts as a proxy) are specified in clause 6.2.2.
Irrespective of the kind of solutions available for this issue, it may be
required for the NF service consumer in VPLMN to provide the transport
capability of the HNRF to the VNRF. This solution proposes the following:
\- An NF service consumer in VPLMN discovers the NRF to use in VPLMN and the
HPLMN for home routed scenarios by querying the NSSF or by local
configuration. If the NSSF is queried, the NF service consumer obtains the
transport capability of the VNRF and the HNRF from the NSSF as specified in
subcaluse 8.3.1.
NOTE: As specified in clause 4.3.2.2.3.3 of 3GPP TS 23.502 [3], the discovery
of VSMF/VNRF and HSMF/HNRF happen as separate procedures. The
Nnssf_NSSelection_Get service is invoked twice in this case.
\- Once the transport capability of both the VNRF and the HNRF are obtained,
the NF service consumer knows which transport to use towards the VNRF.
\- When the NF service consumer invokes the NF discovery service of the VNRF,
it also provides as input the transport capability of the HNRF.
\- The VNRF uses this information together with the information about the
transport capabilities of the SEPP, taking into consideration the scenarios
specified in clause 6.2.2, to decide which transport to use for contacting the
HNRF.
### 8.3.3 Discovery Based On Local Configuration
In this solution, the transport capability of the NRF is discovered based on
local configuration at the NF service consumer. This solution can be used when
network slicing is not used or during scenarios where the NSSF is not involved
(e.g. AMF does network slice selection based on local configuration).
## 8.4 Solutions for Migration to QUIC
### 8.4.1 Deployment Topologies to Introduce NF Services with QUIC Support
As identified in clause 6.2, HTTP/3 message traversal for http scheme APIs
when a HTTP/3 proxy is involved on path is not yet clearly addressed in IETF.
Similarly for https scheme APIs, the use of HTTP CONNECT from the HTTP client
to the HTTP proxy, creates a TCP connection from the HTTP proxy to the NF
service acting as HTTP server resulting in an end to end TLS connection from
the HTTP client to the HTTP server. In this case also the presence of HTTP
proxy on path implies that an NF service acting as server cannot use QUIC for
https scheme APIs, until alternate mechanisms as discussed in IETF in IETF
draft-pardue-httpbis-http-network-tunnelling-01 [21] reach some maturity.
Considering this the following are the deployment topologies where NF services
with QUIC support can be introduced into a network without causing any issues
in working towards a HTTP client.
\- Intra PLMN NF service communication without any HTTP proxy as
intermediaries.
\- QUIC between HTTP client and HTTP proxy while TCP is used between HTTP
proxy and the HTTP server (see Option#3, clause 6.2.2.1 and clause 6.2.2.3).
Editor\'s Note: The benefit of using QUIC with HTTP proxy and TCP on the other
side is FFS.
For inter PLMN HTTP/3 messaging, SEPP is involved and the transport connection
will have to terminate at SEPP. Hence an NF service consumer at VPLMN need to
only consider the transport capabilities of SEPP and not the transport
capabilities of the NF service producer in HPLMN. Irrespective of whether the
NF service producer in HPLMN supports TCP or QUIC, as long as the NF service
consumer in the VPLMN understands the API version of the NF service producer,
it uses the transport protocol that it supports towards the SEPP in VPLMN.
### 8.4.2 Steps to Follow When Introducing NF Services with QUIC Support
The following steps have to be followed while introducing NF Services with
QUIC support in a PLMN.
\- The support for QUIC of the NF services shall be discoverable using one or
any of the mechanisms mentioned in clause 8.2.
\- Existing, NF service consumers that are already using TCP towards other NF
service providers shall continue to use TCP, until they are upgraded to
support QUIC.
\- NF services that support QUIC, may also support TCP in order to interwork
with existing TCP based NF service consumers.
### 8.4.3 Use of QUIC by NF Service Consumers
An NF service consumer that supports QUIC can use QUIC towards NF service
producers that support QUIC after ensuring the following:
\- The support of QUIC by the NF service producer is discoverable.
\- There are no HTTP proxies on path or the HTTP proxy on path supports QUIC
and HTTP CONNECT.
### 8.4.4 Decommissioning TCP
When all the NF services in a PLMN are upgraded to support QUIC a PLMN may
consider to decommission the use of TCP transport. The following steps need to
be followed while decommissioning
\- Ensure that no NF service consumer is still using TCP towards the NF
service for which TCP is to be decommissioned in that PLMN.
\- If TCP is to be decommissioned for use by a SEPP in a PLMN, then ensure
that all the other SEPPs it is interacting with support QUIC and there are no
IPX on path.
\- No NF service instance in the PLMN is using the solution described in
clause 8.2.2 for the discovery of QUIC support.
It is recommended that TCP is not decommissioned until it is identified that
there is no need for it within a PLMN.
# 9 Impacts to Service Based Architecture
## 9.1 Introduction
This clause identifies the impacts of introducing QUIC to service based
architecture for which solutions can\'t be provided in 3GPP scope.
## 9.2 HTTP Proxy Traversal
As described in clause 6.2, IETF has not yet clearly specified how HTTP/3
works when there are proxies on path. The current drafts only define the use
of HTTP CONNECT method from the client to the proxy and TCP thereafter. Hence
at least until a solution for the use of hop by hop QUIC when HTTP proxies are
involved is well specified in IETF, QUIC cannot be used in deployments where
HTTP proxies are acting as intermediaries between NF services.
Editor\'s Note: Other impacts are FFS.
Editor\'s Note: Whether a specific action be sent to IETF is FFS.
## 9.3 QUIC\'s Security Mechanisms
QUIC as currently specified do not support any unencrypted mode, nor
unauthenticated. This have several implications on the SBA architecture. Some
of them have already been touched upon before.
\- There is a requirement (see clause 2.3 of IETF draft-ietf-quic-http [7]) of
explicitly addressing the QUIC peer when establishing a connection and include
the target domain in the TLS handshake using SNI or other mechanism. This
prevents any type of transparent HTTP proxies, and the next hop must always be
known by the client.
\- Use of any HTTP proxy will require additional functionality as discussed in
Clause 9.2 and where only the one type of proxying, i.e. the use HTTP Connect
method to establish end-to-end TLS connections over TCP from proxy to
designated target domain. The other proxy cases discussed in Clause 6 lacks
mature specifications. The current implication is that to enable QUIC in
Release 16 SBA Architecture needs to be capable of operating without any HTTP
proxies.
\- Potential use of HTTP opportunistic security (IETF RFC 8164 [28]) for any
\"http\" scheme requests over QUIC. This requires an additional QUIC
connection as \"http\" scheme requests and \"https\" scheme requests are not
allowed in the same connection (see clause 2.2 of IETF RFC 8164 [28]). It also
requires additional HTTP server support to indicate this capability. This
could enable QUIC migrations even if there are still some SBIs that doesn\'t
support \"https\" scheme requests. However, if such interfaces exist it would
be securer to upgrade them to support \"https\" scheme.
To summarize, with the current version of QUIC and HTTP/3 the 3GPP SBA
architecture needs to assume that all requests and SBI will only use \"https\"
scheme requests, that they will explicitly address the target NF, and that
there is no possibility to deploy HTTP Proxies or other intermediaries acting
above UDP layer in between NFs.
## 9.4 TCP Decommission in Migration Impacts Architecture
As discussed in Clause 8.4.4 there are certain requirements to enable
decommissioning of TCP in a migration to QUIC. This also have certain
architectural impacts. It requires a possibility to perform the first request
to any NF using QUIC. The current specifications in IETF are not yet
addressing such use cases, instead they assume that one will start with
retrieving alt-svc information using HTTP over TCP and TLS. Thus, to support
TCP decommission there need to be specified how one instructs a client to use
QUIC directly to query without any prior alt-svc phase, primarily to issue
requests to the NRF. The NRF can then likely function as solution for learning
that QUIC is required for the other NFs.
## 9.5 Transport Proxy Traversal
TCP transport proxies may be deployed on the path between HTTP clients and
servers in order to optimize transport on heterogeneous networks (e.g.
satellite networks). They operate the flows based on TCP headers information
without interfering with the HTTPS layer. QUIC breaks this layering as the
transport and the HTTPS parts cannot be dissociated. As such the transport
optimization proxy function will not be possible with QUIC.
## 9.6 Impacts on Troubleshooting
## 9.6.1 Introduction
This clause aims at highlighting the main impacts of QUIC introduction on
maintenance and troubleshooting at network level and application level.
Indeed, in order to improve end-to-end protection, TLS 1.3 and QUIC enforce
the usage of ephemeral cipher suites and Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS). The
latter prevents an attacker that managed somehow to steal the private key of a
server from decrypting the content of exchanges she/he captured in the past.
In practice, the existing OAM (Operation And Maintenance) solutions which are
designed to work for RSA cipher suites would hence not be able to troubleshoot
PFS traffic. This clause also details the impacts of using QUIC-based
signalling protocol stack between two 5G NFs for the cases introduced in annex
E of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
The following three clauses point out the main identified impacts of QUIC on
network level and HTTP/3 level troubleshooting.
## 9.6.2 QUIC keying impact
QUIC decryption is per design trickier than TLS, including TLS 1.3, because
each QUIC connection has at least 3 keys (0-RTT key, 1-RTT key, packet number
encryption key) and also because 1-RTT key may change dynamically.
## 9.6.3 Network level troubleshooting
The following impacts are foreseen for network level troubleshooting:
\- QUIC replaces both TLS and TCP. One of the main differences indeed is that
QUIC encrypts the transport header in addition to the payload, which is highly
relevant for the network level troubleshooting matters. The existing Network
OAM (Operation And Maintenance) solutions which are designed to make use and
act on TCP headers would hence not be able to troubleshoot QUIC traffic and
even less be easily adaptable to perform this task.
\- Moreover, QUIC includes an optional measurement bit, named spinbit, which
allows in-path probes to measure both the round trip delay and the
decomposition of the delay on both sides of symmetrical path. This is directly
usable for options A and B for monitoring and troubleshooting the performance
of the network between two NFs. Its usage for the options C and D though
requires additionally the mapping of the observations on both legs of the SCP.
\- As of version 19, QUIC specifications do not support packet loss
measurements. Indeed, packet loss measurements by probes located on the path
requires multiple probes and has more limited scope, which hence makes it much
harder and resource demanding. Its deployability has still to be demonstrated.
\- So as to enable an in depth analysis of the performance (e.g. flow control,
etc.) between a consumer NF and a producer NF, the decryption of the entire
QUIC message is often required in order to read the transport parameters of
the QUIC packet header. Contrary to HTTP/2 over TLS, this has the side effect
of decrypting and revealing application layer information to network probes.
NOTE: QUIC level logging techniques are also possible for these purposes but
are currently not mature enough and are not yet considered for inclusion in
QUIC IETF specifications.
\- As already mentioned, options C and D flow control troubleshooting would
also require streams identifiers mapping in order to get an end to end view.
## 9.6.4 Application level troubleshooting
The identified impacts on application level troubleshooting are depicted
hereinafter for each one of the four communication options defined in annex E
of 3GPP TS 23.501 [2].
\- Option A - Direct communication without NRF interaction:
Analysing the exchanges between a consumer NF and a producer NF requires the
decryption of QUIC traffic. Debugging currently relies on the analysis of the
exchanges captured by probes. As QUIC imposes the usage of PFS, the decryption
of PFS traffic by a probe requires the communication of the set of session
keys to the probe by one of the peers. This would hence increase the
complexity of the OAM (Operation And Maintenance) solutions.
NOTE: TLS 1.3 also mandates the use of PFS. However, the main difference with
QUIC / HTTP/3 is that TLS usage is not mandatory in the current version of the
specifications for HTTP/2.
\- Option B - Direct communication with NRF interaction;
Same as option A.
\- Option C - Indirect communication without delegated discovery;
In this option the signalling path is made of at least two legs and QUIC is
hence on at least one side of the SCP.
\- When QUIC is used only in one leg of the communication path, the other side
may be HTTP/2 in the clear, HTTP/2 encrypted over TLS or in a hop by hop
tunnel like IPsec. When carried over TLS, HTTP/2 can use either TLS 1.2 or TLS
1.3 versions.
As the signalling path is made of at least two legs, application level
troubleshooting by external tools would require the support of the cypher
suites in use and the credentials of the two sessions so as to be able to
decrypt the messages exchanged and the mapping of QUIC and HTTP/2 stream
identifiers.
\- Case where QUIC is used in both legs:
There is only one version of HTTP/2. Versioning is a feature of QUIC though.
Consequently, the application level troubleshooting tools must be able to
decode, map and synchronize exchanges of different versions of QUIC.
\- Option D - Indirect communication with delegated discovery.
> Same as option C.
# 10 Current Implementation and Maturity Status
## 10.1 Introduction
Being a newly developed transport protocol the viability of considering QUIC
in 5GC service based interfaces has to be gauged by the current implementation
and maturity status. This clause describes the current stats of QUIC from the
best of the knowledge point of the view.
## 10.2 Implementation maturity
TCP implementations are very mature. Most of the features has been widely used
and issues has been resolved in the implementations and standards. Right now,
this cannot be said for QUIC implementations and standard. As the
specification has not been finished yet, the QUIC implementations will be very
new. IETF QUIC working group has given lots of emphasis on interoperability
testing on QUIC features. Number of opensource projects of implementing QUIC
has passed the interoperability testing. However, those opensource projects
usually put emphasis on particular features of interest from the implementer
hence cannot be treated as production ready or assuming to have all the
featured required. It is expected that QUIC implementations will have a higher
degree of issues caused by mistakes and errors in implementation.
## 10.3 Hardware offload support
A server\'s capability to handle certain amount of load can be improved by
having protocol off-load function in network interfaces (NIC). For TCP, this
include checksum off-loading, segmentation offloading, and crypto offloading.
These functions improve the performance of the server. TCP sending
operation\'s CPU utilization can be reduced 50 times if TCP segmentation
offloading (TSO) is used compared to standard TCP configuration. While TCP
offload functions are existing and available in numerous NICs, there is
significant uncertainty about what functions that are possible to implement
for QUIC and according to which road-maps they will be implemented in server
hardware.
When it comes to crypto acceleration via hardware offload there are both large
commonalities and differences between TCP and QUIC. Both are based on TLS, but
QUICs protection of its frames are using a QUIC specific format, but for
modern implementations both are likely to use the same crypto primitives, i.e.
most likely AES-GCM (see IETF RFC 5288 [31]) that is highly performant in a
number of more capable CPUs due optimized functions. However, any more
dedicated crypto off-load may be missing for QUIC.
There has also been significant discussion in the QUIC working group mailing
list about the cost of doing the packet number encryption and decryption. An
encrypted packet number requires to be first decrypted before the correct
initialization vector for the rest of the packet can be produced. This has
been criticized in the QUIC WG for making off-load processing more difficult
and require multiple stages.
## 10.4 UDP Performance in Operating System
The current QUIC implementation uses UDP socket APIs to send and receive QUIC
traffic. Compared to TCP implementation in different operating systems, UDP
implementation is not that performant. It has been reported in IETF QUIC
working group mailing list that for the UDP send cost the CPU consumption
could be up to 50% while crypto operation is less than 10%. Google has also
reported that with possible optimization, they were able to reduce QUIC\'s CPU
cost from 3.5 to 2 times that required for TLS/TCP when serving YouTube
traffic (see \"Developing and deploying a TCP replacement for the Web\" [32]).
Experiments show that a standard TCP configuration gains almost 5x speed-up
over UDP in terms of cycle cost (see \"Optimizing UDP for content delivery\"
[33]). Such gains for TCP come from the support of TCP segmentation offload
(TSO) that allows the application to send larger data packet than the path
Maximum Transmission Unit (MTU). TSO requires hardware support from the NICs.
However, Generic Segmentation (GSO) can also perform segmentation to emulate
TSO. TCP has support from both TSO and GSO. Recent experiments show promising
results for UDP segmentation offloading with hardware support (see \"UDP
segmentation offload\" [34]). UDP GSO is also available for Linux kernel and
can be used via interfaces but need extensive configurations and understanding
of link layer properties. The TSO operates on sender side and create a
specific profile of traffic in the network. Because of that optimization can
be achieved at the receiver side by consolidating multiple MTU packet side
into fewer large one. Large receive offload (LRO) and generic receive offload
(GRO) is used to achieve this optimization for TCP. The same is not available
for UDP now. There are reports on work in progress on UDP GRO. To achieve high
performance over UDP socket for SBI (some of the SBI message sizes may be
large, potentially up to a maximum of 2 MB), different optimized
configurations are needed and those optimizations need to be available in
different operating system.
This UDP performance issues can eventually be overcame. There are already
several techniques like UDP GSO, GRO (Generic receive offload), zero copy that
can help achieving performant UDP operation and networking. As these
techniques are at their early stage, the UDP performance issues need to take
into consideration when selecting transport protocol for service based
interfaces.
# 11 Evaluation and Conclusion
## 11.1 Interim Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: this is an interim evaluation at the current stage of the TR.
This evaluation may be subject to changes as the study further progresses.
### 11.1.1 Requirements for Service Based Interfaces
QUIC fulfils the transport requirements (REQ#1 to REQ#5) identified in clause
5.2 for the 5GC Service Based Interfaces.
Using HTTP/3 instead of HTTP/2 does not change the semantics of the NF
Services and does not change the API. No changes are expected either on the
OpenAPI specification to support HTTP/3.
The study needs to proceed to define how to support Indirect Communication in
the 5GC with Service Communication Proxies (SCP).
### 11.1.2 Expected improvements
Clause 5.4 identifies features of QUIC (HTTP/3) that would be applicable to
the 5GC Service Based Interfaces; the following potential (performance)
improvements are anticipated in comparison to HTTP/2:
1) QUIC allows to overcome HOL blocking from which HTTP/2 is suffering if a
TCP packet is lost or becomes corrupted;
2) loss detection mechanisms of QUIC are using more accurate means to indicate
lost bytes and RTT measurements resulting in assumedly more efficient recovery
mechanism;
3) faster connection establishment compared to TLS/TCP (1 RTT instead of 2),
for short lived connections; however, when using persistent connections, this
will not lead to a performance improvement;
4) the connection may be migrated to a different network interface or local
address by the client during the lifetime of the connection or by the server
during the connection establishment.
### 11.1.3 Issues
Following issues are identified:
1) The QUIC layer is end-to-end encrypted and use of proxies between end-to-
end QUIC connections is not sufficiently covered. There is no support for
instance to support an end-to-end QUIC connection through a proxy using HTTP
CONNECT.
2) The QUIC layer is end-to-end encrypted and thus allows less accurate
network monitoring capabilities than TCP.
3) The server cannot migrate the connection to a different network interface /
local address during the lifetime of the connection; this requires clients to
still rely on alternate QUIC connections for failover to an alternate path;
also solutions for ensuring availability and stability of connections (e.g.
failover to a secondary path like supported in SCTP multi-homing) are not
provided at the QUIC protocol layer but have to be implemented at the
application layer similar to HTTP/2.
4) IETF draft-ietf-quic-recovery [8] provides recommendations on congestion
control (e.g. TCP NewReno). According to IETF draft-ietf-quic-recovery [8],
implementations may use other congestion control algorithms than TCP NewReno
and endpoints MAY use different algorithms from one another. Some measurements
have shown that QUIC can overtake TCP in terms of how much bandwidth it can
take leading to unfairness even if the congestion algorithm is the same (see
e.g. \"Taking a Long Look at QUIC\" [30]). This leads to possible concerns on
how fairly QUIC traffic mixes with TCP traffic, as this would be the case e.g.
during migration scenarios (see clause 8.4). The issue becomes more
complicated when mixing different congestion algorithms and deserves more
experimentation.
### 11.1.4 Other considerations
Following considerations also apply:
1) QUIC (HTTP/3) requires extensive changes to the HTTP protocol stack
(compared to HTTP/2), by moving and combining several features from the HTTP/3
and TLS layers into the QUIC layer. The header compression mechanism is re-
designed to support out-of-order delivery. The application is also impacted,
e.g. socket APIs of the HTTP layer, discovery of QUIC support, co-existence of
HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 capable NFs.
2) QUIC (HTTP/3) security aspects need to be assessed by 3GPP SA3, e.g.
options exist for connection establishment and connection migration, end to
end security with proxies on the path, inter-PLMN signalling and N32
interface, use of OAuth with QUIC, etc.
3) The definition of HTTP/3 and QUIC is still in progress in IETF, and it is
open whether the specifications would be mature enough for adoption of the
protocol in the 5GC in Rel-16;
4) It is open when industry grade stacks (for use in 5GC) will be available.
Existing implementations of QUIC are still very immature and do not have the
full QUIC features available (e.g. congestion control).
5) Due to experimental nature of current implementations there are yet no
reference API which would be required for application level interoperability.
The current existing implementations allow only basic proof of concepts
testing but not load or stress testing of different features.
6) There are no standard APIs (e.g. socket APIs) for QUIC connection setup.
Though there are different open source implementations of QUIC, there is a
lack of uniformity in terms of the interface they expose towards application
for QUIC connection setup and hence as of now implementation portability is a
concern.
## 11.2 Interim Conclusion
Editor\'s Note: this is an interim conclusion at the current stage of the TR.
This conclusion may be subject to changes as the study further progresses.
QUIC provides some new promising features especially in terms of performance
increase for current Internet type of traffic (web-based client-server). It
should be carefully checked whether those improvements can also be harvested
in 5G signalling environment. Intensive testing, however, is only possible
when HTTP/3 and QUIC specifications and implementations are mature enough (see
clause 10 for the current implementation and maturity status). Therefore, the
finalization of the work on QUIC at IETF in July 2020 can only be considered
as a first step in the evaluation of the feasibility of HTTP/3 (QUIC) for 5G
control plane.
Besides, HTTP/3 (QUIC) does not fit well with the use of HTTP proxies and how
to support HTTP/3 (QUIC) for indirect communications via SCP (enhanced Service
Based Architecture specified in 3GPP Release 16) needs to be further studied.
It is therefore recommended to:
1) not consider HTTP/3 (QUIC) as a basis for 5GC control plane signalling in
3GPP Release 17;
2) pursue the study in 3GPP Release 17 to align the contents of the TR along
the final IETF specifications once available, to further assess the key
requirements identified in clause 7 (e.g. on how stage 2 requirements for
support of indirect communications in 5GC might be fulfilled) and to finalize
the evaluation of HTTP/3 (QUIC) for the 5GC;
3) take the final evaluation into consideration at a later stage for a
possible adoption of HTTP/3 (QUIC) in 3GPP Release 18 or later.
In the meantime, QUIC (HTTP/3) implementations need to be (performance- and
load-) tested and the findings be mapped to requirements and communicated to
IETF (where necessary) together with the known issues of clause 10.1.3.
#