# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document analyses and evaluates the definition of a Reference Data
Model (RDM) for Ud interface between Front-Ends (FEs) for the HSS application
and the User Data Repository (UDR).
The stage 3 of the Ud interface in the User Data Convergence (UDC
architecture) is defined in 3GPP TS 29.335 [2].
The Reference Data Model (RDM) shall comply with the Common Baseline
Information Model for UDC as defined in 3GPP TS 32.182 [3] and it shall follow
the concepts of the Framework for Model Handling and Management as defined in
3GPP TS 32.181 [4].
The analysis will comprise the general considerations impacting the RDM for
HSS.
The analysis will comprise the following topics:
\- The general considerations impacting the RDM for HSS;
\- Attributes definition: names, syntax, semantics;
\- Object classes & Directory Information Tree: object classes names,
attributes grouping, LDAP entries, Distinguished Names and Relative
Distinguished Names.
Directory information trees, object classes and attributes in this report
should be considered informative since they are subject to additions and/or
modification depending on the specific implementation as illustrated in the
presented alternatives in this technical report. Even the assignment of
attributes to object classes may be redistributed, for example,because the
normalization of object classes across different domains may result in
attributes being moved to a superclass. Naming is provisional. Diagrams used
and naming convention are not standardized.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP TS 29.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC);User Data Repository Access
Protocol over the Ud interface\"
[3] 3GPP TS 32.182: \"Telecommunication management; User Data Convergence
(UDC); Common Baseline Information Model\"
[4] 3GPP TS 32.181: \"User Data Convergence; Framework for Model Handling and
Management\"
[5] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organization of subscriber data\"
[6] IETF RFC 4517: \"Syntaxes and Matching Rules\"
[7] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\"
[8] IETF RFC 4291: \"IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture\"
[9] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference point\"
[10] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) parameter description\"
[12] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Evolved Packet System (EPS); Mobility Management Entity
(MME) and Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) related interfaces based on
Diameter protocol\"
[13] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\"
[14] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\"
[15] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\"
[16] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and Charging Control over Gx reference point\"
[17] IETF RFC 1035: \"DOMAIN NAMES - IMPLEMENTATION AND SPECIFICATION\"
[18] 3GPP TS 23.015: \"Technical realization of Operator Determined Barring
(ODB)\"
[19] 3GPP TS 29.364: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Application Server (AS)
service data descriptions for AS interoperability\"
> [20] IETF RFC 3261 \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\"
[21] IETF RFC 2396: \"Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): generic syntax\"
[22] IETF RFC 3966 \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\"
[23] IETF RFC 4282: \"The Network Access Identifier\"
[24] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx interface;
signalling flows and message contents\"
[25] 3GPP TS 23.845: \"Study on User Data Convergence (UDC) evolution\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Reference Data Model for HSS:** Reference Data Model for HSS is an
Application Data Model that operations on Ud interfaces supporting HSS
applications shall comply to.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CB Call Barring
CDIV Call Diversion
LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
MMTEL Multimedia Telephony
RDM Reference Data Model
TAS Telephony Application Server
UDC User Data Convergence
# 4 General considerations
## 4.1 General syntax definitions
The LDAP attributes in this document are defined as having a syntax specified
in IETF RFC 4517 [6] or a derived syntax that will be specified in this
section. The description of a derived syntax will contain the name of the IETF
RFC 4517 [6] syntax from which it was derived as well as any additional
structure and value constraints. Syntax names should follow the rules set by
IETF RFC 4517 [6] (mixed case with first letter of word capitalized), e.g.
NumericString.
Derived Syntax name Description
* * *
UInt8 This syntax is derived from the Integer syntax [6]. The structure is
further constrained to a maximum length of 1 and the values are further
constrained from 0 to 255. UInt16 This syntax is derived from the Integer
syntax syntax [6]. The structure is further constrained to a maximum length of
2 and the values are further constrained from 0 to 65535. UInt32 This syntax
is derived from the Integer syntax syntax [6]. The structure is further
constrained to a maximum length of 4 and the values are further constrained
from 0 to 4294967295. HexString This syntax is derived from the
PrintableString syntax [6]. The values are further constrained to the decimal
digits (0 through 9), characters \"a\" to \"f\" or characters \"A\" to \"F\".
HexString32 This syntax is derived from the HexString syntax. The structure is
further constrained to a maximum length of 32 characters. FQDN This syntax is
used to represent an Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) (see IETF RFC1035
[17]) and is derived from the PrintableString syntax [6]. The structure is
further constrained to a maximum length of 255 and the values are further
constrained to one or more labels separated by the period (\".\") character.
Each label consists of the decimal digits (0 through 9), characters \"a\" to
\"z\", characters \"A\" to \"Z\", the hyphen (\"-) character and has a maximum
length of 63 characters. CaseIgnore IPv4Address This syntax is derived from
the PrintableString syntax [6] and is used to represent IPv4 addresses
formatted in dot-decimal notation without leading zeros. The structure is
further constrained to a maximum length of 15 and values are further
constrained to the decimal digits (0 through 9) and the period (.) character.
IPv6Address This syntax is derived from the PrintableString syntax [6] and is
used to represent IPv6 addresses formatted in hexadecimal colon-separated
notation without leading zeros in each group and with the largest run of
consecutive zero groups collapsed into a single empty group (see IETF RFC 4291
[8]). The structure is further constrained to a maximum length of 39 and the
values are further constrained to the decimal digits (0 through 9), characters
\"a\" to \"f\" or characters \"A\" to \"F\" and the colon (:) character.
IPv6Prefix This syntax is derived from the PrintableString syntax [6] and is
used to represent an IPv6 prefix formatted in CIDR (Classless Inter-domain
Routing) notation, i.e. an IPv6 address (formatted in IPv6Address syntax), a
slash (/) character and a decimal value indicating the size in bits of the
address prefix (see IETF RFC 4291 [8]). The structure is further constrained
to a maximum length of 43 and the values are further constrained to the
decimal digits (0 through 9), characters \"a\" to \"f\" or characters \"A\" to
\"F\", the colon (:) character and the slash (/) character. Name10 This syntax
is derived from the PrintableString syntax [6]. The structure is further
constrained to a maximum length of 10 characters. CaseIgnore. String This
syntax corresponds to Printable String syntax according to IETF RFC 4517 [6].
Enumerated This syntax corresponds to Numeric String syntax according to IETF
RFC 4517 [6], where the maximum length is defined by the number of included
numerals.
Table 4.1-1
## 4.2 MMTEL data
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The specification of the MMTEL data in the Reference Data Model over Ud has to
define for which Application FEs it will be applied. Two cases are identified.
\- MMTEL data specification over Ud applies to the Ud interface between a
Telephony Application Server Front-end (TAS-FE) and the UDR.
\- MMTEL data specification over Ud applies to the Ud interface between a HSS-
FE (supporting IMS) and the UDR.
### 4.2.2 MMTEL data with a TAS-FE
The Ud interface supported by a TAS is an alternative way to store its MMTEL
data in a UDR instead of using the Sh interface and an HSS-FE. For this
purpose another protocol (i.e. reusing Ud protocol) to centrally store MMTEL
Data in addition to Sh has to be assessed and confirmed. This is out of the
scope in the present release of the specifications.
### 4.2.3 MMTEL data with an HSS-FE
With a HSS-FE, SMMTEL data are transported over a Sh interface as transparent
data within repository data. Then, regarding to the storage on the UDR by the
HSS-FE, two sub-cases are identified:
\- It is normally stored as transparent data in the UDR in the same way as any
other transparent data coming from an AS over Sh, so not requiring a data
modelling of the MMTEL data over the Ud between a HSS-FE and the UDR.
\- The transparent data is analysed by the HSS-FE application logic and
translated into data complying with the MMTEL RDM over Ud. In the other way,
the HSS-FE application logic builds a Sh transparent data from the MMTEL data
retrieved from the UDR and complying with the MMTEL RDM over Ud. It is to be
noted that the concept of transparent data that still applies to Sh is no more
applied on the transparent storage in the HSS in this sub-case.
To address the second sub-case, the HSS-FE will rely on the standardisation of
MMTEL Data over Sh in 3GPP TS 29.364 [19]. Two coding options are defined, a
binary one and a XML one. An objective is that the same MMTEL RDM over Ud can
be mapped with both options. The same MMTEL RDM should also be applicable to
the case described in 4.2.2. This is out of the scope in the present release
of the specifications.
With the XML option, the data configuring each of the CDIV and CB MMTEL
Services is structured in a set of multiple rules, each rule may contain
multiple conditions and an action, structure that was not retained for the
binary option aimed to handle the subset of MMTEL services corresponding to
PSTN/ISDN and CS supplementary services.
How the MMTEL RDM over Ud can address the configuration data for CDIV and CB
services for both the XML and the binary option is out of the scope in the
present release of the specifications.
### 4.2.4 MMTEL Data and CS Supplementary Services data
In some cases, the supplementary services execution and/or their configuration
when user is in the CS domain may have to rely on the CS supplementary
services and not MMTEL ones. It may drive to maintain the consistency between
the MMTEL services and the CS supplementary services. Two approaches that
impact RDM for Ud may be considered:
\- MMTEL Data and CS supplementary Service data are considered as separate
data in the RDM for Ud, considering that their consistency will be handled by
the concerned application logics. This approach may be more in line with
current 3GPP specifications where CS supplementary Services and MMTEL services
are defined in different 3GPP specifications.
\- A subset of MMTEL data and CS supplementary service data are merged in the
RDM over Ud and describe a supplementary service independently of the access
(CS or PS). This approach may impact stage 1 and stage 2 specifications on
supplementary services.
Which one of the two approaches is the most relevant and if it impacts
existing specifications on supplementary services (CS and MMTEL) is out of the
scope in the present release of the specifications.
### 4.2.5 Supplementary Services RDM principle
It should be possible to define the Supplementary Services that are common to
MMTEL and CS only once and **not separately in the Reference Data Model. Using
this approach the synchronization of common MMTEL and CS Supplementary
Services is implicitly reached**. At the same time, it should be possible to
have separate Supplementary Services data for MMTEL and CS in order that the
operators could provide differentiated services. The operator has to choose
between these alternatives. **The RDM specification for MMTEL and CS
Supplementary services should allow these two approaches.**
**Only a subset of MMTEL Supplementary Services defined in [19] is shared with
the Circuit domain.**
Here are described three possible structures of the RDM.
Figure 4.2.5-1: Reference Data Model referring to MMTEL services
Figure 4.2.5-2: Reference Data Model referring to CS services
Figure 4.2.5-3: Reference Data Model referring to the common services
Depending on the implementation any of the above data structures for MMTEL and
CS SS or a combination of them can be selected for the RDM.
# 5 Identifier
## 5.1 Object classes and their attributes
Table 5.1-1
Derived Syntax name Description
* * *
IMSI This syntax is used to represent international mobile subscriber identity
(IMSI) [7] and is derived from the NumericString syntax [6]. The structure is
further constrained to a maximum length of 15 and the values are further
constrained to decimal digits (0 through 9) only. PublicIdentity This syntax
is used to represent the public identity of a user in the IMS and is derived
from the PrintableString syntax [6]. The structure is further constrained to a
SIP URI (with the format defined in IETF RFC 3261 [20] and IETF RFC 2396 [21])
or a TEL URI (with the format defined in IETF RFC 3966 [22]). Both SIP URI and
TEL URI shall be in canonical form, as described in 3GPP TS 23.003 [7].
PrivateIdentity This syntax is used to represent the private identity of a
user in the IMS and is derived from the PrintableString syntax [6]. The
structure is further constrained to a NAI with the form username\@realm as
specified in IETF RFC 4282 [23]. E164Number This syntax is used to represent
an E.164 Number and is derived from the NumericString syntax [6]. The
structure is further constrained to a maximum length of 15 and the values are
further constrained to decimal digits (0 through 9) only.
# 6 UDC Service Profile
## 6.1 Object classes and their attributes
Object classes and attributes for UDC Service Profile are out of scope of the
present release.
## 6.2 Directory Information Tree
### 6.2.1 Alternative A
Figure 6.2.1-1: DIT Structure for UDC with alternative A
For definition of End User see 3GPP TS 32.182 [3].
### 6.2.2 Alternative B
In this alternative, the parent of the different domain data entities is a
Subscription entity. This Subscription entity may be not limited to one user,
for example, IMS data belongs to a IMS subscription that, according to TS
23.228, may be multiuser. How to support subscription with several IMS users
is not described in the present clause.
It introduces privateIdentityAlias and publicIdentityAlias entities that cover
Private and Public Service Identities as well as Private and Public User
Identities.
Figure 6.2.2-1: DIT Structure for UDC with alternative B
### 6.2.3 Alternative C
In alternative C, as for alternative B, the diagram contains Subscription,
privateIdentityAlias and publicIdentityAlias entities. How to support
subscription with several IMS users is not described in the present clause.
The different domains for data are organised differently. This alternative
allows attributes that are applicable to several domains to be defined once.
For example:
\- an attribute that is the same in the GPRS and EPS domains should be defined
in the entity PS-Data
\- an attribute that is the same in the CS and PS domains should be defined in
the entity Access-Data.
The compatibility with new 3GPP releases extending the use of data defined for
a domain to other domains is out of the scope of the present document.
Figure 6.2.3-1: DIT Structure for UDC with alternative C
### 6.2.4 Alternative D
In this alternative, the parent of the different domain data entities is a
Subscription entity. This Subscription entity may not limited to one user, for
example, IMS data belongs to a IMS subscription that, according to 3GPP TS
23.228, may be multiuser.
The RDN of the Individual user data classes AuC-Data, CS-Data, PS-Data and
EPS-Data is defined with the IMSI + svcType in order to allow for multiuser.
The Alias MSISDN class, in addition to providing a reference to the
Subscription object, also contain an IMSI attribute. This is done to assist in
MSISDN based message processing, such as MAP Send Routing Info. i.e., such a
request would have to search for the Alias MSISDN object to obtain the
subscriber\'s IMSI prior to obtaining the specific SvcType class associated
with the IMSI.
Figure 6.2.4-1: DIT Structure for UDC with alternative D
# 7 UDC Service Data shared by several domains
The data defined in this section are examples of data shared by several
domains.
Data sharing among multiple domains may impact data model and is out of the
scope of the present document.
## 7.1 Object classes and their attributes
### 7.1.1 AuC Subscriber Data
Table 7.1.1-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ACSUBDATA | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Type of | tbd | | | | | Obect Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for all | | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | | Data | | | | | | relevant to | | | | | | the AuC | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imsi | IMSI | read | Naming | In | | | | | Attribute | ternational | | | | | | Mobile | | | | | mandatory | Subscriber | | | | | | Identity. | | | | | si | See 3GPP TS | | | | | ngle-valued | 23.003. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | UInt8 | read | optional | Type of | | cSubscrType | | | | Subscriber. | | | | | si | Possible | | | | | ngle-valued | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - GSM | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - UMTS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | acEncKey | HexString32 | read | optional | The | | | | | | su | | | | | si | bscriber\'s | | | | | ngle-valued | encrypted | | | | | | long term | | | | | | secret key. | | | | | | This is a | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | string with | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | length of | | | | | | 32 bytes. | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | definition | | | | | | of a UMTS | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | long term | | | | | | secret key | | | | | | K see 3GPP | | | | | | TS 33.102. | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | definition | | | | | | of a GSM | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | long term | | | | | | secret key | | | | | | Ki see 3GPP | | | | | | TS 43.020. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | acSeqNum | HexString32 | read, write | optional | Sequence | | | | | | Number for | | | | | si | UMTS | | | | | ngle-valued | subscriber. | | | | | | This is a | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | string with | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | length of | | | | | | 12 bytes. | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | definition | | | | | | of a UMTS | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | Sequence | | | | | | Number | | | | | | SQN~HE~ see | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 33.102. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | acAMF | HexString32 | read | optional | Aut | | | | | | hentication | | | | | si | Management | | | | | ngle-valued | Field for | | | | | | UMTS | | | | | | subscriber. | | | | | | This is a | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | string with | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | length of 4 | | | | | | bytes | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | definition | | | | | | of a UMTS | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | Aut | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | Management | | | | | | Field AMF | | | | | | see 3GPP TS | | | | | | 33.102. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | acKdbId | Uint16 | read | optional | The | | | | | | reference | | | | | si | to the key | | | | | ngle-valued | used to | | | | | | encrypt the | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | long term | | | | | | secret key. | | | | | | tbc. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | Uint16 | read | optional | AC | | cAlgorithId | | | | Algorithm | | | | | si | Identifier. | | | | | ngle-valued | Specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | algorithm | | | | | | used for | | | | | | the | | | | | | generation | | | | | | of | | | | | | aut | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | vectors. | | | | | | tbc. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 8 UDC CS Service Data
Object classes, attributes and Directory Information Tree for CS Service Data
are out of scope of the present release.
# 9 UDC GPRS Service Data
Object classes, attributes and Directory Information Tree for GPRS Service
Data are out of scope of the present release.
# 10 UDC EPS Service Data
Object classes, attributes and Directory Information Tree for EPS Service Data
are out of scope of the present release.
# 11 UDC IMS Service Data
## 11.1 Object classes and their attributes
### 11.1.1 General
The application of the common data concept described in 3GPP TR 23.845 [25]
may bring a significant optimisation and may impact the structure of the
object classes described in the presented hereafter alternatives.
In the following sub-sections more attributes of some object class may be
needed and are left to implementations. Different alternatives are described
in order to show how different implementations may differ.
### 11.1.2 Alternative A
#### 11.1.2.1 IMS Data
Table 11.1.2.1-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ImsData | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | subscrib | | | | | | er-specific | | | | | | IMS Data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imsDataId | Unt8 | read | Naming | Fixed \"1\" | | | | | Attribute | | | | | | | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | mdtrCap | UInt32 | read | optional | Mandatory | | | | | | c | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | of S-CSCF | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | optCap | UInt32 | read | optional | Optional | | | | | | c | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | of S-CSCF | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | aut | String | read | optional | S-CSCF | | horizedCscf | | | | names that | | | | | m | may be | | | | | ulti-valued | delivered | | | | | | to the | | | | | | I-CSCF | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | scscfName | String | read, write | optional | S-CSCF Name | | | | | | assigned | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | prim | UInt16 | read | optional | Ide | | aryChargeId | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | primary | | | | | | charging | | | | | | server | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | second | UInt16 | read | optional | Ide | | aryChargeId | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | primary | | | | | | charging | | | | | | server | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pri | UInt16 | read | optional | Ide | | maryEventId | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | primary | | | | | | event | | | | | | server | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Secon | UInt16 | read | optional | Ide | | daryEventId | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | primary | | | | | | event | | | | | | server | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.2.2 Service Profile Data
##### 11.1.2.2.1 Service Profile
Table 11.1.2.2.1-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Ser | | | | | Class | viceProfile | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for a | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Profile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | ImsData | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | UInt32 | read | Naming | The service | | ceProfileId | | | Attribute | profile | | | | | | ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | associated | | | | | si | with the | | | | | ngle-valued | public user | | | | | | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | s | String | read | optional | Subscribed | | ubscribedMe | | | | media | | diaProfiIed | | | si | profile | | | | | ngle-valued | ide | | | | | | ntification | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | se | UInt32 | read | optional | List of | | rviceIdList | | | | service | | | | | m | iden | | | | | ulti-valued | tifications | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | sh | UInt16 | read | optional | List of | | aredIfcList | | | | shared IFC | | | | | m | iden | | | | | ulti-valued | tifications | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
##### 11.1.2.2.2 Initial Filter Criteria
Table 11.1.2.2.2-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | IFC | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Initial | | | | | | Filter | | | | | | Criteria | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | Ser | | | | | OCL | viceProfile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ifcId | UInt16 | read | Naming | IFC | | | | | Attribute | ide | | | | | | ntification | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | asS | tbd | read | mandatory | AS | | erverNameId | | | | ide | | | | | si | ntification | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ifcPriority | UInt32 | read | mandatory | Priority of | | | | | | the IFC | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | profilePa | UInt8 | read | optional | Indicator | | rtIndicator | | | | of the | | | | | si | Profile | | | | | ngle-valued | Type with 3 | | | | | | values | | | | | | according | | | | | | if | | | | | | applicable | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | Registered | | | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | U | | | | | | nregistered | | | | | | | | | | | | or both | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tpParams | String | read | optional | Trigger | | | | | | Points | | | | | si | description | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | defa | UInt8 | read | optional | Default | | ultHandling | | | | Handling | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | svcInfo | String | read | optional | Transparent | | | | | | information | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the trigger | | | | | | points only | | | | | | used by the | | | | | | application | | | | | | server | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.2.3 Implicit Registration Set
Table 11.1.2.3-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | IRSET | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | Implicit | | | | | | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Set | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | ImsData | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | irSetId | UInt32 | read | Naming | Implicit | | | | | Attribute | r | | | | | | egistration | | | | | mandatory | set | | | | | | ide | | | | | si | ntification | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | irsPuidList | tbd | read | mandatory | List of | | | | | | iden | | | | | m | tifications | | | | | ulti-valued | of public | | | | | | identities | | | | | | sharing the | | | | | | implicit | | | | | | r | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | set | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | registr | Uint8 | read, write | mandatory | R | | ationStatus | | | | egistration | | | | | si | status of | | | | | ngle-valued | the | | | | | | implicit | | | | | | r | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | set | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.2.4 Public Identity
Table 11.1.2.4-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Pub | | | | | Class | licIdentity | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Public | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | ImsData | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | puidId | tbd | read | Naming | Ide | | | | | Attribute | ntification | | | | | | of the | | | | | mandatory | public | | | | | | identity | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | String | read | mandatory | User name | | uidUsername | | | | part of the | | | | | si | public | | | | | ngle-valued | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pui | String | read | optional | Domain name | | dDomainname | | | | part of the | | | | | Si | public | | | | | ngle-valued | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | irSetId | UInt32 | read | optional | Ide | | | | | | ntification | | | | | Si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | implicit | | | | | | r | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | set | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | puidType | UInt8 | read | mandatory | Type of the | | | | | | public | | | | | si | identity. | | | | | ngle-valued | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0: IMPU | | | | | | | | | | | | 1: PSI | | | | | | | | | | | | 2: wildcard | | | | | | PSI | | | | | | | | | | | | 3: wildcard | | | | | | IMPU | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | Uint32 | read | mandatory | Ide | | ceProfileId | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | service | | | | | | profile | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to the | | | | | | public | | | | | | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pridList | tbd | read | mandatory | List of the | | | | | | iden | | | | | m | tifications | | | | | ulti-valued | of the | | | | | | private | | | | | | identities | | | | | | the public | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | barrin | boolean | read | optional | The barring | | gIndication | | | | indication | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | public user | | | | | | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | unregSvcInd | Boolean | | | Indicates | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | public user | | | | | | identity | | | | | | has in | | | | | | u | | | | | | nregistered | | | | | | state | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | UInt8 | read | optional | Ide | | liasGroupId | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | Alias Group | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to the | | | | | | public user | | | | | | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.2.5 Private Identity
Table 11.1.2.5-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Priv | | | | | Class | ateIdentity | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Private | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | ImsData | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pridId | tbd | read | Naming | Ide | | | | | Attribute | ntification | | | | | | of the | | | | | mandatory | private | | | | | | identity | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | String | read | mandatory | User name | | ridUsername | | | | part of the | | | | | si | private | | | | | ngle-valued | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pri | String | read | optional | Domain name | | dDomainname | | | | part of the | | | | | Si | private | | | | | ngle-valued | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | puidList | tbd | read | mandatory | List of the | | | | | | ide | | | | | m | ntification | | | | | ulti-valued | s of the | | | | | | public | | | | | | identities | | | | | | the private | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | puid | tbd | read, write | optional | R | | Registratio | | | | egistration | | nStatusList | | | m | status of a | | | | | ulti-valued | Prid Puid | | | | | | pair | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | authSchema | Uint8 | read | mandatory | Aut | | | | | si | hentication | | | | | ngle-valued | scheme | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to the | | | | | | private | | | | | | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 11.1.3 Alternative B
#### 11.1.3.1 IMS Data
Table 11.1.3.1-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ImsData | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | subscrib | | | | | | er-specific | | | | | | IMS Data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | svcType | Name10 | read | Naming | Fixed | | | | | Attribute | \"IMS\". | | | | | | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | mandatoryC | UInt32 | read | optional | Mandatory | | apabilities | | | | c | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | of S-CSCF | | | | | | used by | | | | | | I-CSCF to | | | | | | select a | | | | | | S-CSCF. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | optionalC | UInt32 | read | optional | Optional | | apabilities | | | | c | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | of S-CSCF | | | | | | used by | | | | | | I-CSCF to | | | | | | select a | | | | | | S-CSCF. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serverNames | String | read | optional | Statically | | | | | | configured | | | | | m | S-CSCF | | | | | ulti-valued | names to be | | | | | | selected by | | | | | | the I-CSCF. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | as | String | read. write | optional | Assigned | | signedSCSCF | | | | S-CSCF for | | | | | si | a user. | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pri | FQDN | read | optional | Address of | | maryECFName | | | | the Primary | | | | | si | Online | | | | | ngle-valued | Charging | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | secon | FQDN | read | optional | Address of | | daryECFName | | | | the | | | | | si | Secondary | | | | | ngle-valued | Online | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pri | FQDN | read | optional | Address of | | maryCCFName | | | | the Primary | | | | | si | Charging | | | | | ngle-valued | Data | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | secon | FQDN | read | optional | Address of | | daryCCFName | | | | the Primary | | | | | si | Charging | | | | | ngle-valued | Data | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.3.2 Service Profile Data
##### 11.1.3.2.1 Service Profile
Table 11.1.3.2.1-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Ser | | | | | Class | viceProfile | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for a | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Profile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | UInt32 | read | Naming | The service | | ceProfileID | | | Attribute | profile | | | | | | Ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | associated | | | | | si | with the | | | | | ngle-valued | public user | | | | | | identity. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | coreNet-Su | UInt32 | read | optional | Subscribed | | bscribedMed | | | | media | | iaProfileId | | | Si | profile | | | | | ngle-valued | Ide | | | | | | ntification | | | | | | which | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | a media | | | | | | profile in | | | | | | the S-CSCF | | | | | | for the | | | | | | au | | | | | | thorization | | | | | | of media | | | | | | parameters. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | coreNet-Se | String | read | optional | List of | | rviceIdList | | | | Service Ids | | | | | m | which | | | | | ulti-valued | identify | | | | | | the IMS | | | | | | Co | | | | | | mmunication | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Identifiers | | | | | | that the | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | is | | | | | | authorized | | | | | | to use. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | sh | UInt32 | read | optional | The Shared | | aredFilterC | | | | iFC Set ID | | riteriaSets | | | mandatory | ist. | | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | ulti-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#####
##### 11.1.3.2.2 Initial Filter Criteria
Table 11.1.3.2.2-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | InitialFil | | | | | Class | terCriteria | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Initial | | | | | | Filter | | | | | | Criteria | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | i | UInt32 | read | Naming | The | | nitialFilte | | | Attribute | Ide | | rCriteriaId | | | | ntification | | | | | mandatory | of the | | | | | | associated | | | | | si | initial | | | | | ngle-valued | filter | | | | | | criteria. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | applicatio | String | read | mandatory | SIP URI of | | nServerName | | | | the | | | | | si | application | | | | | ngle-valued | server to | | | | | | contact if | | | | | | the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | trigger | | | | | | points are | | | | | | met. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | priority | UInt32 | read | mandatory | Priority of | | | | | | the IFC. | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | profilePa | UInt8 | read | optional | Indicator | | rtIndicator | | | | of the | | | | | si | Profile | | | | | ngle-valued | Type as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | the 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.228 | | | | | | [24], | | | | | | i.e. | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | iFC is part | | | | | | of the | | | | | | registered | | | | | | or | | | | | | u | | | | | | nregistered | | | | | | user | | | | | | profile. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - | | | | | | U | | | | | | NREGISTERED | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - | | | | | | REGISTERED | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tr | String | read | optional | Trigger | | iggerPoints | | | | Points as | | | | | si | defined in | | | | | ngle-valued | the 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.228 | | | | | | [24]. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | defa | UInt8 | read | optional | Default | | ultHandling | | | | Handling as | | | | | si | defined in | | | | | ngle-valued | the 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.228 | | | | | | [24]. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - | | | | | | SESSION | | | | | | _CONTINUED | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - | | | | | | SESSION\ | | | | | | _TERMINATED | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serviceInfo | String | read | optional | Transparent | | | | | | information | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the trigger | | | | | | points only | | | | | | used by the | | | | | | application | | | | | | server. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.3.3 Implicit Registration Set Data
##### 11.1.3.3.1 Implicit Registration Set
Table 11.1.3.2.2-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | I | | | | | Class | mplicitRegi | | | | | | strationSet | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | Implicit | | | | | | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Set | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | Tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imp | UInt32 | read | Naming | Inde | | licitRegist | | | Attribute | ntification | | rationSetID | | | | of the | | | | | mandatory | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | si | Implicit | | | | | ngle-valued | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Set. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | Pub | read | mandatory | Public User | | ublicIdList | licIdentity | | | Identities | | | | | m | belonging | | | | | ulti-valued | to the | | | | | | implicit | | | | | | r | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | set. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
##### 11.1.3.3.2 Alias Group
Table 11.1.3.3.2-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | AliasGroup | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Alias | | | | | | Group | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | Tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | UInt32 | read | Naming | Inde | | liasGroupID | | | Attribute | ntification | | | | | | of the | | | | | mandatory | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | si | Alias | | | | | ngle-valued | Group. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | Pub | read | mandatory | Public User | | ublicIdList | licIdentity | | | Identities | | | | | m | belonging | | | | | ulti-valued | to the | | | | | | alias | | | | | | group. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.3.3 Public Identity
Table 11.1.3.3.3-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Pub | | | | | Class | licIdentity | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Public | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | publicId | Pub | read | Naming | Public | | | licIdentity | | Attribute | Identity of | | | | | | the | | | | | mandatory | subscriber. | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | idType | UInt8 | read | mandatory | Type of | | | | | | Public | | | | | si | Identity. | | | | | ngle-valued | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - IMPU | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - PSI | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | barrin | UInt8 | read | optional | The Barring | | gIndication | | | | Indicator | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | IMPU. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - NOT | | | | | | BARRED | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - BARRED | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imp | UInt32 | read | optional | Ide | | licitRegist | | | | ntification | | ritionSetID | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | Implicit | | | | | | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Set the | | | | | | Public User | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | belongs to. | | | | | | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | only | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | the Public | | | | | | User | | | | | | Identity. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | UInt32 | read | mandatory | Ide | | ceProfileID | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | Service | | | | | | Profile the | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pr | Priv | read | mandatory | Private | | ivateIdList | ateIdentity | | | Identities | | | | | m | the Public | | | | | ulti-valued | Identity is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | registr | UInt8 | read, write | mandatory | The | | ationStatus | | | | r | | | | | m | egistration | | | | | ulti-valued | status | | | | | | related to | | | | | | the Public | | | | | | Identity. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - NOT | | | | | | REGISTERED | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - | | | | | | U | | | | | | NREGISTERED | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 - | | | | | | REGISTERED | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | r | Priv | read, write | optional | Private | | egisteredPr | ateIdentity | | | Identities | | ivateIdList | | | m | the Public | | | | | ulti-valued | Identity is | | | | | | registered | | | | | | with. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | UInt32 | read | optional | Ide | | liasGroupID | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | Alias Group | | | | | | the public | | | | | | user | | | | | | identity | | | | | | belongs to. | | | | | | It only | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | the Public | | | | | | User | | | | | | Identity. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.3.4 Repository Data
Table 11.1.3.3.4-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Rep | | | | | Class | ositoryData | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | Repository | | | | | | Data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servic | String | read, write | Naming | Identifier | | eIndication | | | Attribute | of one set | | | | | | of service | | | | | mandatory | related | | | | | | transparent | | | | | si | data. | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | seq | UInt32 | read, write | optional | Sequence | | uenceNumber | | | | number of | | | | | si | the | | | | | ngle-valued | Repository | | | | | | data | | | | | | updated. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serviceData | OctetString | read, write | optional | The | | | | | | co | | | | | si | rresponding | | | | | ngle-valued | service | | | | | | data. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.3.5 Private Identity
Table 11.1.3.3.5-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Priv | | | | | Class | ateIdentity | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Private | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | privateId | Priv | read | Naming | Private | | | ateIdentity | | Attribute | Identity of | | | | | | the | | | | | mandatory | subscriber. | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | idType | UInt8 | read | mandatory | Type of | | | | | | Public | | | | | si | Identity. | | | | | ngle-valued | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - IMPI | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - PSI | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | Pub | read | mandatory | Public | | ublicIdList | licIdentity | | | Identities | | | | | m | the Private | | | | | ulti-valued | Identity is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pe | UInt8 | read, write | Optional | The | | ndingStatus | | | | aut | | | | | si | hentication | | | | | ngle-valued | pending | | | | | | flag. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - NOT | | | | | | PENDING | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - | | | | | | PENGDING | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | lin | OctetString | read | optional | Fixed | | eIdentifier | | | | broadband | | | | | m | access line | | | | | ulti-valued | identifiers | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to the | | | | | | user. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | userName | String | read | optional | The user | | | | | | name | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI, | | | | | | which is | | | | | | used to | | | | | | calculate | | | | | | HA1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | password | String | read | optional | The | | | | | | password | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI, | | | | | | which is | | | | | | used to | | | | | | calculate | | | | | | HA1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Realm | String | read | optional | The | | | | | | password | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI, | | | | | | which is | | | | | | used to | | | | | | calculate | | | | | | HA1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ipv4Addr | IPv4Address | read | optional | IPv4 | | | | | | address | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI | | | | | | for GIBA. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ipv6Prefix | IPv6Prefix | read | optional | IPv6 prefix | | | | | | related to | | | | | si | the IMPI | | | | | ngle-valued | for GIBA. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | iPv6Addr | IPv6Address | read | optional | IPv6 | | | | | | address | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI | | | | | | for GIBA. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.3.6 Reference Location Information
Table 11.1.3.3.6-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ReferenceLo | | | | | Class | cationInfor | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | Location | | | | | | Information | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | re | UInt8 | read | Naming | Identifier | | ferenceLoca | | | Attribute | of one set | | tionInforId | | | | of | | | | | mandatory | reference | | | | | | location | | | | | si | i | | | | | ngle-valued | nformation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | accessType | String | read | optional | The type of | | | | | | access | | | | | si | (e.g. | | | | | ngle-valued | ADSL). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | accessInfo | String | read | optional | The type of | | | | | | the access | | | | | si | information | | | | | ngle-valued | (e.g. | | | | | | dsl | | | | | | -location). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | accessValue | String | read | optional | The | | | | | | location | | | | | si | information | | | | | ngle-valued | (e.g. line | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | in fixed | | | | | | access | | | | | | networks). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 11.1.4 Alternative C
#### 11.1.4.1 IMS Subscription
Table 11.1.4.1-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | IMS-S | | | | | Class | ubscription | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the root | | | | | | node for | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | | | | | | specific | | | | | | data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | sub | tbd | read | Naming | U | | scriptionId | | | Attribute | DR-Internal | | | | | | ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | of an | | | | | si | IMS-Su | | | | | ngle-valued | bscription. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | share | Boolean | read, write | optional | Indicates | | dIFCsupport | | | si | whether the | | | | | ngle-valued | assigned | | | | | | S-CSCF (if | | | | | | any) | | | | | | supports | | | | | | shared | | | | | | iFCs. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | s | tbd | read | optional | Mandatory | | cscfMandCap | | | | C | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | an S-CSCF | | | | | | must | | | | | | support to | | | | | | serve the | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | scscfOptCap | tbd | read | optional | Optional | | | | | | C | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | an S-CSCF | | | | | | may support | | | | | | to serve | | | | | | the | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | scscfHost | FQDN | read, write | optional | Diameter | | | | | | Identity of | | | | | single | the | | | | | valued | assigned | | | | | | S-CSCF | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | scscfRealm | FQDN | read, write | optional | Diameter | | | | | | Identity of | | | | | single | the | | | | | valued | assigned | | | | | | S-CSCF | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ccfPrim | FQDN | read | mandatory | Diameter | | | | | single | Identity of | | | | | valued | the Primary | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Collection | | | | | | Function | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ccfSec | FQDN | read | mandatory | Diameter | | | | | single | Identity of | | | | | valued | the | | | | | | Secondary | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Collection | | | | | | Function | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ecfPrim | FQDN | read | mandatory | Diameter | | | | | single | Identity of | | | | | valued | the Primary | | | | | | Event | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Function | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ecfSec | FQDN | read | mandatory | Diameter | | | | | single | Identity of | | | | | valued | the | | | | | | Secondary | | | | | | Event | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Function | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.4.2 Service Profile
Table 11.1.4.2-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Ser | | | | | Class | viceProfile | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | service | | | | | | profiles | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-S | | | | | OCL | ubscription | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | tbd | read | Naming | U | | ceProfileId | | | Attribute | DR-Internal | | | | | | ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | of a | | | | | si | Service | | | | | ngle-valued | Profile. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | shar | tbd | read | optional | List of | | edFilterIDs | | | m | pointers to | | | | | ulti-valued | shared IFCs | | | | | | within | | | | | | CommonData | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | sub | tbd | read | optional | Core | | MediaProfId | | | si | Network | | | | | ngle-valued | Service | | | | | | Aut | | | | | | horization: | | | | | | Subscribed | | | | | | Media | | | | | | Profile Id | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serviceId | tbd | read | optional | Core | | | | | m | Network | | | | | ulti-valued | Service | | | | | | Aut | | | | | | horization: | | | | | | | | | | | | List of | | | | | | Service Ids | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.4.3 Initial Filter Criteria
Table 11.1.4.3-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Filter | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | user | | | | | | specific | | | | | | filter | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | Ser | | | | | OCL | viceProfile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | i | tbd | read | Naming | U | | nitialFilte | | | Attribute | DR-Internal | | rCriteriaId | | | | ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | of a | | | | | si | Filter. | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pro | tbd | read | optional | Profile | | filePartInd | | | si | Part | | | | | ngle-valued | Indicator | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | priority | tbd | read | optional | Priority | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | applic | tbd | read | optional | SIP URL of | | ationServer | | | si | the | | | | | ngle-valued | Applicatio | | | | | | Server | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serviceInfo | tbd | read | optional | Service | | | | | si | Information | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | t | tbd | read | optional | The | | riggerPoint | | | | Filter\'s | | | | | si | trigger | | | | | ngle-valued | point | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.4.4 Implicit Registration Set
Table 11.1.4.4-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | I | | | | | Class | mplicitRegi | | | | | | strationSet | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | Implicit | | | | | | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Sets | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-S | | | | | OCL | ubscription | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imp | tbd | read | Naming | U | | licitRegist | | | Attribute | DR-Internal | | rationSetId | | | | ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | of an | | | | | si | Implicit | | | | | ngle-valued | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Set. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | authentica | Boolean | read, write | mandatory | Authenticat | | tionPending | | | si | ion-Pending | | | | | ngle-valued | flag | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | registr | tbd | read, write | mandatory | R | | ationStatus | | | si | egistration | | | | | ngle-valued | Status | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | priv | tbd | read | mandatory | List of | | ateIdentity | | | m | Private | | | | | ulti-valued | User | | | | | | Identities | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | forbi | tbd | read | optional | pointer to | | ddenPLMNsId | | | si | a list of | | | | | ngle-valued | forbidden | | | | | | PLMNs | | | | | | within | | | | | | CommonData | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.4.5 Public Identity
Table 11.1.4.5-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Pub | | | | | Class | licIdentity | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | IMS Public | | | | | | Identities | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | I | | | | | OCL | mplicitRegi | | | | | | strationSet | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pub | tbd | read | Naming | Public User | | licIdentity | | | Attribute | Identity or | | | | | | Public | | | | | mandatory | Service | | | | | | Identity | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | barr | Boolean | read | mandatory | Indicates | | edIndicator | | | si | whether the | | | | | ngle-valued | Pub | | | | | | licIdentity | | | | | | is barred | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | defau | Boolean | read | mandatory | Indicates | | ltIndicator | | | si | whether the | | | | | ngle-valued | public | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | the default | | | | | | public | | | | | | identity | | | | | | within the | | | | | | implicit | | | | | | regi | | | | | | strationset | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | tbd | read | optional | Name of the | | ceProfileId | | | si | service | | | | | ngle-valued | profile | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to the | | | | | | public | | | | | | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | displayName | tbd | read | optional | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | aliasId | tbd | read | optional | Identifies | | | | | si | the alias | | | | | ngle-valued | group to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | public | | | | | | identity | | | | | | belongs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | Boolean | read | mandatory | Indicates | | siIndicator | | | si | whether the | | | | | ngle-valued | public | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | a PSI | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.4.6 Repository Data
Table 11.1.4.6-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Rep | | | | | Class | ositoryData | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | Repository | | | | | | Data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | Pub | | | | | OCL | licIdentity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servic | tbd | create, | Naming | Identifies | | eIndication | | delete | Attribute | the | | | | | | Transparent | | | | | mandatory | Data | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | version | tbd | read, write | mandatory | Version of | | | | | si | the | | | | | ngle-valued | Transparent | | | | | | Data | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | data | tbd | read, write | optional | Transparent | | | | | si | Data | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.4.7 Alias Group
Table 11.1.4.7-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | AliasGroup | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | Alias | | | | | | Groups | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | I | | | | | OCL | mplicitRegi | | | | | | strationSet | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | tbd | read | Naming | Identifies | | liasGroupId | | | Attribute | the Alias | | | | | | Group | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | tbd | read | mandatory | Name of the | | ceProfileId | | | si | service | | | | | ngle-valued | profile | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to the | | | | | | alias group | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.4.8 Private Identity
Table 11.1.4.8-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Priv | | | | | Class | ateIdentity | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | Private | | | | | | Identities | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-S | | | | | OCL | ubscription | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | priv | tbd | read | Naming | Identifies | | ateIdentity | | | Attribute | the Private | | | | | | Identity | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | authScheme | tbd | read | mandatory | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imsi | tbd | read | optional | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | digestHa1 | tbd | read | optional | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 11.1.5 Alternative D
#### 11.1.5.1 IMS Private Identity
Table 11.1.5.1-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ImsImpi | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for IMS | | | | | | Private | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ImsImpiId | tbd | Read | Naming | This | | | | | Attribute | attribute | | | | | | identifies | | | | | Mandatory | this Object | | | | | | Class. | | | | | Si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ImsPassw | String | Read | Optional | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | contains | | | | | ngle-valued | the | | | | | | password to | | | | | | be used for | | | | | | SIP Digest | | | | | | aut | | | | | | hentication | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Ims | Enumerated | Read | Mandatory | This | | AuthSchMask | | | | attribute | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | supported | | | | | | aut | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | mechanisms. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | I | Boolean | Read | Mandatory | This | | msRoamAllow | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | whether the | | | | | | user is | | | | | | allowed to | | | | | | roam. | | | | | | | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values are: | | | | | | | | | | | | TRUE -- The | | | | | | user is | | | | | | allowed to | | | | | | roam | | | | | | | | | | | | FALSE -- | | | | | | The user is | | | | | | not allowed | | | | | | to roam | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.5.2 IMS Public Identity
Table 11.1.5.2-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ImsImpu | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for IMS | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMPU | tbd | Read | Naming | This | | | | | Attribute | attribute | | | | | | identifies | | | | | Mandatory | this Object | | | | | | Class | | | | | Si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | I | tbd | Read | Optional | This | | msAssocImpi | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | the Private | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to this | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Im | String | Read | Optional | This | | sServProfId | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | the Service | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to this IMS | | | | | | Public | | | | | | | | | | | | Identity. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A | String | Read | Optional | This | | liasGroupId | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | identifies | | | | | ngle-valued | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | Alias | | | | | | Group, if | | | | | | any. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ImsIrs | UInt16 | Read | Mandatory | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | to which | | | | | | implicit | | | | | | r | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | set (IRS) | | | | | | the IMS | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | belongs to. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5], | | | | | | section | | | | | | 3.1.6. | | | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | does not | | | | | | belong to | | | | | | an IRS, the | | | | | | value of | | | | | | this | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be 0. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Ims | Boolean | Read | Mandatory | This | | SessBarrInd | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | whether the | | | | | | IMPU is | | | | | | barred for | | | | | | session | | | | | | est | | | | | | ablishment. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5], | | | | | | section | | | | | | 3.1.3. | | | | | | | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values are: | | | | | | | | | | | | TRUE -- | | | | | | Identity is | | | | | | barred | | | | | | | | | | | | FALSE -- | | | | | | Identity is | | | | | | not barred | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | I | Boolean | Read | Mandatory | This | | msIsDefault | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | whether | | | | | | this Public | | | | | | Identity is | | | | | | the default | | | | | | one within | | | | | | the IRS. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5], | | | | | | section | | | | | | 3.1.7. | | | | | | | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values are: | | | | | | | | | | | | TRUE -- The | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | the default | | | | | | within the | | | | | | IRS | | | | | | | | | | | | FALSE -- | | | | | | The | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | not the | | | | | | default | | | | | | within the | | | | | | IRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.5.3 IMS Service Profile
Table 11.1.5.3-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | IMS | | | | | Class | Ser | | | | | | viceProfile | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Service | | | | | | Profile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Im | String | Read | Naming | This | | sServProfId | | | Attribute | attribute | | | | | | identifies | | | | | Mandatory | this Object | | | | | | Class | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A | String | Read | Optional | This | | liasGroupId | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | identifies | | | | | ngle-valued | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | Alias | | | | | | Group, if | | | | | | any. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 11.1.5.4 Alias Group
Table 11.1.5.4-1
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | AliasGroup | | | | | Class | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Alias | | | | | | Group | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A | String | Read | Naming | This | | liasGroupId | | | Attribute | attribute | | | | | | identifies | | | | | Mandatory | this Object | | | | | | Class | | | | | Si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Im | String | read | Mandatory | This | | sServProfId | | | | attribute | | | | | si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | the Service | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to this | | | | | | Alias | | | | | | Group. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 11.2 Directory Information Tree
### 11.2.0 General
In the following sub-sections more object classes may be needed and are left
to implementations. Different alternatives are described in order to show how
different implementations may differ.
### 11.2.1 Alternative A
Figure 11.2.1-1: DIT Structure for IMS-Data with Alternative A
The dotted arrow indicates the relationship between PublicIdentity and
PrivateIdentity which is expressed by the attributes PrivateIdList and
PublicIdList.
The superior OCL description of the ImsData object class and some more
detailed description of object classes and attributes are FFS.
### 11.2.2 Alternative B
Figure 11.2.2-1: DIT Structure for IMS-Data with Alternative B
CoreNet-SubscribedMediaProfileId, CoreNet-ServiceIdList and
SharedFilterCriteriaSets are optional attributes in Service Profile entry.
The dotted arrow indicates the relationship between PublicIdentity and
PrivateIdentity which is expressed by the attributes PrivateIdList and
PublicIdList.
Multiple instances of ReferenceLocInfo (refLocInfo=xxx) is for future
releases.
### 11.2.3 Alternative C
Figure 11.2.3-1: DIT Structure for IMS-Data with Alternative C
If an ImplicitRegistrationSet contains a PublicIdentity which is a PSI then it
shall not contain any other PublicIdentity.
If an ImplicitRegistrationSet contains a single PublicIdentity, this Public
Identity is not implicitly registered with any other Public Identity and
therefore in stage 2 terms is not considered to belong to an Implicit
Registration Set.
The concept of multiple IMS-Subscriptions within IMS-Data is not described in
the present document.
### 11.2.4 Alternative D
Figure 11.2.4-1: DIT Structure for IMS-Data with Alternative D
## 11.3 UML model
This section covers the information model for IMS Data and all its permanent
data entities. The term IMS Data may also include temporary data as shown in
the corresponding DITs.
Some data entities are already defined in 3GPP TS 32.182 [3].
Figure 11.3-1 covers some basic IMS entities with two possible approaches:
\- Approach A: where IMPU and PSI are considered as different basic entities;
\- Approach B: where a Public Identity basic IMS entity may identify a Public
User Identity or a Public Service Identity and a Private Identity basic IMS
entity may identify a Private User Identity or a Private Service Identity. The
rational of Approach B is that Public User Identity and Public Service
Identity have many common points. They have the same inheritance diagram with
SIP URI or Tel URI. Public User Identity or Public Service Identity have
compatible associations with other entities such as IMS Data or IMS Service
profile. This modelling reduces the number of IMS basic entities and
associations. Then, the differentiation between a Public User Identity and a
Public Service Identity may be done by an attribute within the Public
identity.
It is left to implementation to identify the most suited approach according to
the further model inputs.
Figure 11.3-1A Information model for some IMS entities with approach A
Figure 11.3-1B Information model for some IMS entities with approach B
Figure 11.3-2 covers IMS Public User Identity and its relationship with other
IMS data entities.
Figure 11.3-2 Information model for IMS Public User Identity and some
surrounding entities
Figure 11.3-3 covers IMS Public Service Identity and its relationship with
other IMS data entities.
Figure 11.3-3 Information model for IMS Public Service Identity and some
surrounding entities
Figure 11.3-4 covers IMS Public User Identity Implicit Registration Set and
its relationship with Alias Group, and IMS Public User Identity.
NOTE: Alias Group is used as a simplification of the 3GPP TS 23.228 defined
term Alias Public User Identities. In 3GPP TS 23.228 this is referred
sometimes as well as Alias Public User Identity Group or Alias Public User
Identity Set.
Following constrains apply:
\- All Public User Identities of an Implicit Registration set must be
associated to the same Private User Identities.
\- Each IMPU can only be included in one Alias Group
Figure 11.3-4 Information model for IMS Public User Identity Implicit
Registration Set and its relationship with IMS Public User Identity and Alias
Group
Figure 11.3-5 covers IMS Data and its relationship with Public Identity that
provides coherence between approach A and approach B, since IMPU and PSI are
derived entities from the more generic Public Identity
The figure implies that a Public Identity can not exist without IMS Data. On
the other hand, IMS Data is defined for IMPU(s) or PSI(s), but not for both at
the same time.
Figure 11.3-5 Information model for Public Identity
Figure 11.3-6 covers IMS Alias Group information model.
Figure 11.3-6 Information model for Alias Group
# 12 Conclusion and Recommendation
The present study, although focused on IMS data model and not fully completed,
has shown that different alternatives for UDC Service Profile (section 7) and
UDC IMS Service Data (section 12) are supported in current deployments and
implementations and that a common base could not be found. This is mainly due
to the fact that existing FE application logics may be impacted when changing
the data model and this has been evaluated as not acceptable during the work.
For the above reasons a standardized Reference Data Model (RDM) for the Ud
interface between Front-Ends for the HSS application (HSS-FEs) and the User
Data Repository (UDR) is not agreeable.
It is therefore recommended not to start normative specification work on the
definition of a Reference Data Model.
It is further recommended to add text to 3GPP TS 29.335 indicating that
specifying a standardized RDM is out of scope of 3GPP specifications and hence
Ud data model is proprietary.
For multivendor interoperability between FEs and UDR specific integration
projects are needed in order to accommodate data required by different vendors
FEs into UDR. To this end the present document may represent a valid example
of data models implementation in operator\'s network.
#