# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
3GPP TR 29.835 [2] studies Port Number Allocation Alternatives for New 3GPP
Interfaces. This specification documents the outcome of the study by providing
the guidelines for addressing the problem.
# 1 Scope
IETF has indicated to 3GPP that future IANA port number assignment requests
for protocol only used inside 3GPP networks will be likely rejected except if
there is a strong justification for it. The present document provides
guidelines for resolving the problem with allocating port numbers for new 3GPP
interfaces, as an alternative to IANA assigned port numbers.
Starting from 3GPP Rel-17, any 3GPP working group can rely on these guidelines
when defining new interfaces, which require new default port number
allocation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 29.835: \"Study on Port Number Allocation Alternatives for New
3GPP Interfaces\".
[3] IETF RFC 793: \"Transmission Control Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 1078: \"TCP Port Service Multiplexer (TCPMUX)\"
[5] IETF RFC 2782: \"A DNS RR for specifying the location of services (DNS
SRV)\".
[6] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[7] IETF RFC 5226: \"Guidelines for Writing an IANA Considerations clause in
RFCs\".
[8] IETF RFC 6066: \"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
Definitions\".
[9] IETF RFC 6083: \"Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) for Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)\".
[10] IETF RFC 6335: \"Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) Procedures
for the Management of the Service Name and Transport Protocol Port Number
Registry\".
[11] IETF RFC 6347: \"Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2\".
[12] IETF RFC 6762: \"Multicast DNS\".
[13] IETF RFC 6763: \"DNS-Based Service Discovery\".
[14] IETF RFC 7301: \"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Application-Layer
Protocol Negotiation Extension\".
[15] IETF RFC 7605: \"Recommendations on Using Assigned Transport Port
Numbers\".
[16] IETF RFC 7805: \"Moving Outdated TCP Extensions and TCP-Related Documents
to Historic or Informational Status\".
[17] IETF RFC 8126: \"Guidelines for Writing an IANA Considerations Clause in
RFCs\".
[18] IETF RFC 8446: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.3\".
[19] IETF RFC 1035: \"Domain Names -- Implementation and specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 29.641: \"3GPP registry for Service Names and Port Numbers\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Selected Solutions
## 4.1 General
Since 2015, IANA had gradually warned 3GPP that a solution should be found to
avoid port assignments for protocols only used in 3GPP networks (and not on
the public Internet). The last requests were exceptionally granted by the
Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG) only at the conditions that it was
the last one(s). Now, it is clear that application for a new port will not be
granted without a strong justification and only if:
\- The recommendations given in IETF RFC 7605 [3] have been carefully followed
(see Annex C.4);
\- It is proved that there is no other solution than port assignment for
service port discovery.
The IETF RFC 7605 [3] provides recommendations to designers of application and
service protocols on how to use the transport protocol port number space and
when to request a port assignment from IANA. In this document, it is reminded
that:
IANA assigns port numbers so that Internet endpoints do not need pairwise,
explicit coordination of the meaning of their port numbers. This is the
primary reason for requesting port number assignment by IANA: to have a common
agreement between all endpoints on the Internet as to the default meaning of a
port number, which provides the endpoints with a default port number for a
particular protocol or service.
It is also clarified that:
Port numbers can also be used for other purposes. Assigned port numbers can
simplify end-system configuration, so that individual installations do not
need to coordinate their use of arbitrary port numbers. Such assignments may
also have the effect of simplifying firewall management, so that a single,
fixed firewall configuration can either permit or deny a service that uses the
assigned ports.
In typical roaming scenarios, three or more administrative domains can be
crossed: visited and home PLMN, one or more IPX providers connecting together
via an IPX peering point for traffic exchange between PLMNs. Operators and
service providers may even decide to rely on the global connectivity provided
by the public Internet for interconnection.
As roaming implies the need for a global configuration of the port to use for
a particular protocol, it is strongly recommended for 3GPP to apply to IANA
for assigned service name and port number for any protocol potentially
supported by roaming interfaces when no other service port discovery (e.g.
DNS-based solutions) is applicable.
In non-roaming scenarios, a given interface can still cross multiple domains.
For instance, RAN can be supported by an IP-based network distinct from the
one supporting the core network even if both are under the same PLMN Another
example is the RAN sharing case (i.e. same RAN is used by multiple PLMN\'s CN)
in which the interface between RAN and CN also crosses multiple administrative
domains. In such a case, it is also strongly recommended for 3GPP to apply to
IANA for assigned service name and port number for any protocol potentially
supported by inter-domain interfaces when no other service port discovery
(e.g. DNS-based solutions) is applicable.
For 3GPP interfaces that would be used only in intra-domain scenarios,
alternative solutions to IANA assigned port numbers are required.
Table 4.1-1 provides brief summary of the identified alternative solutions.
Table 4.1-1: Solution summary
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Solution | Port | Ap | Suitable | Comments | | | | al | plicable | (NOTE) | | | | | location | t | | | | | | method | ransport | | | | | | | layer | | | | | | | protocol | | | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | | | | Inte | Intr | | | | | | r-domain | a-domain | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #1 | Un- | UDP, | Part | Yes | **DNS | | | assigned | TCP, | | | infras | | | | SCTP | | | tructure | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | (D | | | | | | | NS-SD)** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | The port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | selected | | | | | | | dyn | | | | | | | amically | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterface | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | locally. | | | | | | | DNS | | | | | | | server | | | | | | | is kept | | | | | | | up | | | | | | | -to-date | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | records | | | | | | | like | | | | | | | ho | | | | | | | stnames, | | | | | | | IP | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | dresses, | | | | | | | locally | | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | numbers, | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | names | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | pported, | | | | | | | etc. for | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | clients | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | discover | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | DNS PTR | | | | | | | query. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | scenario | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | limi | | | | | | | tations. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | ter-PLMN | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | iscovery | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | DNS | | | | | | | servers | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onnected | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | IPX, the | | | | | | | private, | | | | | | | inter- | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | IP | | | | | | | backbone | | | | | | | network. | | | | | | | But if | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | scovered | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | cation/i | | | | | | | nterface | | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | trolled, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | will not | | | | | | | work as | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | tination | | | | | | | port is | | | | | | | unknown | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | ateway/f | | | | | | | irewall. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #2 | Un- | UDP, | Part | Yes | **DNS | | | assigned | TCP, | | | infras | | | | SCTP | | | tructure | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | (DNS | | | | | | | SRV)** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This is | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | alt | | | | | | | ernative | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | ution#1 | | | | | | | in which | | | | | | | there is | | | | | | | only one | | | | | | | logical | | | | | | | instance | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | and all | | | | | | | clients | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | expected | | | | | | | to use | | | | | | | that one | | | | | | | logical | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nstance. | | | | | | | App | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | clients | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | discover | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | server | | | | | | | end | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | details | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | DNS SRV | | | | | | | query. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Requires | | | | | | | DNS | | | | | | | infras | | | | | | | tructure | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | clients | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | DNS | | | | | | | queries. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | scenario | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | limi | | | | | | | tations. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | ter-PLMN | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | iscovery | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | provided | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | DNS | | | | | | | servers | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onnected | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | IPX, the | | | | | | | private, | | | | | | | inter- | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | IP | | | | | | | backbone | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | DNS | | | | | | | servers | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onnected | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | IPX, the | | | | | | | private, | | | | | | | inter- | | | | | | | operator | | | | | | | IP | | | | | | | backbone | | | | | | | network. | | | | | | | But if | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | scovered | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | cation/i | | | | | | | nterface | | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | trolled, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | will not | | | | | | | work as | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | tination | | | | | | | port is | | | | | | | unknown | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | ateway/f | | | | | | | irewall. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #3 | Un- | UDP, | No | Yes | **M | | | assigned | TCP, | | | ulticast | | | | SCTP | | | DNS | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | (mDNS)** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Instead | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | sending | | | | | | | the DNS | | | | | | | query to | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | unicast | | | | | | | DNS | | | | | | | server, | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | query is | | | | | | | sent to | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | li | | | | | | | nk-local | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulticast | | | | | | | address. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | nodes | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | imp | | | | | | | lemented | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | mDNS | | | | | | | resolver | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | sponder. | | | | | | | The node | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | pporting | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | responds | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | mDNS | | | | | | | query. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | cenario, | | | | | | | because | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulticast | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | stricted | | | | | | | to local | | | | | | | link. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #4 | Un- | UDP, | Part | Yes | * | | | assigned | TCP, | | | _Unicast | | | | SCTP | | | DNS | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | (uDNS)__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | Similar | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | ution#3 | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | fference | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | mDNS | | | | | | | query is | | | | | | | sent to | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | pre-co | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | IP | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | instead | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | li | | | | | | | nk-local | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | ulticast | | | | | | | address. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | scenario | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | limi | | | | | | | tations. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | | IP | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | dyn | | | | | | | amically | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | esolved, | | | | | | | e.g. | | | | | | | using an | | | | | | | FQDN to | | | | | | | retrieve | | | | | | | an IP | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | DNS and | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterface | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | secured | | | | | | | it can | | | | | | | be used | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | cenario. | | | | | | | But if | | | | | | | DNS has | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | used, | | | | | | | then | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | has less | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | than the | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | ution#1 | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | Solu | | | | | | | tion#2. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #5 | Fixed | SCTP | Yes | Yes |__SCTP | | | | | | | MUX | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | stan | | | | | | | dardized | | | | | | | PPID | | | | | | | (SCTP | | | | | | | MUX)__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | All new | | | | | | | interfa | | | | | | | ces/appl | | | | | | | ications | | | | | | | use a | | | | | | | common | | | | | | | stan | | | | | | | dardized | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | unique | | | | | | | stan | | | | | | | dardized | | | | | | | SCTP | | | | | | | Payload | | | | | | | Protocol | | | | | | | Id | | | | | | | entifier | | | | | | | (PPID). | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | server | | | | | | | side | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | plements | | | | | | | an SCTP | | | | | | | mul | | | | | | | tiplexer | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | dis | | | | | | | tributes | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | intended | | | | | | | appl | | | | | | | ications | | | | | | | based on | | | | | | | PPID | | | | | | | value. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | cenario. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #6 | Fixed | UDP, | Part | Yes |__3GPP | | | | TCP, | | | a | | | | SCTP | | | llocated | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | (3GPP)__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | IANA | | | | | | | does not | | | | | | | assign | | | | | | | any port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | Dynamic | | | | | | | /Private | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | [49152 | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | 65535]. | | | | | | | If 3GPP | | | | | | | stan | | | | | | | dardizes | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | subrange | | | | | | | [65400 | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | 65500] | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | for 3GPP | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | terfaces | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | starts | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | locating | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | numbers, | | | | | | | this may | | | | | | | cause | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | clash | | | | | | | during | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | actual | | | | | | | depl | | | | | | | oyments. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | scenario | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | limi | | | | | | | tations. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | li | | | | | | | mitation | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | itigated | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | firewall | | | | | | | impleme | | | | | | | ntations | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | pporting | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | llocated | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | range. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #7 | Fixed | UDP, | No | Yes |__OAM | | | | TCP, | | | a | | | | SCTP | | | llocated | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | (OAM)__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | Operator | | | | | | | becomes | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | ponsible | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | locating | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | numbers | | | | | | | via OAM | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | either | | | | | | | the User | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | [1024 | | | | | | | -49151] | | | | | | | or from | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | Dynamic | | | | | | | /Private | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | [49152 | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | 65535]. | | | | | | | Operator | | | | | | | is also | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | ponsible | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | avoiding | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | clashes. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | Inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | cenario. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | #8 | Un- | UDP, | Yes | Yes |__Port | | | assigned | TCP, | | | Regi | | | | SCTP | | | stration | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | etrieval | | | | | | | via NRF | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | (NRF)_ * | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NRF is | | | | | | | enhanced | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | regi | | | | | | | stration | | | | | | | of port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | etrieval | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | by an | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | client. | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | lication | | | | | | | client | | | | | | | can use | | | | | | | the NF | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | iscovery | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | retrieve | | | | | | | the port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | rotocol, | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | dicating | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | | type. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | On | | | | | | | client | | | | | | | side, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | of SBI | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterface | | | | | | | to NRF. | | | | | | | On | | | | | | | server | | | | | | | side, | | | | | | | NRF will | | | | | | | need to | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | regi | | | | | | | stration | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | iscovery | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | non-SBI | | | | | | | interfac | | | | | | | es/appli | | | | | | | cations. | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | scovered | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | cation/i | | | | | | | nterface | | | | | | | needs to | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | trolled, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | will not | | | | | | | work as | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | des | | | | | | | tination | | | | | | | port is | | | | | | | unknown | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | ateway/f | | | | | | | irewall. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | cenario. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | \'Part\' | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicates | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | solution | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | artially | | | | | | | suitable | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | scenario | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | lim | | | | | | | itations | | | | | | | need to | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | sidered. | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nstance, | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | r-domain | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | cenario, | | | | | | | it is | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | possible | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | prevent | | | | | | | fi | | | | | | | rewalls/ | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | gateways | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | domains | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | tricting | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | utgoing/ | | | | | | | incoming | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | traffic | | | | | | | for a | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | port not | | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | | by IANA. | | | | | | | It is | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | herefore | | | | | | | strongly | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | ommended | | | | | | | for 3GPP | | | | | | | to apply | | | | | | | to IANA | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | name and | | | | | | | port | | | | | | | number. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Annex A on this specification summarizes IANA port allocation policy.
Annexes B.1 and B.2 provide essential background information and also how IANA
classifies different port number ranges. Annex B.3 explains relations between
the services and port numbers.
Annex C explains IANA procedures for Service Name and Port Number registry
management.
3GPP procedures for Service Name and Port Number registry management are
specified in 3GPP TS 29.641 [20].
## 4.2 DNS based solutions#1-4
### 4.2.1 General
DNS procedures can be used to discover a service or a service instance in a
given domain using PTR (see IETF RFC 1035 [19]) and/or SRV resource record
lookups.
The PTR and SRV lookup are performed on the name:
\.\
The \ portion consists of a pair of DNS labels separated by a dot,
following the convention already established for SRV records (IETF RFC 2782
[8]).
The first label of the pair is an underscore character followed by an IANA
registered Service Name (IETF RFC 6335 [10]).
NOTE 1: Service names are assigned on a \"first come, first served\" basis, as
described in clause 8.1 of IETF RFC 6335 [10]. There is no substantive review
of the request, other than to ensure that it is well-formed and doesn\'t
duplicate an existing assignment.
For new service names registered by 3GPP, the Service Name should start with
\"3gpp-\", followed by a name identifying the application protocol defined by
3GPP. This name should be the acronym used to identify the protocol in 3GPP
specifications.
The second label is either \"_tcp\" (for application protocols that run over
TCP) or \"_udp\" (for application protocols that run over any transport
protocol other than TCP, e.g. SCTP).
EXAMPLE: IANA-assigned Service Name for the SCTP application W1AP supporting
the service provided by the W1 interface defined by 3GPP:
\"_3gpp-w1ap._udp\"
The \ portion specifies the DNS subdomain within which those names are
registered. It may be:
\- \"local.\" in the absence of any conventional Unicast DNS server, meaning
\"link-local Multicast DNS\" (see IETF RFC 6762 [12]);
\- A subdomain of any conventional Unicast DNS domain name operated by the
operator, e.g. \"example.com\";
\- A subdomain of \"mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org\" for service
discovery across PLMNs (e.g. in roaming cases).
When relying on a DNS infrastructure, the operators are responsible for:
\- The selection of the subdomain name in which the Service Instance Names are
registered, and
\- The provisioning of the authoritative DNS server of this subdomain with the
corresponding PTR, SRV, TXT and A/AAAA records used to discover and contact
the target nodes.
### 4.2.2 Solution#1: DNS-SD based solution
#### 4.2.2.1 General
The DNS-based Service Discovery (DNS-SD) (see IETF RFC 6763 [13]) allows
clients to discover one or multiple nodes in the network supporting a specific
service, the application protocol and the transport protocol used for
accessing the service, using standard DNS queries sent to a conventional
unicast DNS server available in the network.
In 3GPP networks, any IP-based interface can been considered as a specific
service provided by a node on a given IP address and an IP port number. By
identifying an interface with a unique service name, the DNS-based Service
Discovery (DNS-SD) can be used by clients to discover the IP port number used
by a remote node for a given interface.
In this proposed solution, it is assumed that a conventional unicast DNS
server is available in the network. When a node is activated in the network,
the service application is assigned with any available port from either the
User Port number range [1024-49151] or the Dynamic/Private Port range [49152 -
65535]. The DNS server of the domain needs to be updated with the node\'s DNS
records (configured hostnames, IP addresses, locally assigned port numbers,
service names supported, etc.). This update can be done manually by the
network administrator or done automatically by the node with mechanisms such
as Dynamic DNS (DDNS).
The name of the service supported by a given 3GPP interface is registered to
IANA. It consists of a pair of DNS labels separated by a dot, following the
convention already established for SRV records (IETF RFC 2782 [5]).
\- The first label of the pair is an underscore character followed by an IANA
registered Service Name (IETF RFC 6335 [10]).
\- The second label is either \"_tcp\" (for application protocols that run
over TCP) or \"_udp\" (for application protocols that run over any transport
protocol other than TCP).
Service names are assigned by IANA on a \"first come, first served\" basis, as
described in Clause 8.1 of IETF RFC 6335 [10]. There is no substantive review
of the request, other than to ensure that it is well-formed and doesn\'t
duplicate an existing assignment. The assignment of a standard service name is
therefore straightforward.
#### 4.2.2.2 Detailed description
The proposed solution is based on the following assumptions:
\- A listening port is locally assigned to a service application hosted in a
node;
\- The DNS server of the domain is updated with the resource records of the
service application (configured hostnames, node\'s IP addresses, locally
assigned port numbers, service names supported, etc.);
\- The service application client implements a DNS resolver.
To set-up a transport connection with the application server, the following
steps apply:
1 The client is configured with an IANA registered service name \
identifying a specific service and the application protocol used to support
the service.
2 To discover the list of available service instances supporting the service
\ in the domain \, the client performs a DNS-SD PTR lookup
(see IETF RFC 6763 [13]) for the name:
\.\
NOTE 1: the domain name in which the service instances have to be discovered
is either configured in the client or derived from service-specific
information e.g. IMSI/SUPI, PLMN-Id, etc.3 The DNS query is sent to the
conventional unicast DNS server.
4 The result of the DNS-SD\'s PTR lookup is a set of zero or more PTR records
giving the list of available instances in the form of Service Instance Names:
Service Instance Name = \.\.\
In which the \ portion is a user-friendly name, consisting of
arbitrary Net-Unicode text, as defined in IETF RFC 6763 [13].
When at least one PTR record is present in the DNS response, the following
additional records are included in the DNS response:
\- The SRV record(s) for each Service Instance Name listed in the PTR
record(s), providing the port number and target host name of the Service
Instance Name.
\- All address records (type \"A\" and \"AAAA\") for the target host name
listed in the SRV record(s).
\- The TXT record(s) containing a single zero octet (i.e., a single empty
string.) for each Service Instance Name named in the PTR record(s).
NOTE 2: DNS clients are able of functioning correctly with DNS servers (and
Multicast DNS Responders) that fail to generate these additional records
automatically, by issuing subsequent queries for any further record(s) they
require.
NOTE 3: As described in IETF RFC 6763 [13], TXT record(s) containing a single
zero octet indicate that there is no additional data for the given Service
Instance
5 In the event that more than one SRV is returned, the client shall correctly
interpret the priority and weight fields to select the target node i.e.:
\- Lower-numbered priority instances should be used in preference to higher-
numbered priority instances, and
\- Instances with equal priority should be selected randomly in proportion to
their relative weights.
NOTE 4: It is recommended to give the same weight to all the instances with
the same priority.
6 The client can set up connection(s) with the remote node(s) using the IP
address(es) and port number(s) retrieved from the DNS server and then
application data can be exchanged between the client and the server.
#### 4.2.2.3 Pros and cons
Pros:
\- Port numbers are locally assigned in the node supporting the interface
applications.
\- Limit the need for manual configuration.
\- Leveraging on a proven DNS infrastructure and mature technology.
\- The \"_tcp\" and \"_udp\" subdomains can be delegated to a dedicated DNS
server.
Cons:
\- Rely on the availability of a DNS infrastructure.
\- 3GPP nodes need to implement a DNS resolver in order to discover interfaces
supported by other nodes.
\- The discovery mechanism implies additional signalling before setting up the
connection between nodes.
### 4.2.3 Solution#2: Service discovery using DNS SRV records
#### 4.2.3.1 General
This is an alternative to solution#1 in which there is only one logical
instance of service \ and all clients are expected to use that one
logical instance. Of course, the logical instance can be load-shared across
multiple nodes, but all the nodes provide an equivalent service.
In this proposed solution, to discover the list of available service
instances, the client performs a simple SRV lookup (see IETF RFC 2782 [5])
instead of a PTR lookup in solution#1:
The result of the SRV lookup is SRV record(s) providing the port number and
target host name of the nodes supporting the service. All address records
(type \"A\" and \"AAAA\") for the target host name listed in the SRV record
are also provided.
#### 4.2.3.2 Detailed description
The proposed solution is based on the following assumptions:
\- A listening port is locally assigned to a service application hosted in a
node;
\- The DNS server of the domain is updated with the resource records of the
service application (configured hostnames, node\'s IP addresses, locally
assigned port numbers, service names supported, etc.);
\- The service application client implements a DNS resolver.
To set-up a transport connection with the application server, the following
steps apply:
1 The client is configured with an IANA registered service name \
identifying a specific service and the application protocol used to support
the service.
2 To discover the list of available service instances supporting the service
\ in the domain \, the client performs a DNS SRV lookup (see
IETF RFC 6763 [13]) for the name:
\.\
NOTE 1: the domain name in which the service instances have to be discovered
is either configured in the client or derived from service-specific
information e.g. IMSI/SUPI, PLMN-Id, etc. See 3GPP TS 23.003.
3 The DNS query is sent to the conventional unicast DNS server.
4 The result of the DNS SRV lookup is a set of zero or more SRV records
providing the port number and host name of the target nodes supporting the
service. All address records (type \"A\" and \"AAAA\") for the target host
name listed in the SRV record are also provided:
NOTE 2: DNS clients are able of functioning correctly with DNS servers that
fail to generate these additional A/AAAA records automatically, by issuing
subsequent queries for any further record(s) they require.
5 In the event that more than one SRV is returned, the client shall correctly
interpret the priority and weight fields to select the target node i.e.:
\- Lower-numbered priority instances should be used in preference to higher-
numbered priority instances, and
\- Instances with equal priority should be selected randomly in proportion to
their relative weights.
NOTE 3: It is recommended to give the same weight to all the instances with
the same priority.
6 The client can set up connection(s) with the remote node(s) using the IP
address(es) and port number(s) retrieved from the DNS server and then
application data can be exchanged between the client and the server.
#### 4.2.3.3 Pros and cons
Pros:
\- Port numbers are locally assigned in the node supporting the interface
applications.
\- Limit the need for manual configuration.
\- Leveraging on a proven DNS infrastructure and mature technology.
\- The \"_tcp\" and \"_udp\" subdomains can be delegated to a dedicated DNS
server.
Cons:
\- Rely on the availability of a DNS infrastructure.
\- 3GPP nodes need to implement a DNS resolver in order to discover interfaces
supported by other nodes.
\- The discovery mechanism implies additional signalling before setting up the
connection between nodes.
\- It is not possible to discriminate multiple service instances. All clients
are expected to use that the same logical instance.
### 4.2.4 Solution#3: Use of multicast address on local link (mDNS)
#### 4.2.4.1 General
This is an alternative to solution#1 and solution#2 in the absence of DNS
server in the domain.
Multicast DNS (mDNS) (see IETF RFC 6762 [12]) provides the ability to perform
DNS-like operations on the local link in the absence of any conventional
Unicast DNS server. DNS queries are multicasted on a local link and any node
receiving the query responds with a unicast packet directed back to the
querier if it supports the service requested by the querier. The response can
also be multicasted on local link, all the nodes on this local link being
updated at the same time.
Multicast DNS can provide zero-configuration operation -- just connect a DNS-
SD/mDNS device, and its services are advertised on the local link with no
further user interaction.
#### 4.2.4.2 Detailed description
The proposed solution is based on the following assumptions:
\- A listening port is locally assigned to a service application hosted in a
node;
\- The application server implements a Multicast DNS responder listening for
DNS queries on the UDP port 5353
\- the application client implements either a full Multicast DNS resolver
sending DNS queries from the UDP source port 5353 or a minimal Multicast DNS
resolver (light enhancement of a legacy DNS resolver) sending DNS queries from
high-numbered ephemeral UDP source port.
To set-up a transport connection with the SCTP application server, the
following steps apply:
1 The client is configured with an IANA registered service name \
identifying a specific service and the application protocol used to support
the service.
2 To discover the list of available service instances supporting the service
\ on the local link, the client performs a DNS PRT lookup
(solution#1, see clause 4.2.2.2) or SRV lookup (solution#2, see clause
4.2.3.2) for the name:
\.local.
3 DNS queries are sent to the mDNS IPv4 link-local multicast address
224.0.0.251 or mDNS IPv6 link-local multicast address FF02::FB, to UDP
destination port 5353 and using as UDP source port either:
\- port 5353 if the client supports a fully compliant mDNS resolver; or
\- a high-numbered ephemeral UDP source port other than port 5353, if the
client supports minimal Multicast DNS resolver
NOTE 1: It is recommended to use the mDNS IPv4 link-local multicast address
only if IPv6 is not not avalaible.
4 A node receiving the mDNS request and supporting the desired service shall
provide in the response its own DNS records as described in clauses 4.2.2.2
(solution#1) and 4.2.3.2 (solution#2).
5 The DNS response is either unicast to the source IP address of the DNS
querier, or the response is multicast on the local link.
NOTE 2: DNS querier can asked for unicast response by setting the unicast-
response bit, the top bit in the class field of a DNS question.
6 The client can set up connection(s) with the remote node(s) using the IP
address(es) and port number(s) retrieved from the DNS server and then
application data can be exchanged between the client and the server.
#### 4.2.4.3 Pros and cons
Pros:
\- Port numbers are locally assigned in the node supporting the interface
applications.
\- Little or no administration or configuration to set the nodes up
\- Work when no DNS infrastructure is present
\- Can be used also during DNS infrastructure failures
Cons:
_-_ All the nodes have to be on the same logical local network.
\- (Minimal) Multicast DNS resolvers and Multicast DNS responders have to be
implemented in the nodes.
\- Additional traffic with multicast queries and responses.
\- The discovery mechanism implies additional signalling before setting up the
connection between nodes.
### 4.2.5 Solution#4: Direct unicast DNS queries to the target node (uDNS)
#### 4.2.5.1 General
This is an alternative to solution#3 when there is no DNS server and the
target node can be outside the local link.
In this proposed solution, instead of relying on Multicast DNS queries sent on
the local link, the client sends its DNS query via unicast directly to the
node, using the destination port 5353. The IP address of the target node is
discovered by configuration.
The node receiving the unicast DNS query and supporting the desired service
answers via with a unicast packet directed back to the client, using the
source IP address and port of the received DNS query.
#### 4.2.5.2 Detailed description
The proposed solution is based on the following assumptions:
\- A listening port is locally assigned to a service application hosted in a
node;
\- The application server implements a Multicast DNS responder listening for
DNS queries on the UDP port 5353
\- the application client implements either a full Multicast DNS resolver
sending DNS queries from the UDP source port 5353 or a minimal Multicast DNS
resolver (light enhancement of a legacy DNS resolver) sending DNS queries from
high-numbered ephemeral UDP source port.
To set-up a transport connection with the application server, the following
steps apply:
1 The client is configured with:
\- An IANA registered service name \ identifying a specific service
and the application protocol used to support the service;
\- The IP address of the target node.
2 To discover the list of available service instances supporting the service
\ on the local link, the client performs a DNS PRT lookup
(solution#1, see clause 4.2.2.2) or SRV lookup (solution#2, see clause
4.2.3.2) for the name:
\.local.
3 DNS queries are sent to the unicast IP address of the target node configured
in the client, to UDP destination port 5353 and using as UDP source port
either:
\- Port 5353 if the client supports a fully compliant mDNS resolver; or
\- High-numbered ephemeral UDP source port other than port 5353, if the client
supports minimal Multicast DNS resolver
NOTE: It is recommended to use the mDNS IPv4 link-local multicast address only
if IPv6 is not not avalaible.
4 A node receiving the mDNS request and supporting the desired service will
provide in the response its own DNS records as described in clause 4.2.2.2
(solution#1) and 4.2.3.2 (solution#2).
5 The DNS response is unicast to the source IP address of the DNS querier.
6 The client can set up connection(s) with the remote node(s) using the IP
address(es) and port number(s) retrieved from the DNS server and then
application data can be exchanged between the client and the server.
#### 4.2.5.3 Pros and cons
Pros:
\- Port numbers are locally assigned in the node supporting the interface
applications.
\- Minimal administration or configuration to set the nodes up
\- Work when no DNS infrastructure is present
\- Can be used also during DNS infrastructure failures
Cons:
\- (Minimal) Multicast DNS resolvers and Multicast DNS responders have to be
implemented in the nodes.
\- The discovery mechanism implies additional signalling before setting up the
connection between nodes.
\- The signalling between the client and the target node outside the local
link shall be protected with confidentiality, integrity and replay protection,
using for instance IPsec.
### 4.2.6 Guidelines for DNS based solutions#1-4
It is beneficial to use solution#1 (DNS-SD) and solution#2 (DNS SRV), if DNS
infrastructure is readily available and if the clients support DNS-based
discovery mechanisms.
When relying on a DNS infrastructure, the \ portion of the Service
Instance Name in which the Service Instance Names are registered depends on
the nature of the interface on which the transport protocol is used:
\- If the interface is only used in an intra-domain scenario, the operators
are free to use any suitable subdomain of the domain for which the operator is
responsible, e.g. \"example.com\";
\- If the interface may be used in an inter-domain scenario, the \
portion must be a subdomain of the domain
\"mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org\", e.g.:
\- \"epc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org\" when the DNS server is located
in the 3GPP core network;
\- \"ran.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org\" when the DNS server is located
in the 3GPP radio access network.
Operators are responsible for the provisioning of the authoritative DNS server
of this subdomain with the corresponding resource records (PTR, SRV, TXT and
A/AAAA) used to discover and contact the service instances.
It is beneficial to use solution#3 (mDNS), if DNS infrastructure is not
available and the clients support mDNS queries. Solution#3 however is not
suitable for the inter-domain scenario, because multicast is restricted to the
local link.
It is beneficial to use solution#4 (uDNS), if there is no DNS server, the
target node can be outside the local link and the clients support unicast DNS
queries. Solution#4 can also be used for the inter-domain scenario, but that
requires DNS infrastructure. If DNS has to be used, then solution#4 has less
value than solution#1 and solution#2.
NOTE: For inter-domain scenario, it is not possible to prevent
firewalls/security gateways located between two domains from restricting
outgoing/incoming network traffic for a specific port not assigned by IANA. It
is therefore strongly recommended for 3GPP to apply to IANA for assigned
service name and port number.
## 4.3 SCTP based solution#5 -- SCTP Multiplexer (SCTP MUX)
### 4.3.1 General
The TCP Port Service Multiplexer (TCPMUX) is defined in IETF RFC 1078 [4]. The
specification describes a multiplexing service that may be accessed with a
network protocol to contact any one of a number of available TCP services of a
host on a single, well-known port number.
The same principle is applied to SCTP applications.
An SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [6]) packet is composed of a common header and chunks.
The SCTP common header contains:
\- The SCTP Source Port Number that can be used by the receiver in combination
with the source IP address, the SCTP destination port, and possibly the
destination IP address to identify the association to which this packet
belongs.
\- The SCTP Destination Port Number that can be used by the receiving host to
de-multiplex the SCTP packet to the correct receiving endpoint/application.
A SCTP chunk represents a protocol message, which can be used by the protocol
itself or can contain user data. User data are contained in DATA chunks that
include a Payload Protocol Identifier. The Payload Protocol Identifier is used
to identify the application which uses the services of SCTP.
As it is contained in each DATA chunk, the Payload Protocol Identifier
identifies the protocol being carried over SCTP independently of the port
numbers being used. The Payload Protocol Identifier can be used therefore to
de-multiplex the SCTP packet to the correct receiving endpoint/application
above SCTP instead of the SCTP Destination Port Number.
The proposed solution based on the Payload Protocol Identifier parsing would
then allow to contact multiple applications on a single well-known STCP port
using the SCTP Payload Protocol Identifier instead of requesting IANA for
allocation of a new well-known SCTP port number each time a new application is
defined.
The SCTP multiplexer is implemented as a stand-alone process above the SCTP
layer, listening at the well-known SCTP port and used to initiate and manage
associations with remote SCTP endpoints and distribute received SCTP messages
to upper-layer applications based on the Payload Protocol Identifier. The SCTP
multiplexer is seen as a regular SCTP user. There is no impact on the SCTP
stack.
The well-known port can be:
\- The port already allocated for TCPMUX (port 1);
\- A port already allocated for another SCTP application defined by 3GPP;
\- A new port dedicated to SCTP multiplexing allocated in a port range locally
administrated by 3GPP.
\- A new port dedicated to SCTP multiplexing allocated by IANA.
In the figure below, a single SCTP host is supporting 4 new applications in
addition of an existing W1 application (identified by the IANA-assigned port
38472). The port number used to identify the multiplexer is 47002 (given only
as possible unassigned User Port that can be assigned by IANA for the SCTP
multiplexer application).
Figure 4.3.1-1: SCTP server-side illustration for SCTP Multiplexer (port)
When DTLS over SCTP, as described in IETF RFC 6083 [9], is used to provide
mutual authentication, integrity protection, replay protection and
confidentiality protection, only SCTP user data are integrity protected and
encrypted by DTLS. The Payload Data (DATA) header, in which the SCTP Payload
Protocol Identifier is indicated, is therefore sent as clear text. The SCTP
Multiplexer can still use the SCTP Payload Protocol Identifier to distribute
SCTP messages to upper-layer applications. Moreover, the SCTP associations
being managed by the SCTP Multiplexer and the DTLS connections being handled
by the applications (identified by the SCTP Payload Protocol Identifier) above
the SCTP Multiplexer, it is possible to have multiple DTLS connections over a
the same SCTP association, one DTLS connection per application (or per SCTP
Payload Protocol Identifier).
In the figure below, a single SCTP host is supporting 4 new applications in
addition of an existing W1 application (identified by the IANA-assigned port
38472). The port number used to identify the multiplexer is 47002 (given only
as possible unassigned User Port that can be used). DTLS over SCTP is used to
provide communications privacy for applications above the SCTP Multiplexer.
Figure 4.3.1-2: SCTP server-side illustration for SCTP Multiplexer (SCTP MUX)
with used of DTLS over SCTP
### 4.3.2 Detailed description
The proposed solution is based on the following assumptions:
\- The server implements an SCTP multiplexer that can serve multiple
applications on a single well-known STCP port.
\- Each SCTP application hosted in the server is configured with an internal
IP address and a listening port. The SCTP multiplexer is configured with
forwarding rules that associate an SCTP Payload Protocol Identifier with a
target internal IP address/port. The forwarding rules are used by the SCTP
multiplexer to forward incoming SCTP application traffic received on the well-
known STCP port to the internal application processes.
\- The client is configured with the IP address of the server to contact and
use the well-known STCP port associated to the SCTP multiplexer or the IP
address is discovered using basic DNS procedures.
To set-up a transport connection with the SCTP application server, the
following steps apply:
1 The client sends an INIT signal to the SCTP multiplexer on the dedicated
port to initiate an association.
2 On receipt of the INIT signal, the SCTP multiplexer sends an INIT-ACK
response to the client. This INIT-ACK signal contains a state cookie.
3 On receipt of this INIT-ACK signal, the client sends a COOKIE-ECHO response,
which just echoes the state cookie.
4 After verifying the authenticity of the state cookie, the SCTP multiplexer
then allocates the resources for the association, sends a COOKIE-ACK response
acknowledging the COOKIE-ECHO signal, and the association is said ESTABLISHED.
5 The client can send to the SCTP multiplexer user data encapsulated within
SCTP DATA chunks, each DATA chunk including a Payload Protocol Identifier
identifying the requested application.
6 The SCTP multiplexer checks the Payload Protocol Identifier included in each
received DATA chunk.
a If the Payload Protocol Identifier is supported i.e., there is an internal
process that supports the requested application, the SCTP multiplexer delivers
the user data to the correct receiving application. The reception of the DATA
chunk is then acknowledged by a SACK chunks and protocol data exchange between
the client and the application behind the SCTP multiplexer can continue.
b If the Payload Identifier is not supported i.e., there is no internal
process that supports the requested application, the SCTP multiplexer will
abort the created SCTP association, sending an ABORT chunk to the client that
contains a User-Initiated Abort cause code (12). A specific Upper Layer Abort
Reason (e.g. \"Unsupported Payload Protocol Identifier\") can also be included
and be delivered to the upper-layer protocol at the peer.
### 4.3.3 Pros and cons
Pros:
\- Multiple SCTP applications can be run on the same port.
\- Minimal administration or configuration to set the nodes up.
\- Does not rely on DNS infrastructure.
Cons:
\- An SCTP multiplexer process needs to be implemented in servers.
\- Only applicable to protocols carried over SCTP.
\- Need for IANA port number allocation if the one assigned to TCPMUX is not
reused.
\- Need for a 3GPP-managed port allocation if the port used for SCTP
multiplexer is neither the one for TCPMUX nor one allocated by IANA.
\- Not possible to use the port number to distinguish SCTP applications.
### 4.3.4 Guidelines for SCTP based solution#5
Solution#5 (SCTP MUX) is beneficial for clients that utilize SCTP.
It is strongly recommended to apply to IANA for assigned service name and SCTP
port number for the first application of this solution in 3GPP networks. For
additional SCTP applications, only the service name will have to be assigned
by IANA as all the new SCTP application will be multiplexed over the same
assigned STCP port using the SCTP Payload Protocol Identifier.
With IANA assigned service name and port numbers, solution#5 is beneficial for
inter-domain scenario.
## 4.4 3GPP allocated port number solution#6
### 4.4.1 General
In scenarios, when IANA allocated default port numbers cannot be used, while a
new 3GPP interface application may require a pre-defined specific server port
number, 3GPP becomes responsible for allocating a server port number. Such
port numbers should be assigned from a sub-range of the Dynamic/Private Port
range [49152 - 65535].
NOTE: Clause 4 in IETF RFC 6335 [2] specifies that the term \"assignment\" is
used to refer to the procedure by which IANA provides service names and/or
port numbers to requesting parties and that other RFCs refer to this as
\"allocation\" or \"registration\". IANA does not assign port numbers from
Dynamic/Private Port range [49152 - 65535] and therefore any application
designer is free to use any of these ports at will.
When a new 3GPP Rel-17 and onwards application requires pre-defined server
port number, during the application initialization the operating system will
tell the new application if the port is already in use or not. If the port is
in use by another, legacy application, the new application or operating system
shall ensure that the legacy application stops using the port. It is up to the
implementation to decide if the legacy application will be forced to stop
using the port immediately, or if the legacy application will be granted some
period of time for graciously removing the port from usage.
Any sub-range from [49152 - 65535] range would be good for this purpose. 3GPP
decided to set aside a sub-range of 101 ports from 65400 to 65500. 3GPP
allocated port numbers are documented in 3GPP TS 29.641 [20].
### 4.4.2 Detailed description
The proposed solution is based on the following assumptions:
1\. Dynamic/Private Port number range [49152 - 65535] is not restricted by
IANA and may be used by 3GPP or non-3GPP applications without any
restrictions.
2\. Many existing interface applications are dynamically selecting port
numbers from range [49152 - 65535] when populating source port field in
UDP/TCP/SCTP header, e.g. for load balancing. In a request-response type of
communication, the remote peer typically sends the response message to the
port number, which is populating the source port field of the received request
message.
3\. Let\'s assume, 3GPP specifies in Rel-17 or onwards that the port number of
some new application \'X\' is e.g. 50000.
4\. When sending a request message, the new application X will populate the
port numbers as follows:
\- Destination port: e.g. 50000
\- Source port: e.g. 60000
5\. When the application peer sends a response, the new remote application X
will populate the port numbers in a reverse order:
\- Destination port: 60000
\- Source port: 50000
6\. Now, in the network there will be other, legacy interface applications
that were taken into use before application X is specified. Let\'s look into
how the traffic for these applications would be handled.
7\. Application X sends a request to the destination port 50000.
a. If the application X peer receives such legit message, it will correctly
handle the message.
b. If a legacy application receives such message at port 50000, then the
following scenarios should be checked. Note, that legacy application may
expect only a response message at port 50000. If the application does not
listen to port 50000, the message will be discarded. Even if the application
listens to port 50000, it obviously cannot correctly parse the X application
request and therefore an application/protocol specific error handling will be
triggered. The legacy application will discard the message also in this case
and may either log an error or may resend the request. For resending the
request, the sequence numbers in the outstanding request and in the received
erroneous message shall match. The latter case is highly hypothetical, because
it is unlikely the legacy application can correctly extract a sequence number
from the erroneous message, in the first place. Even less likely would be
finding the match.
8\. Legacy application sends a response to the destination port 50000, because
it received a request from this port.
a. If the legacy application peer receives such legit message, it will
correctly handle the message.
b. If an application X receives such message at port 50000, then the following
scenarios should be checked. Note, that application X may expect only a
request message at port 50000. The application X obviously cannot correctly
parse the legacy application request and therefore an application/protocol
specific error handling will be triggered. In order to optimize the error
handling, the application X should be able to detect the legacy application
type. In such case, the message shall be silently discarded. There will be
only a handful of legacy applications running on the given NF, i.e. the NF
will be connected only to a handful of 3GPP interfaces. Therefore, such
additional, but trivial feature will not cause any considerable extra efforts.
The following use case needs to be considered:
\- A legacy application client already runs on a network entity and a new 3GPP
Rel-17 app is initializing;
\- Both apps share the same IP address;
\- The new 3GPP Rel-17 app shall listen to e.g. port 50000 for incoming
requests;
\- There is a small, but non-zero probability that the legacy app has sent a
request to another server and is expecting a response to port 50000;
\- The system will not allow new 3GPP Rel-17 app to run, because port 50000 is
already in use;
\- Implementation needs to find a way to somehow remove port 50000 from the
legacy app usage, which will enable new 3GPP Rel-17 app to start;
\- Once the new 3GPP Rel-17 app is up and running, the system will ensure the
legacy app will always select another port from the dynamic range. No more
clashes will happen on this network entity.
### 4.4.3 Pros and cons
Pros:
\- The solution will have no impact on legacy applications.
Cons:
\- If a legacy application client already runs on a network entity and a new
3GPP Rel-17 app is initializing on the same entity while both applications
share the same IP address and port, then the system will not permit the new
app to start. Implementation will need to find a way to free up the port in
usage by the legacy application client, which will enable new 3GPP Rel-17
application to start.
### 4.4.4 Guidelines for 3GPP allocated port number solution#6
It is beneficial to use solution#6 (3GPP), if obtaining new default port
number from IANA is deemed unsuitable, but when it is preferable for
applications to use a fixed port number.
For inter-domain scenario, currently it is not possible to prevent
firewalls/security gateways located between two domains from restricting
outgoing/incoming network traffic for a specific port not assigned by IANA.
This limitation may be mitigated if firewall implementations will start
supporting 3GPP allocated port number range. This will be similar to the GTP-
aware firewall implementations, which are already commonplace in operator
networks. It is strongly recommended that 3GPP applies for IANA-assigned
service name and port numbers.
## 4.5 OAM allocated port number solution#7
### 4.5.1 General
Each operator becomes responsible for allocating a port number to each new
3GPP application from either the User Port number range [1024-49151] or from
the Dynamic/Private Port range [49152 - 65535].
### 4.5.2 Detailed description
The proposed solution is based on the following assumptions:
1\. An operator determines which port numbers are not used as default ones in
their network (either from the User Port number range [1024-49151] or from the
Dynamic/Private Port range [49152 - 65535]).
2\. The operator selects certain unused port number as a default one for the
new 3GPP interface application and configures all relevant network entities
with OAM.
3\. Many existing interface applications are dynamically selecting port
numbers from range [49152 - 65535] when populating source port field in
UDP/TCP/SCTP header, e.g. for load balancing. In a request-response type of
communication, the remote peer typically sends the response message to the
source port number of the received request message. If the new port number is
selected from the Dynamic/Private Port range [49152 - 65535], then the
solution will be similar to the one, which is described in clause 4.4 for
Solution#6.
4\. If the new port number is selected from the User Port number range
[1024-49151], then the drawbacks described in the above bullet point 3 will be
eliminated.
The following use case needs to be considered, if Dynamic/Private Port range
[49152 - 65535] is used:
\- A legacy application client already runs on a network entity and a new 3GPP
Rel-17 app is initializing;
\- Both apps share the same IP address;
\- The new 3GPP Rel-17 app shall listen to e.g. port 50000 for incoming
requests;
\- There is a small, but non-zero probability that the legacy app has sent a
request to another server and is expecting a response to port 50000;
\- The system will not allow new 3GPP Rel-17 app to run, because port 50000 is
already in use;
\- OAM needs to find a way to somehow remove port 50000 from the legacy app
usage, which will enable new 3GPP Rel-17 app to start;
\- Once the new 3GPP Rel-17 app is up and running, the system will ensure the
legacy app will always select another port from the dynamic range. No more
clashes will happen on this network entity.
### 4.5.3 Pros and cons
Pros:
\- Gives full control and flexibility to operators when selecting default port
numbers for new 3GPP interfaces.
Cons:
\- The new application cannot have hard-coded default port number. That is, it
will learn the default port number after successful configuration action.
\- Makes the default port setting logic more complex in a new application.
\- If a legacy application client already runs on a network entity and a new
3GPP Rel-17 app is initializing on the same entity while both applications
share the same IP address and port, then the system will not permit the new
app to start. OAM will need to find a way to free up the port in usage by the
legacy application client, which will enable new 3GPP Rel-17 application to
start.
### 4.5.4 Guidelines for OAM allocated port number solution7
It is beneficial to use solution#7 (OAM), if obtaining new default port number
from IANA or from 3GPP is deemed unsuitable, but when it is preferable for
applications to use a fixed port number. Solution#7 is not suitable for the
inter-domain scenario.
## 4.6 Port Registration and Retrieval via NRF solution#8
### 4.6.1 General
This is an alternative solution which allows port information registration to
the NRF and port information retrieval from the NRF. This solution is
applicable for those NFs have entry in the NRF and provide specific protocols
for non-SBI interfaces.
This solution is mostly used to register port numbers for 3GPP interface
applications whose port numbers are not allocated by IANA. It is recommended
that the port number for 3GPP interface applications should be allocated from
User Port number range [1024-49151] or from Dynamic/Private Port range [49152
- 65535].
To avoid potential port clash, an operator shall investigate the port numbers
used by existing interfaces/applications hosted by an NF before deploying that
NF, and thus determine one port number to be used and registered. Other
mechanisms to detect and remove the port clash (e.g. described in clause 4.4
and 4.5 for solution#6 and solution#7, respectively) may also be used if
necessary.
### 4.6.2 Detailed description
Normally, same port number is allocated to a group of NFs hosting the same
protocol. However, different port numbers may be allocated for same protocol
per NF Types, NF Sets, or even per NF instance.
To configure port numbers in the NRF, a data type of PortInfo is defined to
carry a list of port record, and each port record indicates the port number
and related protocol type. A PortInfo is included in the NF Profile to
register the protocol and associated port numbers used by the NF. One PortInfo
instance can be shared by multiple NFs which have the same NF type or belong
to same NF Set. If one NF needs to be configured with different port number
than other NFs using the same protocol, the NF can be configured with its own
PortInfo.
A requesting NF thus can use the NF Discovery service to retrieve the port
number of a specific protocol, by indicating the protocol type. Other
parameters such as NF type, NF Set ID, or NF Instance ID may also be provided
as discovery parameter.
### 4.6.3 Pros and cons
Pros:
\- Reuse NRF mechanism for port configuration and retrieval.
\- Port number for a protocol can be configured at granularity of NF type, NF
Set, or individual NF instance.
Cons:
\- This solution relies on NRF mechanism, and is more applicable to non-SBI
interfaces hosted by core network NFs.
\- If this solution is used for RAN interfaces, the RAN node may need to
support SBI interface to a localized NRF.
\- The use cases for the NRF based solution will be reduced to non-roaming
core network interfaces.
### 4.6.4 Guidelines for Port Registration and Retrieval via NRF solution#8
It is beneficial to use solution#8 (NRF), if the network element can support
service-based interface and access an NRF.
# 5 Summary
## 5.1 General
As indicated in the clause 4.1, it is strongly recommended for 3GPP to apply
to IANA for assigned service name and port number for any protocol potentially
supported by roaming and inter-domain interfaces when no other service port
discovery (e.g. DNS-based solutions) is applicable.
When the IANA assignment request cannot be justified, one of the alternative
solutions described in clause 4 should be adopted.
## 5.2 3GPP allocated Service Name and Port Number registry
3GPP CT4 maintains 3GPP TS 29.641 [20] as a repository of the 3GPP assigned
Service Name and Port Numbers, which are necessary for the solution#6, which
is specified in clause 4.4.
###### ### Annex A: IANA port allocation policy
IANA maintains the list of service names and port numbers used to distinguish
between different services that run over transport protocols such as TCP, UDP,
DCCP and SCTP. The IANA registration procedures for service names and port
numbers are described in IEFT RFC 6335 [2].
\- Service names are assigned on a first-come, first-served process.
Assignments are made to anyone on a \"first come, first served\" basis. There
is no substantive review of the request, other than to ensure that it is well-
formed and doesn\'t duplicate an existing assignment.
\- Port numbers are assigned in various ways, based on three ranges: System
Ports [0-1023], User Ports [1024-49151], and the Dynamic and/or Private Ports
[49152 - 65535].
According to Clause 8.1.2 of IEFT RFC 6335 [2], IANA follows one the following
procedures for port number value allocation defined in IEFT RFC 8126 [9]:
\- IETF Review:
\- New values are assigned only through IETF RFCs in the IETF Stream, i.e.,
documents that has been approved by the IESG as having IETF consensus.
\- IESG Approval:
\- New value assignment is directly approved by the IESG without the need for
approved IETF RFCs.
\- Expert Review:
\- New values are assigned after review and approval by a designated expert.
An approved IETF RFC is not required but information needs to be provided with
the request for the designated expert to evaluate.
System Ports are assigned by IANA using the \"IETF Review\" or \"IESG
Approval\" procedures.
User Ports are assigned by IANA using the \"IETF Review\" process or the
\"IESG Approval\" process or the \"Expert Review\" process.
Dynamic Ports are not assigned. The Dynamic Ports range has been specifically
set aside for local and dynamic use. Application software may simply use any
dynamic port that is available on the local host, without any sort of
assignment, assuming that the port used by applications are discovered by
clients dynamically at run-time.
System and User ports should not be used without or prior to IANA
registration. The registration procedures for service names and port numbers
are described in IEFT RFC 6335 [2].
Recently, however, IANA became more restrictive to reserving new port numbers
to private networks. IANA experts are now following the recommendations given
in Clause 6 of IETF RFC 7605 [3]. Each port number assignment request must be
now strongly justified by the applicants as independently useful service. This
was done on purpose, as the range of port number that can be allocated by IANA
is fixed and IANA does not want to run out of available port numbers in
future, due to uncontrolled requests as it was done in the past (e.g. range of
port numbers allocated to a single company etc.).
###### ### Annex B: Port number use
# B.1 General
In IP networking, the destination or origination IP address of a message is
completed by a port number. If the IP address identifies the device e.g.
computer, the port number is used to identify an application or service
running on the device.
The current use of ports was clearly established in the Transmission Control
Protocol [13]
Multiplexing:
\- To allow for many processes within a single Host to use TCP communication
facilities simultaneously, the TCP provides a set of addresses or ports within
each host. Concatenated with the network and host addresses from the internet
communication layer, this forms a socket. A pair of sockets uniquely
identifies each connection.
\- That is, a socket may be simultaneously used in multiple connections.
\- The binding of ports to processes is handled independently by each Host.
However, it proves useful to attach frequently used processes (e.g., a
\"logger\" or timesharing service) to fixed sockets which are made known to
the public. These services can then be accessed through the known addresses.
Establishing and learning the port addresses of other processes may involve
more dynamic mechanisms.
The port number is a 16-bit unsigned number, ranging then from 0 to 65535.
As indicated in the IETF RFC 6335 [2], this range [0-65535] is subdivided as
follows:
\- 0-1023: the System Ports, also known as the Well Known Ports, assigned by
IANA
\- 1024-49151: the User Ports, also known as the Registered Ports, assigned by
IANA
\- 49152-65535: the Dynamic Ports, also known as the Private or Ephemeral
Ports, not assigned, controlled, nor registered.
# B.2 Port number ranges
System ports [0-1023] are assigned by IANA and were initially reserved to
services that required privileged/root access to the operating system. They
have been reserved for common applications, typically server applications. The
port numbers assigned to these server applications have to be known by the
client\'s transport layer and are used by the client as destination port
number in message requests sent to the server applications. Clients know that
servers will be listening for their requests at these reserved port numbers.
B.2-1: Example of Well-Known port numbers used by servers.
User ports [1024-49151] are assigned by IANA and also used to identify server
applications as for System port except that they were reserved for services
that did not require privileged access.
NOTE: Today, the distinction between System and User ports is not any more
obvious. Operating systems may allow access to System port numbers to non-
privileged services and well-known services are usually replicated on User
ports (e.g. HTTP on port 8080).
Dynamic ports [49152-65535] are not assigned/allocated by IANA. They are
automatically allocated by the IP stack software to be used as source port of
an outgoing IP message. These port numbers are used by clients to identify the
internal process sending the message and the receiver can simply reply to the
client by using the received source port number as destination port number in
the reply sent to the client. The port allocations are temporary and only
valid for the duration of the communication session. After completion (or
timeout) of the communication session, the ports become available for reuse,
although most IP stacks will usually not reuse that port number until the
entire pool of ephemeral ports have been used. So, if the client program
reconnects, it will be assigned a different ephemeral port number for its side
of the new connection.
B2-2: Dynamic port numbers used by clients.
Even if not recommended, Dynamic Port numbers may also be used to temporary
identify a server application in a node. This implies that:
\- The client has a mean to discover the port allocated to the server at run-
time.
\- The dynamic port assigned to the service cannot be reused by a client
program in the same node as long as the port needs to be used as listening
port by the service.
# B.3 Service identified by port number not assigned by IANA
Not all the services need assigned port numbers. Any service can use:
\- Any unassigned port in the System and User port ranges
\- Any port number from the Dynamic port range.
\- Port numbers assigned to another protocol if this protocol is not used e.g.
ports assigned to the Service Location Protocol (SLP) can be reused by any
service if this service is not deployed in a private network and there is then
no risk of conflict.
Services assigned with System/User ports by IANA may also use unassigned ports
to reduce the impact of potential attacks on the well-known ports and then be
more securely operated. For instance, a node that provides an HTTP interface
for internal management will likely use another port that the port 80.
For port numbers picked in the Dynamic port range to identify a service
application, there is a need to ensure that this port will not be re-allocated
to another client program in the same node to avoid conflict. Mechanisms to
achieve such a \"long-lived\" port assignment of dynamic port include:
\- Configure the range of dynamic ports that can be dynamically assigned by
the IP stack: the range defined by IANA is [49152-65535] but IP stacks can
usually be tuned to use another range, e.g. [32768-60999]. This implies that
port numbers outside this range can be used as listening ports by servers,
including ports normally considered as \"dynamic ports\" by IANA.
\- When booting the node, start all services before any other process start
and begin establishing connections. Therefore, all the servers can be assigned
with any available port from the unassigned ports in System/User port range or
any port from the Dynamic port range. Then a client program will only be able
to use remaining port numbers in the dynamic port range and no conflict will
happen.
When the port used to identify a service is not assigned by IANA, the clients
have to discover the destination port to use when sending a request. As
indicated in the IETF RFC 6335 [2], possible discovery mechanisms include:
\- Explicit configuration of both endpoints;
\- Internal mechanisms within the same host (e.g. a configuration file,
indicated within a URI or using interprocess communication);
\- Information provided by another service e.g. FTP, SIP, etc.;
\- Relying on specific service names and use of existing port discovery
services defined by IETF: mDNS as defined in IETF RFC 6762 [8], DNS-based
Service Discovery defined in IETF RFC 6763 [6], etc. Service names can be
simply registered by IANA on a \"first-come, first-served\" basis in a
namespace much larger than the port number range.
###### ### Annex C: IANA procedures for Service Name and Port Number registry
management
# C.1 General principles
IANA is responsible for the management and maintenance of service name and
port number registry. Because assigned port numbers are a limited resource
that is globally shared by the entire Internet community, the conservation of
the port space is the key priority of IANA when addressing port number
assignment request. IANA strives to limit assigned port number consumption and
promotes the use of alternate solutions for service identification, such as
explicit configuration of both endpoints, the use of service names and dynamic
ports along with service discovery mechanism, in-band port negotiation and/or
application layer service multiplexing.
Another priority is to allocate port primarily to applications used on the
Internet.
IANA assigns port numbers so that **Internet** endpoints do not need pairwise,
explicit coordination of the meaning of their port numbers. This is the
primary reason for requesting port number assignment by IANA \-- to have a
common agreement between all endpoints on the **Internet** as to the default
meaning of a port number, which provides the endpoints with a default port
number for a particular protocol or service.
# C.2 Assignment Procedure
As described in the IETFC RFC 6335 [2], a service name or port number
assignment request sent to IANA contains the following information:
Table C.2-1: Service Name/port number assignment request form
Field Required/optional Description
* * *
Service Name Required Unique service name for the service associated with the
assignment request. The name MUST be compliant with the syntax defined in
clause 5.1 of IETF RFC 6335 [2] (NOTE) Transport Protocol(s) Required TCP,
UDP, SCTP, and/or DCCP. It is required even if the request is only for service
name assignment Assignee Required Name and email address of the organization,
company or individual person responsible for the initial assignment. Contact
Required Name and email address of the Contact person for the assignment
Description Required Short description of the service associated with the
assignment request Reference Required A description of (or a reference to a
document describing) the protocol or application using this port. Port Number
Optional Suggested port number or port range (user or system) Service Code
Optional Required only for DCCP Known Unauthorized Uses Optional
Known/reported unauthorized uses by applications or organizations who are not
the Assignee Assignment Notes Optional Indications of owner/name change, or
any other assignment process issue NOTE: For 3GPP defined service names, the
name shall be prefixed by \"3gpp-\"
When receiving the assignment request, IANA will follow the one of the
procedures described in the following clause.
# C.3 IANA Policies for Port Number assignment
When IANA receives an assignment request that is only requesting service name,
IANA will usually assign the service name under a simple \"First Come First
Served\" policy defined in IETF RFC 5226 [14]
When IANA receives an assignment request that is requesting a port number,
IANA will initiate an \"IETF Review\" or \"IESG Approval\" procedures or an
\"Expert Review\" procedure defined in IETF RFC 5226 [14], depending on the
requested port range:
\- Ports in the Dynamic Ports range (49152-65535) cannot be assigned through
IANA. **A port number in that range MUST NOT be used as a service
identifier**.
\- Ports in the User Ports range (1024-49151) will be assigned under the
\"IETF Review\" or \"IESG Approval\" procedures defined in IETF RFC 5226 [14]
for IETF protocol. In other cases, the requester must input the documentation
to the \"Expert Review\" procedure defined in IETF RFC 5226 [14], by which
IANA will have a technical expert review the request to determine whether to
grant the assignment. The submitted documentation **MUST explain why using a
port number in the Dynamic Ports range is unsuitable** for the given
application.
\- Ports in the System Ports range (0-1023) will only be assigned under the
\"IETF Review\" or \"IESG Approval\" procedures defined in IETF RFC 5226 [14].
A request for a System Port number **MUST document *both* why using a port
number from the Dynamic Ports range is unsuitable *and* why using a port
number from the User Ports range is unsuitable** for that application.
# C.4 Recommendations to designers of application and service protocols
Used as companion document of the IETF RFC 6335 [2], the IETF RFC 7605 [3]
provides recommendations to designers of application and service protocols on
how to use the transport protocol port number space and when to request a port
assignment from IANA.
First, a set of questions is given to help designers to check whether a port
number assignment is deemed required for a given service application. These
questions are listed hereafter:
\- Is this really a new service or could an existing service suffice?
\- Is this an experimental service [RFC3692]? If so, consider using the
current experimental ports [RFC2780].
\- Is this service independently useful? Some systems are composed from
collections of different service capabilities, but not all component functions
are useful as independent services. Port numbers are typically shared among
the smallest independently useful set of functions. Different service uses or
properties can be supported in separate pairwise endpoint associations after
an initial negotiation, e.g., to support software decomposition.
\- Can this service use a Dynamic port number that is coordinated out-of-band?
For example:
\- By explicit configuration of both endpoints.
\- By internal mechanisms within the same host (e.g., a configuration file,
indicated within a URI or using interprocess communication).
\- Using information exchanged on a related service: FTP [RFC959], SIP
[RFC3261], etc.
\- Using an existing port discovery service: portmapper [RFC1833], mDNS
[RFC6762] [RFC6763], etc.
Moreover, a set of recommendations and requirements for registration and use
of port is provided to help designers to determine whether a port number
assignment is required. These recommendations and requirements are provided
for information hereafter:
\- Each assigned port requested MUST be justified by the applicant as an
independently useful service.
\- Developers SHOULD NOT apply for System port number assignments because the
increased privilege they are intended to provide is not always enforced.
\- System implementers SHOULD enforce the need for privilege for processes to
listen on System port numbers.
\- New services SHOULD support security capabilities, either directly or via a
content protection such as TLS [RFC5246] or Datagram TLS (DTLS) [RFC6347], or
transport protection such as the TCP-AO [RFC5925]. Insecure versions of new or
existing secure services SHOULD be avoided because of the new vulnerability
they create.
\- When requesting both secure and insecure port assignments for the same
service, justification is expected for the utility and safety of each port as
an independent service (clause 6). Precedent (e.g., citing other protocols
that use a separate insecure port) is inadequate justification by itself.
\- Security SHOULD NOT rely on assigned port number distinctions alone; every
service, whether secure or not, is likely to be attacked.
\- Version support SHOULD be included in new services rather than relying on
different port number assignments for different versions.
\- Version numbers SHOULD NOT be included in either the service name or
service description, to avoid the need to make additional port number
assignments for future variants of a service.
\- Service names and descriptions for multiple transport port number
assignments SHOULD match only when they describe the same service, excepting
only enhancements for each supported transport.
\- Names of discovery services SHOULD use an identifiable suffix; the
suggestion is \"-disc\".
\- UDP over IPv4 multi-host services SHOULD use multicast rather than
broadcast.
\- Services that use multipoint communication SHOULD be scalable and SHOULD
NOT rely solely on the efficiency of multicast transmission for scalability.
\- Services SHOULD NOT use UDP as a performance enhancement over TCP, e.g., to
circumnavigate TCP\'s congestion control.
\- Users MUST NOT deploy implementations that use assigned port numbers prior
their assignment by IANA.
\- Users MUST NOT deploy implementations that default to using the
experimental System port numbers (1021 and 1022 [RFC4727]) outside a
controlled environment where they can be updated with a subsequent assigned
port [RFC3692].
\- Users writing specifications SHOULD use symbolic names for port numbers and
service names until an IANA assignment has been completed. Implementations
SHOULD use experimental port numbers during this time, but those numbers MUST
NOT be cited in documentation except as interim.
# C.5 3GPP port assignment applications since 2009
IETF RFC 6335 [2] was published in 2011 to update IANA\'s procedures by
obsoleting the previous UDP and TCP port assignment procedures. Before that,
the principles for service name and port number management were based on a set
of informal guidelines developed based on the review experience from previous
assignment request and never publicly documented. Port numbers were managed
informally, and sometimes inconsistently and arbitrarily e.g., some services
were assigned ranges of many port numbers even where not strictly necessary.
Published in 2015, IETF RFC 7605 [3] provides additional information to
designers on how to use assigned port numbers that complements the IANA
process described in IETF RFC 6335 [2].
Whereas the conditions of port assignment have been further clarified and
reinforced based on the conservation principle, it seems that 3GPP did not
really appraise the policy change and did not modify accordingly their use of
port numbers in 3GPP systems. The port number assignment was recently still
considered as a by default solution for service identification even if other
solutions were applicable.
Table C.5-1 hereafter lists the port numbers assigned to 3GPP since 2009\. In
this table, it can be noticed that most of the applications were for SCTP and
protocols only inside 3GPP networks, without inter-domain interfaces.
Table C.5-1: Service Name/port number assigned to 3GPP since 2009
Service Name Port Number Transport Protocol Description Registration Date
Intra/Inter
* * *
sgsap 29118 sctp SGsAP 11/06/2009 Intra (MME/MSC) sbcap 29168 sctp SBcAP
11/06/2009 Intra (MME/CBC) s102 23272 udp S102 application 26/08/2009 Intra
(1xCS IWS/MME) s1-control 36412 sctp S1-Control Plane 01/09/2009 Intra
(MME/eNB) x2-control 36422 sctp X2-Control Plane 01/09/2009 Intra (eNB/eNB)
iuhsctpassoc 29169 sctp HNBAP and RUA Common Association 08/09/2009 Inter
(HNB/HNB-GW) 3gpp-cbsp 48049 tcp Cell Broadcast Service Protocol 07/12/2009
Intra (BSC/CBC) lcs-ap 9082 sctp LCS Application Protocol 04/06/2010 Intra
(MME/E-SMLC) wlcp 36411 udp Wireless LAN Control plane Protocol (WLCP)
14/11/2014 Intra (UE/TWAG) slmap 36423 sctp SLm Interface Application Protocol
18/06/2015 Intra (E-SMLC/LMU) nq-ap 36424 sctp Nq/Nq\' Application Protocol
18/06/2015 Intra (the RCAF/MME or SGSN) xw-control 36462 sctp Xw-Control Plane
13/11/2015 Intra (eNB/WT) pfcp 8805 udp Destination Port number for PFCP
08/05/2017 Intra (CU/UP) ng-control 38412 sctp NG Control Plane 18/05/2017
Intra (gNB/ng-eNB-AMF) xn-control 38422 sctp Xn Control Plane 18/05/2017 Intra
(gNB-gNB/ng-eNB) f1-control 38472 sctp F1 Control Plane 23/06/2017 Intra
(gNBCU/gNBDU) e1-interface 38462 sctp E1 signalling transport 06/11/2018 Intra
(gNB-CU-CP/gNB-CU-UP) 3gpp-monp 8809 udp MCPTT Off-Network Protocol (MONP)
15/04/2019 Intra (MCPTT client/MCPTT client) 3gpp-w1ap 37472 sctp W1
signalling transport 16/07/2020 Intra (ng-eNB-DU/ng-eNB-CU
Since 2015, IANA had gradually warned 3GPP that a solution should be found to
avoid port assignments for protocols only used in 3GPP. Exceptions were made
at the beginning and the last requests were granted by IESG only at the
conditions that it was the last one(s). Now, it is clear that application for
a new port will not be granted without a strong justification for it, only if
the recommendations given in IETF RFC 7605 [3] have been carefully followed
and it is proved that there is no other solution than port assignment for
service port discovery.
#