# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 0a Scope
The present document describes the general aspects and principles relating to
the Technical Specifications for the GSM MS-BSS interface.
# 0b References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[1a] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the User Equipment
(UE)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM - UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".
[4] 3GPP TS 44.003: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface; Channel structures and access capabilities\".
[5] 3GPP TS 44.004: \"Layer 1; General requirements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 44.005: \"Data Link (DL) layer; General aspects\".
[7] 3GPP TS 44.006: \"Mobile Station - Base Station System (MS - BSS)
interface; Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface; Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification; General aspects\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point-to-Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support
on mobile radio interface\".
[12] 3GPP TS 44.012: \"Short Message Service Cell Broadcast (SMSCB) support on
the mobile radio interface\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation X.200: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Basic Reference Model: The basic model\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation X.210: \"Information technology - Open systems
interconnection - Basic Reference Model: Conventions for the definition of OSI
services\".
# 0c Definitons and abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 1 General
##### 1.1 {#section .H6}
A GSM PLMN supports a wide range of services which a user accesses by a
standard set of interfaces at a mobile station (MS). The mobile station is
connected to the PLMN fixed infrastructure via a radio path to a base station,
as shown in figure 1.
##### 1.2 {#section-1 .H6}
The MS-BSS interface on this radio path is specified in the 24- and 44-series
of Technical Specifications in such a way as to permit user and network
technologies and configurations to evolve separately.
+--------+ +---------+
\| \| radio path \| \| PLMN
MMI \| \| MS-BSS \| \| --+--- fixed
\----+----\| MS +---------------\| BSS \|infrastructure
\| \| interface \| \| \|
\| \|(24-/44-series)\| \|
+--------+ +---------+
Figure 1: Basic interfaces for user access for a GSM PLMN
##### 1.3 {#section-2 .H6}
The principles and procedures for the man-machine interface (MMI) to the MS
are described in Technical Specification 3GPP TS 22.030. The user may also use
standard terminal interfaces within the MS. The reference configuration for
the access is described in Technical Specification 3GPP TS 24.002.
# 2 Interface applications
Figure 2 shows some examples of the application of GSM MS-BSS interfaces. The
following cases are shown:
i) access of simple handportable or vehicle mounted MSs;
ii) access of an MS with multiple terminal equipment installation;
iii) access of a mobile PBX or LAN;
In addition, the figure identifies internetwork interfaces for connections to:
iv) land-line ISDN networks;
v) dedicated service networks.
> +----------+
>
> \| Simple \|
>
> \| MS +-+ +-----------+
>
> \| \| \| \| Dedicated \|
>
> +----------+ \| \| service \|
>
> \| +--->\
> \| +-------+ +-----------+
>
> +-\| \|
>
> +-----------+ \| GSM \|
>
> \| MS with \| +--\| \|
>
> \| multiple +--+ +-------+
>
> \| terminal \| \| \| +---------+
>
> \| equipment \| +-+ +--->\
> +-----------+ \| \| network \|
>
> +--------+ \| \|
>
> \| Mobile \| +---------+
>
> \| PBX * \|
>
> \| or LAN \|
>
> +--------+
>
> \---+
>
> +--- MS-BSS interface
>
> \-->\
> * This case has not been specified yet.
Figure 2: Examples of GSM interfaces
# 3 Interface technical specification objectives
MS-BSS interface Technical Specifications should allow:
i) different types of mobile stations and terminal equipment to use the same
standard interface;
ii) portability of MSs within the system area of the GSM system;
iii) separate evolution of both mobile stations and network equipment
technologies and configurations;
iv) calls to a terminal using the same code (call number) no matter in what
country it is actually located;
v) connections of an MS to the ISDN network so that only the radio channel
capacity and the ISDN protocol are limiting factors.
# 4 Interface characteristics
The MS-BSS interface is specified by a comprehensive set of characteristics,
including:
i) channel structures and access capabilities;
ii) user-network (MS-BSS) protocols;
iii) maintenance and operation characteristics;
iv) performance characteristics;
v) service characteristics.
# 5 Interface capabilities
In addition to the multiservice capability, the GSM MS-BSS interface may allow
for capabilities such as the following:
i) multidrop and other multiple terminal arrangements;
ii) choice of informaion bit rate, circuit or packet switching mode, layer 2
coding method, etc., on a call-by-call or other basis (e.g. semipermanent, or
subscription time option), over the same interface according to the user\'s
need;
iii) capability for compatibility checking in order to check whether calling
and called terminals can communicate with each other.
# 6 Technical Specifications on GSM MS-BSS interfaces
##### 6.1 {#section-3 .H6}
The reference configurations for the GSM MS-BSS interface define the
terminology for various reference points. Technical Specification 3GPP TS
24.002 contains the GSM PLMN access reference configuration.
##### 6.2 {#section-4 .H6}
Technical Specification 3GPP TS 44.003 defines the channel structures and
access capabilities for the MS-BSS interface. A distinction is necessary
between the logical channel structure supported by the interface and the
access capability supported by the radio path of the system.
##### 6.3 {#section-5 .H6}
The MS-BSS interface as defined in Technical Specifications 3GPP TS 44.004,
3GPP TS 44.005, 3GPP TS 44.006, 3GPP TS 24.007, 3GPP TS 24.008, 3GPP TS
24.010, 3GPP TS 24.011 and 3GPP TS 44.012 is applicable to a wide range of
situations.
# 7 Protocol modelling principles
##### 7.1 {#section-6 .H6}
The signalling protocols on the MS-BSS Interface are specified using the
concepts of the reference model of Open System Interconection (OSI) given in
ITU-T Recommendations X.200 and X.210.
##### 7.2 {#section-7 .H6}
The basic structuring technique in the OSI reference model is layering.
According to this technique, communication among application processes is
viewed as being logically partitioned into an ordered set of layers
represented in a vertical sequence as shown in figure 3.
+----------------------+
\| Highest layer \|
+----------------------\|
\| \|
+----------------------\|
\| (N + 1)-layer \|
+----------------------\|
\| (N)-layer \|
+----------------------\|
\| (N - 1)-layer \|
+----------------------\|
\| \|
+----------------------\|
\| Lowest layer \|
+----------------------+
Figure 3: Layering
Entities exist in each layer. Entities in the same layer, but in different
systems which must exchange information to achieve a common objective are
called \"peer entities\". Entities in adjacent layers interact through their
common boundary. The services provided by the (N \+ 1)-layer are the
combination of the services and functions provided by the (N)-layer and all
layers below the (N)-layer.
Management functions may also be required. They may include functions which
are common for several layers and are not supported by the services provided
by a specific layer. Examples of such functions are error reporting, status
reporting and management of the operation of certain layers. Such management
functions do not require that peer-to-peer messages are sent across the MS-BSS
interface.
##### 7.3 {#section-8 .H6}
For signalling on the MS-BSS interface three layers are required as shown in
figure 4.
+--------------------+
\| \|
\| Layer 3 \|
\| \|
+--------------------\|
\| Data link layer \|
\| \|
+--------------------\|
\| \|
\| Physical layer \|
\| \|
+--------------------+
Figure 4: Layering on the MS-BSS interface
The layers are:
\- PHYSICAL LAYER which corresponds to the lowest layer. The functions and
protocols of the physical layer are defined in Technical Specification 3GPP TS
44.004.
\- DATA LINK LAYER. The functions and protocols of the data link layer are
defined in Technical Specifications 3GPP TS 44.005 and 3GPP TS 44.006.
\- LAYER 3. The functions and protocols of layer 3 are defined in Technical
Specifications 3GPP TS 24.007, 3GPP TS 24.008, 3GPP TS 24.010, 3GPP TS 24.011
and 3GPP TS 44.012.
##### 7.4 {#section-9 .H6}
Layer-to-layer interactions are specified in terms of service primitives. The
primitives represent, in an abstract way, the logical exchange of information
and control between adjacent layers. They do not specify or constrain
implementation.
Primitives are also used to describe information exchange between layers and
the mobile management entity.
The primitives that are exchanged between the (N + 1)-layer and the (N)-layer
are of the following four types (see figure 5).
+-------------+ +-------------+
\|(N + 1)-layer\| \|(N + 1)-layer\|
+-------------+ +-------------+
\| \| \| \|
Confirm\| \|Request \| \|
\| \| Indication\| \|Response
\|_________\| \|_________\|
/\| \|\ /\| \|\
\| * \| \| * \|
\\\|_________\|/ \\\|_________\|/
\| \| \| \|
\| \| \| \|
\| \| \| \|
+-+---------+-+ +-+ +-+---------+-+
\| \| +-+ ->\- - + + - - +-+ \| \|
\| \|(N)-layer \| \| \| \| (N)-layer\| \|
\| +-----------+ - - - + + -\<\- +-----------+ \|
+-------------+ +-+ +-------------+
\|
+(N)-layer peer-to-peer\ protocol
Figure 5: Primitive action sequence for peer-to-peer communication
The REQUEST primitive type is used when a higher layer is requesting a service
from the next lower layer.
The INDICATION primitive type is used by a layer providing a service to notify
the next higher layer of activities related to the primitive type REQUEST.
The RESPONSE primitive type is used by a layer to acknowledge receipt, from a
lower layer, of the primitive type INDICATION.
The CONFIRM primitive type is used by the layer providing the requested
service to confirm that the activity has been completed.
#