# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the structure of the physical layer (layer 1) of
the BSS-MSC interface for supporting traffic channels. Use of the physical
layer for supporting Signalling System No.7 signalling links is covered in
Technical Specification 3GPP TS 48.006.
The physical layer is the lowest layer in the OSI Reference Model and it
supports all functions required for transmission of bit streams on the
physical medium.
For the present document only digital transmission will be considered, the use
of analogue transmission is a national concern.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation G.705: \"Characteristics of plesiochronous digital
hierarchy (PDH) equipment functional blocks\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation G.709: \"Interfaces for the Optical Transport Network
(OTN)\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation G.711: \"Pulse Code Modulation (PCM) of voice
frequencies\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation G.732: \"Characteristics of primary PCM multiplex
equipment operating at 2 048 kbit/s\".
[6] 3GPP TS 48.006: \"Signalling transport mechanism specification for the
Base Station System - Mobile-services Switching Centre (BSS - MSC)
interface\".
[7] ANSI T1.102-1993: \"Digital Hierarchy - Electrical Interface\".
[8] ANSI T1.403.01-1999: \"Title: Network and Customer Installation Interfaces
- (ISDN) Primary Rate Layer 1 Electrical Interfaces Specification (Includes
revision of ANSI T1.408-1990 and partial revision of ANSI T1.403-1995)\".
[9] ANSI T1.107-1995: \"Digital Hierarchy - Formats Specifications\".
[10] 3GPP TS 48.020: \"Rate adaption on the Base Station System - Mobile-
services Switching Centre (BSS - MSC) interface\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations gieven in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] apply.
# 4 Layer 1 Specification
All ITU-T recommendations referred to are Blue Book.
Layer 1 shall utilise digital transmission:
\- at a rate of 2 048 kbit/s with a frame structure of 32 x 64kbit/s time
slots, as specified in ITU-T Recommendation G.705 clause 3 for E1 interface;
or
\- at a rate of 1 544 kbit/s with a frame structure of 24 x 64 kbit/s time
slots, as specified in T1.102 specification for T1 interface.
Therefore the physical/electrical characteristics are defined in ITU-T
Recommendation G.703 for E1 interface or ANSI T1.403 specification T1
interface.
The functional characteristics are defined in ITU-T Recommendation G.732
clauses 2 and 3 for E1 interface or ANSI T1.107 specification for T1
interface.
Fault conditions should be treated in accordance with ITU-T Recommendation
G.732 clause 4 for E1 interface or ANSI T1.403 specification for T1 interface.
Speech encoding shall be the A-law or Mu-law (for North America) as defined in
ITU-T Recommendation G.711.
The idle pattern must be transmitted on every timeslot that is not assigned to
a channel, and to every timeslot of a channel that is not allocated to a call.
The idle pattern shall be 01010100 in ITU-T based systems and 01111111 in ANSI
based systems.
Synchronisation at the BSS for the transmitted 2 048/1544 kbit/s bit stream
shall be derived from the received 2 048/1 544 kbit/s bit stream.
Data encoding is covered in Technical Specification 3GPP TS 48.020.
NOTE: A predetermined number of the 56/64kbit/s time slots may be used for
signalling, to one or more base station systems. 56kbit/s is applicable to T1
interface only.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Change History