# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In the past, SA3 has taken privacy into account in the design of 3GPP systems.
Examples of this include the use of temporary identities such as the T-IMSI
and confidentiality protection of the user plane traffic. The work with
privacy has been included as a part of the work with defining security for the
3GPP systems and the privacy requirements have been handled as a subset of the
security requirements.
Even though 3GPP has worked with privacy since the start, the responsibility
became more direct in the end of 2011, when the SA3 updated its terms of
reference to explicitly include privacy. There has also been an increased
awareness of privacy related questions in other working groups. This has led
to more questions to SA3 regarding privacy when they define new functions.
These are reasons why SA3 need to treat privacy, not only as a part of
security, but as a topic in its own right to raise the assurance that it is
taken care of properly.
A core part of increasing the assurance around privacy is to establish a
baseline for privacy which ensures that an articulated set of privacy
principles are kept when designing 3GPP systems.
The present document presents privacy principles that SA3 should adhere to
when designating new systems, security architectures and protocols. Not only
will such principles provide guidance on what needs to be considered and to
some extent how, but their mere existence will serve as a constant reminder to
SA3 to consider privacy the day-to-day work. In addition, some
principles/technologies can be a reference for vendors\' products design.
Also, it can be an aid for operators when working with subscriber data whose
collection and use may not be in scope of the 3GPP specifications.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the subscriber privacy impact in 3GPP. In
particular, the goals of the present document are:
  * Identify and understand privacy related key issues impacting 3GPP networks
  * Identify and potentially harmonize privacy requirements, e.g. MDT/SON
  * Identify existing/ongoing work relevant to 3GPP privacy issues in external standard bodies, for potential reuse in 3GPP, e.g. IETF RFC 6973 [2]
  * Identify privacy risk mitigation approaches and establish privacy handling guidelines/principle and/or best practices for 3GPP for future specifications
It is not an objective of the study to examine all existing 3GPP
specifications in retrospect with respect to privacy.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) RFC 6973 \"Privacy Considerations
for Internet Protocols\",
http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6973 [3] OECD privacy principles
http://www.oecd.org/internet/ieconomy/oecdguidelinesontheprotectionofprivacyandtransborderflowsofpersonaldata.htm#guidelines
[4] 3GPP TR 22.949: \" Study on a generalized privacy capability \"
[5] The 7 foundational principles for Privacy by Design,
http://www.privacybydesign.ca
[6] GSMA Privacy Principles, http://www.gsma.com/publicpolicy/mobile-privacy-
principles
[7] ISO / IEC JTC 1/SC 27 - **WG5 Standing Document 4 (SD4) -- Standard
Privacy Assessment (SPA)**
**[8]** 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP
network layer security\".
> **[9]** 3GPP TS 33.222: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access
> to network application functions using Hypertext Transfer Protocol over
> Transport Layer Security (HTTPS)\".
>
> **[10] 3GPP TS 33.102** \"**3G security; Security architecture** \"
# 3 Definitions, terminology and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions and Terminology
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1]. Refer to 3GPP TR 22.949 [4], and also with considering the evolving
network. Possible roles involved related to the privacy analysis are listed
below:
**Attacker:** An attacker is an entity with malicious intent that compromises
the privacy of a user by obtaining personal data, e.g. user data and traffic
data. An attacker does not have a legitimate reason to receive this data. An
attacker can be active or passive. A passive attacker is an observer. An
active attacker generates traffic to obtain personal data or has the
possibility to modify communication.
**Authorized:** An entity involved in the communication that is acting on
behalf of one of the other entities and this other entity has agreed to this
e.g. by signing a contract or settings etc.
**Communication:** Communication takes place between at least two entities and
is using at least one protocol. It may consist of a series of messages. A
communication may consist out of different communication phases.
**Communication Initiator:** A communication initiator is the node (e.g. ME)
that initiates the start of a communication to one or several recipients.
**Communication phase:** A communication phase is a group of messages, which
are part of a communication.
**Data controller:** Natural or legal person, public authority, agency or any
other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of the processing of Personal Data.
**Data processor:** Natural or legal person, public authority, agency or any
other body which processes Personal Data on behalf of the Data Controller.
**Data subject:** An identified or identifiable person to whom specific
Personal Data relates. It is someone who can be identified, directly or
indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or to one
or more specific factors (physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural,
social).
**Eavesdropper:** A passive attacker observing with a malicious intent.
**_Home operator_** : The PLMN operator, with whom the user has the
subscription.
**Intermediary:** An intermediary is an entity where the communication or
parts of thereof from the communication initiator to the recipient is passing
through. The intermediary may be able modify or have visibility of the
communication or parts of it. Typical intermediaries are base stations,
proxies, caches, relay servers etc. Depending on the protocol used and the
layer, the intermediaries for a communication may differ. Also there might be
different intermediaries for incoming and outgoing communication messages and
in some cases, there may be a series of intermediaries that are traversed.
**Location:** Location is the geographical information where the terminal
resides. This might be a GPS coordinate or some other local data (e.g. CellID
or country).
**Observer:** An observer is an entity that observes a communication; this can
be for a legitimate purpose or illegitimate purpose. An observer may only be
an observer for some layers of a communication.
**_Operating administrator and maintenance personal_** : The person, who
administrates/maintains privacy information during its whole life time or is
responsible for administration and/or maintenance, may be also responsible for
privacy issues like privacy storage in network element.
**_Personal data: Personal data shall mean any information relating to an
identified or identifiable natural person (\'data subject\'); an identifiable
person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by
reference to an identification number, name or to one or more factors specific
to his physical, physiological, mental, economic, cultural or social identity.
Personal data can be gathered from user data and traffic data._**
**Recipient:** The secondary end-point of a communication. The recipient might
be different for different layers of a communication protocol.
**Requested Service:** A requested service is a service that the user agreed
to potentially use. This might be a radio technology e.g. 5G or telco service
e.g. IMS or an application server e.g. visiting a website and signing in to a
service. The user has agreed in some way to potentially use the service, this
might be via visiting a web site or signing a contract.
**_Service provider_** :\ 1) A service provider who is a 3GPP operator -- home
or visited -- (e.g. location services) or a third party provider acting on
behalf of the operator and offering a service to the user;
2) A third party service provider who use operator's network to provide
service (e.g. MTC service provider) and has a co-operation with the visited or
home operator.
3) A third party service provider who just uses the network connectivity to
provide service, but has no business relationship with the operator.
**User:** In general it is assumed, that the user is provided with a 3GPP
subscription and extended to service specific entities. The user is the
person, to whom the personal data relates to.
**_Visited operator_** : An operator of a PLMN, which is not the home
operator. A visited operator may e.g. be the operator of a 3GPP network, in
which the user currently is roaming.
  * _Editor's Note: This section should contain Identity_
  * _Identifiable_
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CDR Charging Data Record
CHR Call History Records
GPS Global Positioning System
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
MR Measurement Report
MTC Machine Type Communication
PII Personal Identifiable Information
SIMTC System Improvements for Machine Type Communication
SON Self-Organizing Network
# 4 General Description
## 4.1 Communication Model
Cellular communication architectures are quite complex. To be able to
investigate them with respect to privacy we focus on protocol entities.
A communication is initiated by an initiator. This initiator might be a user
or acting on behalf of the user. In most cases the protocol initiator resides
in the terminal, but there are also different cases where some communication
protocol is not triggered by the terminal (e.g. SMS, broadcast).
The communication is directed from the communication initiator towards a
recipient. There might be a single or a multitude of recipients.
The communication consists usually out of several layers of protocols. Those
protocols may traverse through different intermediate nodes and have different
end-points. Some protocol layers may contain personal data; some will not
contain personal data and therefore might not be considered further in a
privacy analysis.
A communication often consists out of a set of messages that go forth between
a recipient and an initiator. The communication paths and therefore the
intermediary nodes might not be the same for all messages of one
communication.
The communication may traverse organizational trust boundaries (e.g. roaming).
This may have implications on the responsibility of handling the personal data
correctly. Typical examples would be information that passes between operators
or between an operator and a subcontractor.
Privacy considerations should cover its whole lifetime in the communication
system. A privacy analysis may investigate threats where the assumption is
that parts of the communication system are compromised. This compromise might
be investigated on protocol interface level, node level, or organizational
level. This kind of approach is taken, since those represent typical attack
points to obtain personal information (interface attack, virus infection,
insider attack). Not only data that passes trust boundaries need to be
protected, but also data inside a trust domain e.g. data under operator
control, should be protected and only be accessible on a need-to-know
principle.
## 4.2 Conceptual view
During the communication process, privacy may be impacted the many sub-
processes. Figure 4-x below provides a conceptual overview of privacy in 3GPP
and is as such for informative purposes only.
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="2.811111111111111in"}
Figure 4-x. Conceptual view of privacy in 3GPP system
(1) UE
  * Storage of identity information (e.g. IMSI, IMEI, TMSI, IP address, SIP address, etc);
  * The interaction between UE and network involve personal data collection;
(2) RAN & Backbone
  * The personal data (as for UE) intransmit between UE and Core network & OAM;
(3) Core network & OAM
  * Personal data (as for UE) used/stored in the core network to accomplish the communication;
  * Privacy related information maintence by OAM;
(4) Data processing for OAM purposes of user data, e.g. location
data.Internet/SP
  * Operator (data controller) share users' personal data (under users' consent) with the Internet SPs/Application SPs (data processor) to offer costomized service to user.
> Editor's Note: Interworking within each area e.g. different RAN nodes,
> different CN nodes. The personal data processing happening is also in the
> RAN (at least to some degree). Protocols between those areas and within
> those areas contain personal data.
# 5 Privacy Threats - Description of Key issues of Subscriber Privacy Impact
in 3GPP
## 5.1 Introduction to privacy threat section
This clause is intended to provide an overview of the potential privacy issues
which have impact of subscriber privacy in 3GPP.
## 5.2 Privacy category related
### 5.2.1 Key Issue #1-1 - Identify protection scope
#### 5.2.1.1 Issue Details
With the evolving of telecommunication network and it's innovate application
paradigm developing, more and more systems/protocols involve privacy. In
telecommunication domain, the privacy refers to personal data and user/UE
identity privacy. Since privacy is a dynamic and diverse concept which
contains various information types, not every system/protocol involve same
types of privacy information. Consequently, when designing a new system,
security architectures and protocols, the scope of privacy and the potential
privacy (e.g. use converge information to infer privacy sensitive information)
should be analysed and clarified.
#### 5.2.1.2 Threats
The possibility of combining information collected by an attacker may result
in new interfering of privacy sensitive information. It may bring additional
risks to user's information security.
If the scope of involved privacy is not identified in an early stage of
system/protocol design, it may bring extra effort for the late introduction of
privacy supporting system/protocols and applications.
#### 5.2.1.3 Privacy Requirements
System and security architecture design as well as protocol design need to
identify possible personal data in an early stage of the work.
### 5.2.2 Key Issue - Personal Data
#### 5.2.2.1 Issue Details
Personal data information is categorized into the following:
  * Personal contact information (e.g. name, address, email, phone number)
  * Personal Identities information (e.g. user ID, Social Security Number, Passport Number, Identity Card Number)
  * User Equipment information (e.g. IMSI, IMEI, MSISDN)
  * User Communication data (e.g. content of user voice calls, data session, fax, SMS, voice mail, video, visited websites)
  * Location information (e.g. user GPS coordinates, Cell ID, WLAN AP MAC)
  * Financial information (e.g. user credit card number, bank accounts)
  * Personal sensitive information (e.g. race, religion preference, sexual orientation, health information, criminal records)
  * Personal biological characteristics (e.g. fingerprint, Iris, facial features)
When personal data is not handled properly, the information may become usable
in compromising the privacy of a user.
#### 5.2.2.2 Threats
Personal data can be mishandled during transit, storage, or application if
appropriate guidelines are not followed. Mishandling can be as a result of not
implementing personal data handling guidelines, unauthorized access, or
deliberate. The consequence is the compromise of personal data for the user,
resulting in loss of personal and/or financial data.
#### 5.2.2.3 Privacy Requirements
Handling of personal data shall to follow widely accepted concepts in order to
comply with national and regional requirements covering these aspects of
personal data handlings:
  * Notice of personal data collection
  * user consent
  * collection minimization
  * process and use
  * disclosure to unauthorized parties
  * transfer of personal data only to authorized entities
  * retention of consent
  * access by user to his personal data
  * accuracy of personal data and
  * protection or stored, used and processed personal data
  * openness on information regarding handling of personal data
  * providing anonymity when possible
  * handling of personal data security according to its sensitivity
  * accountability for mishandling personal data
### 5.2.3 Key Issue - User and UE Identity Privacy
#### 5.2.3.1 Issue Details
User and UE identities include IMSI, IMEI, MSISDN, an IP address that is bound
to a user, and a MAC address that is tied to an UE. Identities may appear in
many databases and files, such as Call History Records (CHR), Charging Data
Records (CDR), and Measurement Reports (MR). They are used in many 3GPP
network elements, including (e)NB, GGSN, SGSN, MME, HLR, AAA, etc. to provide
services and support network operations. If these identities are not
protected, user privacy may become compromised, either intentionally or
unintentionally, results in the user\'s activities, location, and other
personal data being tracked or exposed.
#### 5.2.3.2 Threats
Tracing of an user or UE can happen wherever these identities are being used,
transferred, and/or stored by various network nodes, including (e)NB, GGSN,
SGSN, etc. Tracing of a user or UE can also happen when identities are being
used, transferred, and/or stored by unauthorized personnel. The consequences
of these threats to user and UE identities being exposed is that the user's
personal data is disclosed (e.g. call details, location information) and,
potentially worse, financial losses.
#### 5.2.3.3 Privacy Requirements
Req1: The UE\'s permanent identities (IMSI, IMEI, MSISDN, IP, MAC) need to be
protected against unintended exposure.
Req2: If UE\'s permanent identities need to be used or accessed, they need to
be protected using Privacy Enhancing Technology such as anonymization
techniques or temporary identifiers.
## 5.3 Privacy lifecycle related
### 5.3.1 Key Issue --Collecting privacy related information
#### 5.3.1.1 Issue Details
During communication processpersonal data may need to be collected to complete
communication task. This information may involve some sensitive data and
raises some questions, e.g. who is collecting (data collector) and using (data
processor) the personal data, what personal data is being shared, with whom
and for what purposes etc. A key aspect of ensuring privacy security and
fostering user's confidence/ trust in communication is to clarify the issue on
collection personal data.
#### 5.3.1.2 Threats
An unclear policy on what data is collected by who may bring the risk to
user's information disclosure and potential illegal usage of such information.
#### 5.3.1.3 Privacy Requirements
For certain system/protocol, that needs to collect personal data, it need to
be clarified:
(1) who (related to privacy role) is collecting and using personal
information;
(2) why is personal information used and collected;
(3) which personal information is being shared, with whom and for what
purposes.
### 5.3.2 Key Issue -- Privacy storage
#### 5.3.2.1 Issue Details
In 3GPP system, the personal data (e.g. UE identity) are usually stored in the
network elements. If a network element is compromised by the attacker (e.g.
unauthorized internal entities or by being vulnerable to third party attacks),
personal data, that is stored unprotected or insufficiently protected, can be
accessed. Further, the attacker can launch further attacks by using personal
data and cause damage to MNO and / or user.
#### 5.3.2.2 Threats
Personal data stored unprotected or insufficiently protected in network
elements may bring risk to user personal data disclosure and may result in an
attack that may damage the MNO or user.
#### 5.3.2.3 Privacy Requirements
The personal data need to be stored securely to protect against unauthorized
access and modification.
### 5.3.3 Key issue - Deletion of privacy sensitive data
#### 5.3.3.1 Issue details
In order to enable communication or information services, users' personal data
may need to be delivered to 3GPP systems or to service providers. Generally,
once the personal data has no further value for the communication
accomplished/serves provided, it should be delete to avoid the possible risk
of privacy disclosure/compromise. Consequently, when designing new systems,
security architectures and protocols, deletion rules of privacy sensitive data
is an issue that needs to be considered. For example, define the way and pre-
conditions for personal data deletion.
#### 5.3.3.2 Threats
Un-deleted, no further use-value of existing personal data may bring risk to
user of unwanted personal data disclosure, and such related attacks.
#### 5.3.3.3 Privacy requirements
The personal data need to be deleted when no longer be needed for providing
communication service and related billing. Exceptions to this rule may apply
due to local legislations.
### 5.3.4 Key issue - Personal information sharing in business collaborations
#### 5.3.4.1 Issue Details
With the more and more diverse business in 3GPP system, some businesses need
multiple parts (e.g. operator, the 3^rd^ part service provider) to collaborate
to compete. During this collaboration process, the users' personal data may
need to be shared. For example, to offer a more customized service, the 3^rd^
party service provider may need the operators to share the users' location
with them.
#### 5.3.4.2 Threats
Unauthorized personal information sharing may violate users' rights to
privacy.
During the personal data sharing process, the security of information
transfer/store will face traditional information security risks.
#### 5.3.4.3 Privacy Requirements
Personal data sharing with the purpose to accomplish a certain
application/service needs be under user's consent.
The shared personal data needs be protected by the all collaborating parties
during its whole life-time.
The information sharing needs to be bound to the service the user has
subscribed to.
## 5.4 Privacy operation and maintenance related
### 5.4.1 Key Issue - Privacy vs. System Functionality
#### 5.4.1.1 Issue Details
One goal of the present document is to collect privacy principles that SA3
should adhere to when designating new systems, security architectures and
protocols. In recent system design, privacy issues appear to be diversified,
for example, the need for user consent to collect measurements in the SON and
MDT work, machine tracking in SIMTC, user privacy in Proximity Service
security, etc. These privacy issues are related to system functionality.
Unless the privacy measures are solved in an appropriate way, the
functionality will be unnecessarily restricted. On the one hand, when 3GPP
designs new systems, security architectures and protocols, potential privacy
mechanism need to be considered. On the other hand, there must be a balance
between the privacy required and the functionality provided by the system to
provide the user with the ordered service. For example, for SON and MDT to
work, users\' location information may need to be accessible to parts of the
system (even if this implies the need for user consent) to be able to fix the
connectivity problems a user has.
#### 5.4.1.2 Threats
When 3GPP designs new systems, security architectures and protocols and
privacy protection procedures are not defined clearly in an early stage, the
system functionality will be impacted. For example, if the users consent
mechanism is not provided to the user, the functionality of SON and/or MDT
will not be usable.
#### 5.4.1.3 Privacy Requirements
Systems, security architectures and protocols design and deploy should take
privacy protection as system functionality if personal data is involved in the
system.
The strength of privacy protection need to take into account the sensitivity
of data, the potential impacts on the system, and impacts on service provided
to the user and the usability of the system
NOTE: Privacy protection should be applied according to local regulation
requirements.
### 5.4.2 Key Issue -- Privacy role
#### 5.4.2.1 Issue Details
Communications tasks require multiple different entities, when conducting
privacy analysis of a system/protocol, the entities involved may take on
different roles (e.g. communication initiator) from a privacy considerations
perspective in different communication phases.
#### 5.4.2.2 Threats
If the actions that can be taken on personal data (e.g. collect, use, and
share) are not defined for an entity (e.g. user, operator, service provider)
then this lack of policy may result in the abuse or loss of personal
information. Unclear obligations for the personal data handling may lead to
difficulties when investigating a privacy breach.
#### 5.4.2.3 Privacy Requirements
The roles (e.g. data collector, data processor) involved and their obligations
with respect to privacy need to be clarified.
# 6 Solutions / Threat Mitigation
## 6.1 Guidance on applicability
This chapter describes potential approaches to the threats, key issues and
requirements outlined in chapter 5. It follows to a large extend the Standard
Privacy Assessment approach of [7]. The process proposed in this chapter are
to evaluate and assess a possible privacy impact of a new 3GPP technical
specifications.
Most 3GPP standards focus on the communication protocol(s) of one particular
layer. The outlined process takes into account that the nodes in the
communication model may support more than one layer and therefore potential
aggregation of personal data at the recipient or intermediary may take place.
The proposed process takes into account the privacy principles of this
technical report.
A privacy analysis should be done when the work on a technical specification
becomes stable or a new major feature is added to an existing specification
and the addition is stable. During the early stage of the work e.g. when the
work item is created, it is often not fully clear, what and if personal data
needs to be handled. On the final stages of the work, larger adjustments e.g.
user consent handling can no longer be introduced without major architectural
impacts.
Thus, the suggested pragmatic approach allows identification of needed
functionality in a stage of the work, where it is still possible to make
adjustments to protect the personal data and to prevent potential expensive
re-designs at a later stage of work. It may require additions or changes to
the specifications or approaches outside of the scope of 3GPP, depending on
the outcome of the screening.
## 6.2 Solution #1 -- Privacy Identification Process
This section describes the basic process to identify the need to take action
in 3GPP to protect personal data. This chapter follows to a large extend the
Standard Privacy Assessment approach of [7].
### 6.2.1 General description
The walk-through to the process might be documented for later usage in the
affected specifications. The following key points are to be checked:
(1) **_Scope of Personal Identifiable Information Handling_**
  * What are the possible personal data of the system/protocol that can be identified?
  * Will the specification process personal data, including personal identifiers?
  * Will the specification generate personal data e.g. location information?
(2) **_Role of Privacy Handling Entities_**
  * Define roles for personal data act (e.g. communication initiator, intermediary, attacker) for the whole period of the communication session;
  * Identify the association for each communication role e.g. operator personal, external, etc.
  * Identify trust boundaries.
(3) **_Collection and Using of Personal Identifiable Information_**
In general, it is assumed that technical specifications are specified in a way
such that only necessary data are processed, stored and collected to fulfil
the functional purpose e.g. providing a certain service to the user. If all
those questions below are answered with no, then the specification is unlikely
to have impacts on the personal information privacy.
Which personal data collection aspects can be identified? I.e.:
  * who (related to privacy role) is collecting and using personal data?
  * why is personal data used (purpose)?
  * what personal data is being shared, with whom and for what purposes?
  * Will the specification/protocol be deployed in nodes, where personal data is available?
> If yes, then could the node maliciously aggregate personal data?
  * Will the specification and the data, that the specification processes and generates, be used across trust boundaries?
  * Is there user consent present for transferring data across trust boundaries?
(4) **_Storage of Personal data_**
  * Define the needed security level for the storage of personal data
  * Define the required access control for accessing the personal data
(5) **_Delete/Destroy of Personal Identifiable Information_**
> Define the way and pre-conditions for personal data to be deleted /
> destroyed. The expected lifetime of personal data need to be taken into
> account when designing the protocol that uses these personal data. This also
> enables better usage of storage resources.
### 6.1.2 Implementation
[This part gives an introduction for the privacy protection methodology
implementation.]{.underline}
[SCOPE IDENTIFICATION]{.underline}
  * _Personal data name:_ list each potential personal data class in the system/application, e.g. user's location information, group ID;
  * _Relevant network elements:_ describe the relevant network element that personal data may involve, e.g. UE, HSS, AS (a certain application server, such as GCSE AS, MTC AS);
  * _Relevant roles:_ describe the possible roles that personal data may involve, e.g. operator, SP;
_Relevant operations:_ describe the operations between relevant network
elements, e.g. network element A requires network element B to **transmit**
personal data P1 to it;
[THREAT AND REQUIREMENT IDENTIFICATION]{.underline}
  * _Threat analysis:_ analyse and list the potential threat for the personal data identified in the SCOPE IDENTIFICATION section;
  * _Privacy requirement:_ according to the threat analysis, analyse and list the privacy requirements;
TECHNOLOGY SCHEME CHOICE
  * _Privacy life time management:_ identify the principles and details of personal data life time, which covers collection, use, storage, delete/destroy;
  * _Privacy mitigation_ : choose privacy mitigation technology (e.g. anonymity, using temporary identity, access control, additional signal procedure, encryption procedure) to satisfy the privacy protection requirements.
## 6.2 Threat mitigation -- Data minimization
If privacy is compromised, personal data gets available to unauthorized
entities. But even if the entity is authorized to receive certain data, the
connection of different sensible data may also result in a compromise of the
user privacy.
Therefore, as one of the most basic principles to privacy, avoiding that data
occurs and is spread and therefore minimizing the possibility of collecting
data should always be taken into account when designing a communication system
or any protocol within such a system. Data should only be collected on a
direct need basis.
## 6.3 Threat mitigation- access control
### 6.3.1 Introduction
A framework for system protection is access control, which describes the
rights of users over objectives. Such framework can used to control access to
objects.
Editor's note: the details of "subject" can be a service, a web site, a legal
entity, or a node. It depends on the characteristics of the communication
system.
In 3GPP system, personal data (e.g. Ue identity) is usually stored in the
network elements. For operation and maintenance on the system, from any
support side (operator or vendor), the usage of access control mechanism can
mitigate the risk that an attacker can access the system and compromise
privacy. Only an authorized user should be able to read or process privacy
sensitive information within the system.
Editor's note: Level of abstraction, like in role based access control, and
the mitigation of this threat is FFS.
### 6.3.2 Use case
Access control technology can be used in:
  * The operation and maintenance domain;
  * The service provider domain when using 3GPP networks to offer services;
The usage of access control can prevent unauthorized access to personal data.
## 6.4 Threat mitigation - anonymity
### 6.4.1 Introduction
Anonymity technology (or anonymization) is a privacy enhancing technology,
which can reduce personal data, and therefore reduces the potential risk for
privacy compromise.
To enable anonymity of an individual, a set of other individuals have to have
the same attribute(s) as this individual. The composition of the anonymity set
depends on the knowledge that is assumed an observer or attacker may have. To
enable anonymity effectively the following steps are seen as relevant.
  * Analyse potential process/communication phase that may expose personal data;
  * Analyse and select the identifying attribute which may bring a risk of personal identification;
  * Describe the risk of privacy invasion by the identifying attribute;
  * Use anonymized (e.g. randomized or blind) attribute instead of the identifying attribute;
Editor's note: In some cases, anonymization of attributes is insufficient
(e.g. location traces). How to identify and deal with such cases is FFS.
### 6.4.2 Use case: UMTS authentication procedure
The UMTS authentication procedure (TS 33.102 [10]) design is an example of how
to fulfil anonymity:
1) Analysis of the authentication process: identity and location of the user
may be exposed;
2) Identify an identifying attribute: _sequence number_ may bring a risk of
personal identification;
3) Risk: The sequence number may expose the identity and thus the location of
the user.
4) Anonymizing technique used: use _Anonymity Key_ in the Authentication Token
to conceal (blind) the _sequence number_.
## 6.5 Threat mitigation- explicit user consent
### 6.5.1 Introduction
To accomplish the communication process or use services, some personal data
may need to be collected. The unauthorized privacy collection will harm users'
privacy, thus the technology of collection reminder (user consent) can
mitigate privacy threat. The implementations/practices of collection reminder
technology are various and related to UE's support and services design. The
key point is for a certain service which needs to collect users' personal data
to remind, to displayed, and to briefly explain it to the user.
According to explicit user consent, user can choose whether deliver his/her
privacy information to complete a network quality improvement request, or to
suspend it.
### 6.5.2 Use case
In the MDT scenario, the users' information e.g. locations need to be
collected to achieve drive test. When the operator A request Alice to join in
the MDT which needs to collect Alice's information, the explicit user consent
technology is used to remind the user that (example): - User might be
contacted by the operator e.g. via a message to participate in MDT;
\- The MDT usage might be part of the user's service contract.
# 7 Evaluation
_Editor\'s note: This section contains evaluation (possibly including cost and
benefit trade-off analysis) of candidate solutions/threat mitigation
approach._
# 8 Privacy Guidelines
_Editor\'s note: This section contains privacy guidelines to assist fulfilling
the privacy requirements above._
## 8.1 Impacts and Consequences
This section describes how to handle the results and knowledge gained by
undergoing the process outlined in the Privacy Identification Process in the
previous section 6.2
The first goal is to identify who has access to which personal data in the
communication. The following questions may aid the screening:
> \- What personal data is released by the Communication Initiator?
>
> \- Are there intermediaries that can read personal data?
>
> \- What personal data is collected and aggregated at the service provider
> nodes or MNO nodes?
The next step is to investigate the potential data elements in the personal
data:
  * Are all those elements required for providing the service offered by the specification to the user?
  * Is personal data processed for the purpose of general improvement of the network?
  * Does the data have a time to live?
The previous step serves to minimize data and to identify potential data in
the personal data which may require user consent.
Personal identifiable information requires adequate protection. Therefore the
following points should be investigated:
  * What is the personal identifiable information that potentially can be obtained by:
> \- Eavesdropper
>
> \- Attacker
>
> \- Unauthorized personal (e.g. is the personal data accessible only by
> personal that needs to know or by all)
  * What are potential attacks?
  * Which protection methods are deployed?
With answers to the questions above, potential solutions can be identified.
Solutions might be found in this document, but also 3GPP offers a wide range
of security services e.g. NDS/IP [8], TS 33.222 [9] etc. In some cases, the
transfer of user consent from one node to another might be necessary and need
to be considered in the progress of the technical work.
## 8.2 Guidelines
Operator's privacy guidelines:
  * It should be allowed that operators make its own privacy policies according to national and regional requirements
  * Operator should inform the user and collect the personal data fairly and legally.
Vendor's privacy guidelines:
  * Vendors should provide the privacy policy declaration to operators following operator and/or regional rules.
  * If operators hand over data to third parties (e.g. subcontractor), then data protection and user consent rules have to be observed.
  * Vendors should provide security mechanism when personal data is stored in vendor's system.
  * Vendors should provide mechanism to the operator which can delete the expired personal data in time and the time of keeping personal data can be configured.
###### ### Annex A: OECD privacy principles
# A.1 OECD privacy principles
This clause contains the OECD privacy principles [3], which are examples of a
commonly used and accepted set of privacy principles. These principles also
serve as guidance for SA3 on aspects that need to be covered in the study.
Editor\'s note: There is currently a discussion about updating the OECD
privacy principles. If such updates are done during the present study, SA3
will consider them.
## A.1.1 Collection limitation principle
There should be limits to the collection of personal data and any such data
should be obtained by lawful and fair means and, where appropriate, with the
knowledge or consent of the data subject.
## A.1.2 Data quality principle
Personal data should be relevant to the purposes for which they are to be
used, and, to the extent necessary for those purposes, should be accurate,
complete and kept up-to-date.
## A.1.3 Purpose specification principle
The purposes for which personal data are collected should be specified not
later than at the time of data collection and the subsequent use limited to
the fulfilment of those purposes or such others as are not incompatible with
those purposes and as are specified on each occasion of change of purpose.
## A.1.4 Use limitation principle
Personal data should not be disclosed, made available or otherwise used for
purposes other than those specified in accordance with clause A.1.3 except:
\- with the consent of the data subject; or
\- by the authority of law.
## A.1.5 Security safeguards principle
Personal data should be protected by reasonable security safeguards against
such risks as loss or unauthorised access, destruction, use, modification or
disclosure of data.
## A.1.6 Openness principle
There should be a general policy of openness about developments, practices and
policies with respect to personal data. Means should be readily available of
establishing the existence and nature of personal data, and the main purposes
of their use, as well as the identity and usual residence of the data
controller.
## A.1.7 Individual participation principle
An individual should have the right:
\- to obtain from a data controller, or otherwise, confirmation of whether or
not the data controller has data relating to him;
\- to have communicated to him, data relating to him within a reasonable time;
> at a charge, if any, that is not excessive;
>
> in a reasonable manner; and
>
> in a form that is readily intelligible to him;
\- to be given reasons if a request made under subparagraphs(a) and (b) is
denied, and to be able to challenge such denial; and
\- to challenge data relating to him and, if the challenge is successful to
have the data erased, rectified, completed or amended.
## A.1.8 Accountability principle
A data controller should be accountable for complying with measures which give
effect to the principles stated above.
###### ### Annex B: Privacy Regulations
  * EU Directives 2002/58/EC and 2006/24/EC
  * Germany's Federal Data Protection Act
  * France's Data Protection Act 78-17
  * UK's Data Protection Act 1998
  * US's Privacy Act of 1974 and Electronic Communications Privacy Act
  * Australia's Privacy Act 1988
  * New Zeeland's Privacy Act 1993
  * Russia's Federal Law N152-FZ on Personal Data
  * Japan's Act on the Protection of Personal Information
  * India's Information Technology Rules of 2011
###### ### Annex C: Definitions of Personal Data in different countries or
areas
> NOTE: The following definitions are from privacy laws, not from the
> telecommunication laws.
+------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | **Country/area** | **Definition** | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | China | Personal information means any computer data | | | processed by information system, also it is | | | related to specific natural person, and could be | | | used solely or combined with other information | | | to identify a specific natural person. Personal | | | information includes personal sensitive | | | information and general person information. | | | [C1] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Europe | Personal data means any information relating to | | | an identified or identifiable natural person | | | (\'data subject\'); an identifiable person is | | | one who can be identified, directly or | | | indirectly, in particular by reference to an | | | identification number or to one or more factors | | | specific to his physical, physiological, mental, | | | economic, cultural or social identity. [C2], | | | [C3] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Germany | Personal data shall mean any information | | | concerning the personal or material | | | circumstances of an identified or identifiable | | | natural person ("data subject"). [C4] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | France | Personal data means any information relating to | | | a natural person who is or can be identified, | | | directly or indirectly, by reference to an | | | identification number or to one or more factors | | | specific to him. In order to determine whether a | | | person is identifiable, all the means that the | | | data controller or any other person uses or may | | | have access to should be taken into | | | consideration. [C5] | | | | | | Sensitive data: "personal data that reveals, | | | directly or indirectly, the racial and ethnic | | | origins, the political, philosophical, religious | | | opinions or trade union affiliation of persons, | | | or related to their health or sexual life" | | | (Article 8 of the DPA Act). [C6] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | UK | Personal data means data which relate to a | | | living individual who can be identified from | | | those data, or from those data and other | | | information which is in the possession of, or is | | | likely to come into the possession of, the data | | | controller, and includes any expression of | | | opinion about the individual and any indication | | | of the intentions of the data controller or any | | | other person in respect of the individual; | | | [C7], [C8] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | US | Record means any item, collection, or grouping | | | of information about an individual that is | | | maintained by an agency, including, but not | | | limited to, his education, financial | | | transactions, medical history, and criminal or | | | employment history and that contains his name, | | | or the identifying number, symbol, or other | | | identifying particular assigned to the | | | individual, such as a finger or voice print or a | | | photograph; [D9], [C10], [C11] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Canada | Personal information means information about an | | | identifiable individual, but does not include | | | the name, title or business address or telephone | | | number of an employee of an organization. | | | [C12] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Australia | Personal information means information or an | | | opinion (including information or an opinion | | | forming part of a database), whether true or | | | not, and whether recorded in a material form or | | | not, about an individual whose identity is | | | apparent, or can reasonably be ascertained, from | | | the information or opinion. | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | New Zealand | Personal information means information about an | | | identifiable individual; and includes | | | information relating to a death that is | | | maintained by the Registrar-General pursuant to | | | the Births, Deaths, Marriages, and Relationships | | | Registration Act 1995, or any former Act [C13] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Russia | Personal data -- any information pertaining to a | | | particular or identifiable, on the basis of such | | | information, natural individual (the personal | | | data subject), including his surname, first | | | name, patronymic, year, month, date and place of | | | birth, address, marital, social, property | | | status, education, profession, income, other | | | information; [C14] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | Japan | The term \"personal information\" as used in | | | this Act shall mean information about a living | | | individual which can identify the specific | | | individual by name, date of birth or other | | | description contained in such information | | | (including such information as will allow easy | | | reference to other information and will thereby | | | enable the identification of the specific | | | individual). [C15] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+ | India | \"Personal information\" means any information | | | that relates to a natural person, which, either | | | directly or indirectly, in combination with | | | other information available or likely to be | | | available with a body corporate, is capable of | | | identifying such person. [C16] | +------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
Reference from:
[C1] GB/Z 28828-2012 Information security technology-Guideline for personal
information protection within information system for public and commercial
services, published by Standardization Administration of China.
[C2] DIRECTIVE 2002/58/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 12
July 2002；concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of
privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and
electronic communications)。
[C3] DIRECTIVE 2006/24/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 15
March 2006 on the retention of data generated or processed in connection with
the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or of
public communications networks and amending Directive 2002/58/EC. http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2006:105:0054:0063:EN:PDF
[C4] German Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG);In the version promulgated on
14 January 2003 (Federal Law Gazette I, p. 66),last amended by Article 1 of
the Act of 14 August 2009 (Federal Law Gazette I, p. 2814),in force from 1
September 2009.
http://www.cnil.fr/fileadmin/documents/en/Guide_Security_of_Personal_Data-2010.pdf
[C5] France Act n°78-17 of 6 January 1978 on Data Processing, Data Files and
Individual Liberties Amended by the Act of 6 August 2004 relating to the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data.
http://www.cnil.fr/fileadmin/documents/en/Act78-17VA.pdf
[C6]France CNIL GUIDE SECURITY OF PERSONAL DATA.
http://www.cnil.fr/fileadmin/documents/en/Guide_Security_of_Personal_Data-2010.pdf
[C7] UK Data Protection Act 1998.
http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/29/data.pdf
[C8] UK The Telecommunications (Data Protection and Privacy) Regulations 1999.
http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/2093/pdfs/uksi_19992093_en.pdf
[C9] US The Privacy Act of 1974.
http://transition.usaid.gov/policy/egov/pa_1974.pdf
[C10] US The Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA).
http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/part-I/chapter-119
[C11] US The Stored Communications Act,18 U.S.C. §§ 2701-12
http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/part-I/chapter-121
[C12] Canada Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act
(PIPEDA) http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/PDF/P-8.6.pdf
[C13] New zealand Privacy Act 1993.
http://www.legislation.govt.nz/act/public/1993/0028/latest/096be8ed8098cc8b.pdf
[C14] Russian Federal Law on Personal Data.
https://www.privacyassociation.org/media/pdf/knowledge_center/Russian_Federal_Law_on_Personal_Data.pdf
[C15] Japan Act on the Protection of Personal Information ( Act No. 119 of
2003 (Effective April 1, 2005)). www.cas.go.jp/jp/seisaku/hourei/data/APPI.pdf
[C17] India Information Technology ACT 2008.
http://meghpol.nic.in/acts/central/IT_electronic_service_delivery_rules.pdf
###### ### Annex D: The 7 foundational principles in Privacy by Design
The Privacy by Design Principles in this sections originate from [5].
Proactive not Reactive; Preventative not Remedial
> The Privacy by Design (PbD) approach is characterized by proactive rather
> than reactive measures. It anticipates and prevents privacy invasive events
> before they happen. PbD does not wait for privacy risks to materialize, nor
> does it offer remedies for resolving privacy infractions once they have
> occurred --- it aims to prevent them from occurring. In short, Privacy by
> Design comes before-the-fact, not after.
Privacy as the Default Setting
> We can all be certain of one thing --- the default rules! Privacy by Design
> seeks to deliver the maximum degree of privacy by ensuring that personal
> data are automatically protected in any given IT system or business
> practice. If an individual does nothing, their privacy still remains intact.
> No action is required on the part of the individual to protect their privacy
> --- it is built into the system, by default.
Privacy Embedded into Design
> Privacy by Design is embedded into the design and architecture of IT systems
> and business practices. It is not bolted on as an add-on, after the fact.
> The result is that privacy becomes an essential component of the core
> functionality being delivered. Privacy is integral to the system, without
> diminishing functionality.
Full Functionality --- Positive-Sum, not Zero-Sum
> Privacy by Design seeks to accommodate all legitimate interests and
> objectives in a positive-sum "win-win" manner,not through a dated, zero-sum
> approach, where unnecessary trade-offs are made. Privacy by Design avoids
> the pretense of false dichotomies, such as privacy vs. security,
> demonstrating that it is possible to have both.
End-to-End Security --- Full Lifecycle Protection
> Privacy by Design, having been embedded into the system prior to the first
> element of information being collected, extends securely throughout the
> entire lifecycle of the data involved --- strong security measures are
> essential to privacy, from start to finish. This ensures that all data are
> securely retained, and then securely destroyed at the end of the process, in
> a timely fashion. Thus, Privacy by Design ensures cradle to grave, secure
> lifecycle management of information, end-to-end.
Visibility and Transparency --- Keep it Open
> Privacy by Design seeks to assure all stakeholders that whatever the
> business practice or technology involved, it is in fact, operating according
> to the stated promises and objectives, subject to independent verification.
> Its component parts and operations remain visible and transparent, to users
> and providers alike. Remember, trust but verify.
Respect for User Privacy --- Keep it User-Centric
> Above all, Privacy by Design requires architects and operators to keep the
> interests of the individual uppermost by offering such measures as strong
> privacy defaults, appropriate notice, and empowering user-friendly options.
> Keep it user-centric.
###### ### Annex E: GSMA Privacy Principles
The GSMA Privacy Principles were taken from [6].
Openness, Transparency and Notice
> Responsible persons shall be open and honest with users and will ensure
> users are provided with clear, prominent and timely information regarding
> their identity and data privacy practices. Users shall be provided with
> information about persons collecting personal information about them, the
> purposes of an application or service, and about the access, collection,
> sharing and further use of a users' personal information, including to whom
> their personal information may be disclosed, enabling users to make informed
> decisions about whether to use a mobile application or service.
Purpose and Use
> The access, collection, sharing, disclosure and further use of users'
> personal information shall be limited to meeting legitimate business
> purposes, such as providing applications or services as requested by users,
> or to otherwise meet legal obligations.
User Choice and Control
> Users shall be given opportunities to exercise meaningful choice, and
> control over their personal information
Data Minimisation and Retention
> Only the minimum personal information necessary to meet legitimate business
> purposes and to deliver, provision, maintain or develop applications and
> services should be collected and otherwise accessed and used. Personal
> information must not be kept for longer than is necessary for those
> legitimate business purposes or to meet legal obligations and should
> subsequently be deleted or rendered anonymous.
Respect User Rights
> Users should be provided with information about, and an easy means to
> exercise, their rights over the use of their personal information.
Security
> Personal information must be protected, using reasonable safeguards
> appropriate to the sensitivity of the information.
Education
> Users should be provided with information about privacy and security issues
> and ways to manage and protect their privacy.
>
> It is important that users can understand how best to manage their privacy
> and protect their personal information, by providing them with clear and
> simple information about privacy options.
Children and Adolescents
> An application or service that is directed at children and adolescents
> should ensure that the collection, access and use of personal information is
> appropriate in all given circumstances and compatible with national law.
Accountability and Enforcement
> All responsible persons are accountable for ensuring these principles are
> met.
>
> For these guidelines to have an impact, they must apply to all contributors
> to the mobile application ecosystem and be built by design into the
> application platform. All involved in the development, provision, sale and
> supply of applications, who access, collect and use personal information, or
> who make it possible for others to access, collect and use personal
> information, must work to create the tools and interfaces that make these
> guidelines possible.
# Annex F: Privacy guidelines for writing 3GPP TRs and TSs
## F.1 Scope
This Annex shall focus exclusively on guidance for taking into account privacy
in writing 3GPP TRs and TSs.
## F.2 Threats
Editor's Note: This section should include a condensed version of threats
currently described under key issues, removing duplications. Key issue
explanations may be not needed in a final TR.
## F.3 Mitigation techniques
Editor's Note: This section can list security and privacy techniques and
practices to give the writer of privacy considerations tools at hand.
## F.4 Privacy identification process
Editor's Note: This section should help to identify if a specification/study
under development has any privacy concern referring to the sections above
(threats and mitigation techniques).
## F.5 Guidance for privacy considerations
Editor's Note: This section should give guidance for analysing and documenting
privacy considerations based on the sections above.
#