# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To position LTE as technology for critical communications such as public
safety, security for Group Communication (GC) needs to be considered. Group
Communication function complements its sibling communication feature of
Proximity-based Services (ProSe).
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the security aspects of the Group Communication
Service Enabler for LTE (GCSE_LTE) and gives an evaluation of possible
technical security solutions supporting such an Enabler. The present document
looks at security from system perspective and defines functional security
requirements for all entities.\ Stage 1 requirements for these services are
defined in 3GPP TS 22.468 [2].
Different possible Stage 2 solutions for GCSE have been studied in 3GPP TR
23.768 [3].\ 3GPP TS 23.468 [8] provides the stage 2 description for the 3GPP
system provided enablers to support GC services using E-UTRAN in Rel-12.
Based on the work done in 3GPP TS 22.468 [2], 3GPP TR 23.768 [3], and 3GPP TS
23.468 [8] the objectives of the present document are to identify the threats
and deduce security requirements, develop GCSE_LTE security solutions, and
determine which solution(s) from the present document (Study/TR phase) should
be converted into normative specifications for Rel-12.
NOTE: The present document collects requirements that are not normative.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCS_LTE)\".
[3] 3GPP TR 23.768: \"Study on architecture enhancements to support Group
Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 23.703: \"Study on architecture enhancements to support Proximity
Services (ProSe)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.246: \"3G Security; Security of Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast
Service (MBMS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE),
Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TR 33.833: \"Study on security issues to support Proximity
Services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.328: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) media plane security\".
[11] IETF RFC 6733: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[12] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.368: \"Tsp interface protocol between the MTC Interworking
Function (MTC-IWF) and Service Capability Server (SCS)\".[15] 3GPP TS 33.210:
\"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network layer security\".[16]
3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[15] IETF RFC 5246: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.2\".
[16] IETF RFC 6347: \"Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2\".
[17] IETF RFC 5996: \"Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
MB2 Reference Point; Stage 3\".
[19] IETF RFC 768: \"User Datagram Protocol (UDP)\".
[20] IETF RFC 3947: \"Negotiation of NAT-Traversal in the IKE\".
[21] IETF RFC 3948 \"UDP Encapsulation of IPsec ESP Packets\".
[22] IETF RFC 6347: \"Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2\".
[23] IETF RFC 4303: \"IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)\".
[24] 3GPP TS 29.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers for LTE (GCSE_LTE);
MB2 Reference Point; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and TS 23.468 [8] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
e2ae end-to-access-edge
e2e end to end
DL downlink
GC Group Communication
GC2 former name for MB2 interface as defined in TS 23.468 [8]
MRK MBMS Request Key
**MSK** MBMS Service Key
**MTK** MBMS Traffic Key
**MUK** MBMS User Key
MuSe Multipoint Service
ProSe Proximity Service
UL uplink
# 4 Overview of Group Communication Service Enabler (GCSE)
Editor\'s Note: This clause will reference to the SA2 agreed architecture for
GCSE.
## 4.1 Introduction
A Group Communication (GC) service is intended to distribute the same content
in a fast and efficient way to multiple users in a controlled manner.
According to 3GPP TS 22.468 [2] the service should allow flexible modes of
operation, e.g. it is expected to support voice, video or, more general data
communication. Furthermore, a GC service in LTE can allow users to communicate
to several groups at the same time in parallel.
The Group Communication Service Enabler (GCSE) provides modular functions and
open interfaces that can be used to design GC services.
According to 3GPP TR 23.768 [3] GCSE_LTE covers the following aspects:
\- Group Communication among entitled group members via E-UTRAN;
\- Group Communication among entitled group members using E-UTRAN and/or ProSe
communication paths via a ProSe UE-to-Network Relay;
\- The relationship between ProSe and GCSE for Group Communications
The functional descriptions of \"ProSe communication paths via ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay\" and\ \"ProSe Group Communications\" are being defined in 3GPP
TR 23.703 [4].
## 4.2 GCSE architecture: assumptions and baseline principles
According to 3GPP TR 23.768 [3], the high level view of the GCSE architecture
diagram consists of Application layer and 3GPP EPS layer.
The Application layer consists of a Group Communication Service Enabler
Application Server (GCS AS).
The 3GPP EPS layer consists of a Multipoint Service (MuSe) function. The MuSe
function interworks with the 3GPP EPS entities (defined by 3GPP TS 23.401 [5])
to provide the Multipoint Service functionality.
3GPP TR 23.768 [3] has derived from the architectural point of view a
composite view of different solutions agreeing on Multipoint Service (MuSe) is
to be realized using eMBMS (3GPP TS 23.246 [6]) as shown in Figure 4.2-1.
Figure 4.2-1: Composite view as given in 3GPP TR 23.768 ([3], Figure 7.1-1)
NOTE: GCSE AS and GC2 in the present document correspond to GCS AS and MB2
(MB2-U and MB2-C) in TS 23.468 [8] respectively.
For the complete description of agreed baseline principles refer to the
conclusion clause of 3GPP TS 23.768 [3] clause 8, and the architectural
reference model (roaming and non-roaming architecture) as specified in TS
23.468 [8].
# 5 GCSE security architecture
Editor\'s Note: This clause should give a complete picture of the aspects for
GCSE security architecture.\ It should include security-relevant functional
entities with reference points.
## 5.1 Overview of security architecture
The GCSE_LTE security architecture described in Figure 5.1-1 is based on the
system architecture given in 3GPP TR 23. 768 [3] and 3GPP TS 23.468 [8] and
gives a high-level view for helping to analyze the security threats and to
simplify the contextual information.
NOTE: Figure 5.1-1 allows defining several levels of zoom to the security-
relevant functional entities with the relevant reference points depending on
the overall architecture decisions taken in SA2.
Figure 5.1-1: Security architecture for GCSE_LTE composite view
Figure 5.1-1 defines the potential high level security architecture for
GCSE_LTE.\ Five different areas are defined:
A) Security for GCSE_LTE communication between the UE and 3GPP network can be
further divided into:
A1) Security for GCSE_LTE communication between the UE and E-UTRAN.\ Security
for Unicast Delivery and Multicast delivery should be considered separately.
A2) Security for GCSE_LTE communication between the UE and EPC.
A3) Security for GCSE_LTE communication between the UE and MuSe.\ Only
security for Multicast delivery should be considered. BM-SC and MBMS-GW in the
core network is used for MuSe in Rel-12.
B) Security for GCSE_LTE communication within MuSe, I.e. between the MBMS-GW
and BM-SC in Rel-12.
C) Security for GCSE_LTE communication between EPC/MuSe and GCS AS in Rel-12,
I.e., MB2 interface (MB2-C and MB2-U) between the MuSe/BM-SC and GCE AS for
broadcast (control and user plane), as well as SGi/Rx for Unicast, I.e., SGi
between S/P-GW and GCS AS, and Rx between PCRF and GCS AS.
D) Security for GCSE_LTE communication between UE and GCS AS.\ The interface
between UE and GCS AS is out of 3GPP scope of Rel-12.
E) Security for GCSE_LTE communication between two (2) ProSe enabled Public
Safety UE,\ one connected to the network (UE-to-Network-Relay).
Editor\'s Note: The area E) may be covered by ProSe security TR 33.833 [9] and
is out of scope of the present document.
# 6 Key issues for GCSE security
Editor\'s Note: This clause lists important topics that need to be discussed
for GCSE security and collects solutions how to solve the key issue. Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also to any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
Editor\'s Note: Please use the following structure 6.X Key Issue: \
> 6.X.1 Key issue details
>
> 6.X.2 Threats
>
> 6.X.3 Security requirements
>
> 6.X.4 Solutions
>
> 6.X.5 Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: The statement in LS S3-130955 from ETSI TC TCCE that a
certificate-based authentication was not fulfilling the requirement for
scalability is controversial in SA3. Whether certificate-based authentication
is sufficiently scalable is FFS.
Editor\'s Note: LI requirements need to be considered.
## 6.1 Key issue: Security in critical communication scenarios
### 6.1.1 Issue details
SA1 gives some use cases description in 3GPP TS 22.468 [2].
In \"See what I see\" use case, it illustrates a situation where a policeman
shares multimedia content (video and/or picture) with all the members of a
pre-defined group (including the dispatcher and group members in the field).\
Also, in \"harmonized multi-agency use case\", groups of fire fighters, police
and ambulance are involved.
### 6.1.2 Threats
The GC in some critical scenarios related to personal safety, even national
security, if these communication comprised by the attackers, it will take huge
damage. The consequences of a data compromise may be much higher than general
internet traffic.
### 6.1.3 Security requirements
Editor\'s Note: Appropriate requirements are FFS.
A solution to GCSE security shall allow e2e (UE to UE) and e2ae (UE to GCS AS)
security to be used over GCSE in support of public safety users.
### 6.1.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue. Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
#### 6.1.4.1 Supporting e2e security
Due to the increased risk around compromise of public safety communications,
some public safety user groups require end-to-end, or end-to-access-edge
security. SDES, TLS and KMS (MIKEY-TICKET) are options for e2e and e2ae
security. These are described in 3GPP TR 33.833 [9].\ IDENTITY is another
option, proposed as an option in 3GPP TS 33.328 [10].\ Other public safety
users may have other, non-standard, security protocols.\ Commonly, these
solutions transmit media over SRTP.
### 6.1.5 Evaluation
Void
## 6.2 Key issue: Interaction with ProSe security
### 6.2.1 Key issue details
Many operators providing GCSE Group Communication services (especially to
public safety users) may also want to provide ProSe Group Communications to
the same users.
3GPP TS 22.468 [2] contains a requirement that: \"The system shall support
groups whose membership shall be the same irrespective of whether a Group
Communication is made using ProSe Group Communication or GCSE Group
Communication.\"
NOTE: A Group Member, as defined in 3GPP TS 22.468 [2], is someone with the
right to transmit communications to and/or receive communications from a
group.\ A user does not cease to be a Group Member merely because they are not
currently doing so.
An example of this might be when 4 police officers, who are all Group Members
of a large GCSE Group, move into an underground basement with no E-UTRAN
coverage.\ They switch to using out-of-network ProSe Group Communications.\
These 4 officers retain the ability to communicate securely within their
subgroup, maintaining confidentiality even if there are other ProSe-enabled
UEs with communication range.
In practice, there will clearly be some cases where the requirement for
alignment between groups cannot be achieved in full; e.g. when a subgroup of
devices is off-network they cannot possibly be aware of changes to group
membership on the network side. The requirement is to enable this as far as
possible though.
### 6.2.2 Security threats
If membership of the two types of group becomes out of sync, this leads to two
threats:
**\- An availability threat,** \ that someone who is in coverage, and needs to
hear a Group Communication, does not do so.
**\- A confidentiality threat,** \ if someone is removed from e.g. a GCSE
Group, but retains the ability to access the group when a set of users go out
of network coverage
### 6.2.3 Security requirements
The security mechanisms chosen shall support the following requirement from
3GPP TS 22.468 [2]:
\"The system shall support groups whose membership shall be the same
irrespective of whether a Group Communication is made using ProSe Group
Communication or GCSE Group Communication.\"
### 6.2.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue.\ Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
#### 6.2.4.1 GCSE Security via IDENTITY
##### 6.2.4.1.1 Introduction
GCSE requires a point-to-multipoint service where the transmission originates
from a UE. A requirement of a GCSE User Service is to be able to securely
transmit data to a given set of users. In order to achieve this, there needs
to be a method of authentication, key distribution and data protection for a
GCSE User Service.
This proposal is to use the full IDENTITY solution for one-to-many Group
Communications is described for ProSe in clause 6.3.1 of TR 33.833 [9]. As a
session-layer architecture, this solution may be applied to secure GCSE
communications.
The public safety IDENTITY solution supports pre-configured and ad-hoc groups
alongside Unicast or Multicast transmissions. For pre-configured groups it
allows groups to be created by a group manager which may be integrated with
the network infrastructure or managed externally. For ad-hoc groups, it allows
users to create small groups as required. It also allows group members to
authenticate group sessions. The solution is applied at the session layer, and
hence may be applied to a wide variety of use-cases including ProSe, GCSE, PTT
and IMS Group Communications. This proposal describes how the solution
described in clause 6.3.1 of TR 33.833 [9] is used within the GCSE
architecture to support Multicast transmissions.
##### 6.2.4.1.2 IDENTITY Support for Multicast communications
This clause details which IDENTITY communications can or cannot be Multicast
by the BM-SC. The full signalling flows may be seen in clause 6.3.1 of TR
33.833 [9].
###### 6.2.4.1.2.1 Provisioning and Configuration
The IDENTITY provisioning process (clause 6.3.1.2.4 of TR 33.833 [9]) is the
process which distributes IDENTITY keys to UEs. This is a client-server
relationship between the UE and the IDENTITY KMS.\ The IDENTITY KMS should be
viewed as external to the GCSE architecture. Hence this connection may only be
performed a Unicast connection.
The pre-configured group configuration process (clause 6.3.1.3.2 of TR 33.833
[9]) is the process whereby a group manager sets up a security association
with group UEs. For GCSE, the group manger may be viewed as being integrated
with the GCS AS. As the group manager distributes keys individually to group
UEs, it is expected that this will be performed over a Unicast bearer.
However, as messages are secured to individual UEs, these messages may be
Broadcast or Multicast by the MBMS if required.
###### 6.2.4.1.2.2 Session Initialization and Key Distribution
The session key distribution process for pre-configured groups (clause
6.3.1.3.3.2 of TR 33.833 [9]) distributes a session key for a Group
Communications among Public Safety UEs in a pre-configured group as part of
session initialization. Messages are routed from an initiator via a group
controller.\ For the purposes of GCSE, the group controller may be viewed as
being integrated with either the BM-SC, GCS AS or as a separate entity
(depending on traffic routing). As the message is the same for each UE and
secured for only UEs in the group, the group controller may route the session
initialization message to the MBMS to be sent over a Broadcast or Multicast
bearer.
The session key distribution process for ad-hoc groups (clause 6.3.1.3.4.2 of
TR 33.833 [9]) allows a Public Safety UE to create an ad-hoc group and
distribute a session key to a small number of group members via a group
controller. It is expected that the group controller will send individual
session initiation messages to UEs over a Unicast bearer. However, as for
network-independent session initiation (clause 6.3.1.3.4.3 of TR 33.833 [9]),
alternatively the single message uploaded to the group controller may be
broadcast by the MBMS if required.
Figure 6.2.4.1.2.2-1 demonstrates the signalling flow for setting up a session
over a Multicast bearer.\ This signalling flow applies to both pre-configured
and small ad-hoc groups.
Figure 6.2.4.1.2.2-1: IDENTITY group session key distribution over a Multicast
bearer
The signalling flow in figure 6.2.4.1.2.2-1 is now described in detail.\ This
signalling flow is very similar to that described in clauses 6.3.1.3.3.2 and
6.3.1.3.4.2 of TR 33.833 [9], the only difference being that the group
controller does not need to send multiple Multicast communications:
1) Prior to beginning this procedure, it is assumed that the security
association for the pre-configured group has been created for each
participating Public Safety UE (as described in clause 6.3.1.3.2 of TR 33.833
[9]).
2) A Public Safety UE generates a GSK and sends a session creation
notification (e.g. SIP INVITE) to the group controller, via a serving
signalling server and local group server. Within the SDP Offer of this
message, security information is included as described in clauses 6.3.1.3.3.2
or 6.3.1.3.4.2 of TR 33.833 [9].
NOTE 1: This message may be pre-generated to increase the efficiency of the
communication.
3) The group controller notifies UE 1 that it received the message (e.g. SIP
TRY).\ This message does not contain any security information.
4) The group controller forwards the session creation notification (e.g. SIP
INVITE) to the BM-SC.\ Further information (such as where the notification
should be broadcast and to which UEs) may be included.
NOTE 2: Based on SA2 work, it is unclear if signalling/traffic is also routed
via the GCS AS.
5) The BM-SC Multicasts the SDP Offer to group UEs. No additional security
need be applied by the BM-SC.
6) Each member of the group extracts the Group Session Key and notifies the
group controller that they received the message. This message does not contain
any security information.
7) Further messages are sent to setup the group session. These messages
contain no security information.
Following successful session initialization, media can be securely transmitted
to the group.
##### 6.2.4.1.2.3 Transmission of media {#transmission-of-media .H6}
Media sent over one-to-many Group Communications (clause 6.3.1.3.5 of TR
33.833 [9]) may be sent directly via ProSe, routed by the group controller via
a Unicast bearer or routed by the group controller via Multicast bearers. To
Multicast over MBMS, the group controller routes the traffic to the BM-SC
(potentially via the GCS AS) with information on which UEs require the
communication.
##### 6.2.4.1.3 Use of MBMS security
As MBMS security and this IDENTITY proposal both secure media security at the
session layer (SRTP) it appears to be infeasible for both to be applied at the
same time. Where the IDENTITY solution is used for public safety users, it
seems likely that MBMS security will have to be disabled.
##### 6.2.4.1.4 Comparison with ProSe IDENTITY solution
The security solution presented here is entirely aligned with the one-to-many
IDENTITY ProSe solution described in clause 6.3.1 of TR 33.833 [9]. Having a
consistent security solution that may use a variety of transport bearers is
advantageous for the following reasons:
\- As security is independent of the transport bearer, the network may choose
to send the traffic over Multicast or Unicast bearers dynamically without
impacting security.
\- Should the initiating UE lose network connectivity, it can switch to a one-
to-many group ProSe communication without having to perform a new security
procedure.
\- Without altering media traffic, communications may be transmitted via
ProSe, a Unicast bearer and GCSE simultaneously.
\- Fewer nodes within the network have a security role and hence need to be
secured by public safety users.\ The IDENTITY solution is designed to ensure
that the number of entities with a security function is minimized, and that,
should an entity\'s security function be compromized, the impact is limited to
UEs/Groups of UEs for which the entity is explicitly responsible.
### 6.2.5 Evaluation
Void
## 6.3 Key issue: Security across Unicast and Multicast modes
### 6.3.1 Key issue details
Group Communications are likely to be delivered over a mix of Unicast and
Multicast bearers, to enable efficient use of radio resources, and provide
scalability for large groups receiving the same GC from a single eNodeB. While
for Unicast in the uplink and downlink communication EPS security may be
sufficient (subject to the policies of public safety organisations), it will
not be the case if the Multicast/Broadcast path is used. The broadcast via
MBMS user bearer needs to be protected such that only group members that are
authorized are able to access the content.
A consistent set of security mechanisms shall be presented across the two
modes.
Some proposed solutions include the short-term delivery of media streams over
both Unicast and Multicast bearers, to ensure service continuity during
transition. Security mechanisms may therefore need to be consistent with this.
### 6.3.2 Security threats
There is a risk that an attacker might seek to use a transient state between
the modes as an opportunity to breach confidentiality or integrity.
### 6.3.3 Security requirements
The level of confidentiality and integrity protection provided shall be the
same, regardless of whether a Unicast or Multicast bearer is used, including
during transition between the two.
### 6.3.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue. Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
#### 6.3.4.1 Using session layer security external to MBMS
Editor\'s Note: \'Session layer\' needs to be defined.
This solution proposes that session layer security mechanism applied outside
of the MBMS security architecture could be used to protect traffic. This
includes either end-to-access-edge (e2ae) security (e.g. from GCS AS to UE) or
end-to-end (e2e) security (e.g. from UE to UE).\ 3GPP SA3 have defined three
e2ae solutions for media traffic, SDES, TLS and KMS (MIKEY-TICKET) as detailed
in TS 33.328 [10]. For e2e security solutions there are three options, SDES
and KMS (as in TR 33.833 [9]) or the IDENTITY solution proposed in clause
6.2.4.1 of the present document and clause 6.3.1 of TR 33.833 [9].
Both SDES and IDENTITY naturally support MBMS Multicast. KMS may need to be
adapted to allow multiple UEs to submit the same ticket to the KMS.
Editor\'s Note: SDES may require further study in the IETF to support
Multicast.
The advantage of using a session layer security solution external to MBMS is
that:
\- It can be applied to both Unicast and Multicast traffic so the routing of
traffic can change dynamically without impacting security.
\- The BM-SC does not need to be considered as part of the security
architecture for the communication.
\- There may be no need to create new security functionality or interfaces as
part of GCSE.
#### 6.3.4.2 Security options for data protection
In order to allow the at least partial re-use of MBMS security at all, the GCS
AS would need to act in accordance with MBMS key hierarchy as far as the re-
used parts of MBMS security are concerned. Thus, in the following we use the
same terminology as used in TS 33.246 [7] for MBMS key hierarchy: MSK, the
long-lived MBMS service key, and MTK, the short-lived MBMS traffic encryption
key). Both keys are bound to the service the user has subscribed to and not
tied to a particular user.
Note: Because MSKs are assumed to be distributed at the application layer, the
3GPP GCS security specification need not consider the user specific MUK (used
to protect the MSKs as described in TS 33.246 [7]). Key and group management
is within GCS AS responsibility, thus it is assumed that group members have
already received the MSK beforehand in order to participate in the Group
Communication.
##### 6.3.4.2.1 UE-to-UE end-to-end security
The policies of public safety organisations may require protecting
communication in the uplink and in the downlink end-to-end between UEs. The
definition of end-to-end data protection is out of scope of 3GPP in Rel-12.\
The UE has a data protection function using a group key delivered to it
beforehand and confidentiality- and integrity-protects all data it sends with
this group key. The group would represent the "service". The GCS AS merely
distributes the protected data via Unicast and/or Multicast/Broadcast to all
group members. In this case, MBMS is used without security if it is used at
all.
##### 6.3.4.2.2 UE-to-GCS AS end-to-end security
The policies of public safety organisations may require protecting
communication in the uplink and in the downlink end-to-end between UE and GCS
AS. The definition of end-to-end data protection is out of scope of Rel-12.\
The UE and the GCS AS have a data protection function using a group key
delivered beforehand by which all data is confidentiality- and integrity-
protected. Whether GCS AS merely distributes the protected data via Unicast
and/or Multicast/Broadcast to all group members or whether GCS AS processes
the date received in uplink before distribution in the downlink communication
is out of scope of 3GPP in Rel-12.\ In either case, MBMS is used without
security if it is used at all.
##### 6.3.4.2.3 GCS AS downlink security options considering partial re-usage
of MBMS security
In the following it is assumed that uplink Unicast protection by EPS security
is sufficient and only considerations on downlink communication security are
needed.
Security for downlink data protection is in scope of 3GPP, if either EPS
security or MBMS security mechanisms or both are re-used. In general two cases
seem to be possible:
**Option 1:** GCS AS relies on EPS security (confidentiality and integrity)
for the Unicast downlink and relies on MBMS security for the
Multicast/Broadcast downlink. Note it is assumed that EPS security is allowed
to be used by the local legislation.
**Option 2:** GCS AS relies on MBMS security protection mechanism for both,
Unicast and Multicast/Broadcast downlink, I.e. the BM-SC would process the
data for Multicast/Broadcast and, in addition, send the encrypted data back to
the AS for Unicast distribution.
Editor\'s Note: The technical viability and practicability of Option 2 is FFS.
Editor\'s Note: The extra 3GPP specification work that one has to provide for
GCS downlink security needs to be determined.
#### 6.3.4.3 Solution: Using MBMS security data protection function for
Multicast/Broadcast and EPS security for Unicast in GCS downlink communication
This solution addresses the key issues in clauses 6.3, 6.4, and 6.5.
##### 6.3.4.3.1 General
In this solution GCS AS relies on EPS security (confidentiality and integrity)
for the Unicast downlink and relies on MBMS security for the
Multicast/Broadcast downlink. Note it is assumed that EPS security is allowed
to be used by the local legislation.
##### 6.3.4.3.2 Data Flow
Void
###### 6.3.4.3.2.1 Assumptions
GCS AS is responsible for the group management, I.e. to set up a group that is
identified by a group identifier (TMGI) as specified in TS 23.246 [7]
(allocation request by GCS AS).
GCS AS has distributed the group key (MSK) to all group members, and handles
joining and leaving of group members, including updating of MSKs if needed
(out of scope of Rel-12).
Note: The same terminology is used as in TS 33.246 [7] for MBMS key hierarchy:
MSK, the long-lived MBMS service key, and MTK, the short-lived MBMS traffic
encryption key).
###### 6.3.4.3.2.2 Unicast downlink
1) GCS AS has received data for distribution to the group.
2) GCS AS sends the received data via SGi interface for Unicast distribution
relying on EPS security.
###### 6.3.4.3.2.3 Multicast/Broadcast downlink
Editor\'s Note: It is for FFS how to deal with more than one BM-SC.
1) GCS AS has received data for distribution to the group.
2) GCS AS provides the group key (MSK) and the group identifier among other
MBMS specific data to the BM-SC.
3) GCS AS provides the data for distribution to the group to BM-SC indicating
that no protection has been applied and requests BM-SC to apply MBMS data
protection mechanisms before broadcasting.
4) BM-SC uses the group key (MSK) provided and encrypts the
Multicast/Broadcast data according to the MBMS security scheme with MTKs
(resulting in SRTP packets). In addition BM-SC generates MIKEY messages that
secure the delivery of the MTKs.
5) BM-SC sends UDP/SRTP, UDP/MIKEY data and other MBMS specific data received
by GCS AS to the MBMS GW.
NOTE: There is no need that MTKs are known to the GCS AS. GCS AS trusts BM-SC
to securely distribute the data via Multicast/Broadcast. How GCS AS generates
the MSK is out of scope of Rel-12.
##### 6.3.4.3.3 MB2 interface protection
MB2 interface handles the communication between GCS AS and BM-SC for
signalling data (MB2-C) and user data (MB2-U). MB2 interface shall be
protected against eavesdropping and manipulation of data. Confidentiality and
integrity protection can be achieved by NDS/IP.
##### 6.3.4.3.4 GC1 interface protection
GC1 interface handles the communication between GCS AS and UE for signalling
data and is out of scope of Rel-12.
#### 6.3.4.4 Solution: Using MBMS security data protection function for
Multicast/Broadcast and Unicast in GCS downlink communication
This solution addresses the key issues in clauses 6.3, 6.4 and 6.5.
Editor\'s Note: The technical viability and practicability of this solution is
FFS.
##### 6.3.4.4.1 General
In this solution GCS AS relies on MBMS security data protection mechanism for
both, Unicast and Multicast/Broadcast downlink, I.e. the BM-SC processes the
data for Multicast/Broadcast and, in addition, sends the encrypted data back
to the AS for Unicast distribution.
##### 6.3.4.4.2 Data Flow
###### 6.3.4.4.2.1 Assumptions
GCS AS is responsible for the group management, i.e. to set up a group that is
identified by a group identifier (TMGI) as specified in TS 23.246 [7]
(allocation request by GCS AS).
GCS AS shall have distributed the group key (MSK) to all group members, and
handles joining and leaving of group members, including updating of MSKs if
needed (out of scope of Rel-12).
NOTE: The same terminology is used as in TS 33.246 [7] for MBMS key hierarchy:
MSK, the long-lived MBMS service key, and MTK, the short-lived MBMS traffic
encryption key).
###### 6.3.4.4.2.2 Unicast and Multicast/Broadcast downlink
  1. GCS AS receives data from one UE (in uplink communication) for distribution to the group members and wants to apply data protection in the downlink for Unicast and Multicast/Broadcast
  2. GCS AS forwards the data to BM-SC, together with group key (MSK) and group identifier (TMGI) among other MBMS specific data and requests BM-SC:
a) to apply data protection,
b) to distribute the protected data via Multicast/Broadcast to the group, and
c) to return the protected data to GCS AS (for distribution via Unicast, if
applicable).
  1. BM-SC uses the group key (MSK) to apply the MBMS security protection scheme, I.e. generates MTKs (session keys) and encrypts the data according to the MBMS security scheme with these MTKs (SRTP packets).\ In addition BM-SC generates MIKEY messages that secure the delivery of the MTKs by protecting them with the MSK. MTKs are derived by the BM-SC and need not be known by the GCS AS.
  2. BM-SC sends the protected data (UDP/SRTP and UDP/MIKEY) to both, I.e.:
a) to the MBMS GW for distribution of downlink traffic via Multicast/Broadcast
(together with the other MBMS specific data earlier received by GCS AS and
b) to the GCS AS via MB2 for distribution of downlink traffic via Unicast.
Assumptions: To process the data, GCS AS needs to have a proxy function. The
proxy strips of the MBMS specific UDP part and prepares the data (SRTP and
MIKEY) for forwarding via Unicast downlink to each group member that have
chosen Unicast reception.
##### 6.3.4.4.3 MB2 interface protection
MB2 interface handles the communication between GCS AS and BM-SC for
signalling data (MB2-C) and user data (MB2-U). MB2 interface shall be
protected against eavesdropping and manipulation of data.\ Confidentiality and
integrity protection can be achieved by NDS/IP.
##### 6.3.4.4.4 GC1 interface protection
GC1 interface handles the communication between GCS AS and UE for signalling
data and is out of scope of Rel-12.
### 6.3.5 Evaluation
According to TS 23.468 [8] the enablers offered by the 3GPP system for
providing GCS may use EPS bearer services and may use MBMS bearer services for
transferring application signalling data and user data between GCS AS and UEs.
While the GCS AS can handle security completely independently and defined
outside of scope of Rel-12, GCS may profit from the re-usage of security
functions provided by EPS security for uplink and downlink and MBMS security
for downlink, i.e. confidentiality and integrity protection by LTE radio
interface security, NDS/IP (which includes a 3GPP-specific profile of IPSec),
MBMS encryption and integrity functions, or MBMS key distribution.
#### 6.3.5.1 Evaluation of Solution: Using MBMS security data protection
function for Multicast/Broadcast and EPS security for Unicast in GCS downlink
communication
Advantage: EPS security in Unicast and MBMS security for Multicast/Broadcast
can be used without considerable modifications.
Disadvantage: The protection for Unicast extends only hop-by-hop between the
UE and the Serving GW.\ (It depends on the security requirements whether this
is a real disadvantage.)
#### 6.3.5.2 Evaluation of Solution: Using MBMS security data protection
function for Multicast/Broadcast and Unicast in GCS downlink communication
Advantage: The protection for Unicast extends end-to-end between the UE and
the BM-SC.\ (It depends on the security requirements whether this is a real
advantage.)\ Using BM-SC encryption in the Unicast DL is easing the switching
between Unicast and Multicast/Broadcast.
Disadvantage: Additional specification effort on the MB2 interface may rise in
comparison to option 1.
## 6.4 Key issue: Level of applying security for mitigation of GCSE
risks/threats
### 6.4.1 Key issue details
3GPP TS 23.468 [8] specifies that the application signalling and data are
transferred via EPS bearer between GCS AS and GCS UE in Unicast Delivery mode
and may be delivered from GCS AS to GCS UE via MBMS bearer in MBMS Delivery
mode.
For Unicast Delivery mode, the application signalling and data are transferred
as the normal user plane data via EPS bearer.
For MBMS Delivery mode, the Multipoint Service functionality BM-SC and MBMS-GW
in the core network is used, the BM-SC providing the applications with the
MBMS service information for the various GCSE_LTE groups using MBMS.
MBMS security (3GPP TS 33.246 [7]) was designed to not only counter the normal
threat of eavesdropping, but also the threat that valid subscribers may have
no interest in maintaining the privacy and confidentiality of the
communications, and they may therefore conspire to circumvent the security
solution, e.g. circumventing the secure access to commercial Pay TV.
Editor\'s Note: It needs to be analyzed if GCSE can reuse MBMS security and
whether GCSE risks and threats can be sufficiently covered by MBMS security
functions. Is MBMS security which is controlled by operators appropriate to
satisfy GCSE security needs? Or, would a security solution at the GCSE
application layer be more appropriate? Or, would security mechanisms at both
layers be needed?
### 6.4.2 Threats
Void
### 6.4.3 Security requirements
Void
### 6.4.4 Solutions
#### 6.4.4.1 Security options for Unicast Delivery mode and MBMS Delivery mode
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue.\ Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
In Unicast Delivery mode, it has been decided that the Group Communication
data is delivered as the normal user plane data.
Two (2) options in Unicast Delivery mode seem feasible for dealing with
security to media data:
**Option A**
use hop-by-hop security protection, i.e. network domain security mechanism in
network domain (e.g. NDS/IP) and LTE access security mechanism (as specified
in TS 33.401 [13]) in air interface.
**Option B**
use end-to-end security protection in application layer between GCS AS and GCS
UE;
LTE access security mechanism in air interface is always on.
In MBMS Delivery mode, it has been decided that GCSE applications will use
eMBMS as transport layer in Rel-12.\ For the MB2 interface between GCS AS and
BM-SC, eMBMS may need some enhancements because of MB2, but they should be as
minor as possible. Furthermore, it has been decided that any GCSE application
is out of scope in Rel-12, e.g. specified by TETRA or P.25 or some
country-/regulator-specific development.
Four (4) options in MBMS Delivery mode seem feasible for dealing with security
to media data:
> **Option A**
\- use non-3GPP standard GCSE group management, key distribution, and security
by GCS AS
\- If the application provides e2e encryption, it can use MBMS without
security. Key management for the Group Communication lays in the
responsibility of the GCS AS or a third party, but not the network provider.
\- No trust in 3GPP operator with regard to confidentiality is needed.\ 3GPP
network is responsible for availability.
> **Option B**
\- use non-3GPP standard GCSE group management and service key (MSK)
distribution by GCS AS;
\- use the part of MBMS security relating to traffic key (MTK) distribution
and media protection by BM-SC in 3GPP system
> **Option C**
\- use non-3GPP standard GCSE group management by GCS AS;
\- use MBMS security relating to service key (MSK) and traffic key (MTK)
distribution and media protection by BM-SC in 3GPP system
> **Option D**
\- use the full MBMS security by BM-SC in 3GPP system, as defined in TS 33.246
[7].
\- If a trust relation between GCSE provider and 3GPP provider exists, the GCS
AS can also request BM-SC to take care of group management, key distribution
and encryption itself, I.e. the full MBMS security specification can be used.
\- MB2 interface shall be protected by NDS and provide the necessary
information from AS to BM-SC.
#### 6.4.4.2 Indication and negotiation of supported MBMS security
In order to allow support for MBMS security, a negotiation or indication
mechanism could be added to MB2 interface. This mechanism would allow GCS AS
to indicate to BM-SC what security features have been applied by the AS or
what GCS AS is requesting from BM-SC, e.g. whether it requires MBMS security
services from BM-SC and for the BM-SC to response if it supports MBMS security
services.
For example, the flow below describes how negotiation of supported MBMS
security could be specified.\ This flow could be independent or integrated
with other procedures, e.g. it could be included in the TMGI allocation
procedure as described in SA2 TS 23.468 [8].
1\. GCS AS sends an indication if the GCS AS requests using MBMS security
services.
2\. The BM-SC determines if it supports MBMS security services for GCS.
3\. The BM-SC sends an indication if it supports MBMS security services for
GCS.
### 6.4.5 Evaluation
#### 6.4.5.1 Evaluation of the options in MBMS Delivery mode (option A-D)
According to the SA2 #101 meeting report, Option D was ruled out at the SA2
and SA3 joint meeting.
For Option C, key management of MBMS security would be needed in BM-SC. But
since SA2 decided that group management will be done at GCS AS, it makes sense
to keep at least in Rel-12 the group management and key distribution functions
together. Therefore, Option C can also be ruled out for Rel-12.
NOTE: MSK distribution in Option C would require that the BM-SC has knowledge
of the GCS group members.
This leaves Options A and B to be discussed in Rel-12 timeframe. Option A is
straightforward as there MBMS security is not used. In the following the
applicability of Option B in comparison to Option A is discussed.
It should be noted that in Option B the GCS AS is not only distributing the
MSKs to the UEs, but it also needs to distribute MSKs to the BM-SC via the MB2
interface to be used for protecting the MTK messages. However, it is one
functionality to have a key and to distribute the key, and another
functionality to implement an encryption scheme (see the work done for IMS
media security). The latter may not be trivial and thus, it makes sense to not
rule out Option B immediately.
Editor\'s Note: A further evaluation of re-using functionalities already
available by MBMS security in the context of Public Safety seems desirable.
The re-usage of MBMS security functions can be particular interesting, if GCS
AS decides to provide, e.g. no encryption function at all. This could be the
case, e.g. if GCS AS implementation for Rel-12 would choose a solution that is
either based on using UE-to-UE end-to-end security or that relies on EPS
security and/or requests the protection function from a third party, e.g. the
MBMS protection function as proposed in Option B.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if this is a valid business case.
If GCS AS wants GCS downlink application data to be protected it may be
assumed that it wants application data to be protected via **both** the UE
individual EPS bearer services **and** via the MBMS bearer service.\ If Option
A would be deployed, the GCS AS would have capabilities to protect the GCS
application data end-to-end over UE individual EPS bearer services as well as
over the MBMS bearer services.\ If Option A is not deployed, EPS bearers offer
protection only for the radio interface and SGW-eNB link.\ If the GCS AS
provider has trust on the 3GPP provider and is willing to accept hop-by-hop
security from GCS AS to BM-SC using a (not yet defined) security solution over
MB2 and then from BM-SC to UEs using the protection capabilities of MBMS
security, Option B becomes a possible option.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS what the benefit (complexity versus gain) could be,
especially for a Public Safety organization, if GCS AS is delegating
protection and sending the MSK to the BM-SC as the GCS AS has the key material
available and if it could itself also protect the GCS downlink data going via
MBMS bearers.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS how to map MSKs to MBMS bearers and GCS groups. As
stated in SA2 TS 23.468, the BM-SC is not aware of the members of the GCS
groups, but BM-SC only handles MBMS bearers (see clauses 4.1 and 4.4.2 of TS
23.468)
Editor\'s Note: It needs to be confirmed with SA2, how TMGI and payload are
mapped within the BMSC.\ If MBMS security functionality is to be considered,
the MSK needs to be mapped as well.\ TS 23.468 states that the BM-SC in the
context of GCSE provides MBMS bearer services and that the BM-SC is not
supposed to be aware of the GCS groups.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if the current understanding is correct: For
considering MBMS security, each RTP session within one MBMS streaming session
represented by one MBMS bearer session needs to have a dedicated MSK. One MBMS
streaming session can consist of one or several RTP sessions, but one MSK can
only apply to one RTP session at a time according to 33.246. If MBMS security
would be used in the GCS context, one GCS group can receive several RTP
sessions, e.g. voice, audio, ticker, within one MBMS or several MBMS bearer
sessions.
Taking into account the above analysis, re-usage of MBMS security mechanisms
may be a technically valid option, but should be rather considered in later
releases due to the limited time available in Rel-12. In order to allow that
support for MBMS security, GSE AS needs to indicate what support is wanted or
what security function it has already applied. For this e.g. a negotiation
mechanism could be added to MB2 interface. This mechanism would allow GCS AS
to indicate whether it has security applied or whether it requires MBMS
security services from BM-SC, and for the BM-SC to response if it supports
MBMS security services.
#### 6.4.5.2 Optionality of MBMS for Group Communication
The use of MBMS for Group Communications is clearly intended to be optional.
For example, the network may not support MBMS or the public safety
organisation may not want to use an MBMS downlink as it potentially reveals
the presence of public safety users (see the Key Issue in Clause 6.13). If the
operator does not support MBMS or the GCS AS does not choose to use MBMS for
Multicast downlink, then GCSE AS or GCSE Application in the UE need to provide
all of the security for Group Communications including the media protection as
in Option A.
## 6.5 Key Issue: GCSE security between UE and GCSE AS
### 6.5.1 Key issue details
The purpose of GCSE_LTE is to enable Group Communication between the GCSE
Group Members.\ This is achieved with the help of the GCSE AS who is handling
the group management procedures, such as adding and removing group members, as
well as conveying Group Communication data from the Transmitter Group Member
to Receiver Group Members.
The **group management** procedures occur between the GCSE Application in the
UE and the GCSE AS.\ This can be regarded as the \"control plane\" for GCSE.
Group management procedures are assumed to include also negotiation of used
security for Group Communication.
The **Group Communication** from the Transmitter Group Member via the GCSE AS
to the Receiver Group Members can be regarded as the \"user plane\" for GCSE.
The Group Communication consists of the following parts as is understood
according to TR 23.768 [3]:
\- Uplink Group Communication from the UE (Transmitter Group Member) to the
GCSE AS uses always Unicast Delivery;
\- Downlink Group Communication from the GCSE AS to the UEs (Receiver Group
Members) using Unicast Delivery;
\- Downlink Group Communication from the GCSE AS to the UEs (Receiver Group
Members) using Multicast delivery.
Whether a certain UE will receive Group Communication for a specific GCSE
group in downlink via Unicast or Multicast delivery is decided by the GCSE AS.
### 6.5.2 Security threats
Group management procedures include sensitive and critical information, e.g.
about group member identities and security mechanisms (and possibly keys) to
be used for Group Communication that could be eavesdropped, modified or
replayed by an attacker. This can lead to a range of attacks.
For example, an attacker could modify the group member identities when UEs are
registering for a group, which would lead to that setting up a GCSE group
fails even though the victim UEs think they are part of the group. Another
example is that the negotiation of the security mechanism (and possibly keys)
for the Group Communication is modified to weaken or downgrade the security of
Group Communication.
Editor\'s Note: Specific threats for Multicast regarding DOS and overload are
FFS.
Group Communication includes sensitive and critical communication information
that could be eavesdropped, modified or replayed by an attacker.
### 6.5.3 Security requirements
In order to have a secure GCSE_LTE service the group management procedures as
well as the Group Communication need to be properly secured. This leads to the
following security requirements:
\- Group management procedures between the GCSE Application in the UE and the
GCSE AS, including negotiation of used security for Group Communication, shall
be authenticated and properly protected against eavesdropping, modification
and replay;
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS and needs to be clarified if the negotiation of used
security for Group Communication will be a part of GC1 procedures or if it
needs to be a separate procedure. This is because GC1 standardization is not
in scope of Rel-12 in SA2.
\- Uplink Group Communication from the UE (Transmitter Group Member) to the
GCSE AS over Unicast shall be properly protected against eavesdropping,
modification and replay;
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if this requirement should be met with end-to-end
security or with hop-by-hop security.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if protection from malicious group members needs to
be achieved, e.g. protection against that a malicious group member modifies
the Group Communication.
\- Downlink Group Communication from the GCSE AS to the UEs (Receiver Group
Members) using Unicast Delivery shall be properly protected against
eavesdropping, modification and replay;
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if this requirement should be met with end-to-end
security or with hop-by-hop security.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if protection from malicious group members needs to
be achieved, e.g. protection against that a malicious group member modifies
the Group Communication.
\- Downlink Group Communication from the GCSE AS to the UEs (Receiver Group
Members) using Multicast delivery shall be properly protected against
eavesdropping, modification and replay.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if this requirement should be met with end-to-end
security or with hop-by-hop security.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if protection from malicious group members needs to
be achieved, e.g. protection against that a malicious group member modifies
the Group Communication.
### 6.5.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue. Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
### 6.5.5 Evaluation
Void
## 6.6 Key issue: Communication between GCSE AS and BM-SC (MB2 interface)
### 6.6.1 Key issue details
3GPP TR 23.768 [3] concludes:
> \"GCSE_LTE applications interact with the BMSC to enable for specific
> GCSE_LTE groups the establishment of eMBMS bearers for specific distribution
> areas, and with specific QoS level for specific IP flows.
>
> The BMSC provides the applications with the eMBMS service information for
> the various GCSE_LTE groups using eMBMS. As such, in Rel-12 it is expected
> the MB2 interface shall be standardized.\"
MB2 is used to define the interaction between GCS AS and BM-SC provided by the
3GPP EPS layer and needs to be protected. A functional split needs to be
carefully evaluated and properly indicated via MB2 in order to avoid double
encryption.
Editor\'s Note: SRTP over SRTP can most likely be ruled out, since the aim of
Rel-12 is keep existing specifications as they are, if possible.
The security requirements for MB2 need to be considered.
### 6.6.2 Threats
As defined in 3GPP TS 23.468 [8], MB2 reference point exists between the GCS
AS and the BM-SC.
The MB2 reference point provides the ability for the application to:
\- Request the allocation/deallocation of a set of TMGIs,
\- Request to activate, deactivate, and modify an MBMS bearer.
The MB2 reference point provides the ability for the BM-SC to:
\- Notify the application of the status of an MBMS bearer.
MB2-C interface is used for signalling messages and MB2-U interface for user
plane messages. The precise information flow between GCS AS and BM-SC is fully
specified in 3GPP TS 23.468 [8]. Stage 3 details are given in 3GP TS 29.468
[24].\ In "A ctivate MBMS Bearer" procedure, MBMS broadcast area is sent from
GCS AS to BM-SC in Activate MBMS Bearer Request. TMGI and IP
address(es)/port(s) of BM-SC is sent from BM-SC to GCS AS in Activate MBMS
Bearer Response.
If the information including TMGI and IP address(es)/port(s) sent from BM-SC
to GCS AS is tampered by attackers, UEs can not receive correct eMBMS media
packets. If MBMS Service area information from GCS AS to BM-SC is tampered by
attackers, eMBMS media packets will be broadcasted in wrong area. In order to
avoid above attacks, the signalling messages between the BM-SC and the GCS AS
should be integrity protected.
The existing protocol stack at the MB2-U interface has been specified in 3GPP
TS 29.468 [24] to, for instance, transport \"IP/UDP/transparent user plane
data\", where the \"transparent user plane data\" are transmitted unmodified
from the GCS AS to the terminal and may be encrypted. For this data transfer,
BM-SC needs to open ports that allow the reception of broadcast data. This
information of IP address(es)/port(s) of BM-SC has been provided to GCS AS by
BM-SC in "Activate MBMS Bearer" procedure on MB2-C interface. However, when
user plane data are transferred, the IP address(es)/port(s) of BM-SC included
in the IP/UDP header is visible, if no additional protection is applied. An
attacker/observer of the system could use this information to inject its
forged data and flood the system and UEs with unwanted messages. This would
lead to DoS attack on BM-SC and power consumption on lots of UEs.
Based on this analysis, the user plane messages on MB2-U interface between an
operator-owned BM-SC and a third party-owned GCS AS shall be integrity
protected, if the operator requires protection, e.g. if not trusted or
physically protected.
NOTE: If user plane data are sent in the clear via MB2-U, confidentiality of
communication between GCS AS and the UEs involved in the group communication
may be threaten. However, it is assumed that the GCS AS transparently applies
confidentiality to user plane messages, if wanted. Thus, this threat is out of
3GPP focus in this specification.
If confidentiality protection is not provided to MB2 -C interface, attackers
can eavesdrop and obtain TMGI and MBMS broadcast area sent over MB2. -C
According to MBMS broadcast area, the attacker can easily know where the
public safety officers are and then launch an attack. After obtaining TMGI,
the attacker can also monitor the MSI and receive the DL data on the MTCH
corresponding to the TMGI. Thus it allows attackers to attack Group
Communication. Based on above analysis, the signalling messages between the
BM-SC and the GCS AS should be confidentiality protected.
### 6.6.3 Security requirements
The BM-SC and the GCS AS shall be able to mutually authenticate each other.
The signalling messages between the BM-SC and the GCS AS shall be integrity
and confidentiality and replay protected.
Double encryption above the network layer should be avoided.
The user plane messages between BM-SC and the GCS AS shall be integrity
protected.
NOTE: Integrity protection can also be provided by physical, instead of
cryptographic protection.
### 6.6.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue. Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
NDS/IP mechanism can be used to provide protection to MB2 interface, which is
an operator\'s option. The GCS AS is merely perceived of as a third party
application server by each serving PLMN according to 3GPP TS 23.468 [8].
If the operator does not use NDS/IP mechanism, then other adequate security
measures shall be taken to ensure security on that interface.
MB2-C interface can be protected by Diameter (IETF RFC 3588 [12]) using (D)TLS
or IKE/IPsec to achieve authentication, authorisation, confidentiality and
replay protection.
MB2-U interface is protected if only authorised users can use the ports
assigned by MB2-C for user data messages. Thus, a point to point security
association between the GCS AS and the BM-SC is needed. IPsec and DTLS are
candidate protocols for it.
### 6.6.5 Evaluation
Void.
## 6.7 Key issue: Transmitting Group Member identification
### 6.7.1 Key issue details
In a Group Communication, a Receiving Group Member\'s UE shall be able to
identify which Group Member(s) is currently transmitting to the group.\ 3GPP
TS 22.468 [2] contains a requirement that \"A Transmitter Group Member shall
be uniquely identified to the Receiver Group Members\".
For example, in a public safety use case, the UE might display this to the
user to allow them to easily identify communications from a commanding
officer.
### 6.7.2 Security threats
There is a threat of spoofing of the identity of the Transmitting Group
Member(s) by malicious group members and attackers outside of the group.
### 6.7.3 Security requirements
Receiving Group Members shall be assured of the identity of the current
Transmitting Group Member(s) not being spoofed by malicious group members.
Receiving Group Members shall be assured of the identity of the current
Transmitter Group Member(s) not being spoofed by attackers outside of the
group.
### 6.7.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue.\ Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
The Transmitter Group Member sends messages to GCSE AS via UL bearer first,
and then GCSE AS forwards the messages to Receiver Group Members via DL
bearers.
In case that application layer security between GCSE AS and GCSE UE is used,
GCSE AS can authenticate Transmitter Group Member and ensure authenticity of
Transmitter Group Member. It prevents masquerade of Transmitter Group
Member\'s identity. The Transmitter Group Member\'s identity is carried in the
application layer message in downlink bearer. The Integrity protection and
confidentiality protection is provided in application layer. It prevents
Transmitter Group Member\'s identifier from modifying by attackers outside of
group when it is sent from GCSE AS to Receiver Group Members. The Receiver
Group Members can be ensured the received Transmitter Group Member\'s identity
is not modified by attackers outside of group.
### 6.7.5 Evaluation
Void
## 6.8 Key issue: Adding and removing group members
### 6.8.1 Key issue details
The membership of a GCSE group will not be constant; Group Members may be
added or removed from a group, including during an ongoing Group
Communication.
If a Public Safety enabled UE wants to join a GCSE group service it needs to
register and authenticate in order to receive a group key. If a UE leaves a
group, the Group Owner may want to update the key for the Group Members.
Group Members will also change from being Receiver Group Members (in the sense
of 3GPP TS 22.468 [2]) and not, e.g. because they are receiving from another
group or are out of coverage. In this case they still remain a Group Member --
there is no need to revoke any security keys associated with the group.
NOTE: In normal public safety usage of GCs, it is likely that a user will
remain continuously a Group Member of all GCSE groups that they use regularly
(which may be a large number of groups), but will only elect to be a Receiver
Group Member of a small number of those groups (e.g. 1 group). Therefore the
need to revoke someone\'s group membership (e.g. so that they can no longer
decrypt GCs for that GCSE group) is not something that will typically happen
regularly.
### 6.8.2 Security threats
A Group Member leaves the GC but still belongs to the greater public safety
community.\ However, depending on the use case, the group may need to
establish a new group key if it feels threaten by the leaving user.
Threats include:
> \- A user who has been removed from a GCSE group but retains the ability to
> access it, may threaten the confidentiality of future GCs in that group if
> it still has access to the group key:\ The user may tap and/or mis-use the
> broadcast information.
>
> \- A user who joins a GCSE group is not able to a GCSE Group Communication
> that is already in progress\ (\'late entry\'); this is a threat to
> availability.
Editor\'s Note: it is FFS whether there can be a threat to confidentiality
also when a group member joins the group, namely when the joining group member
is not allowed to learn the content of the group conversation before his
joining.
### 6.8.3 Security requirements
A mechanism shall be provided to ensure availability of GCs when users are
added to a GCSE group.
A mechanism shall be provided to ensure confidentiality and integrity of GCs
when users are removed from a GCSE Group.
Editor\'s Note: Whether requirements for efficient mechanisms to change a
group key are needed is FFS.
### 6.8.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue. Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
### 6.8.5 Evaluation
In case that EPS bearer layer security is used, GCSE_LTE UE can receive Group
Communication (GC) data via two ways: Unicast or Multicast.
**Group member who receives GC data in Unicast way and is using LTE access
security:**
The GC data is delivered to GCSE_LTE UE via Unicast link. The GC data is
protected as the normal IP packets to UE by the current LTE access security
mechanisms (as specified in TS 33.401 [13]) in air interface. The security
context held by different UEs will be separate. Consequently, adding or
removing a group member who receive data via Unicast bearer will not affect
the security of other group members, i.e., the group member can use its
security context neither to access the GC data transferred before it join in
the Group Communication, nor to access GC data transferred after it leaves the
Group Communication.
**Group member who receives GC data in Multicast way and is using MBMS
security:**
The GC data is delivered to GCSE_LTE UEs via Multicast bearer. MBMS security
mechanisms specified in TS 33.246 [7] can be used to protect the delivery of
GC data in the air interface. Adding or removing a group member may affect the
security of the group members belonging to the same MBMS group.
When a group member joins in the Group Communication, it can get a MSK.
However the MSK may already be used to protect the GC data before the group
member joins in the Group Communication. So the added group member may use the
MSK to access the GC data before it joins in the Group Communication.
When a group member leaves the Group Communication, the MSK held by the
removed group member may still be used to protect the GC data. So, the removed
group member may use its MSK to access GC data transferred after it leaves the
Group Communication.
Rekeying mechanism is specified in MBMS to solve above issue. The risk can be
reduced to an acceptable level by increasing the frequency of rekeying.
NOTE 1: Any potential disruption to Group Communications caused by rekeying
when a group member is added or removed may not be acceptable to public safety
users. It should be considered whether it is more appropriate to invalidate
the MSK held by the group member being removed, as in the MBMS User Service
deregistration procedure, and if necessary rekey the rest of the group members
once the Group Communication has ended.
NOTE 2: In Multicast mode, changing MSK in MBMS will not bring communication
disruption and Group Communication will not be disturbed if UE receive the new
MTK in time. In Unicast mode and if security mechanisms in TS 33.401 [13] are
used, key-change-on-the-fly specified in TS 33.401 will trigger the intra-cell
handover and consequently communication disruption. In Unicast mode and if
application layer security between GCS AS and GCS UE is used, and GCS AS does
key change properly, the communication disruption could be avoided.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS whether rekeying is required when a group member is
added.
## 6.9 Key issue: Illegitimate access to UE
### 6.9.1 Key issue details
Public Safety UEs are given to a closed group of users, which can form sub-
groups by joining group services.\ An attacker could gain access to one of the
UEs.\ It may be interesting to distinguish whether the UE is involved in a
group service already or not.\ E.g. one group service member loses its Public
Safety UE, which may be involved in a GC.\ Since devices are used for critical
communication, the locking mechanism may not be enabled.\ Or the attacker
gains access to the UE remotely and manages, e.g. to install malware on the
UE.
### 6.9.2 Threats
Someone gets their hands on a GCSE UE (e.g. device stolen or found). The UE is
unlocked:
  * The illegitimate user may be able to listen to Group Communication;
  * The illegitimate user may note down or hand over information listen to in a manual way;
  * The illegitimate user could try to start joining a new group;
  * The illegitimate user may be able to manipulate data, e.g. modify/send data talk under the wrong user identity (identity theft);
  * The illegitimate user may access (media) data stored on the UE and/or may resend data to a different group (of un-authorized users);
  * The illegitimate user may reverse engineer the software of the UE and/or may access information stored in hardware;
  * The illegitimate user manages to install malware on the UE and, in this way, gains access to encryption keys and or clear text.
### 6.9.3 Security requirements
Editor\'s Note: FFS if the following may result in requirements:\ The rest of
the group should be affected as little as possible.\ Can other group members
and/or the GCSE AS detect illegitimate access?\ What is the risk model on
which requirements need to be based on?
The system shall support the ability to change the keys (I.e. re-key) if one
or more group member(s) are removed from the group.
### 6.9.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue.\ Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
### 6.9.5 Evaluation
Void
## 6.10 Key Issue: GCSE_LTE interaction with ProSe UE-to-Network Relays
**Definition from ProSe TR 33.833 [9]**
**ProSe UE-to-Network Relay** : is a form of relay in which a Public Safety
ProSe-enabled UE acts as a\ ProSe E-UTRA communication relay between a Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UE and the ProSe-enabled network using E-UTRA.
They are only allowed in PubS scenarios.
### 6.10.1 Key issue details
Group Communication is accessible to authorized users only. ProSe UE-to-
Network-Relay can be part of the group, but maybe not. If not authorized to
participate in the group but compromized (man-in-the-middle), Group
Communication is not confidential anymore.
Security aspects specific to the interaction between GCSE_LTE and the ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay need to be considered in potential solutions.
### 6.10.2 Threats
Possible threats if a ProSe UE-to-Network-Relay is compromized include:
\- unauthorized listening to Group Communication;
\- forwarding confidential data to other non-group members;
\- pretending to be a group member and distributing wrong data to the others
(via GCSE AS) by using the compromized group key;
\- pretending to give access to the network, but re-directing to an
attacker\'s network;
\- attracting a UE to use the relay though it may have network access on its
own;
\- pretend to send data received by the network, which could result in major
damage.
### 6.10.3 Security requirements
Editor\'s Note: FFS
### 6.10.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue. Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
### 6.10.5 Evaluation
Void
## 6.11 Key Issue: Group key compromise
### 6.11.1 Key issue details
Group Communication is accessible to authorized users only. A user is
authorized to participate in a group by holding a group key. If this group key
gets compromized, Group Communication is not confidential anymore.
### 6.11.2 Threats
Possible threats if a group key is compromized include:
\- unauthorized listening to Group Communication;
\- pretending to be a group member and distributing wrong data to the others
(via GCSE AS) by using the compromized group key.
### 6.11.3 Security requirements
Editor\'s Note: FFS if the following leads to requirements: Different group
key levels (privileges)? Storage and handling of MSK on UICC needed (GBA_U)?
Study what the differences to MBMS security model are. Is GBA_U of any
advantage in GCSE threat model?
### 6.11.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue. Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
### 6.11.5 Evaluation
Void
## 6.12 Key issue: Securing keys in the UE
### 6.12.1 Key issue details
Security credentials need to be allocated and stored in the UE. Currently it
is unclear, how a potential application layer solution could look like, I.e.
how key management is done and how security credentials are managed.\ This
clause explains how MBMS secures keys in UEs.
It needs to be analyzed if security credentials created by the GCSE AS can or
should use a similar security design as MBMS for secure storage.
**MBMS background information on storage of security credentials:**
3GPP TS 33.246 [7], clause 4.1.3:
> \"UE includes a secure storage (MGV-S). This MGV-S may be realized on the ME
> or on the UICC. The MGV-F is implemented in a protected execution
> environment to prevent leakage of security sensitive information such as
> MBMS keys. MGV-S stores the MBMS keys and MGV-F performs the functions that
> should not be exposed to unprotected parts of the ME.
>
> In particular in ME based key management it shall be ensured that the keys
> are not exposed to unprotected parts of the ME when they are transmitted
> from the UICC to the MGV-S or during the key derivations.\"
3GPP TS 33.246 [7], Definitions:
> \"MRK = MBMS Request Key: used _to authenticate the UE to the BM-SC when
> performing key requests._
>
> **MSK** = MBMS Service Key: The MBMS Service key that is securely
> transferred (using the key MUK) from the BM-SC towards the UE. The MSK is
> not used directly to protect the MBMS User Service data (see MTK).
>
> **MTK** = MBMS Traffic Key: A key that is obtained by the UICC or ME by
> calling a decryption function MGV-F with the MSK. The key MTK is used to
> decrypt the received MBMS data on the ME.
>
> **MUK** = MBMS User Key: The MBMS user individual key that is used by the
> BM-SC to protect the point to point transfer of MSK\'s to the UE _._
NOTE: When an UICC is used, the keys MSK and MUK may be stored within the UICC
or the ME depending on the UICC capabilities. When a SIM card is used, the
keys MSK and MUK are stored within the ME.
> MSK and MUK need to be stored in non-volatile memory of the ME or UICC and
> never leave the storage area. MRK and MTK are accessibly by the ME.\"
### 6.12.2 Threats
Void
### 6.12.3 Security requirements
Void
### 6.12.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue.\ Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
### 6.12.5 Evaluation
Void
## 6.13 Key issue: Decision point for using PtP and/or PtM
### 6.13.1 Issue details
In 3GPP TR 23.768 [3], key issue #1 describes the Group Privacy considerations
for PtP/PtM decision:
\"Some entity in the network needs to take account of the Group\'s privacy
settings before deciding to use PtM, e.g.:
\- Whether to NEVER establish PtM for that group;
\- Whether to perform a \"fast\" PtM activation over a single DRX period
thereby risking some mobiles not discovering the broadcast but minimising the
time that PtM can be detected;
\- Whether there are no restrictions on PtM for that group.\"
### 6.13.2 Threats
These Group\'s privacy settings has to be indicated to the entity that makes
the policy decision. This indication could be sent on application layer or
within the 3GPP EPS layer. If this indication is compromized by the attacker
(e.g. an authorized user in the EPS network but that is not a member of the
certain group) during transmission or when it is stored, the
functionality/availability of GC will be degraded.\ E.g., an attacker A is in
the same cell (or just geographically closes) to those members who are in the
Group 1.\ In order to get higher service experience of network, attacker A
impersonates the dispatcher of Group 1 and indicates to the application
layer/the 3GPP EPS layer that Group 1 \"NEVER establish PtM\".\ And then, the
Group 1 will not receive any PtM resource before Group 1 awarded of that.
Another threat related to privacy is that an NSPS group may not want to
disclose its presence in a certain area.\ For example, a police investigation
- or the life of policemen - may be endangered if criminals are able to detect
that a group of police officers are present in a certain area.
### 6.13.3 Security requirements
The authenticity, authorization, and integrity of signalling related to a
Group\'s privacy settings shall be guaranteed.
It should be possible to configure the PtM settings in the entities capable of
PtM transmission in a way that minimizes the exposure of the groups\'
presence. For example, the settings could be pre-configured.
Editor\'s Note: These security requirements may apply more generally and need
to modify/update when the work progresses.
### 6.13.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue.\ Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
### 6.13.5 Evaluation
Void
## 6.14 Key issue: Performance and scalability
### 6.14.1 Key issue details
High levels of performance and scalability will be expected for communications
enabled by GCSE_LTE.
Stage 1 requirements in 3GPP TS 22.468 [2] detail a need for GCs with:
\- A typical end-to-end setup time of 300 ms or less;
\- End-to-end media delay of 150 ms or less;
\- Very large group sizes (current usage includes groups of up to \~1000
users).
These indicative numbers, based on usage of existing PMR/LMR networks by
public safety users, may influence the design of security mechanisms, e.g.:
\- Time budgets for security mechanisms at call setup shall be compatible with
end-to-end performance requirements;
\- Authentication methods for groups based on a full mesh of UE-to-UE
authentications are unlikely to be plausible; for a group of 1001 users this
represents 500,000 mutual authentications!
### 6.14.2 Security threats
The inability to meet performance and scalability requirements will leave
operators either unable to deploy the service, or forced to deploy it without
security mechanisms, leaving clear threat to confidentiality/integrity.
### 6.14.3 Security requirements
Security mechanisms defined shall be compatible with stage 1 requirements for
performance and scalability as defined by SA1 in 3GPP TS 22.468 [2].
### 6.14.4 Solutions
Editor\'s Note: Collecting solutions how to solve the key issue.\ Mark
dependencies to other key issues and also any stage 2 solution that is part
of.
### 6.14.5 Evaluation
Void
# 7 Summary of threat and risk analysis
Editor\'s note: Contributions to this clause should be aligned with agreements
achieved in the threat sub-clauses of individual Key Issues. Basically, it
should be filled in after all Key Issues have been sufficiently discussed.
# 8 Potential security requirements for Rel-12
**Generic requirements:**
According to SA1 requirements (3GPP TS 22.468, [2]):
\- \"The system shall support at least the same security level for Group
Communication (e.g. for Authentication, Integrity, Confidentiality and
Privacy) as a 3GPP LTE packet data bearer.\"
\- Security mechanisms defined shall be compatible with stage 1 requirements
for performance and scalability.
**Broadcast Delivery specific GCSE security requirements:**
\- Mutual authentication between a node in the security domain, in which the
BM-SC resides, and a node in the security domain, in which the GCS AS resides,
shall be performed.
NOTE 0: The present document covers only security procedures for deployments
where a Diameter message on the MB2-C interface between BM-SC and GCS AS
passes through at most one Diameter agent in the security domain, in which the
BM-SC resides and at most one Diameter agent in the security domain, in which
the GCS AS resides. Other deployments are possible, but they are not
recommended for the purposes of the MB2-C interface.
\- The signalling messages on MB2-C between the BM-SC and the GCS AS shall be
integrity and confidentiality protected.
\- The signalling messages on MB2-C between the BM-SC and the GCS AS shall be
replay protected.
\- The user plane messages on MB2-U between BM-SC and the GCS AS shall be
integrity protected.
\- The BM-SC may apply access control on the messages initiated by the GCS AS.
\- Similarly the GCS AS may apply access control on the messages initiated by
the BM-SC.
NOTE 1: MBMS security may or may not be used independent of GCSE.
NOTE 2: It is assumed that LTE access security mechanisms at the air interface
are used.
NOTE 3: No requirements are given on Rx and SGi, which are generic interfaces
and therefore not specified in the scope of GCSE.
# 9 Potential security solutions
Editor\'s Note: This clause should give a complete picture of the GCSE
security solution. It should include descriptions of security functions and
information flows.
## 9.1 Security solution for MB2-C interface
The Diameter mechanisms as specified in IETF RFC 3588 [12] shall apply to
MB2-C reference point unless explicitely stated otherwise.
TLS (IETF RFC 5246 [15]) shall be mandatory for implementation on MB2-C. If
SCTP is supported then DTLS (IETF RFC 6347 [16]) shall be supported. IKE/IPsec
(IETF RFC 5996 [17]) is optional for implementation on MB2-C.
NOTE: The use of Diameter in the present specification is based on RFC3588
[35]. Nevertheless, the security mechanism defined for MB2-C reference point
rather aligns with the security mechanism in RFC 6733 [36]. The only
difference to the security in RFC 6733 is that the support for DTLS is made
conditional on the support of SCTP.
The security profiles for TLS and IKE/IPsec are identical to the ones defined
in 3GPP TS 29.368 [14], clause 6.3.3, for the Tsp interface. The security
profile of DTLS is defined in 33.310 [31], annex E.
Mutual authentication for the MB2-C interface shall be performed as defined in
3GPP TS 29.368 [14], clause 6.3.2, for the Tsp interface with MTC-IWF and SCS
replaced by BM-SC and GCS AS respectively. In particular, the rules for
Diameter deployments defined in TS 29.368 [14], clause 6.3.2, shall also apply
to the MB2-C interface.
(D)TLS or IKE and IPsec may be used to protect MB2-C.
If the operator does not use the mechanisms described in this clause, then
other adequate security measures shall be taken to ensure security on that
interface. It is up to the operator, i.e. the owner of the BM-SC, to decide
whether the MB2-C interface is trusted or physically protected, or whether it
needs protection by a cryptographic protocol as specified above.
## 9.2 Security solution for MB2-U
The assumption is that security in the sense of end-to-end security between UE
and UE or UE and GCS AS is supported at application layer. Thus,
confidentiality protection of MB2-U is out of scope of 3GPP specifications.
Integrity protection is required in order to mitigate the following DoS
attacks: Once ports have been assigned for transferring user data via MB2-U,
i.e. by setting up the connection on MB2-C, these ports may be used by an
intruder to flood the system and UEs with unwanted messages.
3GPP TS 29.468 [18], Figure 7.1-1 depicts the MB2-U protocol stack, in which
user plane data, for instance an IP layer and UDP layer (IETF RFC 768 [19])
are sent over MB2-U interface.
For integrity protection of MB2-U interface, DTLS (IETF RFC 6347 [22]) should
be used. IKE/IPSec/ESP (IETF RFC 4303 [23]) may be used. If NATs are present
on this interface, UDP encapsulating IKE/IPSec/ESP for negotiation of NAT-
Traversal (IETF RFC 3948 [21] and IETF RFCs 3947 [19]) may be used. If the
operator does not use the mechanisms described in this clause, then other
adequate security measures shall be taken to ensure security on that
interface. It is up to the operator, i.e. the owner of the BM-SC, to decide
whether the MB2-U interface is trusted or physically protected, or whether it
needs protection by a cryptographic protocol as specified above. It shall be
possible for the BM-SC to request GCS AS or to receive a request from GCS AS
for the establishment of a security association for the user plane. The target
IP address and possible UDP port for this security association can be provided
in the MB2-C signalling protected by MB2-C security.
# 10 Conclusions
For Unicast Delivery mode, the application signalling and user data are
transferred as the normal user plane data via EPS bearer. For Broadcast
Delivery, BM-SC and MBMS-GW in the core network are used, the BM-SC providing
the GCS AS with the MBMS service information for the various GCSE_LTE groups
using MBMS.
Clause 6.4.4.1 lists several security options for Unicast Delivery and
Broadcast Delivery.
For Rel-12 it has been decided that end-to-end security between UE and UE or
between UE and GCS AS,i.e. using application layer security, is assumed and
that SA3 will not consider the use of MBMS security mechanism in GCSE context.
SA3 will only give requirements and solutions for the access via MB2
interface. No application layer security is provided by 3GPP specifications.
Thus, for Unicast Delivery, clause 6.4.4.1, Option B, is assumed: end-to-end
security protection in application layer between GCS AS and GCS UE, or between
two GCS UEs.
For MBMS Delivery, clause 6.4.4.1, Option A, is assumed: applying end-to-end
security between UE and UE or between UE and GCS AS is assumed. However, MBMS
security may be used independently of GCSE.
Group management procedures between the GCSE Application in the UE and the GCS
AS are out of scope in Rel-12, thus, no security is provided by 3GPP
specifications for this purpose either.
This leaves the following security tasks for Rel-12:
\- Ensure that the BM-SC can apply access control on the messages initiated by
the GCS AS.
\- Ensure that control messages originating from and terminating at the BM-SC
are integrity, confidentiality, and replay protected.
\- Ensure that user plane traffic is integrity protected, since in the case of
a third party accessing 3GPP network fake traffic may become a threat even if
encrypted, whichcould lead to DoS effects.
Thus, the following statements regarding the GCSE related interfaces to access
the 3GPP network can be made.
\- **GCSE Broadcast interface (MB2)**
The communication between non-3GPP network entities and the 3GPP network that
terminates at a 3GPP network entity needs to be secured, i.e. the signalling
between GCS AS and BM-SC that originates from or terminates at the BM-SC shall
be protected. Note, the specification of protection of user data sent between
UE and AS via the BM-SC is out of scope in Rel-12. Though this data is assumed
to be protected by the application layer,User plane messages originated from
the GCS AS should be integrity protected in order to mitigate DoS attacks.
\- **GCSE Unicast interface (SGi and Rx)**
If e2e security between AS and UE is assumed for signalling and media plane,
no additional security regarding GCSE is needed for SGi.
In the communication process between GCS AS and PCRF over Rx no additional
security mechanisms are needed, as the Rx interface is not GCSE specific and
therefore not specified in the Rel-12 WID.
\- **GCS AS and UE interface (GC1)**
GCSE security between GCS AS and UE is out of scope in Rel-12, since the GC1
interface is not addressed by SA2 in Rel-12.
Above statements are resulting from potential requirements collected in clause
8 and the potential solutions described in clause 9. Both should lead to
mandatory text in those specifications relevant for GCSE.
Re-use of MBMS security mechanisms in the context of GCSE may be studied
beyond Rel-12.
It has been decided to include GCSE security relevant specification text as a
normative annex in TS 33.246 [7].\ This annex will list security requirements
for GCSE and the solution for protecting the\ MB2 interface.
#