# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Securing the storage, processing, and input and output of sensitive data on an
open platform are of critical importance. Also, isolation of applications that
are managing (U)SIMs and (U)SIM readers, EAP-SIM and EAP-AKA protocols, and
SAP applications from untrusted applications is imperative. Protecting the
interface between the trusted open platform and the UICC is also of critical
importance.
Therefore, it is very much desirable that the Open Platform must have secure
authentication and authorization mechanisms to protect against eavesdropping,
and malicious modification of sensitive data and operator applications
residing on the Open Platform.
Consequently, for the diverse 3GPP usage models of the Open Platform, such as
the ones described in 3GPP TS 33.234, appropriate trust recommendations need
to be outlined to counteract the threats. This document describes trust
recommendations for the usage models described in 3GPP.
# 1 Scope
This technical report investigates relevant trust standards and technologies,
both existing as well as the ones that are work-in-progress. It develops the
recommendations for trusted open platforms for delivery of new applications
and services to open platforms.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Generic Authentication
Architecture (GAA); Generic Bootstrapping Architecture\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.234: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Service and System Aspects; 3G Security; Wireless Local
Area Network (WLAN) interworking security\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in TR 21.905 [3] and the following apply.
**Application Specific Credentials:** These are credentials e.g. keys,
identifiers and related data, that are application specific and need to be
protected against malicious access and only to be released to authorized
applications acting as a Orpheus client. The application specific credentials
might be stored or generated in the UICC or in the Persephone server. The
application specific credentials can be generated from a master secret,
randomly or be set by the user.
**Charon Fine Grained Access Control:** The access control policy in the
terminal controls which authorized applications in the terminal have access to
certain application specific application credentials, i.e., only certain
application in the terminal is allowed to application specific credentials
that can be used with certain applications.
**Coarse-grained access control policy:** In GAA context, the access control
policy in the terminal controls whether an application is authorized to have
access to NAF specific GAA credentials. Therefore, the application has access
to all possible NAF specific GAA credentials. The coarse-grained access
control policy may be stored in the UICC or in the ME.
**Credential Generator:** The credential generator generates the application
specific credentials and the master secret. It might also generate directly
the application specific credentials without a master secret. The Credential
Generator might be part of an application or co-hosted together with an
application.
**Fine-grained access control policy:** In GAA context, the access control
policy in the terminal controls which authorized applications in the terminal
have access to certain NAF specific GAA credentials, i.e., only certain
application in the terminal is allowed to GAA credentials that can be used
with certain NAFs. The fine-grained access control policy may be stored in the
UICC or in the ME.
**GAA Client:** A software component in the terminal that communicates with a
NAF in the network. The GAA client uses GAA credentials to authenticate and
possibly otherwise secure the communication with the NAF in the network. GAA
client uses the API provided by the GAA Server to gain access to the GAA
credentials.
**GAA Credentials:** Consists of a bootstrapping transaction identifier
(B-TID), one or two NAF specific keys, and a lifetime of those keys. If the
terminal is equipped with GBA_U unaware UICC, then there is only one key (the
GBA_ME NAF specific key) that derived by the GAA Server from the GAA master
secret and given to the GAA client for further usage with the NAF. If the
terminal is equipped with GBA_U aware UICC, then there are two keys that are
derived from the GAA master secret in the UICC: one key (Ks_int_NAF) that
stays and is used in the UICC, and one that is given to the ME and is used in
the ME (Ks_ext_NAF similar to the GBA_U unaware key).
**GAA Master Secret:** GAA master secret Ks [1] is established during the
bootstrapping session between the terminal (i.e., GAA Server for GBA_ME and
UICC for GBA_U) and the BSF. The GAA master secret is used as a key to derive
further NAF specific keys that can be used between the GAA clients and the
NAFs. If the terminal is equipped with GBA_U unaware UICC, then the GAA Master
secret is stored in the GAA server and GBA_ME is used. If the terminal is
equipped with GBA_U aware UICC and GBA_U is used, then the GAA Master Secret
is stored in the UICC.
> GAA Master Secret stored in the GAA server corresponds to GAA Master Secret
> established with a terminal equipped with GBA_U unaware UICC (GBA_ME
> procedure used).
**GAA Server:** The software component in the terminal responsible for
communicating with the SIM/USIM/ISIM application in the UICC, and with the BSF
during bootstrapping procedure. The GAA server also functions as a public API
towards the GAA clients in the terminal.
**Master Secret:** The Master Secret is a master secret that servers as a
basis for later key derivations. The Master Secret is established between the
terminal (i.e., Persephone Server) and the network. The master secret is used
as a key to derive further application specific credentials that can be used
between the Orpheus clients and the application. Not every application derives
its credentials from a master secret.
**Orpheus Client:** A software component in the terminal that communicates
with an application in the network. The Orpheus client application specific
credentials to perform security functionalities. Orpheus Client uses the API
provided by the Persephone Server to gain access to the Application Specific
Credentials**.**
**Persephone Server:** The software component in the terminal responsible for
communicating with the SIM/USIM/ISIM application in the UICC, and with
external entities for possible key generation processes. The Persephone server
also functions as a public API towards the Orpheus Clients in the terminal.
**Styx Coarse Grained Access Control:** The access control policy in the
terminal controls whether an application is authorized to have access to
application specific application credentials. Therefore, the application has
access to all possible application specific credentials.
NOTE: The Greek Mythology was used in this Technical Report to minimize
conflicts with other existing security specifications.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
The abbrevitations of TR 21.905 [3] apply, for the Generic Authentication
Architecture (GAA) specific abbreviations we refer to [1] and for the I-WLAN
specific abbreviations see [2]. In case of conflict, [1] and [2] take
precedence.
# 4 Recommendations for trusted open platforms in 3GPP Release 7
## 4.1 Recommendations from the Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
### 4.1.1 Study of GBA in open trusted platforms
Figure 4-1 depicts the GAA related functionalities in the terminal. In
relation to the GAA architecture, the GAA server communicates with the BSF
server over Ub reference point, and with the UICC through the relevant device
drivers, for example. The GAA client communicates over the network with a NAF
server and the GAA server to obtain the NAF specific GAA credentials. When a
NAF server requests a GAA client to authenticate itself with GAA credentials,
the client communicates with the GAA server for GAA credentials specific to
that NAF.
Figure 4-1 GAA related modules in terminal
The inherent feature of open platforms is that new applications can be
installed to the terminal. In relation to GAA, this poses a security threat
when a malicious application is installed in a type of terminal that does not
protect GAA related functionalities. The GAA related security threats are as
follows:
\- A malicious application can access the UICC directly and therefore can
function as a GAA server, which can then communicate with both the UICC and
the BSF, and hence, establish the GAA master secret.
\- The malicious application can access the GAA server private data, and gain
access to the GAA master secret stored in the GBA_ME case, in the GAA server.
\- The malicious application can access the GAA server API, and obtain NAF
specific GAA credentials by requesting them from the GAA server.[^1]
In all these cases, the malicious application can send either the GAA master
secret that is stored in the GBA_ME case in the GAA server, or one or more NAF
specific GAA credentials to the network. In this case, two attacks can be
imagined: an attacker can masquerade as a NAF towards the terminal, or an
attacker can masquerade as a UE towards a NAF. In both cases the attack can
result a loss of private data, or unauthorized usage of the service. Also, the
malicious application can itself masquerade as a UE towards a NAF, and gain
access to the service provided by the NAF.
The first two threats can be mitigated by restricting access to the UICC, and
the GAA server private data (see recommendations 1 and 2).
The third threat can be mitigated by restring the access to the GAA server API
to authorized applications (see recommendation 3). The decision whether an
application is authorized is done by the terminal manufacturer, the operator,
or the user (see recommendations 4 and 5). This can be called the **coarse-
grained** access control method, where an authorized application has access to
all possible NAF specific GAA credentials.
The coarse-grained access control method is enough for applications that have
been authorized by the terminal manufacturer, or the operator.
However, if the user grants the authorization to the application, there may be
a need for a **fine-grained** access control method. Users are not considered
to be careful security wise, e.g., a user may grant the authorization to an
application simply because an application just requests it. Therefore it may
be required that the certain NAF specific GAA credentials are limited only to
certain applications and user installed applications, even with GAA access
authorization, would not have access to them. For example such credentials
might give access to operator\'s NAF servers. Recommendation 6 addresses this
issue.
To be useful, the fine-grained access control needs to be configured. First,
the manufacturer or the operator may pre-configure the terminal
(recommendation 7). Second, the operator may wish to update the configuration
(recommendation 8). Finally, the user may add new policies to the
configuration (recommendation 9). Note that a policy set by a user will not
override a policy set by an operator or a manufacturer. However, the step two
implies that an operator can override or modify a policy set by the
manufacturer.
These are the recommendations identified to achieve the GAA security in the
open platform terminals:
Table 4-1: Recommendations
* * *
**ID** **Recommandations** **Commentas** 1 It is possible for the platform to
control access to the UICC. Only authorized applications should have access to
the UICC. Otherwise malicious application can perform the GAA server
functionalities, establish the GAA master secret with the BSF server, send out
the master secret (in case that the terminal is equipped with GBA_U unaware
UICC), and thus generate all the GBA_ME NAF specific keys offline (outside the
terminal), send out the received NAF specific key (Ks_ext_NAF) in case that
the terminal is equipped with GBA_U aware UICC (online). 2 It is possible for
the platform to restrict the access to GAA master secret of the GAA server. If
the GAA master secret in the GAA server in the case of GBA_ME is not
protected, a malicious application can get access to it, send it out from the
terminal, and the attacker can generate the GBA_ME NAF specific keys offline
(outside the terminal). 3 It is possible for the platform to control general
access in coarse-grained model to the GAA server so that an unauthorized
application are not be able to get any NAF specific GAA credentials from the
GAA server. If a malicious application can gain access to the GAA server, it
can generate all the NAF specific keys online (in the terminal) in case of
GBA_ME and in the case of GBA_U it gains access to Ks_ext_NAF. 4 It is
possible that an application is granted access to the GAA server by the
manufacturer, or the operator. The manufacturer or the operator must make sure
that the application that is granted access to the GAA server is not malicious
or have security flaws. 5 It is possible that an application is granted access
to the GAA server by the user provided that such access is not prevented by
manufacturer or operator policy. (See the next recommendation) User may grant
access to a malicious application simply because the application requests to
have access. 6 In addition to recommendations 3, 4, and 5, it is possible to
control the access to certain NAF specific GAA credentials in more fine-
grained level, where access to certain NAF specific GAA credentials can be
restricted to certain applications only. This recommendation can protect
against malicious applications that try to get access to certain NAF specific
GAA credentials. 7 In addition to recommendation 6, the manufacturer can pre-
configure the fine-grained access control policy on the terminal or the
operator can pre-configure the fine-grained access control policy on the
terminal or UICC.  
8 In addition to recommendation 6, the operator can update all fine-grained
access control policies on the terminal or the UICC.  
9 In addition to recommendation 6, the user can add new fine-grained access
control policies to the terminal or the UICC. The user may only add and modify
user\'s own policies. The user cannot change policies set by the manufacturer
or the operator.
* * *
The recommendations in Table 4-1 can be divided in to three groups the
following way:
**\- Group 1** : To provide the basic GAA related security in the terminal,
recommendations 1 to 4 must be enforced. The basic GAA security includes
controlling access to UICC and to GAA master secret, controlling access to the
GAA server, and only the manufacturer or the operator can grant access to the
GAA functionality for the application.
**\- Group 2:** If access to GAA functionality for applications can be granted
by the user then the recommendation 5 must be enforced.
**\- Group 3:** If more fine-grained access to the GAA functionality is wanted
as described above, then recommendations 6 to 8 must be enforced.
Recommendation 9 must be enforced if the user can grant access to GAA
functionality for an application
If there are applicable access control policies stored in the UICC and the
terminal, then access control policies stored on the UICC should take
precedence over access control policies stored in the terminal. If the user is
not allowed to grant access to GAA functionality for an application, it is
enough to enforce the recommendation group 1. In this case, only the
manufacturer or the operator can have granted access to GAA functionality for
an application, and therefore it should be assumed that the application is
trusted.
If the user is allowed to grant access to GAA functionality for an
application, then naturally both recommendation groups 1 and 2 need to be
enforced. In this case, the user is allowed to grant access to GAA
functionality and user may do this for any application that requests this
access. It should be assumed that a malicious application might thus gain
access to GAA functionality in the terminal.
If the user is allowed to grant access to GAA functionality for an
application, then for added protection, the recommendation group 3 should be
enforced as well. This would enable GAA functionality to protect certain NAF
specific GAA credentials that have more value -- such as NAFs that belong to
the operator.
Another alternative is that the GAA server will show a dialog window to the
user whenever an application (that does not have access to GAA functionality
granted by the manufacturer or the operator) attempts to gain access to GAA
functionality. The dialog would show the application name, the NAF name (i.e.,
the FQDN of the NAF server), and ask whether this application is allowed to
gain access to the GAA credentials for this particular NAF. The user would
have the choice of either granting or denying access. The dialog could also
offer to remember the decision made by the user, and the GAA server would
remember this decision for the next time the same application requests the
same NAF specific GAA credentials.
User interaction on security is a common source of misunderstandings, hence
user interaction should be minimized to obtain a good usage experience and
minimize security risks. The access to the GAA functionality and sensitive GAA
material should only be granted by operators or manufacturers. Third parties
could have contractual relationships with operators or manufactures and
therefore could obtain access to the GAA functionality using this relationship
using digital signatures.
The trust an NAF or the terminal application can put into the NAF-specific
credentials depends on the underlying security baseline used for the
generation and storage of Ks_(ext/int)_NAF. In an open trusted platform, and
also in a closed platform, the application in the terminal might not be aware
what kind of security baseline has been used and therefore is not able to
enforce an security level information in the client application in the
terminal. In principle, the NAF can receive this information from the BSF and
stop service delivery when the security level is not sufficient. But to be
able to do this, first the UE contacts the NAF, the NAF contact the BSF, the
BSF contacts the HSS and then returns the information to the NAF. This may
result in the fact that the user pays for the contact to the NAF, without
being able to obtain the service and generates network load, without any kind
of revenue generation. The UE may have information on the required security
level e.g. received in form of a flag or preconfigured.
The GAA server in the UE has knowledge about the security baseline used for
the generation and storage of Ks_(int/ext)_NAF, but if the GAA client
application has information on the security requirements from the network, it
can not enforce it without obtaining information from the GAA server on the
actually used security method. The application in the terminal requests the
GBA specific credentials from the GBA server. The response contains the
credentials and the underlying security method used e.g.
> \- USIM with GBA_U aware UICC
>
> \- USIM without GBA_U aware UICC
>
> \- ISIM with GBA_U aware UICC
>
> \- ISIM without GBA_U aware UICC
>
> \- Legacy GBA
The application in the terminal can then process this information further,
depending on the used Ua protocol, e.g. comparing the received information
that may be received in form of a flag over the Ua reference point with
configured security level information.
### 4.1.2 Recommendation
This technical report recommends that only recommendation group 1 in the
previous clause is required. As user interaction on security is not desired
and may cause breaches in GAA terminal security group 2 should be not be
required. Recommendation group 3 is not needed as group 2 was excluded.
## 4.2 Recommendations from I-WLAN
The threats and recommendations described in 4.1 are also valid for I-WLAN. In
I-WLAN there is a UE functionality split case, this case is also called split
terminal. In this case the UICC/SIM card may reside in a 3GPP ME (acting as a
(U)SIM \"server\") and be accessed by a WLAN-UE (acting as the (U)SIM
\"client\") through local link (e.g. Bluetooth, Infrared or USB), and has the
following additional requirements from [2]:
> \- Whenever someone tries to remotely access a (U)SIM some sort of alert
> shall be sent, e.g. a message shall be displayed informing the user of the
> attempted access and guiding him to choose \"Allow\", or \"Disallow\". The
> user can then decide whether the access is authorized or not and can opt for
> allow or disallow the access.
>
> \- The UICC holding device shall be responsible for scheduling all (possibly
> concurrent) accesses to the UICC by itself, and by one additional device
> connected via the local interface.
>
> \- Applications/Data information could be retrieved from (U)SIM, provided
> that the UICC (or SIM card) is inserted in a 3GPP ME. When the (U)SIM is re-
> used over local interfaces, further access control on the Applications/Data
> information shall be applied by the 3GPP ME holding the (U)SIM.
The new applications can be installed to the terminals (3GPP ME or WLAN-UE).
This poses a security threat when a malicious application is installed in a
type of terminal that does not protect I-WLAN related functionalities
correctly. The related security threats are as follows:
\- A malicious application can trigger the UICC and get the (Kc, IK, CK, MSK)
from the UICC.
\- The malicious application can access the copy of the keys (Kc, IK, CK, MSK)
stored in ME.
In all these cases, the malicious application can send either the (Kc, IK, CK,
MSK) secret, or one or more specific credentials to the network. In this case,
two attacks can be imagined: an attacker can masquerade as a network element
towards the terminal, or an attacker can masquerade as a UE towards the
network. In both cases the attack can result a loss of private data, or
unauthorized usage of the service.
These threats can be mitigated by restricting access to the UICC, and the 3GPP
ME private data (see recommendations 1 and 2).
These are the recommendations identified to achieve the I-WLAN security in the
open platform terminals:
Table 4-2: Recommendations
* * *
**ID** **Recommendations** **Comments** 1 It is possible for the platform to
control access to the UICC. Only authorized applications should have access to
the UICC. 2 It is possible for the platform to restrict the access to the keys
stored in the 3GPP ME. If the keys in the 3GPP ME is not protected, a
malicious application can get access to it and send it out from the terminal.
3 It is possible that an application is granted access to the keys in 3GPP ME
by the manufacturer, or the operator. The manufacturer or the operator must
make sure that the application that is granted access to the keys in the 3GPP
ME is not malicious or have security flaws. 4 It is possible that an
application is granted access to the keys in 3GPP ME by the user provided that
such access is not prevented by manufacturer or operator policy. User may
grant access to a malicious application simply because the application
requests to have access. The access to the keys stored in 3GPP ME can be
restricted to certain applications only. 5 The manufacturer can pre-configure
the access control policy on the terminal or the operator can pre-configure
the access control policy on the terminal or UICC.  
6 The operator can update all access control policies on the terminal or the
UICC.  
7 The user can add new access control policies to the terminal or the UICC.
The user may only add and modify user\'s own policies. The user cannot change
policies set by the manufacturer or the operator.
* * *
The recommendations in Table 4-2 can be divided in to three groups the
following way:
**\- Group 1** : To provide the basic security in the terminal,
recommendations 1 to 4 must be enforced. The basic security includes
controlling access to UICC and the (Kc, IK, CK, MSK) used in I-WLAN,
controlling access to the derived secrets, and only the manufacturer or the
operator can grant access to the secrets for the application.
**\- Group 2:** If access to keys for applications can be granted by the user
then the recommendation 4 must be enforced.
**\- Group 3:** If more fine grained access control is wanted as described
above, then recommendations 5 and 6 must be enforced. Recommendation 7 must be
enforced if the user can grant access to keys for an application.
If the user is not allowed to grant access to keys for an application, it is
enough to enforce the recommendation group 1. In this case, only the
manufacturer or the operator can have granted access to keys for an
application, and therefore it should be assumed that the application is
trusted.
If the user is allowed to grant access to keys for an application, then
naturally both recommendation groups 1 and 2 need to be enforced. In this
case, the user is allowed to grant access to keys and user may do this for any
application that requests this access. It should be assumed that a malicious
application might thus gain access to keys in the terminal.
If the user is allowed to grant access to keys for an application, then for
added protection, the recommendation group 3 may be enforced as well.
User interaction on security is a common source of misunderstandings, hence
user interaction should be minimized to obtain a good usage experience and
minimize security risks. The access to the UICC/ SIM and keys stored in the
3GPP ME should only be granted by operators or manufacturers. The user
interaction on security is required is specified in TS 33.234 [2].
## 4.3 Generalized recommendations
### 4.3.1 Study of credential security in open trusted platforms
The inherent feature of open platforms is that new applications can be
installed to the terminal. In relation to shared secret credential management,
this poses a security threat when a malicious application is installed in a
type of terminal that does not protect the shared secret properly. The
security threats are as follows:
\- A malicious application can access the UICC directly and therefore can then
communicate with both the UICC and a credential generator and hence establish
master secrets and application specific credentials.
\- The malicious application can access the Persephone server private data,
and gain access to the master secret.
\- The malicious application can access the Persephone server API, and obtain
the application specific credentials by requesting them from the Persephone
server.
In all these cases, the malicious application can send either the master
secret, or one or more application specific credentials to the network.
NOTE1: If there are only application specific credentials e.g. password
storage or just one application using a master secret, then the second threat
can be neglected.
The first two threats can be mitigated by restricting access to the UICC, and
the Persephone Server private data (see recommendations 1 and 2).
The third threat can be mitigated by restring the access to the Persephone
Server API to authorized applications (see recommendation 3). The decision
whether an application is authorized is done by the terminal manufacturer, the
operator, or the user (see recommendations 4 and 5). This can be called the
**Styx Coarse Grained Access Control** access control method, where an
authorized application has access to all possible application specific
credentials.
The **Styx Coarse Grained Access Control** access control method is a basic
access control that is enough for applications that have been authorized by
the terminal manufacturer, or the operator.
However, if the user grants the authorization to the application, there may be
a need for a more granulated access control method. i.e. **Charon Fine Grained
Access Control.** It may be required that the certain application specific
credentials are limited only to certain applications and user installed
applications, even with credential access authorization, would not have access
to them. For example such credentials might give access to operator\'s
application servers. Recommendation 6 addresses this issue.
To be useful, the Charon fine grained access control needs to be configured.
First, the manufacturer or the operator may pre-configure the terminal
(recommendation 7). Second, the operator may wish to update the configuration
(recommendation 8). Finally, the user may add new policies to the
configuration (recommendation 9). Note that a policy set by a user will not
override a policy set by an operator or a manufacturer. However, the step two
implies that an operator can override or modify a policy set by the
manufacturer.
These are the recommendations identified to achieve the credential security in
the open platform terminals:
Table 4-5: Recommendations
* * *
**ID** **Recommandations** **Commentas** 1 It is possible for the platform to
control access to the UICC. Only authorized applications should have access to
the UICC. Otherwise malicious application can establish a master secret,
depending on storage and access mechanisms having access to application
specific credentials or, in case of master secret stored outside the UICC,
being able to generate application specific credential offline (outside the
terminal) . 2 It is possible for the platform to restrict the access to master
secret of the Persephone server. If the master secret of the Persephone server
is not protected, a malicious application can get access to it, send it out
from the terminal, and the attacker can generate all the application specific
keys offline (outside the terminal). The attack does not apply in case of
master secret stored in the UICC. 3 It is possible for the platform to control
general access in coarse-grained model to the Persephone server so that an
unauthorized application is not be able to get any application specific
credentials from the Persephone server. If a malicious application can gain
access to the Persephone server and the master secret is stored there, then it
can generate all the application specific keys online (in the terminal). In
case of master secret stored on the UICC the attacker cannot generate
application keys derived from the master secret. 4 It is possible that an
application is granted access to the Persephone server by the manufacturer, or
the operator. The manufacturer or the operator must make sure that the
application that is granted access to the Persephone server is not malicious
or have security flaws. 5 It is possible that an application is granted access
to the Persephone server by the user provided that such access is not
prevented by manufacturer or operator policy. (See the next recommendation)
User may grant access to a malicious application simply because the
application requests to have access. 6 In addition to recommendations 3, 4,
and 5, it is possible to control the access to certain application specific
credentials in more fine-grained level, where access to certain application
specific credentials can be restricted to certain applications only. This
recommendation can protect against malicious applications that try to get
access to certain application specific credentials. 7 In addition to
recommendation 6, the manufacturer can pre-configure the fine-grained access
control policy on the terminal or the operator can pre-configure the fine-
grained access control policies on the UICC.  
8 In addition to recommendation 6, the operator can update all fine-grained
access control policies on the terminal or UICC.  
9 In addition to recommendation 6, the user can add new fine-grained access
control policies to the terminal or UICC. The user may only add and modify
user\'s own policies. The user cannot change policies set by the manufacturer
or the operator.
* * *
The recommendations in Table 4-5 can be divided in to three groups the
following way:
**\- Group 1** : To provide the basic application credential related security
in the terminal, recommendations 1 to 4 must be enforced. The basic credential
security includes controlling access to UICC and to the master secret,
controlling access to the Persephone server, and only the manufacturer or the
operator can grant access to the credential functionality for the application.
**\- Group 2:** If access to credential functionality for applications can be
granted by the user then the recommendation 5 must be enforced.
**\- Group 3:** If more fine-grained access to the credential functionality is
wanted as described above, then recommendations 6 to 8 must be enforced.
Recommendation 9 must be enforced if the user can grant access to credential
functionality for an application
NOTE2: If there is only an application specific secret and no master secret,
then the recommendations are not impacted. If there are only a master secret,
that is used by several applications, then there can be no fine-grained access
control. If some applications utilize a master secret for key derivation and
other applications have their own non-master secret based credentials, then
the same recommendations apply as outlined above.
If there are applicable access control policies stored in the UICC and the
terminal, then access control policies stored on the UICC should take
precedence over access control policies stored in the terminal. If the user is
not allowed to grant access to credential functionality for an application, it
is enough to enforce the recommendation group 1. In this case, only the
manufacturer or the operator can have granted access to credential
functionality for an application, and therefore it should be assumed that the
application is trusted.
If the user is allowed to grant access to credential functionality for an
application, then naturally both recommendation groups 1 and 2 need to be
enforced. In this case, the user is allowed to grant access to credential
functionality and user may do this for any application that requests this
access. It should be assumed that a malicious application might thus gain
access to credential functionality in the terminal.
If the user is allowed to grant access to credential functionality for an
application, then for added protection, the recommendation group 3 should be
enforced as well. This would enable credential functionality to protect
certain application specific credentials that have more value, such as
application servers that belong to the operator.
### 4.3.2 Recommendation
This technical report recommends that only recommendation group 1 in the
previous clause is required. As user interaction on security is not desired
and may cause breaches in credential terminal security group 2 should be not
be required. Recommendation group 3 is not needed as group 2 was excluded.
#