# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the characteristics of eNB - relay node
transmissions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.201: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); LTE
physical layer; General description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical channels and modulation\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.212: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Multiplexing and channel coding\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer -- Measurements\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Subcarrier spacing as defined in [3]
R-PDCCH aggregation element index
Slot index
PDSCH-to-ACK/NACK timing association set
Subcarrier index
_ι_ th element of
End OFDM symbol index for R-PDCCH
OFDM symbol index
OFDM symbol index
Aggregation level of R-PDCCH
R-PDCCH candidate index
Number of elements in the set for subframe
Number of CCEs configured for detecting R-PDCCH in slot _j_
Number of VRBs configured for detecting R-PDCCH
Subframe index
System frame number as defined in [3]
Physical resource block number as defined in [3]
Resource index for PUCCH formats 1/1a/1b for subframe index _i_ as defined in
[3]
Resource index for PUCCH formats 1/1a/1b using antenna port _p_ as defined in
[3]
Resource index for PUCCH format 3 using antenna port _p_ as defined in [3]
Slot number within a radio frame as defined in [3]
Scrambling identity as defined in [3]
Virtual resource block number as defined in [3]
Search space for aggregation level _Λ_ in slot _j_ of subframe _n_
Equivalent to in [5]
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CCE Control Channel Element
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CSI-RS Channel-State Information Reference Signals
DCI Downlink Control Information
eNB Evolved Node B
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
LTE Long Term Evolution
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PHICH Physical Hybrid ARQ Indicator Channel
PRB Physical Resource Block
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
RB Resource Block
RE Resource Element
REG Resource Element Group
RN Relay Node
R-PDCCH Relay Physical Downlink Control Channel
TDD Time Division Duplex
UE User Equipment
VRB Virtual Resource Block
# 4 General
From a UE perspective a relay node is part of the radio access network and
behaves like an eNB. A relay node is wirelessly connected to a donor eNB.
A relay node includes at least two physical layer entities. One entity is used
for communication with UEs as described in [3][4][5][6]. Another physical
layer entity is used for communication with the donor eNB and it corresponds
to UE functionality as described in [3][4][5][6]. If a relay node is
configured to use relay-specific advancements, the physical layer entity for
communication with the donor eNB corresponds to UE functionality as described
in [3][4][5][6] extended by relay-specific advancements as described in the
following.
# 5 Physical channels and modulation
## 5.1 General
Processing and mapping of physical channels shall be processed according to
[3] with the exceptions described within Clause 5.
## 5.2 Resource partitioning and multiplexing for relays
Time-frequency resources shall be set aside for eNB-RN transmissions by time
multiplexing eNB-RN and RN-UE transmissions. Subframes during which eNB-RN
transmission may take place are configured by higher layers. Downlink
subframes configured for eNB-to-RN transmission shall be configured as MBSFN
subframes by the relay node. eNB-to-RN transmissions occur in downlink
subframes and RN-to-eNB transmissions occur in uplink subframes. For frame
structure type 1, eNB-to-RN and RN-to-UE transmissions occur in the downlink
frequency band, while RN-to-eNB and UE-to-RN transmissions occur in the uplink
frequency band.
For frame structure type 1, a subframe configured for eNB-to-RN transmission
is a subframe satisfying where _n_ ~f~ and _n_ ~s~ refer to donor eNB cell
timing, with the exception that a downlink subframe that cannot be configured
as MBSFN subframe in the relay node cell shall not be configured for eNB-to-RN
transmission. The set is determined as the union of the applicable offset
values listed in Table 5.2-1 with respect to the parameter
_SubframeConfigurationFDD_ , which is configured by higher layers, and where
\"x\" means that the corresponding bit in the bitmap can be either 0 or 1. A
subframe is configured for RN-to-eNB transmission if subframe is configured
for eNB-to-RN transmission.
Table 5.2-1: Downlink subframe configuration for eNB-to-RN transmission (frame
structure type 1)
_SubframeConfigurationFDD_ Offset value element of
* * *
{xxxxxxx1} 7 {xxxxxx1x} 6 {xxxxx1xx} 5 {xxxx1xxx} 4 {xxx1xxxx} 3 {xx1xxxxx} 2
{x1xxxxxx} 1 {1xxxxxxx} 0
For frame structure type 2 the subframes that can be configured for eNB-RN
transmission are listed in Table 5.2-2 where, for each subframe in a radio
frame, \"D\" denotes the subframe is configured for downlink eNB-to-RN
transmissions, \"U\" denotes the subframe is configured for uplink RN-to-eNB
transmissions. The parameter _SubframeConfigurationTDD_ is configured by
higher layers. Table 5.2-2 indicates the supported uplink-downlink
configurations [3] for the eNB-RN link as a function of
_SubframeConfigurationTDD_.
Table 5.2-2: Supported configurations for eNB-RN transmission (frame structure
type 2)
_SubframeConfigurationTDD_ eNB-RN uplink-downlink configuration Subframe
number _n_
* * *
                                                                      0                     1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9
0 1 D U  
1 U D 2 D U D 3 U D D 4 U D U D 5 2 U D  
6 D U  
7 U D D  
8 D U D 9 U D D D  
10 D U D D 11 3 U D D 12 U D D D 13 4 U D 14 U D D 15 U D D 16 U D D D 17 U D
D D D 18 6 U D
## 5.3 Relay frame timing
The frame timing for downlink transmission from the relay shall be such that
the relay node can receive at least the OFDM symbols from the donor eNB
according to Clause 5.4.
## 5.4 Downlink slot structure and physical resource elements
The downlink slot structure and the physical resource elements are described
in Clause 6.2 of [3].
eNB-to-RN transmissions shall be restricted to a subset of the OFDM symbols in
a slot. The starting and ending OFDM symbols respectively in the first slot of
a subframe is given in Table 5.4-1 and in the second slot of a subframe in
Table 5.4-2. The parameter _DL-StartSymbol_ in Table 5.4-1 is configured by
higher layers. If downlink subframes are transmitted with time aligned
subframe boundaries by the donor eNB and the relay node, configuration 1 of
Table 5.4-2 is used; otherwise configuration 0 is used. The simultaneous
operation of configuration 0 in Table 5.4-1 and configuration 0 in Table 5.4-2
is not supported.
Table 5.4-1: OFDM symbols for eNB-to-RN transmission in the first slot (normal
cyclic prefix, )
Configuration _DL-StartSymbol_ End symbol index
* * *
0 1 6 1 2 6 2 3 6
Table 5.4-2: OFDM symbols for eNB-to-RN transmission in the second slot
(normal cyclic prefix, )
Configuration Start symbol index End symbol index
* * *
0 0 6 1 0 5
## 5.5 Physical downlink shared channel
The physical downlink shared channel for eNB-to-RN transmissions shall be
processed and mapped to resource elements as described in Clause 6.4 of [3]
with the following exceptions:
\- the PDSCH shall only be mapped to resource elements in OFDM symbols
configured according to Table 5.4-1 and Table 5.4-2
\- the PDSCH shall not be mapped to any resource element in the first slot of
an RB pair on any antenna port when the first slot of the RB pair is used for
R-PDCCH transmission on any antenna port
## 5.6 Relay physical downlink control channel
### 5.6.1 General
The relay physical downlink control channel (R-PDCCH) carries DCI for relay
nodes.
An R-PDCCH is transmitted according to configuration 2 of Table 5.4-1 or
configuration 0 or 1 of Table 5.4-2. In the frequency domain, a set of VRBs is
configured for potential R-PDCCH transmission by higher layers using resource
allocation types 0, 1, or 2 according to Clause 7.1.6 of [5]. For resource
allocation type 2 the VRB to PRB mapping is configured by higher layers.
Configured VRBs are continuously numbered such that the VRB numbered with
_refers to the configured VRB with the smallest_ virtual resource block number
of [3] and such that the VRB numbered with _refers to the configured VRB with
the largest_ .
An R-PDCCH can be transmitted on one or several PRBs without being cross-
interleaved with other R-PDCCHs in a given PRB, see Clause 5.6.2
Alternatively, multiple R-PDCCHs can be cross-interleaved in one or several
PRBs, see Clause 5.6.3.
### 5.6.2 R-PDCCH formats without cross-interleaving
Without cross-interleaving, an R-PDCCH shall be scrambled, modulated, mapped
to layers and precoded according to Clause 6.8 of [3] except that
\- is equal to one.
\- is the number of bits to be transmitted on the R-PDCCH.
Without cross-interleaving, an R-PDCCH is transmitted on an aggregation of one
or several PRBs.
If the set of VRBs is configured by resource allocation type 2 with
distributed VRB to PRB mapping, the provisions in Clause 6.2.3.2 of [3] for
even slot numbers are always applied.
The mapping to resource elements shall follow the provisions in clause 6.3.5
in [3], with the exception that the index first increases over the aggregated
physical resource blocks, and then the index , starting with the start symbol
index given in Table 5.4-1 and 5.4-2 respectively, increases.
The following resource elements shall be considered as reserved with respect
to mapping the R-PDCCH:
\- resource elements that are used for reference signals
### 5.6.3 R-PDCCH formats with cross-interleaving
With cross-interleaving, for each slot the R-PDCCHs shall be multiplexed,
scrambled, modulated, mapped to layers, precoded and mapped to resource
elements according to Clause 6.8 of [3] except that
\- an REG is composed out of 4 consecutively available REs in one OFDM symbol
in a PRB configured for potential R-PDCCH transmission counted in ascending
order of subcarriers, where an RE is assumed to be unavailable with respect to
mapping the R-PDCCH in the following cases:
\- if it is used for the transmission of cell-specific reference signals
\- if the cell-specific reference signals are configured to be transmitted
only on antenna port 0, it shall be assumed that REs for transmission of cell-
specific reference signals on antenna port 1 are unavailable for an REG
\- if zero power or non-zero power CSI-RS occurs in any resource element of an
eight-port CSI-RS configuration of Table 6.10.5.2-1 of [3], it shall be
assumed that all eight resource elements corresponding to the eight-port CSI-
RS configuration are unavailable for an REG
\- UE-specific reference signals are not mapped onto PRB pairs used for the
transmission of R-PDCCH with cross-interleaving
\- for the purpose of REG-to-RE mapping
\- the downlink system bandwidth shall be determined as
\- the time-domain index shall be initialized with the start symbol index
given in Table 5.4-1 and Table 5.4-2 respectively and shall be increased if ,
where corresponds to the end symbol index given in Table 5.4-1 and Table 5.4-2
respectively.
> \- is the number of resource-element groups in the RBs configured for
> potential R-PDCCH transmission in the respective slot.
>
> \- is the number of transmitted R-PDCCHs in the respective slot.
## 5.7 Reference signals
### 5.7.1 Downlink reference signals
eNB-to-RN transmissions use the same reference signals as defined in [3] with
the exceptions defined below.
The reference signal sequence of antenna port 7, 8, 9 and 10 shall only be
mapped to resource elements in the first slot of a PRB pair used for eNB-to-RN
transmission when configuration 1 in Table 5.4-2 is used.
Antenna ports 11 to 14 shall not be used for eNB-to-RN transmission.
# 6 Multiplexing and channel coding
Multiplexing and channel coding is done according to [4] with the addition
that DCI shall be mapped to the R-PDCCH. The provisions in [4] for the PDCCH
apply to the R-PDCCH.
# 7 Relay node procedures
## 7.1 General
The relay node acts according to the UE procedures as described in [5] with
the exceptions defined in Clause 7, where DCI shall be transmitted by means of
R-PDCCH. The relay node shall not expect DCI format 3/3A.
## 7.2 Relay node procedures for receiving the physical downlink shared
channel
A relay node shall upon detection of an R-PDCCH intended for the relay node in
a subframe, decode the corresponding PDSCH in the same subframe with the
following assumptions.
\- If the relay node receives a resource allocation which overlaps a PRB pair
in which a downlink assignment is detected in the first slot, the relay node
shall assume that there is PDSCH transmission for it in the second slot of
that PRB pair.
\- For a PRB pair where the relay node detects at least part of a downlink
assignment in the first slot, the relay node shall assume that the first slot
of the PRB pair is not used for PDSCH transmission.
If a relay node is configured by higher layers to decode R-PDCCH with CRC
scrambled by the C-RNTI, and if it is configured in transmission mode 8 or
transmission mode 9, the relay node shall decode the R-PDCCH and any
corresponding PDSCH according to the respective combinations defined in Table
7.2-1.
Table 7.2-1: R-PDCCH and PDSCH configured by C-RNTI in transmission modes 8 or
9
+-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+ | Transmission mode | DCI format | Transmission scheme of PDSCH | | | | corresponding to R-PDCCH | +===================+===============+================================+ | Mode 8 | DCI format 1A | If the R-PDCCH is demodulated | | | | based on UE-specific reference | | | | signals: | | | | | | | | > Single antenna port; port 7 | | | | > and is used. | | | | | | | | If the R-PDCCH is demodulated | | | | based on cell-specific | | | | reference signals: | | | | | | | | > If the number of PBCH | | | | > antenna ports is one: | | | | > | | | | > Single-antenna port, port 0 | | | | > is used | | | | > | | | | > Otherwise Transmit diversity | | | | > is used | +-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+ | | DCI format 2B | Dual layer transmission, port | | | | 7 and 8; or single-antenna | | | | port, port 7 or 8 | +-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+ | Mode 9 | DCI format 1A | If the R-PDCCH is demodulated | | | | based on UE-specific reference | | | | signals: | | | | | | | | > Single antenna port; port 7 | | | | > and is used. | | | | | | | | If the R-PDCCH is demodulated | | | | based on cell-specific | | | | reference signals: | | | | | | | | > If the number of PBCH | | | | > antenna ports is one: | | | | > | | | | > Single-antenna port, port 0 | | | | > is used | | | | > | | | | > Otherwise Transmit diversity | | | | > is used | +-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+ | | DCI format 2C | Up to 4 layer transmission, | | | | ports 7-10 | +-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+
## 7.3 Relay node procedures for transmitting the physical uplink shared
channel
The physical uplink shared channel shall be processed as described in Clause 8
of [5] with the following exceptions.
The relay node shall not expect HARQ feedback on PHICH. ACK shall be delivered
to higher layers for each transport block transmitted on PUSCH.
At the relay node the number of HARQ processes depends on the subframes
configured for eNB-RN transmissions.
For frame structure type 1 the number of HARQ processes is determined by the
decimal equivalent of the binary number representing the 8-bit bitmap of the
parameter _SubframeConfigurationFDD_ as given by Table 7.3-1. HARQ processes
are sequentially assigned to subframes configured for RN-to-eNB transmission.
Table 7.3-1: Number of uplink HARQ processes for frame structure type 1
* * *
Decimal equivalent of _SubframeConfigurationFDD_ Number of uplink\ HARQ
processes
* * *
1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128 1
3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 12, 17, 18, 20, 24 ,33, 34, 36, 40, 48, 65, 66, 68, 72, 80,
96, 129, 130, 132, 136, 144, 160, 192 2
7, 11, 13, 14, 19, 21, 22, 25, 26, 28, 35, 37, 38, 41, 42, 44, 49, 50, 52, 56,
67, 69, 70, 73, 74, 76, 81, 82, 84, 85, 88, 97, 98, 100, 104, 112, 131, 133,
134, 137, 138, 140, 145, 146, 148, 152, 161, 162, 164, 168, 170, 176, 193,
194, 196, 200, 208, 224 3
15, 23, 27, 29, 30, 39, 43, 45, 46, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 71, 75, 77, 78,
83, 86, 87, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 99, 101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 113,
114, 116, 117, 120, 135, 139, 141, 142, 147, 149, 150, 153, 154, 156, 163,
165, 166, 169, 171, 172, 173, 174, 177, 178, 180, 181, 182, 184, 186, 195,
197, 198, 201, 202, 204, 209, 210, 212, 213, 214, 216, 218, 225, 226, 228,
232, 234, 240 4
31, 47, 55, 59, 61, 62, 79, 94, 95, 103, 110, 111, 115, 118, 119, 121, 122,
123, 124, 125, 143, 151, 155, 157, 158, 167, 175, 179, 183, 185, 187, 188,
189, 190, 199, 203, 205, 206, 211, 215, 217, 219, 220, 221, 222, 227, 229,
230, 233, 235, 236, 237, 238, 241, 242, 244, 245, 246, 248, 250 5
63, 126, 127, 159, 191, 207, 223, 231, 239, 243, 247, 249, 251, 252, 253, 254,
255 6
* * *
For frame structure type 2 the number of HARQ processes is given by Table
7.3-2. A re-transmission, when applicable, shall occur in a subframe with the
same subframe number as the original transmission.
Table 7.3-2: Number of uplink HARQ processes for frame structure type 2
* * *
_SubframeConfigurationTDD_ Number of uplink HARQ\ processes
* * *
0-3, 5-18 1
4 2
* * *
## 7.4 Relay node procedure for receiving the relay physical downlink control
channel
### 7.4.1 Monitoring and demodulation
The relay node shall monitor the set of configured VRBs in the first slot for
an R-PDCCH containing a downlink assignment and it shall monitor the set of
configured VRBs in the second slot for an R-PDCCH containing an uplink grant.
The R-PDCCH according to Clause 5.6.3 shall be demodulated based on cell-
specific reference signals transmitted on one set of antenna ports , , or .
The R-PDCCH according to Clause 5.6.2 shall be demodulated based on cell-
specific reference signals transmitted on one set of antenna ports , , or , or
based on UE-specific reference signals transmitted on antenna port 7 assuming
that ; the type of reference signals is configured by higher layers.
For R-PDCCH according to Clause 5.6.2, if the RN is configured to receive
PDSCH data transmissions according to transmission mode 9, the RN may assume
that the REs for UE-specific reference signals according to the maximum
restricted rank are reserved in the first slot of VRB pairs that are used for
R-PDCCH transmission, where the higher-layer parameter
_codebookSubsetRestriction-r10_ indicates the maximum restricted rank.
### 7.4.2 Relay node procedure for determining relay physical downlink control
channel assignment without cross-interleaving
This clause applies if higher-layers configure the R-PDCCH to be not cross-
interleaved.
The same set of VRBs is configured for a potential R-PDCCH in the first and in
the second slot.
In each slot, an R-PDCCH candidate at aggregation level comprises VRB numbered
with , where and where is given by Table 7.4.2-1.
Table 7.4.2-1: R-PDCCH candidates monitored by a relay node
_Aggregation level_ Number of R-PDCCH candidates
* * *
1 6 2 6 4 2 8 2
### 7.4.3 Relay node procedure for determining relay physical downlink control
channel assignment with cross-interleaving
This clause applies if higher-layers configure the R-PDCCH to be cross-
interleaved.
The relay node procedure for determining the relay physical downlink control
channel assignment is according to the UE procedure for determining physical
downlink control channel assignment in Clause 9.1.1 of [5] with the following
assumptions.
The set of CCEs corresponding to an R-PDCCH candidate of the search space in
slot of subframe is given by where , , and is the total number of CCEs in the
set of RBs configured for potential R-PDCCH transmission.
The relay node shall only monitor one RN-specific search space according to
the UE-specific search space in [5] at each of the aggregation levels with the
number of candidates per aggregation level as in Table 7.4.2-1.
## 7.5 Relay node procedures for transmitting the physical uplink control
channel
### 7.5.1 Relay node procedure for determining physical uplink control channel
assignment
The physical uplink control channel shall be processed as described in Clause
10 of [5] with the following exceptions.
For a PDSCH transmission for which HARQ-ACK is transmitted on PUCCH, and which
is [ ]{.underline} indicated by the detection of a corresponding R-PDCCH, the
relay node shall use PUCCH resources for transmission of HARQ-ACK.
For frame structure type 1, the value of for PUCCH antenna port _p_ is
configured by higher layers.
For frame structure type 2, for a relay node configured with HARQ-ACK
bundling, or for a relay node configured with PUCCH format 1b with channel
selection either according to the set of Tables 10.1.3-2, 10.1.3-3, and
10.1.3-4 of [5] or according to the set of Tables 10.1.3-5, 10.1.3-6, and
10.1.3-7 of [5], higher layer configures PUCCH format 1a/1b resources , where
and is the number of elements in the set for subframe as defined in Table
7.5.1-1.
The relay node shall transmit SR only in uplink subframes that are configured
for RN-to-eNB transmissions.
For frame structure type 2 the relay node shall upon detection of a PDSCH
transmission within subframe intended for the relay node transmit the ACK/NACK
response in uplink subframe where and is defined in Table 7.5.1-1.
Table 7.5.1-1: for frame structure type 2
_SubframeConfigurationTDD_ according to subframe:
* * *
                               *n*=0                    *n*=1   *n*=2   *n*=3     *n*=4   *n*=5   *n*=6   *n*=7   *n*=8   *n*=9
0 4  
1 4  
2 4,9  
3 4,9  
4 4 4  
5 4  
6 4  
7 4,8  
8 4,8  
9 4,8,9  
10 4,8,9  
11 4,6  
12 4,5,6  
13 4  
14 4,6  
15 4,5  
16 4,5,6  
17 4,5,6,9  
18 5
### 7.5.2 Relay node HARQ-ACK feedback procedure for frame structure type 2
The HARQ-ACK feedback procedure on PUCCH for frame structure type 2 shall be
as described in Clause 10.1.3 of [5] with the following exceptions.
\- For a relay node configured with HARQ-ACK bundling or configured with PUCCH
format 1b with channel selection either according to the set of Tables
10.1.3-2, 10.1.3-3, and 10.1.3-4 of [5] or according to the set of Tables
10.1.3-5, 10.1.3-6, and 10.1.3-7 of [5], corresponds to subframe , and HARQ-
ACK() is the ACK/NACK/DTX response from subframe , where is defined in Table
7.5.1-1 and .
\- For a relay node configured with PUCCH format 3 for HARQ-ACK transmission,
if the relay node receives a single PDSCH transmission within subframe(s) ,
where is defined in Table 7.5.1-1, the relay node shall use PUCCH format 1a/1b
to transmit the HARQ-ACK on where the value of is determined according to
higher layer configuration.
The HARQ-ACK feedback procedure on PUSCH for frame structure type 2 shall be
as described in Clause 7.3 of [5] with the following exception:
\- The HARQ-ACK corresponds to subframes where is defined in Table 7.5.1-1.
#