# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is the first part of a multi-part conformance
specification. 3GPP TS 36.523-2 [18] contains a pro-forma for the
Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) and an applicability table,
indicating the release from which each test case is applicable. 3GPP TS
36.523-3 [19] contains a TTCN-3 design frame work, test model and Test Suites
(the detailed test specifications in TTCN-3).
For at least a minimum set of services, the prose descriptions of test cases
will have a matching detailed test case implemented in TTCN [19].
The present document may contain descriptions of tests for additional
services, but these tests may not have matching TTCN test cases.
The present document will not contain any tests on the USIM, or the interface
between the UE and the USIM. These tests are documented elsewhere.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the protocol conformance testing for the 3^rd^
Generation E-UTRAN User Equipment (UE).
This is the first part of a multi-part test specification. The following
information can be found in this part:
\- the overall test structure;
\- the test configurations;
\- the conformance requirement and reference to the core specifications;
\- the test purposes; and
\- a brief description of the test procedure, the specific test requirements
and short message exchange table.
The following information relevant to testing could be found in accompanying
specifications:
\- the default setting of the test parameters [18];
\- the applicability of each test case [19].
A detailed description of the expected sequence of messages could be found in
the 3^rd^ part of this test specification.
The Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) pro-forma could be found in the
2^nd^ part of the present document.
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP releases
starting from Release 8 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of the
present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document > unless the context in which the reference is made suggests a > different Release is relevant (information on the applicable > release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case > title, description or applicability, message description or > content).
[1] to [65] (void)
> [66] 3GPP TS 36.523-1 Release 18: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio
> Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1:
> Protocol conformance specification \"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Void
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Test methodology
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.523-1
Release 18 [66].
# 5 to 24 Void
#