# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
At the RAN#86 meeting, a new Study Item was approved for Internet of Things
Non Terrestrial Network (IoT NTN) and revised in RAN#91 [4]. There was an
email discussion on [91E][42][NTN_IoT_Roadmap] In RAN#91 with moderator
summary and final proposal for GTW input in [5].
In RAN#91-e GTW session, the Chairman endorsed a Way Forward Proposal in [6]
on email discussion on [50][New_proposals_approval]. This included guidance
from RAN Chairman for NTN NR and NTN IoT as follows
\- RAN#92E (June) to finalize the scope and project plan to deliver the
essential minimum functionality of both NTN NR and NTN IoT (both NB-IoT and
eMTC) within the existing TU allocations
\- Detailed scoping exercise (NTN NR WID revision, NTN IoT WID approval) to be
undertaken at RAN#92E (June)
The objectives for this document are, based on the outcomes of the Release-17
NR NTN WI [7] and Release-16 TR 38.821 [8], to study a set of necessary
features/adaptations enabling the operation of the IoT NTN for 3GPP Release 17
with a priority on satellite access.
The first objective of this Study is to identify scenarios applicable to NB-
IoT/eMTC [RAN1, RAN2], including:
\- Bands of interest in sub 6 GHz
\- Device type with PC3 or PC5 (LEO and GEO)
\- Satellite constellation orbit LEO and GEO
\- Transparent payload.
\- Link budget
NOTE 1: This first objective will be based on the scenarios documented in TR
38.821.
NOTE 2: UE mobility assumptions follow terrestrial NB-IoT/eMTC assumptions.
The second objective is, for the above identified scenarios, to study and
recommend necessary changes to support NB-IoT and eMTC over satellite, reusing
as much as possible the conclusions of the studies performed for NR NTN in
TR38.821. This objective will address the following items:
\- Aspects related to random access procedure/signals [RAN1, RAN2]
\- Mechanisms for time/frequency adjustment including Timing Advance, and UL
frequency compensation indication [RAN1, RAN2]
\- Timing offset related to scheduling and HARQ-ACK feedback [RAN1, RAN2]
\- Aspects related to HARQ operation [RAN2, RAN1]
\- General aspects related to timers (e.g. SR, DRX, etc.) [RAN2]
\- RAN2 aspects related to idle mode and connected mode mobility [RAN2]
\- RLF-based for NB-IoT
\- Handover-based for eMTC
\- System information enhancements [RAN2]
\- Tracking area enhancements [RAN2]
NOTE 3: GNSS capability in the UE is taken as a working assumption in this
study for both NB-IoT and eMTC devices. With this assumption, UE can estimate
and pre-compensate timing and frequency offset with sufficient accuracy for UL
transmission. Simultaneous GNSS and NTN NB-IoT/eMTC operation is not assumed.
Recommendations for NB-IoT and recommendations for eMTC will be documented in
the conclusions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions, which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP TR 38.811 v15.2.0: \"Study on New Radio (NR) to support non-
terrestrial networks (Release 15)\"
[3] 3GPP TR 38.821 v16.0.0: \"Solutions for NR to support non-terrestrial
networks (NTN) (Release 16)\"
[4] RP-210868, \"New Study WID on NB-IoT/eTMC support for NTN\", MediaTek,
RAN#91-e, March 2021
[5] RP-210915, \"Moderator\'s summary for email discussion
[91E][42][NTN_IoT_roadmap]\", Ericsson (RAN1 Vice-Chair), RAN#91-e, March 2021
[6] RP-210906, Way forward on new proposals, Nokia (RAN Chair), RAN#91-e,
March 2021
[7] RP-210908, \"Solutions for NR to support non-terrestrial networks (NTN)\",
Rapporteur (Thales), RAN#91-e, March 2021
[8] 3GPP TR 38.821 \"Solutions for NR to support non-terrestrial networks\",
V16.0.0 (2019-12)
[9] 3GPP TR 38.811 v15.2.0: \"Study on New Radio (NR) to support non-
terrestrial networks (Release 15)\"
[10] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description\"
[11] R1-2103897, Rapporteur (MediaTek), Text proposal for TR 36.763 for
RAN1#104bis-e Agreements, RAN1#104bis-e, Apr 2021
[12] 3GPP TR 45.820 v13.1.0: \"Cellular system support for ultra-low
complexity and low throughput Internet of Things (CIoT) (Release 13)\"
[13] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system; Stage 1
(Release 16)\"
[14] R2-1901404: \"IoT Device Density Models for Various Environments\",
Vodafone, RAN2 #105
[15] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification (Release 16)\"
[16] 3GPP TS 36.322: \"E-UTRA Radio Link Control (RLC) protocol specification
(Release 16)\"
[17] 3GPP TS 36.323: \"E-UTRA Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification (Release 16)\"
[18] R2-2011275: \"[IoT-NTN] Applicability of TR 38.821 (MediaTek)\"
[19] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); UE
Procedures in Idle Mode (Release 16)\"
[20] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification (Release 16)\"
[21] R2-2106169: \"Connection density evaluation for IoT NTN devices\",
Ericsson, RAN2 #114-e
[22] R2-2105662: \"Paging evaluation for NTN IOT\", Huawei, HiSilicon, RAN2
#114-e
[23] R2-2106729: \"On Paging Capacity Evaluation for IoT-NTN\", Nokia, Nokia
Shanghai Bell, RAN2 #114-e
[24] R2-2105371: \"Paging capacity evaluation for IoT NTN\", ZTE Corporation,
Sanechips, RAN2 #114-e
[25] R2-2104033: \"Summary of [Post113-e][055][IoT NTN] Performance
evaluation\", Ericsson, RAN2 #113bis-e
[26] R1-2103962, Summary #3 of AI 8.15.1 Scenarios applicable to NB-IoT/eMTC,
Moderator (MediaTek), RAN1#104bis-e, April 2021
[27] R1-2104573, Link budget result calibration Spreadsheet for IoT NTN,
RAN1#104bis-e, April 2021
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Availability:** % of time during which the RAN is available for the targeted
communication. Unavailable communication for shorter period than [Y] ms shall
not be counted. The RAN may contain several access network components.
**Feeder link:** wireless link between NTN Gateway and satellite.
**Geostationary Earth orbit:** circular orbit at 35,786 km above the Earth\'s
equator and following the direction of the Earth\'s rotation. An object in
such an orbit has an orbital period equal to the Earth\'s rotational period
and thus appears motionless, at a fixed position in the sky, to ground
observers.
**Low Earth Orbit:** orbit around the Earth with an altitude between 300 km,
and 1500 km.
**Medium Earth Orbit:** region of space around the Earth above low Earth orbit
and below geostationary Earth Orbit.
**Minimum Elevation angle** : minimum angle under which the satellite or UAS
platform can be seen by a terminal.
**Mobile Services:** a radio-communication service between mobile and land
stations, or between mobile stations.
**Mobile Satellite Services:** a radio-communication service between mobile
earth stations and one or more space stations, or between space stations used
by this service; or between mobile earth stations by means of one or more
space stations.
**Non-Geostationary Satellites:** satellites (LEO and MEO) orbiting around the
Earth with a period that varies approximately between 1.5 hour and 10 hours.
**Non-terrestrial networks:** networks, or segments of networks, using an
airborne or space-borne vehicle to embark a transmission equipment relay node
or base station.
**NTN-gateway:** an earth station or gateway is located at the surface of
Earth, and provides sufficient RF power and RF sensitivity for accessing to
the satellite. NTN Gateway is a transport network layer (TNL) node.
**On Board processing:** digital processing carried out on uplink RF signals
aboard a satellite or an aerial.
**On board NTN eNB** : eNB implemented in the regenerative payload on board a
satellite.
**On ground NTN eNB** : eNB of a transparent satellite payload implemented on
ground.
**One-way latency:** time required to propagate through a telecommunication
system from a terminal to the public data network or from the public data
network to the terminal.
**Regenerative payload:** payload that transforms and amplifies an uplink RF
signal before transmitting it on the downlink. The transformation of the
signal refers to digital processing that may include demodulation, decoding,
re-encoding, re-modulation and/or filtering.
**Round Trip Delay:** time required for a signal to travel from a terminal to
the sat-gateway or from the sat-gateway to the terminal and back.
**Satellite:** a space-borne vehicle embarking a bent pipe payload or a
regenerative payload telecommunication transmitter, placed into Low-Earth
Orbit (LEO), Medium-Earth Orbit (MEO), or Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO).
**Satellite beam:** a beam generated by an antenna on-board a satellite.
**Service link:** radio link between satellite and UE.
**Transparent payload:** payload that changes the frequency carrier of the
uplink RF signal, filters and amplifies it before transmitting it on the
downlink.
**User Connectivity:** capability to establish and maintain data transfer
between networks and terminals.
**User Throughput:** data rate provided to a terminal.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CHO Conditional Handover
DRX Discontinuous Reception
ECEF Earth-Centred, Earth-Fixed
eDRX Extended DRX
EIRP Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power
GEO Geostationary Earth Orbiting
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
GW Gateway
LEO Low Earth Orbiting
Mbps Mega bit per second
MEO Medium Earth Orbiting
MS Mobile Services
MSS Mobile Satellite Services
NGEO Non-Geostationary Earth Orbiting
NTN Non-Terrestrial Network
PSM Power Saving Mode
PUR Preconfigured Uplink Resource
RAN Radio Access Network
RTD Round Trip Delay
Rx Receiver
SNR Signal-to-Noise Ratio
TA Timing Advance
TA Tracking Area
TAC Tracking Area Code
TAU Tracking Area Update
TLE Two-Line Element
UAS Unmanned Aircraft System
UE User Equipment
WI Work Item
WID Work Item Description
WUS Wake Up Signal
# 4 IoT Non-Terrestrial Networks overview and scenarios
## 4.1 IoT Non-Terrestrial Networks overview
A non-terrestrial network refers to a network, or segment of networks using RF
resources on board a satellite.
The typical scenario of a non-terrestrial network providing access to user
equipment is depicted below:
{width="6.597222222222222in" height="2.84375in"}
Figure 4.1-1: Non-terrestrial network typical scenario based on transparent
payload
Non-Terrestrial Network typically features the following elements:
\- One or several sat-gateways that connect the Non-Terrestrial Network to a
public data network
\- a GEO satellite is fed by one or several sat-gateways which are to enable
satellite coverage over the targeted area (e.g. regional or even continental
coverage). It is assumed that UE in a cell are served by only one sat-gateway
\- A Non-GEO satellite served successively by one or several sat-gateways at a
time. The system ensures service and feeder link continuity between the
successive serving sat-gateways with sufficient time duration to proceed with
mobility anchoring and hand-over. Service discontinuity can also be deployed.
\- A Feeder link or radio link between a sat-gateway and the satellite
\- A service link or radio link between the user equipment and the satellite.
\- A satellite which implements a transparent payload. The satellite typically
generate several beams over a given service area bounded by its field of view.
The beam could be either earth fixed beam or earth moving beam for LEO. The
footprints of the beams are typically of elliptic shape. The field of view of
a satellite depends on the on board antenna design and minimum elevation
angle.
\- A transparent payload: Radio Frequency filtering, Frequency conversion and
amplification. Hence, the waveform signal repeated by the payload is un-
changed;
\- User Equipment are served by the satellite within the targeted service
area.
There may be different types of satellites listed here under:
Table 4.1-1: Types of NTN platforms
Platforms Altitude range Orbit Typical beam footprint size
* * *
Low-Earth Orbit (LEO) satellite 300 -- 1500 km Circular around the earth 100
-- 1000 km Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO) satellite 35 786 km notional
station keeping position fixed in terms of elevation/azimuth with respect to a
given earth point 200 -- 3500 km
Typically
\- GEO satellites are used to provide continental, regional or local service.
\- A constellation of LEO satellites is used to provide services in both
Northern and Southern hemispheres. In some case, the constellation can even
provide global coverage including polar regions. For the later, this requires
appropriate orbit inclination, sufficient beams generated.
## 4.2 IoT Non-Terrestrial Networks reference scenarios
The study captured in this Technical Report considers non-terrestrial networks
for IoT service providing access to NB-IoT/eMTC user equipment in reference
scenarios including:
\- GEO and LEO orbiting scenarios
\- No inter-satellite link
\- Transparent payload
\- Fixed or steerable beams resulting respectively in moving or fixed beam
footprint on the ground
\- Sub 6 GHz bands of interest.
IoT NTN scenarios A, B, C and D are included in the study as shown in Table
4.2-1 below:
Table 4.2-1: IoT NTN reference scenarios
NTN Configurations Transparent satellite
* * *
GEO based non-terrestrial access network Scenario A LEO based non-terrestrial
access network generating steerable beams (altitude 1200 km and 600km)
Scenario B LEO based non-terrestrial access network generating fixed beams
whose footprints move with the satellite (altitude 1200 km and 600km) Scenario
C MEO based non-terrestrial access network generating fixed beams whose
footprints move with the satellite (altitude 10000 km) Scenario D
# 5 IoT NTN architecture and capabilities
## 5.1 IoT NTN architecture
IoT NTN connectivity via EPC is supported.
IoT NTN connectivity via 5GC can be supported.
## 5.2 IoT NTN UE capabilities
GNSS capability in the UE is taken as a working assumption in this study for
both NB-IoT and eMTC devices.
Simultaneous GNSS and NTN NB-IoT/eMTC operation is not assumed.
## 5.3 IoT NTN features
It is assumed that all cellular IoT features specified up to Rel-16 are
supported for IoT NTN.
It is assumed that both NB-IoT multi-carrier operation and NB-IoT single-
carrier operation are supported as a baseline.
# 6 Radio Layer 1 issues and related solutions
## 6.1 IoT NTN reference parameters
The IoT NTN reference scenario parameters are listed in Table 6.1-1 below:
Table 6.1-1: IoT NTN reference scenario parameters
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Scenarios | **GEO based |** LEO based | **MEO based | | | n | n | n | | | on-terrestrial | on-terrestrial | on-terrestrial | | | access network | access network | access network | | | - scenario A** | -Scenario B & | -Scenario D**| | | | C** | | +================+================+================+================+ | Orbit type | station | circular | circular | | | keeping a | orbiting at | orbiting at | | | nominally | low altitude | medium | | | fixed position | around the | altitude | | | in terms of | earth | around the | | | ele | | earth | | | vation/azimuth | | | | | with respect | | | | | to a given | | | | | earth point | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Altitude | 35,786 km | 600 km | | | | | | | | | | 1,200 km | 10,000 km | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | \1.
For segmented UE pre-compensation how the following is handled can be further
discussed
\- Phase discontinuity at subframe boundary when applying new pre-compensation
\- Coherence time limitation due to delay/frequency drift rate during segment
\- Signal overlapping between different TA segments
FFS: Need for more frequent new UL gaps during long transmission
FFS: Whether sampling frequency adjustment to avoid new UL gaps can be
achieved by implementation
FFS: Value of N for the number of time units and what is the time unit for the
segmented UE pre-compensation
A validity timer for UL synchronization (e.g., for satellite ephemeris and
potentially other aspects) configured by the network is recommended.
\- Details e.g. when to set/reset the timer, timer duration and UE behaviour
upon timer expiry can be discussed in the normative phase
### 6.3.4 DL synchronization
For DL synchronization in the Rel-17 timeframe, the following should be
considered
\- New Channel raster with a step size increased to be greater than 100 kHz
\- (part of) ARFCN-indication-in-MIB
### 6.3.5 GNSS measurements
For sporadic short transmission:
\- The idle UE wakes up from idle DRX / PSM, access the network, perform
uplink and/or downlink communications for a short duration of time and go back
to idle.
\- Before accessing the network, the UE acquires GNSS position fix and does
not need to re-acquire a GNSS position fix for the transmission of the
packets.
Details of the duration of the short transmission, acquisition of the GNSS
position and validity of the GNSS position can be discussed in normative
phase.
With a GNSS position fix that can be assumed to be valid for some period of
time X, the following apply for UE in RRC_CONNECTED
\- TA error due to UE velocity satisfies the requirements defined in RAN4
\- Doppler shift error due to UE velocity satisfies the requirement defined in
RAN4
FFS: Validity of a GNSS position fix and details of acquiring a GNSS position
fix, value of X, in RRC CONNECTED mode
FFS: Potential impact on the existing closed loop TA maintenance mechanism
NOTE: The detailed requirement will be defined in RAN4 during normative work.
### 6.3.6 PRACH congestion
It was concluded that the potential issue of RACH congestion is not to be
studied further within Release-17 timeframe.
## 6.4 Timing relationship enhancements
The following aspects related to timing relationships enhancements were
studied to check whether enhancement is necessary and beneficial:
For NB-IoT:
\- NPDCCH to NPUSCH format 1
\- RAR grant to NPUSCH format 1
\- NPDSCH to HARQ-ACK on NPUSCH format 2
\- NPDCCH order to NPRACH
\- Timing advance command activation
\- FFS: Other NB-IoT timing relationships
For eMTC:
\- MPDCCH to PUSCH
\- RAR grant to PUSCH
\- PDCCH order to PRACH
\- MPDCCH to scheduled uplink SPS
\- PDSCH to HARQ-ACK on PUCCH
\- CSI reference resource timing
\- MPDCCH to aperiodic SRS
\- Timing advance command activation
\- FFS: Other eMTC timing relationships
Impact of large RTD (which impacts TA) on HD-FDD UL-DL timing relationships
were studied
The following aspects of Koffset were not studied and can at least rely on
decisions made in the NR NTN WI [7]:
\- Explicit or implicit indication in system information
Apart from Timing advance command activation, the study did not identify any
other IoT-NTN configurations needing activation/de-activation via MAC CE and
their timing relationships.
The impact on any timing relationships for IoT-NTN due to the need to perform
GNSS measurements for time and frequency synchronization were studied
The following NB-IoT timing relationships need enhancing for essential minimum
functionality of IoT NTN:
\- NPDCCH to NPUSCH format 1
\- RAR grant to NPUSCH format 1
\- NPDSCH to HARQ-ACK on NPUSCH format 2
\- Timing advance command activation
\- FFS: NPDCCH order to NPRACH
\- FFS: Other NB-IoT timing relationships
The enhancement based on extending the timing relationship, by e.g. Koffset,
adopted in NR NTN should be the starting point for enhancement of NB-IoT
timing relationships in IoT NTN. Details can be further discussed considering
IoT NTN.
The following eMTC timing relationships need enhancing for **essential minimum
functionality of** IoT NTN:
\- MPDCCH to PUSCH
\- RAR grant to PUSCH
\- MPDCCH to scheduled uplink SPS
\- PDSCH to HARQ-ACK on PUCCH
\- CSI reference resource timing
\- MPDCCH to aperiodic SRS
\- Timing advance command activation
\- FFS: MPDCCH order to PRACH
\- FFS: Other eMTC timing relationships
The enhancement based on extending the timing relationship, by e.g. Koffset,
adopted in NR NTN should be the starting point for enhancement of eMTC timing
relationships in IoT NTN. Details can be further discussed considering IoT
NTN.
It was concluded that the description of timing relationships for eMTC and NB-
IoT in Rel-16 do not take the TA into account in general.
Note: Exceptions to this may be identified as work on eMTC and NB-IoT over NTN
progresses further.
The UE-specific TA and/or K_offset can be used by the eNB in its scheduling to
avoid UL-DL collisions in FDD-HD.
The RAR window offset value for NR NTN, the parameters used for its
calculation and how these are configured or signalled together form a starting
point for IoT NTN.
Signalling aspects involved in UE-specific TA maintenance and reporting in
Rel-17 IoT and techniques to reduce the signalling load have been discussed.
Mechanisms to report the UE-specific TA and other means of determining the UE-
specific TA have been discussed. Decisions on these aspects can be made during
a subsequent normative phase.
Whether UE-specific K-Offsets are needed or not in Rel17 IoT NTN from a
physical layer point of view was discussed but without arriving at a
consensus. This issue can be further discussed during a future normative
phase.
## 6.5 HARQ
For NTN IoT, potential HARQ enhancements need to consider the main
characteristics of an IoT device, which are low complexity, low cost, low
power consumption and low throughput, and key requirements of IoT services
which are extended coverage, delay-tolerant and infrequent data transmissions,
and support of massive communications.
The peak throughput of IoT UEs operating over NTN is not expected to be higher
than the peak throughput of IoT UEs operating over TN.
The following aspects related to HARQ enhancements were studied :
Whether HARQ stalling happens at least in the GEO satellite scenario
Necessity, potential benefits and/or drawbacks
\- Increasing the number of HARQ processes on throughput, latency, power
consumption and complexity
\- Disabling HARQ feedback for NB-IoT
\- Disabling HARQ feedback for eMTC
\- Any other potential HARQ feedback mechanisms
\- Reduced PDCCH monitoring
\- Coverage enhancements
\- Uplink transmission gaps with multiple HARQ processes
\- Maintaining HARQ process continuity in serving cell change
\- Multiple Transport Blocks scheduling
\- Throughput enhancements
Increasing the number of HARQ processes for NB-IoT and for eMTC in NTN is
recommended not to be supported in Rel-17.
[Maintaining HARQ process continuity in serving cell change:]{.underline}
It was discussed that if there are a large number of repetitions in NTN IoT,
an UL/DL transmission may potentially have a duration larger than the time
interval needed by the UE for cell reselection or handover. This may
potentially be an issue especially for LEO satellite due to high mobility.
Some repetitions may not be able to be transmitted before a cell change
happens and this will cause a waste of resources. Combining repetitions from
different cells is a potential solution. RAN1 has not reached consensus to
recommend solutions in Rel-17.
[Throughput enhancements:]{.underline}
It was discussed to enable PDCCH monitoring during the time period between
receiving NPDSCH and transmitting HARQ ACK in NB-IoT to enhance throughput.
RAN1 has not reached consensus to recommend solutions to enhance throughput in
Rel-17.
[Disabling HARQ feedback:]{.underline}
Disabling HARQ feedback for downlink transmission was discussed. This can
benefit UE power consumption and latency. Disabling HARQ feedback for a DL
transmission can improve uplink throughput in NTN as more resource would be
available in uplink. If HARQ feedback is disabled, the L1 reliability of the
downlink transmission may degrade due to the lack of feedback.
Disabling HARQ feedback for downlink transmission can mitigate HARQ stalling
which is due to the large RTT in NTN and benefit UE power consumption and
latency.
When the HARQ feedback is not disabled, an uplink resource will be always
needed for HARQ ACK feedback. Considering HD-FDD processing for IoT UEs,
always-enabled HARQ ACK feedback will impact DL scheduling and resource
allocation in time domain and impact DL throughput/data rate, especially for
large coupling losses in the uplink that necessitate large number of
repetitions in the uplink.
It was concluded that from a physical layer perspective, there is no consensus
on disabling HARQ feedback for NTN IoT in Rel-17.
[PDCCH monitoring:]{.underline}
**The monitoring of a PDCCH which indicates an ACK/NACK after transmission of
a PUSCH was discussed. The reason for not monitoring PDCCH for a time period
after transmission of the PUSCH is UE power saving.**
\- When a UE is configured with one HARQ process, it was discussed whether the
UE can stop PDCCH monitoring after a PUSCH transmission as a new grant would
not be received until after one RTT, or the UE cannot stop PDCCH monitoring
because a new grant can be received before one RTT has passed and/or the UE
may need to monitor DCI for other scheduling assignments e.g. paging, system
information, etc.
\- When a UE is configured with two (or more) HARQ processes, whether to stop
monitoring PDCCH for a time period after transmission of the PUSCH needs also
to consider the relative timing of the two HARQ processes.
RAN1 noted that reduced monitoring of PDCCH is closely related to DRX and
should therefore be discussed in RAN1 and RAN2.
For NB-IoT and eMTC in NTN, it was concluded that enhancement~~s~~ to the
Rel-16 procedure for the monitoring of a PDCCH which indicates an ACK/NACK
after transmission of a PUSCH is not an essential feature for NTN IoT in
Rel-17.
[Additional feedback report]{.underline}
Reporting of additional information by a UE (such as timing information to
inform the network that a sufficient number of repetitions has been
transmitted, requested number of repetition, BLER-based triggering or bundling
of feedback, buffer status, enabling/disabling HARQ feedback, etc.) was
discussed.
It was concluded that reporting of additional feedback is not an essential
feature for NTN IoT in Rel-17.
## 6.6 Recommendation for IoT NTN specific enhancements
### 6.6.1 IoT NTN scenarios
Prioritize standalone deployment for NB-IoT / eMTC for support in Rel-17
timeframe
### 6.6.2 Time and frequency synchronization enhancements
Recommendations for NB-IoT / eMTC Time and frequency synchronization
enhancements in Release 17 timeframe
\- Long PUSCH and PRACH Transmission enhancements:
A specification change is needed for UL transmission with repetitions R>1.
Segmented UE pre-compensation done per N time units for long transmission on
PUSCH and on PRACH, where the pre-compensation does not vary within a block of
N time units.
For segmented UE pre-compensation how the following is handled can be further
discussed
\- Phase discontinuity at subframe boundary when applying new pre-compensation
\- Coherence time limitation due to delay/frequency drift rate during segment
\- Signal overlapping between different TA segments
It can be further studied during the normative phase (i) Need for more
frequent new UL gaps during long transmission; (ii) Whether sampling frequency
adjustment to avoid new UL gaps can be achieved by implementation; (iii) Value
of N for the number of time units and what is the time unit for the segmented
UE pre-compensation.
\- DL synchronization enhancements:
The following should be considered during the normative phase
\- New Channel raster with a step size increased to be greater than 100 kHz
\- (part of) ARFCN-indication-in-MIB
\- GNSS Measurements:
For sporadic short transmission:
\- The idle UE wakes up from idle DRX / PSM, access the network, perform
uplink and/or downlink communications for a short duration of time and go back
to idle.
\- Before accessing the network, the UE acquires GNSS position fix and does
not need to re-acquire a GNSS position fix for the transmission of the
packets.
Details of the duration of the short transmission, acquisition of the GNSS
position and validity of the GNSS position can be discussed in normative
phase.
With a GNSS position fix that can be assumed to be valid for some period of
time X, the following apply for UE in RRC_CONNECTED
\- TA error due to UE velocity satisfies the requirements defined in RAN4
\- Doppler shift error due to UE velocity satisfies the requirement defined in
RAN4
FFS: Validity of a GNSS position fix and details of acquiring a GNSS position
fix, value of X, in RRC CONNECTED mode
FFS: Potential impact on the existing closed loop TA maintenance mechanism
NOTE: The detailed requirement will be defined in RAN4 during normative work.
### 6.6.3 Timing relationship enhancements
The following NB-IoT timing relationships need enhancing for essential minimum
functionality of IoT NTN:
\- NPDCCH to NPUSCH format 1
\- RAR grant to NPUSCH format 1
\- NPDSCH to HARQ-ACK on NPUSCH format 2
\- Timing advance command activation
\- FFS: NPDCCH order to NPRACH
\- FFS: Other NB-IoT timing relationships
The following eMTC timing relationships need enhancing for **essential minimum
functionality of** IoT NTN:
\- MPDCCH to PUSCH
\- RAR grant to PUSCH
\- MPDCCH to scheduled uplink SPS
\- PDSCH to HARQ-ACK on PUCCH
\- CSI reference resource timing
\- MPDCCH to aperiodic SRS
\- Timing advance command activation
\- FFS: MPDCCH order to PRACH
\- FFS: Other eMTC timing relationships
The enhancement based on extending the timing relationship, by e.g. Koffset,
adopted in NR NTN should be the starting point for enhancement of eMTC timing
relationships in IoT NTN. Details can be further discussed considering IoT
NTN.
The UE-specific TA and/or K_offset can be used by the eNB in its scheduling to
avoid UL-DL collisions in FDD-HD.
It was concluded that the description of timing relationships for eMTC and NB-
IoT in Rel-16 do not take the TA into account in general.
Note: Exceptions to this may be identified as work on eMTC and NB-IoT over NTN
progresses further.
Signalling aspects involved in UE-specific TA maintenance and reporting in
Rel-17 IoT and techniques to reduce the signalling load have been discussed.
Mechanisms to report the UE-specific TA and other means of determining the UE-
specific TA have been discussed. Decisions on these aspects can be made during
a subsequent normative phase.
Whether UE-specific K-Offsets are needed or not in Rel17 IoT NTN from a
physical layer point of view was discussed but without arriving at a
consensus. This issue can be further discussed during a future normative
phase.
### 6.6.4 HARQ enhancements
Increasing the number of HARQ processes for NB-IoT and for eMTC in NTN is
recommended not to be supported in Rel-17.
It was concluded that from a physical layer perspective, there is no consensus
on disabling HARQ feedback for NTN IoT in Rel-17. Disabling HARQ feedback for
NB-IoT and for eMTC in NTN is recommended not to be supported in Rel-17.
\- The disabling of HARQ feedback for downlink transmission was discussed.
This can benefit UE power consumption and latency. Disabling HARQ feedback for
a DL transmission can improve uplink throughput in NTN as more resource would
be available in uplink. If HARQ feedback is disabled, the L1 reliability of
the downlink transmission may degrade due to the lack of HARQ feedback.
Therefore, more UL resources may will be needed for RLC status reporting,
which may will partly consume the UL resources made available by disabled HARQ
feedback.
\- According to some companies\' views, disabling HARQ feedback for downlink
transmission can mitigate HARQ stalling for NB-IoT which is due to the large
RTT in NTN and benefit UE power consumption and latency.
\- Means to mitigate the potential throughput/latency penalties due to the
large RTT in NTN that are already supported in the current specification were
also discussed. An eNB can ensure improved DL throughput for eMTC by
scheduling new DL TBs for a given HARQ process without waiting for reception
of the previous TB HARQ ACK/NACK of that HARQ process, even when the UE
transmits a HARQ ACK for TBs scheduled on that HARQ process. This mitigates
the throughput/latency penalties significantly. The UE is still required to
always transmit a HARQ-ACK (which is no longer used for the primary purpose of
physical layer acknowledgment, but may have secondary benefits, e.g., in link
adaptation aspects), thereby requiring more UE power expenditure than the
feedback-disabled case.
\- When the HARQ feedback is not disabled, an uplink resource will be always
needed for HARQ ACK feedback. Considering HD-FDD processing for IoT UEs,
always-enabled HARQ ACK feedback will impact DL scheduling and resource
allocation in time domain and impact DL throughput/data rate, especially for
large coupling losses in the uplink that necessitate large number of
repetitions in the uplink.
The monitoring of a PDCCH which indicates an ACK/NACK after transmission of a
PUSCH was discussed. The reason for not monitoring PDCCH for a time period
after transmission of the PUSCH is UE power saving.
\- When a UE is configured with one HARQ process, it was discussed whether the
UE can stop PDCCH monitoring after a PUSCH transmission as a new grant would
not be received until after one RTT, or the UE cannot stop PDCCH monitoring
because a new grant can be received before one RTT has passed and/or the UE
may need to monitor DCI for other scheduling assignments e.g. paging, system
information, etc.
\- When a UE is configured with two (or more) HARQ processes, whether to stop
monitoring PDCCH for a time period after transmission of the PUSCH needs also
to consider the relative timing of the two HARQ processes.
It was noted that reduced monitoring of PDCCH is closely related to DRX and
should therefore be discussed in RAN1 and RAN2.
For NB-IoT and eMTC in NTN, RAN1 concluded that enhancement~~s~~ to the Rel-16
procedure for the monitoring of a PDCCH which indicates an ACK/NACK after
transmission of a PUSCH is not an essential feature for NTN IoT in Rel-17.
# 7 Radio protocol issues and solutions
## 7.1 Requirements and key issues
### 7.1.1 Delay
The table below is amended from TR 38.821 [3] to identify the worst case IoT
NTN scenarios to be considered.
Table 7.1-1: NTN scenarios versus delay constraints, Source [3]
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NTN scenarios | GEO transparent | LEO transparent | | | payload | payload | +======================+======================+======================+ | Satellite altitude | 35786 km | 600 km | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Relative speed of | negligible | 7.56 km per second | | Satellite with | | | | respect to earth | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Min elevation for | 10° for service link | | | both feeder and | and 10° for feeder | | | service links | link | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Typical Min / Max | 100 km / 3500 km | 50 km / 1000 km | | NTN beam footprint | | | | diameter (Note 2) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum propagation | 541.46ms (Worst | 25.77ms | | delay contribution | case) | | | to the Round Trip | | | | Delay on the radio | | | | interface between | | | | the gNB and the UE | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Minimum propagation | 477.48ms | 8ms | | delay contribution | | | | to the Round Trip | | | | Delay on the radio | | | | interface between | | | | the gNB and the UE | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum Delay | Negligible | Up to +/- 40 µs/sec | | variation seen by | | (Worst case) | | the UE (Note 3) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The beam | | | | footprint diameter | | | | is indicative. The | | | | diameter depends on | | | | the orbit, earth | | | | latitude, antenna | | | | design, and radio | | | | resource management | | | | strategy in a given | | | | system. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The delay | | | | variation measures | | | | how fast the round | | | | trip delay (function | | | | of UE-satellite-NTN | | | | gateway distance) | | | | varies over time | | | | when the satellite | | | | moves towards/away | | | | from the UE. It is | | | | expressed in µs/s | | | | and is negligible | | | | for GEO scenario. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Speed of | | | | light used for delay | | | | calculation is | | | | 299792458 m/s. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
When several non-terrestrial network scenarios are undergoing maximum delay
constraints values of the same range, it is sufficient to consider only one of
these scenarios.
\- NTN Scenario based on GEO with transparent payload for RTT and delay
difference constraints
\- NTN Scenario based on LEO with transparent payload and moving beams for the
delay variation related constraint.
## 7.2 User plane enhancements
### 7.2.1 MAC
#### 7.2.1.1 General
The challenges associated with the expiry of MAC timers in NR NTN remain the
same in IoT NTN and high RTT of NTN is the primary cause of this [18]. The
following clauses are adopted from TR 38.821 [3] with suitable amendments for
IoT operation.
#### 7.2.1.2 Random access
**Enhancement to random access (RA) response window**
_Problem Statement_
After transmitting the Random Access Preamble (Msg1), the UE monitors the
PDCCH for the Random Access Response (RAR) message (Msg2). The RA Response
window starts at a determined time interval after the preamble transmission.
If no valid response is received during the RA Response window, a new preamble
is transmitted. If more than a certain number of preambles have been
transmitted with no valid response during the RA Response window, a random
access problem is indicated to upper layers.
In NTN the propagation delay is much larger and therefore, RAR message cannot
be received by the UE within the time interval specified for terrestrial
communications. Therefore, the starting time of RA Response window should be
modified to support IoT NTN.
_Solution Overview_
Similar to NR NTN [3], the offset can be adjusted to delay the start of the RA
Response window for IoT NTN [10]. If the start of the RA Response window is
accurately compensated and no extension of repetition is required, there is no
need to extend the _ra-ResponseWindowSize_ for IoT NTN.
**Enhancement to contention resolution timer**
_Problem Statement_
When the UE sends an RRC Connection Request (Msg3), it will monitor for Msg4
in order to resolve a possible random-access contention. The _mac-
ContentionResolutionTimer_ starts after Msg3 transmission. The maximum
configurable value of _mac-ContentionResolutionTimer_ is large enough to cover
the Round Trip Delay in NTN. However, to save UE power, the starting time of
_mac-ContentionResolutionTimer_ should be modified to support NTN.
_Solution Overview_
Similar to NR NTN [3], introduce an offset to delay the start of the _mac-
ContentionResolutionTimer_ for IoT NTN [18].
#### 7.2.1.3 Discontinuous reception (DRX)
_Problem Statement_
The Discontinuous Reception (DRX) supports UE battery saving by reducing the
PDCCH monitoring time. Several RRC configurable parameters are used to
configure DRX. [15, TS36.331]
_HARQ RTT Timer_ is the minimum duration before a downlink assignment for HARQ
retransmission is expected by the MAC entity. UL _HARQ RTT_ _Timer_ is the
same as DL _HARQ RTT Timer,_ just for the uplink. If HARQ is supported by IoT
NTN, the handling of DL _HARQ RTT Timer and UL HARQ RTT Timer, should be
modified to support IoT NTN._
Modification of the remaining timers related to DRX is not needed to support
IoT NTN, similar to NR NTN [3].
_Solution Overview_
As the challenges associated with the expiry of MAC timers in NR NTN [3]
remain the same in IoT NTN, it is assumed that the same solutions as NR NTN
for the start of DL _HARQ RTT Timer and UL HARQ RTT Timer can be reused as a
baseline_ to support _IoT NTN_ [18]_._
#### 7.2.1.4 Scheduling request
_Problem Statement_
A UE can use a Scheduling Request (SR) to request UL-SCH resources from the
eNB for a new transmission or a transmission with a higher priority. SR
transmission is configured by RRC. While the prohibit timer (_sr-
ProhibitTimer_) is active, no further SR is initiated. The _sr-ProhibitTimer_
will at latest expire after 7 SR periods for eMTC or after 7 NPRACH
opportunities for NB-IoT [15]. After the expiry of _sr-ProhibitTimer_ , a SR
will be initiated. For GEO systems the value range may not be sufficient
because of the large RTT.
_Solution Overview_
The _sr-ProhibitTimer_ will be modified for including larger values to support
IoT NTN. Alignment to NR NTN can be considered.
#### 7.2.1.5 HARQ
NOTE: The details of MAC Technical Specification [20] changes and other
signalling aspects of HARQ will be discussed during the Work Item phase.
#### 7.2.1.6 Uplink scheduling
The typical procedure when data arrives in the buffer is to trigger a Buffer
Status Report and if the UE does not have any uplink resources for
transmitting the BSR, the UE will go on to do a Scheduling Request to ask for
resources. Since the scheduling request is only an indication telling the
network that the UE requires scheduling, the network will not know the full
extent of the resources required to schedule the UE, thus first the network
may typically schedule the UE with a grant large enough to send a BSR so that
the network may schedule the UE more accurately.
In non-terrestrial networks the drawback of this procedure is that it would
take at least 2 round-trip times from data arriving in the buffer at the UE
side until it can be properly scheduled with resources that would fit the
data. Due to the large propagation delays this may become prohibitively large.
Based on these reasons, some enhancements for UL scheduling are discussed for
NR NTN. However, unlike NR NTN, UL scheduling enhancements for delay reduction
is not needed at least for NB-IoT NTN as latency is not a critical performance
requirement for IoT devices [18].
#### 7.2.1.7 Preconfigured uplink resource
An offset can be added to the start of the _pur-ResponseWindowTimer_. If the
start of the _pur-ResponseWindowTimer_ is accurately compensated by UE-gNB
RTT, there is no need to extend the _pur-ResponseWindowTimer_ value range.
### 7.2.2 RLC
#### 7.2.2.1 Reordering timer
_Problem Statement_
Both AM and UM modes use the _t-Reordering_ timer to control the RLC wait
interval for out-of-order MAC data before considering the missing data as lost
and handing any received data off to the PDCP layer. The _t-Reordering_ timer
can be configured with fixed values between 0 and 1600ms [15]. Large
propagation delay might have impacts on _t-Reordering_ timer.
_Solution Overview_
The value range of the RLC _t-Reordering_ timer will be extended to support
IoT NTN.
#### 7.2.2.2 RLC sequence numbers
In NB-IoT, the RLC sequence number (SN) size is 7 bits for AM and 5 bits for
UM. In eMTC, 10bit and 16bit are specified as the maximum possible UM and AM
SN field lengths [8]. The sequence number space needed for a radio bearer
depends on the data rate that is to be supported, the retransmission time
(i.e. the RTT, the number of retransmissions and the scheduling delay) as well
as the average size of the RLC SDUs. As the data rates for IoT NTN are
significantly lower than NR NTN, there is no need to extend the RLC SN length
for IoT NTN.
### 7.2.3 PDCP
#### 7.2.3.1 Discard timer
The transmitting PDCP entity shall discard the PDCP SDU when the
_discardTimer_ expires for a PDCP SDU or when a status report confirms the
successful delivery [17]. The _discardTimer_ can be configured up to 1500ms
for eMTC and up to 81920ms for NB-IoT, or can be switched off by choosing
infinity. The _discardTimer_ mainly reflects the QoS requirements of the
packets belonging to a service.
NOTE: PDCP _discardTimer_ enhancements can be considered during the Work Item
phase provided the impact to the Technical Specifications is minimal.
#### 7.2.3.2 PDCP sequence numbers
In NB-IoT, the PDCP sequence number (SN) size is 7 bits. In eMTC, the maximum
possible PDCP SN field length is 18bits [9]. As the data rates for IoT NTN are
significantly lower than NR NTN, there is no need to extend the PDCP SN length
for IoT NTN.
## 7.3 Control plane enhancements
### 7.3.1 Idle mode mobility enhancements
#### 7.3.1.1 Tracking area
_Problem Statement_
As outlined in 38.821 [17], satellites may provide very large cells, covering
hundreds of kilometres, and consequently would lead to large tracking areas.
In this scenario the tracking area updates (TAUs) are minimal, however the
paging load could be high because it then relates to the number of devices in
the tracking area.
Moving cells and consequently moving tracking areas would be difficult to
manage in the network as the contrast between the TAU and the paging
signalling load would be too extreme to find a practical compromise.
On one hand, small tracking areas would lead to massive TAU signalling for UE
at the boundary between 2 TAs as illustrated in figure 7.3.1.1-1.
{width="4.616666666666666in" height="1.4916666666666667in"}
Figure 7.3.1.1-1: Moving Cells and Small tracking areas leading to massive TAU
signalling
On the other hand, wide tracking areas would lead to high paging load in the
satellite beams as illustrated in figure 7.3.1.1-2.
{width="4.633333333333334in" height="1.4in"}
Figure 7.3.1.1-2: Moving Cells and wide tracking areas leading to higher
Paging load
However, tracking areas must be dimensioned to minimise the TAUs as this is
more signalling-intensive than paging on the network.
In practical tracking area design, one of the criteria affecting the
performance and capacity is the limiting capabilities of MME/AMF platforms and
the radio channel capacity.
Ping-pong effect generating excessive TAU, and it can be minimised by ensuring
10-20% overlaps between the adjacent cells and appropriate allocation of TAI
List to UEs especially at the edge of cells/TAs.
_Solution Overview_
In order not to have TAU performed frequently by the UE triggered by the
satellite motion, the tracking area is designed to be fixed on ground (i.e.
earth-fixed TA similar to NR NTN). For NTN LEO, this implies that while the
cells sweep on the ground, the tracking area code (i.e. TAC) broadcasted is
changed, when the cell arrives to the area of next planned earth fixed
tracking area location. The TAC broadcasted by the eNB needs to be updated as
a cell beam enters to the area of next planned tracking area. When the UE
detects entering a tracking area that is not in the list of tracking areas
that the UE previously registered in the network, a mobility registration
update procedure will be triggered.
Figure 7.3.1.1-3: An example of updating TAC and PLMN ID in real-time for LEO
with moving beams
As shown in Figure 7.3.1.1-3, network updates the broadcast TAC in real time
according to the ephemeris and confirms that the broadcast TAC is associated
with the geographical area covered by the satellite beam. UE listens to TAI =
PLMN ID + TAC and determines to trigger registration area update procedure
based on the broadcast TAC and PLMN ID when it moves out of the registration
area.
The two signalling options to update the broadcast TAC for IoT NTN are
described as follows:
> **(1) \"Hard switch\" option:**
>
> One cell broadcast only one TAC per PLMN. The new TAC replaces the old TAC
> and there may be some fluctuation at the border area. As shown in Figure
> 7.3.1.1-4, the UE will see its TAC changing like TAC-2 -> TAC-1 -> TAC-2
> from T1 to T3.
Figure 7.3.1.1-4: TAC fluctuation at the border area
> **(2) \"Soft switch\" option:**
>
> One cell can broadcast more than one TAC per PLMN. The cell adds the new TAC
> in its system information in addition to the old TAC, and subsequently
> removes the old TAC. If there is a chain of Tracking Areas, the TA list adds
> one TAC more and removes one old TAC while the cell sweeps the ground. This
> also reduces the amount of TAUs for UEs that happen to be located at the
> border area. However, for the \"soft switch\" option, the more TACs a cell
> broadcast, the heavier paging load it experiences, which usually leads to a
> significant imbalance distribution of paging load among cells. Thus, there
> is a trade-off between paging load and balancing the fluctuation of actual
> TA area enabled by the soft switch to be considered in network planning and
> implementation.
NOTE: For the TA handling, the details are expected to be settled in the Work
Item phase, e.g. the requirements for UE to update/re-read System Information.
#### 7.3.1.2 Using satellite assistance information and UE location
information
Satellite assistance (e.g. ephemeris information) and UE location information
can be used to help UEs in IoT NTN perform measurement and cell
selection/reselection, in addition to PCI and frequency information included
in the broadcast system information [3] [10].
Satellite assistance information (e.g. ephemeris information), can be used for
the handling of coverage holes or discontinuous satellite coverage in a power
efficient way. For a UE, it should be possible to predict discontinuous
coverage based on the satellite assistance information. To the extent that is
possible/reasonable, the UE is expected to not attempt to camp or connect when
there is no satellite coverage. To the extent that is possible/reasonable, the
network is expected not try to reach UEs that are out of coverage.
NOTE 1: It is an expected requirement that the UE and the network are
synchronized w.r.t. when the UE is awake and reachable (e.g. for paging).
NOTE 2: Provisioning of satellite assistance information can be performed
using System Information (SI) message(s) for IoT NTN.
#### 7.3.1.3 Enhancements to UE Idle mode mobility
Cell selection/reselection mechanisms specified for NB-IoT/eMTC [19] will be
reused as a baseline. Enhancements introduced for cell selection/re-selection
procedures in NR NTN [8] [18] will be considered if applicable to IoT NTN.
NOTE: It is assumed that existing Qoffset parameter(s) can be used for cell
re-selection between TN and IoT NTN.
#### 7.3.1.4 Further enhancements to system information acquisition
For some IoT UEs, it is expected that System Information (SI) enhancements,
based on same SI provided in multiple cells, can bring power consumption
benefits.
### 7.3.2 Connected mode mobility enhancements
#### 7.3.2.1 General
Similar to NR NTN [8], for LEO NTN, mobility management procedures should take
satellite movement into account, while for GEO NTN, the large propagation
delay needs to be accommodated.
#### 7.3.2.2 Connected mode mobility for NB-IoT NTN
There are no connected mode mobility procedures defined for NB-IoT. When an
NB-IoT UE goes out of service coverage of the source cell, it experiences a
Radio Link Failure (RLF). This triggers the UE to perform RRC connection re-
establishment.
RLF and RRC connection re-establishment procedures, as specified up to Release
16, are used as a baseline in NB-IoT NTN. Release-17 enhancements to reduce
the time taken for RRC re-establishment can be considered in NB-IoT NTN, if
applicable. Further minor enhancements can be considered, e.g. by using
satellite assistance (ephemeris) information.
#### 7.3.2.3 Connected Mode Mobility for eMTC NTN
Challenges in connected mode mobility for eMTC NTN are similar to the
connected mode mobility issues in NR NTN. These include (1) high latency
associated with handover signalling, (2) measurement validity, (3) frequent
handovers, (4) dynamic neighbour cell list, (5) handover of a large number of
UEs and (6) impact of propagation delay difference in measurements [8] [18].
RLF and RRC connection re-establishment procedures, as specified up to Release
16, are used as a baseline in eMTC NTN. Further minor enhancements can be
considered.
Conditional Handover (CHO) can be used for both the moving cell and the fixed
cell scenarios. The CHO procedure and execution conditions as defined in
Release-16 are taken as the baseline, with the following considerations:
\- The existing measurement framework for CHO (e.g. measurement configuration,
execution) is the baseline.
\- The existing measurement criteria and events applicable to eMTC can be used
for IoT NTN. Support for new measurement types would need justification, but
is not precluded, e.g. for enhanced coverage.
\- Time or timer based and location based CHO triggering event, in combination
with the existing Release-16 CHO measurement based event, can be introduced
for both moving cell and fixed cell scenarios. Support for new triggering
events is not precluded.
\- Enhancements to CHO, e.g., location-based and time-based triggering events
related to CHO in eMTC NTN, should be based on enhancements to CHO in NR NTN.
NOTE 1: CHO for IoT NTN does not apply for E-UTRA connected to 5GC (a similar
limitation applies in Release-16).
### 7.3.3 Paging capacity
The paging capacity and the impact on the size of the Tracking Area are
evaluated considering the target IoT NTN device density captured in Annex B.2.
For determining the paging capacity, the following parameters and
configuration possibilities are considered for LTE-M and NB-IoT [13]:
\- $N_{\text{PO}}$, number of paging occasions per paging frame determined by
the RRC parameter nB (maximum value of 4).
\- $N_{\text{PF}}$, number of configured paging frames per second, determined
by the configured paging cycle.
\- $N_{\text{carriers}}$, number of carriers, determined by the RRC parameter
_paging-narrowBands-r13_ for LTE-M and _maxNonAnchorCarriers-NB-r14_ for NB-
IoT.
_\- W~carrier~_ , paging weight of the carrier for NB-IoT. The paging load is
equally distributed across the carriers for the purpose of the evaluation.
\- $N_{\text{records}}$, number of records in a paging message (maximum number
of records of 16).
\- $A_{\text{paging}} = A \times M$, where $A_{\text{paging}}$ is the paging
area, $A$ is the cell area, and $M$ is the number of cells in a tracking area.
The area of a cell can roughly be calculated as $A = \
\frac{3\sqrt{3}}{2}R^{2}$ where $R$ is the larger radius of the hexagonal
area.
\- $N_{\text{pages}}$, number of average paging attempts per second for a UE.
\- $NO_{\text{Traffic}}$, fraction of UEs in the cell with network originated
traffic (see NOTE 1).
\- $D_{\text{UE}}$, UE density per square kilometre.
NOTE 1: The traffic model used in TR 45.820 [4] Clause 5.2 (Capacity
evaluation methodology) defines a split of the UEs population in 80% of
devices for periodic Mobile Autonomous Reporting application types and 20% for
Network Command application types ($NO_{\text{Traffic}} = \ 0.2)$.
Although there are some differences in terms of how LTE-M and NB-IoT would
work in practice, for paging capacity based on what is configurable by the
standard, they can be typically controlled by the same parameters. In the
evaluation we only consider the average UE in terms of coverage and thus do
not include factors such as percentage of UEs in deep coverage.
The supported maximum number of UEs that can be paged per second for the
LTE-M/NB-IoT cell is computed as:
$$C_{\text{paging}} = \ N_{\text{carrier}} \times N_{\text{PF}} \times
N_{\text{PO}} \times N_{\text{records}}$$
The paging channel load is given as:
$$Paging\ channel\ load = \ \frac{N_{\text{pages}} \times D_{\text{UE}} \times
\text{\ N}O_{\text{Traffic}} \times A_{\text{paging}}}{C_{\text{paging}}}$$
The achievable density of UEs assuming a UE is paged only in one cell in the
tracking area is given as:
$$D_{\text{UE}} = \ \frac{C_{\text{paging}}}{N_{\text{pages}} \times
NO_{\text{Traffic}} \times A_{\text{paging}}}$$
For the number of paging attempts $N_{\text{pages}}$, we consider the traffic
model given in TR 45.820 [4] Clause E.2.3, that indicates that the periodic
inter-arrival time is distributed as 40% of UEs having 1 day inter-arrival
time, 40% of UEs having 2 hours inter-arrival time, 15% of UEs having 1 hour
inter-arrival time and 5% of UEs having 30 minutes inter-arrival time. On
average per UE, this means $N_{\text{pages}} = 1.2963*10^{- 4}$ paging
attempts per second.
# 8 Recommendations on the way forward
## 8.1 Recommendations from RAN1
### 8.1.1 Recommendation for enhancements common to NR NTN and IoT NTN
**_The recommendations for NB-IoT and eMTC NTN Time and frequency
synchronization enhancements in Release 17 timeframe can follow NTN NR
agreements as baseline for the following:_**
\- UE Pre-compensation including Ephemeris Format (orbital / Position
-Velocity)
\- Timing Advance T~TA~ formula (granularity of the timing advance may be
different)
\- UE pre-compensation for UL synchronization in RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE and
RRC_CONNECTED states based at least on its GNSS-acquired position and the
serving satellite ephemeris
\- Combination of Open (i.e. UE autonomous TA estimation, and common TA
estimation) and Closed TA (i.e., received TA commands) control loops in
RRC_CONNECTED state
**_NOTE 1: The above is up to the decision in NR-NTN WI_**
**_NOTE 2: The NR NTN WI enhancements for UE pre-compensation do not include
IoT NTN specific aspects for long transmission on PUSCH and PRACH._**
NOTE 3: The NR NTN WI enhancements for UE pre-compensation do not include:
\- Restriction on the use of GNSS module, where simultaneous GNSS and NTN NB-
IoT/eMTC operation is not assumed.
\- IoT NTN aspects of validity timer for UL synchronization and GNSS
measurement for sporadic short transmission.
NR NTN have different requirements than IoT NTN for cost, complexity, power
consumption, and IoT-specific scenarios.
NOTE 4: It is assumed baseline functions in NB-IoT/eMTC terrestrial work
without enhancement unless certain issue is found, that will require essential
enhancements
### 8.1.2 Summary of RAN1 recommendations in Release-17 timeframe
RAN1 recommends to establish an IoT NTN Work Item for Rel-17 whose scope
should include a number of features that have been identified as essential by
the Working Group during the corresponding feasibility study of IoT NTN. These
essential features are listed below:
[IoT NTN scenarios:]{.underline}
Prioritize standalone deployment for NB-IoT / eMTC for support in Rel-17
timeframe
[Time and frequency synchronization enhancements]{.underline}:
IoT NTN can follow NTN NR agreements as baseline for UE pre-compensation,
timing advance formula, and combination of open and closed Timing Advance
control loops that are up to the decision in NR-NTN WI. The NR NTN WI
enhancements for UE pre-compensation do not include:
\- Restriction on the use of GNSS module, where simultaneous GNSS and NTN NB-
IoT/eMTC operation is not assumed.
\- IoT NTN aspects of validity timer for UL synchronization and GNSS
measurement for sporadic short transmission.
\- IoT NTN specific aspects for long transmission on PUSCH and PRACH
NOTE 1: NR NTN have different requirements than IoT NTN for cost, complexity,
power consumption, and IoT-specific scenarios.
NOTE 2: It is assumed baseline functions in NB-IoT/eMTC terrestrial work
without enhancement unless certain issue is found, that will require essential
enhancements.
IoT NTN specific time and frequency synchronization enhancements are listed
below:
\- Long PUSCH and PRACH Transmission enhancements: segmented UE pre-
compensations, new UL gaps and/or implementation solutions, time units and
duration of segments...
\- Validity timer for UL synchronization: satellite ephemeris, and potentially
other aspects
\- DL synchronization enhancements: new channel raster, (part of) ARFCN-
indication-in-MIB
\- GNSS Measurements: Validity of a GNSS position fix and details of acquiring
a GNSS position fix, duration of validity, in RRC CONNECTED mode for sporadic
short transmission
[Timing relationships enhancements]{.underline}:
\- Timing relationships for NB-IoT / eMTC: as listed in Clause 6.6.3 in TR
36.763
\- UL scheduling for FDD-HD: Use of UE-specific TA and/or K_offset to avoid
UL-DL collisions in FDD-HD
\- Signalling aspects in UE-specific TA maintenance and reporting, techniques
to reduce the signalling load and determination of the UE-specific TA can be
decided in normative phase.
NOTE 3: GNSS capability in the UE is taken as a working assumption in this
work item for both NB-IoT and eMTC devices. With this assumption, UE can
estimate and pre-compensate timing and frequency offset with sufficient
accuracy for UL transmission. Simultaneous GNSS and NTN NB-IoT/eMTC operation
is not assumed.
[HARQ enhancements:]{.underline}
\- Increasing the number of HARQ processes for NB-IoT and for eMTC in NTN is
recommended not to be supported in Rel-17.
\- It was concluded that from a physical layer perspective, there is no
consensus on disabling HARQ feedback for NTN IoT in Rel-17. Disabling HARQ
feedback for NB-IoT and for eMTC in NTN is recommended not to be supported in
Rel-17.
NOTE 4: RAN2 agreed that disabling of HARQ feedback is not essential
NOTE 5: Details on RAN1 recommendations for IoT NTN are given in Clause 6.6 of
TR 36.763
## 8.2 Recommendations from RAN2
RAN2 recommends the following essential enhancements identified during the
corresponding feasibility study of IoT NTN.
In general, the following baseline recommendation should be observed:
b1. all cellular IoT features specified up to Rel-16 are supported for IoT NTN
unless problems are found.
Support of the following enhancements is considered as essential:
e1. Support for EPC;
e2. Enhancements to _ra-ResponseWindowSize_ and _mac-
ContentionResolutionTimer_ ; NR NTN agreements can be used as the baseline;
e3. Enhancements to HARQ RTT timer and UL HARQ RTT timer; NR NTN agreements
can be used as the baseline;
e4. Enhancements to _sr-ProhibitTimer_ ; NR NTN agreements can be used as the
baseline;
e5. Enhancements to RLC _t-Reordering_ timer; NR NTN agreements can be used as
the baseline;
e6. Provisioning of ephemeris; NR NTN agreements can be used as the baseline;
e7. Enhancements to tracking area management using the earth-fixed TA concept,
considering both hard-switch and soft-switch options, where in the soft-switch
option the network may broadcast more than one Tracking Area Code per PLMN;
e8. Support of legacy (Rel-16) cell selection/reselection mechanisms without
major enhancements. Minor adjustments to existing mobility mechanisms, such as
a new parameter values, change to timing etc. can be considered to adapt
functionality to NTN;
e9. Support of discontinuous coverage without excessive UE power consumption
and without excessive failures / recovery actions. Enhancements to the
existing power saving mechanisms e.g. DRX, PSM, eDRX, relaxed monitoring, and
(G)WUS can be considered, if found needed, to support discontinuous coverage;
e10. Support of legacy (Rel-16) Handover and RLF/reestablishment mechanisms
without major enhancements. For eMTC, Rel-16 LTE CHO procedure can be
considered without major enhancements. Minor adjustments to existing mobility
mechanisms, such as a new parameter values, change to timing etc. can be
considered to adapt functionality to NTN.
Support of the following additional enhancements is not essential and can be
considered assuming the changes are small:
a1. Additional support for 5GC;
a2. Enhancement to PDCP discard timer;
a3. Adaptations to enable support in NTN deployment of existing features, e.g.
EDT, PUR for GEO.
###### ### Annex A: Void
###### ### Annex B: KPI and evaluation assumptions
# B.1 Key performance indicators
KPIs defined in TR38.913 are considered.
# B.2 Performance targets for evaluation purposes
Based on RAN2#105 conclusion on contribution R2-1901404 and SA1 specification
requirements, the Non-Terrestrial network target performances per usage
scenario for IoT connectivity (low power wide area service capability) was
recommended in TR 38.821 as shown in Table B.2-1:
Table B.2-1: Non-Terrestrial network target performances per usage scenarios
[source: TR 38.821]
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Usage | Exper | Ov | Act | Max | E | UE | So | | | scen | ience | erall | ivity | UE | nviro | categ | urces | | | arios | data | UE | f | speed | nment | ories | | | | | rate | de | actor | | | | | | | | (Note | nsity | (Note | | | | | | | | 1) | per | 1) | | | | | | | | | km2 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Note | | | | | | | | | | 2) | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | | DL | UL | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | IoT | 2 | 10 | 400 | 1,00% | 0 | Ex | IoT | **D | | co | kbps | kbps | | | km/h | treme | | evice | | nnect | | | | | | cov | | densi | | ivity | | | | | | erage | | ty** : | | (low | | | | | | | | from | | power | | | | | | | | R2-19 | | wide | | | | | | | | 01404 | | area | | | | | | | | \|6] | | se | | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | * | | c | | | | | | | | _Data | | apabi | | | | | | | | rate | | lity) | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | act | | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | fact | | | | | | | | | | or_ *: | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | rived | | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | | el-13 | | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | | 5.820 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [12] | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | E.2 | | | | | | | | | | \"Tr | | | | | | | | | | affic | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | odels | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | Cel | | | | | | | | | | lular | | | | | | | | | | IoT\" | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: As | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | | 2.261 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [13] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | Ov | | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | km2 | | | | | | | | | | repre | | | | | | | | | | sents | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | peak | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | | a 40 | | | | | | | | | | km | | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | | diam | | | | | | | | | | eter. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | ctual | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | can | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | ach | | | | | | | | | | ieved | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | sate | | | | | | | | | | llite | | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | | epend | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | beam | | | | | | | | | | diam | | | | | | | | | | eter. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
###### ### Annex C: Individual Company battery life analysis
# C.1 Huawei battery life analysis (R1-2102344)
Table C.1-1: Power consumption with 2 hours report period
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Report, 2hours | | | | +=================+=================+===========+=================+ | Flow | Du | Power(mW) | Power | | assumptions | ration(ms)/each | | c | | | report | | onsumption(mWh) | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **GNSS(DL)** | 2000 | 100 | 0.055556 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NPSS(DL)** | 20 | 80 | 0.000444 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NSSS(DL)** | 20 | 80 | 0.000444 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NTN SIB(DL, | 24 | 70 | 0.000467 | | 256bits)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **MIB-NB(DL)** | 60 | 70 | 0.001167 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg1(UL)** | 102.4 | 500 | 0.014222 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NPDCCH(DL)** | 8 | 70 | 0.000156 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg2(DL, | 12 | 70 | 0.000233 | | 56bits)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg3(UL)** | 96 | 500 | 0.013333 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NPDCCH(DL)** | 8 | 70 | 0.000156 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg4(DL, | 24 | 70 | 0.000467 | | 256bits)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **ACK/NACK for | 16 | 500 | 0.002222 | | Msg4(UL)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **PDCCH(DL)** | 8 | 70 | 0.000156 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **M | 320 | 500 | 0.044444 | | sg5(105bytes)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Idle** | 30000 | 3 | 0.025000 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Sleep(NTN)** | 7167281.6 | 0.015 | 0.029864 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Sleep(TN)** | 7169305.6 | 0.015 | 0.029872 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Total (TN, | 0.132317 | | | | mWh)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Total | 0.188330 | | | | (NTN,mWH)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Battery(Wh)** | 5.000000 | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Battery | 8.627436 | | | | lifte** | | | | | | | | | | **(TN, year)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Battery | 6.061437 | | | | lifte** | | | | | | | | | | **(NTN, year)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table C.1-2: Power consumption with 6 hours report period
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Report, 6hours | | | | +=================+=================+===========+=================+ | Flow | Du | Power(mW) | Power | | assumptions | ration(ms)/each | | c | | | report | | onsumption(mWh) | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **GNSS(DL)** | 5000 | 100 | 0.138889 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NPSS(DL)** | 20 | 80 | 0.000444 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NSSS(DL)** | 20 | 80 | 0.000444 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NTN SIB(DL, | 24 | 70 | 0.000467 | | 256bits)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **MIB-NB(DL)** | 60 | 70 | 0.001167 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg1(UL)** | 102.4 | 500 | 0.014222 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NPDCCH(DL)** | 8 | 70 | 0.000156 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg2(DL, | 12 | 70 | 0.000233 | | 56bits)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg3(UL)** | 96 | 500 | 0.013333 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NPDCCH(DL)** | 8 | 70 | 0.000156 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg4(DL, | 24 | 70 | 0.000467 | | 256bits)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **ACK/NACK for | 16 | 500 | 0.002222 | | Msg4(UL)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **PDCCH(DL)** | 8 | 70 | 0.000156 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **M | 320 | 500 | 0.044444 | | sg5(105bytes)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Idle** | 30000 | 3 | 0.025000 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Sleep(NTN)** | 21564281.6 | 0.015 | 0.089851 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Sleep(TN)** | 21569305.6 | 0.015 | 0.089872 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Total (TN, | 0.192317 | | | | mWh)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Total | 0.331651 | | | | (NTN,mWH)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Battery(Wh)** | 5.000000 | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Battery | 17.807399 | | | | lifte** | | | | | | | | | | **(TN, year)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Battery | 10.326083 | | | | lifte** | | | | | | | | | | **(NTN, year)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
Table C.1-3: Power consumption with 6 hours report period
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Report, 12hours | | | | +=================+=================+===========+=================+ | Flow | Du | Power(mW) | Power | | assumptions | ration(ms)/each | | c | | | report | | onsumption(mWh) | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **GNSS(DL)** | 5000 | 100 | 0.13889 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NPSS(DL)** | 20 | 80 | 0.00044 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NSSS(DL)** | 20 | 80 | 0.00044 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NTN SIB(DL, | 24 | 70 | 0.00047 | | 256bits)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **MIB-NB(DL)** | 60 | 70 | 0.00117 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg1(UL)** | 102.4 | 500 | 0.01422 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NPDCCH(DL)** | 8 | 70 | 0.00016 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg2(DL, | 12 | 70 | 0.00023 | | 56bits)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg3(UL)** | 96 | 500 | 0.01333 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **NPDCCH(DL)** | 8 | 70 | 0.00016 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Msg4(DL, | 24 | 70 | 0.00047 | | 256bits)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **ACK/NACK for | 16 | 500 | 0.00222 | | Msg4(UL)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **PDCCH(DL)** | 8 | 70 | 0.00016 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **M | 320 | 500 | 0.04444 | | sg5(105bytes)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Idle** | 30000 | 3 | 0.02500 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Sleep(NTN)** | 43164281.6 | 0.015 | 0.17985 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Sleep(TN)** | 43169305.6 | 0.015 | 0.17987 | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Total (TN, | 0.282317 | | | | mWh)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Total | 0.421651 | | | | (NTN,mWH)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Battery(Wh)** | 5.000000 | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Battery | 24.261118 | | | | lifte** | | | | | | | | | | **(TN, year)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Battery | 16.244032 | | | | lifte** | | | | | | | | | | **(NTN, year)** | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# C.2 CATT battery life analysis (R1-2102618)
Table C.2-1: The operation assumptions of protocol flow and GNSS for IoT NTN
**Battery capacity(Wh)** **5** **MCL 154dBm** **MCL 164dBm**
* * *
**Protocol flow assumptions** **Power(mW)** **Duration(ms)/each report**
**Power consumption(mWh)** **Duration(ms)/each report** **Power
consumption(mWh)** **GNSS signal reception** X Y X*Y/36e5 Y X*Y/36e5
**NPSCH(DL)** 80 291 0.006467 445 0.009889 **NPBCH(DL)** 70 10 0.000194 30
0.000583 **NPRACH(UL)** 500 40 0.005556 320 0.044444 **NPDCCH(DL)** 70 30
0.000583 220 0.004278 **NPUSCH(UL, 50bytes)** 500 320 0.044444 1920 0.266667
**NPUSCH(UL, 200bytes)** 500 960 0.133333 3840 0.533333 **NPDCCH(DL)** 70 30
0.000583 220 0.004278 **NPDCCH(DL)** 70 30 0.000583 220 0.004278
**NPDSCH(DL)** 70 100 0.001944 800 0.015556 **NPUSCH(UL)** 500 40 0.005556 320
0.044444 **NPDCCH(DL)** 70 30 0.000583 220 0.004278 **NPDCCH(DL, monitor)** 70
120 0.002333 880 0.017111 **idle** 3 11040 0.009200 60595 0.050496
**Standby(50bytes,2 hr)** 0.015 7137919 0.029741 7083810 0.029516
**Standby(200bytes,2 hr)** 0.015 7137279 0.029739 7081890 0.029508
**Standby(50bytes,24 hr)** 0.015 86337919 0.359741 86283810 0.359516
**Standby(200bytes,24 hr)** 0.015 86337279 0.359739 86281890 0.359508
Table C.2-2: The battery life with and without GNSS reception
power(mw)/duration(s) Packet size, reporting interval,MCL | Battery life (years) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| no GNSS | 20mw/5s | 20mw/10s | 20mw/20s | 20mw/40s | 20mw/50s | 216mw/5s | 216mw/10s | 216mw/20s | 216mw/40s | 216mw/50s  
**50bytes,2 hrs,MCL154** | 10.6 | 8.4 | 7.0 | 5.2 | 3.5 | 3.0 | 2.8 | 1.6 | 0.9 | 0.5 | 0.4  
**200bytes,2 hrs,MCL154** | 5.8 | 5.1 | 4.5 | 3.7 | 2.7 | 2.4 | 2.3 | 1.4 | 0.8 | 0.4 | 0.4  
**50bytes,24 hrs,MCL154** | 31.3 | 29.4 | 27.8 | 25.0 | 20.8 | 19.1 | 18.6 | 13.2 | 8.4 | 4.8 | 4.0  
**200bytes,24 hrs,MCL154** | 26.0 | 24.7 | 23.5 | 21.5 | 18.3 | 17.0 | 16.6 | 12.2 | 7.9 | 4.7 | 3.9  
**50bytes,2 hrs,MCL164** | 2.3 | 2.2 | 2.1 | 1.9 | 1.6 | 1.5 | 1.4 | 1.0 | 0.7 | 0.4 | 0.3  
**200bytes,2 hrs,MCL164** | 1.5 | 1.4 | 1.4 | 1.3 | 1.2 | 1.1 | 1.1 | 0.8 | 0.6 | 0.4 | 0.3  
**50bytes,24 hrs,MCL164** | 16.6 | 16.0 | 15.5 | 14.6 | 13.1 | 12.4 | 12.2 | 9.6 | 6.8 | 4.2 | 3.6  
**200bytes,24 hrs,MCL164** | 12.5 | 12.2 | 11.9 | 11.4 | 10.4 | 10.0 | 9.8 | 8.1 | 6.0 | 3.9 | 3.3  
[[CHART]]{.chart} [[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure C.2-1 Battery life with and without GNSS
# C.3 Qualcomm battery life analysis (R1-2103071)
Table C.3-1: Parameters for evaluating power consumption in IoT over NTN.
+---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Operation | Current | Duration | | | | | | | (Referenced to | | | | downlink current | | | | $\mathbf{C}_{\ | | | | mathbf{\text{DL}}}$) | | +=====================+======================+======================+ | GNSS reception | $$C_{\text{G | $\mathbf{2000}$ | | | NSS}} = \mathbf{1.1 | **ms** | | | \times}\mathbf{C}_{\ | | | | mathbf{\text{DL}}}$$ | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Downlink Reception | $$\mathbf{C}_{\ | PDCCH: $\mathbf{40}$ | | | mathbf{\text{DL}}}$$ | **ms** | | | | | | | | PDSCH (RAR): | | | | $\mathbf{8}$ **ms** | | | | | | | | PDSCH (Msg4): | | | | $\mathbf{8}$ **ms** | | | | | | | | PDSCH (Conn. | | | | Release): | | | | $\mathbf{8}$ **ms** | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink Transmission | $$C_{\text | PRACH: | | | {UL}} = \mathbf{4.3 | $\m | | | \times}\mathbf{C}_{\ | athbf{1}.\mathbf{6}$ | | | mathbf{\text{DL}}}$$ |**ms** | | | | | | | | Msg3: $\mathbf{8}$ | | | | **ms** | | | | | | | | PUSCH (data): | | | | $\mathbf{8}$ **ms | | | | per | | | | \~** $\mathbf{1000}$ | | | | **bits** | | | | | | | | (_simulated with | | | | 8000 bits per | | | | ON-duration_) | | | | | | | | HARQ-ACK: | | | | $\mathbf{8}$ **ms** | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sleep | $$C_{\tex | PSM: **8 hrs** | | | t{sleep}} = \left( \ | | | | mathbf{5.5 \times}\m | CDRX: | | | athbf{10}^{\mathbf{- | $\sim\m | | | 5}} \right)\mathbf{ | athbf{10}\mathbf{s}$ | | | \times}\mathbf{C}_{\ | | | | mathbf{\text{DL}}}$$ | | +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
{width="6.591945538057743in" height="0.5132414698162729in"}
Figure C.3-1: Short, sporadic transmissions for IoT over NTN.
**Under the studied scenario of short, sporadic connections, a GNSS fix before
every connection consumes approximately** $\mathbf{34\%}$ **of the UE\'s total
available energy.**
{width="6.638904199475066in" height="0.9749518810148732in"}
Figure C.3-2: Long connection with connected mode DRX for IoT over NTN.
**Under the studied scenario of a long connection employing connected mode DRX
(with a DRX cycle of** $\mathbf{\sim 10}\mathbf{s}$**), a GNSS fix before
every uplink transmission consumes approximately** $\mathbf{45\%}$ **of the
UE\'s total available energy without additional enhancements w.r.t uplink
synchronization.**
# C.4 MediaTek battery life analysis (R1-2102755)
Table C.4-1 Assumption for message transmission and reception times
{width="3.4259995625546806in" height="2.919074803149606in"}
Table C.4-2 Assumption for synchronization, MIB detection and RACH preamble
transmission times
{width="3.8497101924759405in" height="1.3802537182852144in"}
{width="2.531791338582677in" height="0.6442629046369204in"}
Table C.4-3 Battery life analysis with Hot Start GNSS TTFF
* * *
EVERY 2 HOUR (GNSS TTFF HOT START + NTN SIB 16B Reading)  
**50 BYTES** **200 BYTES**  
**GNSS TTFF** **MCL** **CIoT** **Integrated** **Module** **CioT**
**Integrated** **Module** 0 s 144 dB 18.73 17.35  
154 dB 10.51 5.43  
164 dB 2.68 1.27  
1 s 144 dB 18.73 15.8 12.72 17.35 14.81 12.07 154 dB 10.51 9.52 8.31 5.43 5.16
4.78 164 dB 2.68 2.61 2.51 1.27 1.26 1.23 2 s 144 dB 18.73 13.84 9.71 17.35
13.07 9.33 154 dB 10.51 8.77 6.91 5.43 4.93 4.28 164 dB 2.68 2.55 2.37 1.27
1.24 1.2
* * *
Table C.4-4 Battery life analysis with Warm Start GNSS TTFF
* * *
EVERY DAY (GNSS TTFF WARM START + NTN SIB 16B Reading)  
**50 BYTES** **200 BYTES**  
**GNSS TTFF** **MCL** **CIoT** **Integrated** **Module** **CioT**
**Integrated** **Module** 0 s 144 dB 35.04 34.61  
154 dB 31.23 25.36  
164 dB 18.12 11.16  
5 s 144 dB 35.04 30.9 23.81 34.61 19.56 11.18 154 dB 31.23 27.9 23.68 25.36
18.32 10.76 164 dB 18.12 16.95 15.29 11.16 12.86 8.61 30 s 144 dB 35.04 30.56
25.57 34.61 19.43 11.14 154 dB 31.23 23.12 20.14 25.36 16.13 9.57 164 dB 18.12
10.7 10.02 11.16 8.91 6.64
* * *
# C.5 Ericsson battery life analysis (R1-2103061)
Figure 1: NB-IoT RRC Resume procedure with UL and DL data transmissions.
Figure C.5-1: NB-IoT EDT procedure with UL data transmission.
Table C.5-1: GNSS parameters for battery life evaluation.
+----------------+-----------+-------------------+ | | GNSS TTFF | Power consumption | | | | | | | (sec) | (mW) | +================+===========+===================+ | **Hot start** | 1 | 37 | +----------------+-----------+-------------------+ | **Warm start** | 5 | 37 | +----------------+-----------+-------------------+
Table C.5-2: eMTC and NB-IoT power consumption for battery life evaluation.
Mode Power consumption (mW)
* * *
**TX** 545 **RX** 90 **RRC Connected** 3 **RRC Idle** 0.015
Table C.5-3: eMTC battery life with 200 bytes UL data and 50 bytes DL data for
various values of MCL and UL reporting interval.
eMTC, 200 bytes UL, 50 bytes DL Battery life TN (year) Battery life NTN (year)
Change (%) Battery life TN (year) Battery life NTN (year) Change (%) Battery
life TN (year) Battery life NTN (year) Change (%)
* * *
MCL (dB) 164 154 144  
2 hr EDT 1.0 1.0 \~0 8.8 8.2 6.82 22 18.4 16.36 2 hr RRC Resume 0.9 0.9 \~0
8.2 7.6 7.32 22 18.4 16.36 24 hr EDT 9.1 9.1 \~0 30.0 27.0 10.0 37.0 32.5
12.16 24 hr RRC Resume 8.4 8.4 \~0 29.4 26.5 9.86 37.0 32.5 12.16
Table C.5-4: eMTC battery life with 50 bytes UL data and 50 bytes DL data for
various values of MCL and UL reporting interval.
**eMTC, 50 bytes UL, 50 bytes DL** **Battery life TN (year)** **Battery life
NTN (year)** **Change (%)** **Battery life TN (year)** **Battery life NTN
(year)** **Change (%)** **Battery life TN (year)** **Battery life NTN (year)**
**Change (%)**
* * *
MCL (dB) 164 154 144  
2 hr EDT 2.6 2.5 3.85 14.6 12.9 11.64 23.4 19.4 17.09 2 hr RRC Resume 2.0 2.0
\~0 13.2 11.8 10.61 23.5 19.4 17.45 24 hr EDT 17.9 16.8 6.14 33.8 30.0 11.24
36.3 32.1 11.57 24 hr RRC Resume 15.4 14.5 5.84 33.1 29.5 10.88 36.4 32.1
11.81
Table C.5-5: NB-IoT battery life with 200 bytes UL data and 50 bytes DL data
for various values of MCL and UL reporting interval.
**NB-IoT, 200 bytes UL, 50 bytes DL** **Battery life TN (year)** **Battery
life NTN (year)** **Change (%)** **Battery life TN (year)** **Battery life NTN
(year)** **Change (%)** **Battery life TN (year)** **Battery life NTN (year)**
**Change (%)**
* * *
MCL (dB) 164 154 144  
2 hr EDT 1.4 1.4 \~0 7.9 7.3 7.59 19.8 16.9 14.65 2 hr RRC Resume 1.1 1.1 \~0
7.4 7.0 5.41 19.3 16.5 14.51 24 hr EDT 11.4 11.4 \~0 29.0 26.2 9.65 36.4 32.1
11.81 24 hr RRC Resume 9.7 9.7 \~0 28.5 25.7 9.82 36.3 31.9 12.12
Table C.5-6: NB-IoT battery life with 50 bytes UL data and 50 bytes DL data
for various values of MCL and UL reporting interval.
**NB-IoT, 50 bytes UL, 50 bytes DL** **Battery life TN (year)** **Battery life
NTN (year)** **Change (%)** **Battery life TN (year)** **Battery life NTN
(year)** **Change (%)** **Battery life TN (year)** **Battery life NTN (year)**
**Change (%)**
* * *
MCL (dB) 164 154 144  
2 hr EDT 3.4 3.3 2.94 13.4 12.0 10.45 22.2 18.5 16.67 2 hr RRC Resume 2.6 2.5
3.85 12.4 11.2 9.67 21.6 18.1 16.20 24 hr EDT 20.5 19.1 6.83 33.2 29.6 10.84
36.2 31.9 11.88 24 hr RRC Resume 17.8 16.7 6.18 32.7 29.1 11.01 36.0 31.8
11.67
# C.6 Nokia battery life analysis (R1-210832)
In first step, GNSS measurement by UE are assumed to be ideally accurate
(although there may be some issue as analysis above), then considering 50Bytes
and 200Bytes packet, reporting (data) interval as 2hour or 1day, battery life
reduction because of GNSS related power consumption will be as in Figure 1,
where we assume a hot start >=1s and warm start >=5s and with other assumption
as Table 2&3 aligned with [R1-157251, Nokia Networks, \"NB IoT -- Battery
lifetime evaluation in standalone operation\", 3GPP RAN1 #83]. Annex A Table
4&5 provide the original results.
Table C.6-1: Assumption for requested time for each item in Tx/Rx
* * *
Activity State ms Synchronization RX 215 MIB acquisition Rx 64 Idle 576 PRACH
Tx 160 Idle 640 DCI + RAR Rx 72 Msg3 Tx 340 DCI + Msg4 Rx 72 DCI (UL grant) Rx
36 Report (50 bytes) Tx 1405 Report (200 bytes) Tx 4648 HARQ ACK Rx 36 DCI Rx
36 IP Ack Rx 200 HARQ ACK Tx 288 PDCCH monitoring Rx 1440 Extra wait time Idle
22000
* * *
Table C.6-2: Assumption for battery capacity and battery power consumption
* * *
Battery capacity (Wh) 5 Battery power during Tx (mW) 543 Battery power for Rx
(mW) 90 Battery power when Idle but not in PSS (mW) 2.4 Battery power in Power
Save State (PSS) (mW) 0.015 battery power for GNSS Rx (mW) **37**
* * *
{width="3.3333333333333335in"
height="2.0035465879265093in"}{width="3.334811898512686in" height="2.0in"}
Figure C.6-1: Battery life reduction because of GNSS measurement
Another points that will reduce battery life for IoT over NTN is SIB reading
for satellite ephemeris. If assuming power consumption for SIB reading is
90mW, then battery life reduction will be as in Figure 2.
{width="5.460474628171479in" height="2.286864610673666in"}
Figure C.6-2: Battery life reduction because of SIB reading for satellite
ephemeris (90mW)
Table C.6-3 battery life reduction because of GNSS measurement
* * *
packet size = 50Bytes Reporting\ Number of reports per day Rx time of GNSS
measurement\ Reduced battery life\ Reporting\ Number of reports per day Rx
time of GNSS measurement\ Reduced battery life\ interval\ (ms) (%) interval\
(ms) (%) (hour) (hour)
* * *
2 12 1000 2.332 24 1 5000 6.329
2 12 2000 4.557 24 1 10000 11.905
2 12 3000 6.683 24 1 15000 16.854
2 12 4000 8.717 24 1 20000 21.277
2 12 5000 10.663 24 1 25000 25.253
packet size = 200Bytes Reporting\ Number of reports per day Rx time of GNSS
measurement\ Reduced battery life\ Reporting\ Number of reports per day Rx
time of GNSS measurement\ Reduced battery life\ interval\ (ms) (%) interval\
(ms) (%) (hour) (hour)
2 12 1000 1.105 24 1 5000 3.950
2 12 2000 2.186 24 1 10000 7.599
2 12 3000 3.244 24 1 15000 10.982
2 12 4000 4.279 24 1 20000 14.125
2 12 5000 5.292 24 1 25000 17.054
* * *
Table C.6-4 battery life reduction because of SIB reading for satellite
ephemeris
* * *
packet size = 50Bytes Reporting\ Number of reports per day Rx time of NTN SIB\
Reduced battery life\ Reporting\ Number of reports per day Rx time of NTN SIB\
Reduced battery life\ interval\ (ms) (%) interval\ (ms) (%) (hour) (hour)
* * *
2 12 20 0.116 24 1 20 0.066
2 12 30 0.174 24 1 30 0.099
2 12 40 0.232 24 1 40 0.131
2 12 50 0.289 24 1 50 0.164
2 12 60 0.347 24 1 60 0.197
packet size = 200Bytes Reporting\ Number of reports per day Rx time of NTN
SIB\ Reduced battery life\ Reporting\ Number of reports per day Rx time of NTN
SIB\ Reduced battery life\ interval\ (ms) (%) interval\ (ms) (%) (hour) (hour)
2 12 20 0.054 24 1 20 0.040
2 12 30 0.081 24 1 30 0.060
2 12 40 0.109 24 1 40 0.080
2 12 50 0.136 24 1 50 0.100
2 12 60 0.163 24 1 60 0.120
* * *
###### ### Annex D: Examples of paging capacity evaluation
# D.1 Example 1 ([21])
To evaluate the paging capacity, Table D.1-1 gives a number of examples. The
rationale for the selected cases are (the corresponding sets parameters are
given in Clause 6.1 of the present Technical Report):
\- Case 1: IoT dense paging configuration at 600 km altitude Set 1,
considering UEs are in good radio conditions not requiring any repetitions and
thus more paging occasions can be used.
\- Case 2: IoT sparse paging configuration at 600 km altitude Set 1,
considering somewhat more UEs being in worse radio conditions requiring more
repetitions for the paging occasions.
\- Case 3: IoT sparse paging configuration (to allow for repetitions) for GEO
altitude Set 1 considering UEs in decent radio conditions.
\- Case 4: IoT sparse paging configuration (to allow for repetitions) for Set
4 with repetitions configured for paging occasions to overcome link budget
conditions thus requiring more sparse paging.
Table D.1-1: Parameters for the selected cases
* * *
Case Paging Parameters Paging area  
$$\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{PO}}}$$ $$\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{PF}}}$$
$$\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{carriers}}}$$
$$\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{records}}}$$  
Paging Case 1 1 100 16 2 R=25 km, $M = 1,\ \ A_{\text{paging}} = 1623$ km^2^
Paging Case 2 1 50 16 1 R=25 km, ${M = 1,\ \ A}_{\text{paging}} = 1623$ km^2^
Paging Case 3 1 100 16 1 R=125 km, $M = 1,\ \ A_{\text{paging}} = 40595$ km^2^
Paging Case 4 1 50 16 1 R=850 km, ${M = 1,\ \ A}_{\text{paging}} = 1877110$
km^2^
* * *
The results can be found in the following Table D.1-2 and Table D.1-3. For
Table D.1-2 we have assumed a UEs density of 400 UE/km^2^ following [3]. In
Table D.1-3 we evaluate the achievable UEs density.
Table D.1-2: Paging channel load for a given UEs density
Case UE density [UE/km^2^] Paging channel load
* * *
Paging Case 1 400 2.63 % Paging Case 2 400 10.52 % Paging Case 3 400 131.6 %
Paging Case 4 400 12166 %
Table D.1-3: Supported UEs density
* * *
Case Achievable UEs density [UE/km^2^] Paging Case 1 15210 Paging Case 2 3803
Paging Case 3 304 Paging Case 4 3.29
* * *
# D.2 Example 2 ([22])
## D.2.1 Calculation for paging capacity and paging load
**Parameters for paging capacity and paging load evaluation**
Following parameters should be considered for calculation of the paging
capacity:
\- Paging Frames (PF) per second: N~PF~
\- Paging Occasions (PO) per PF: N~POperPF~$N_{\text{POperPF}}$
\- Maximum number of paging records in paging message:
N~UEperPO~$N_{\text{UEperPO}}$
\- User density (UEs/km2)
\- Satellite beam diameter: in km
\- NO_Traffic: fraction of UEs in the cell with network originated traffic
\- Arrival session or call rate: average requested paging occasions per hour
and per UE
\- Number of cells per tracking area: M
\- Number of paging carriers (NB-IoT) or paging narrow bands (eMTC):
N~Carrier~
\- Paging carrier weight in NB-IoT
**Paging capacity**
In [25], it was agreed to consider equal weight for all paging carriers in NB-
IoT and to use the following formula derived from [3] to calculate the paging
capacity per second:
Supported paging capacity per second: N~Carrier~ * N~PF~ * N~POperPF~ *
N~UEperPO~
In NB-IoT and eMTC, there may not be a PF/PO in each radio frame (e.g. due to
the need for coverage enhancements) and the paging occasions density is given
per nB and T, i.e. the number of POs per second is equal to 100 * nB / T.
We propose to update the above formula accordingly, i.e.:
**Supported paging capacity per second** : N~Carrier~ * (100 * nB / T) *
N~UEperP~
**Paging load**
The required paging load per cell in [3] is calculated as:
**expected arrival rate per cell per second** = A * UE density * arrival
session rate
In the traffic model defined for IoT [4], it is specified in Clause 5.2.2 that
only 20% (NO_traffic) of the UEs in the cell are pageable.
In the traffic model defined for IoT [4], the distribution of paging session
arrival rate is defined in Clause E.2.3 and E.2.1.
Thus we propose to update the formula as below:
**paging load per cell per second** = A * (0.2 * UE density) * (0.4 * AR~1d~ +
0.4 * AR~2h~ + 0. 15 * AR~1h~ + 0.0.5 * AR~30m~)
## D.2.2 Examples of calculation
As described in Clause D.2.1, the parameters defining the actual paging
capacity and paging load are:
\- paging capacity: N~Carrier~, T and nB
\- paging load: A and User density
In the following tables we provide results for different values of the
parameters.
**Paging capacity for NB-IoT:**
T can take the values 128, 256, 512 and 1024. Usual values in TN deployments
are 128 and 256. We use these T = 128 for the calculations below.
nB can take the values 4T, 2T, T, T/2, T/4, T/8, T/16, T/32, T/64, T/128,
T/256, T/512, T/1024. nB should be chosen so POs overlapping is avoided, i.e.
nB depends on the level of coverage enhancements needed (i.e. the number of
NPDCCH repetitions). Considering that in NTN most UEs will be in relative good
coverage, we use nB= T, T/2, T/4, T/8, T16 and T/32 for the calculations
below.
N~Carrier~ can take the values 1..16.
N~UEperPO~ is equal to 16.
Table D.2.2-1: Paging capacity per second per carrier
T nB Paging capacity
* * *
128 T 1600 T/2 800 T/4 400 T/8 200 T/16 100 T/32 50
**Paging load:**
Given the cell area of a hexagonal cell has a radius of r, the cell area can
be expressed as A= 3 * √3 /2 * r^2^.
For example, for the cell radius of r = 250km, the area is A = 163 000km^2^.
Table D.2.2-2: Paging load and number of required carriers for a given UE
density
| Number of needed carriers (T=128) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
UE density [UE/km2] | r [km] | No UEs per cell | Paging load per second | nB=T | nB=T/2 | nB=T/4 | nB=T/8 | nB=T/16 | nB=T/32  
400 | 250 | 65,200,000 | **1690** | **1** | **2** | **4** | **8** | **16** | **32**  
20 | 250 | 3,260,000 | **85** | **1** | **1** | **1** | **1** | **1** | **2**  
# D.3 Example 3 ([23])
## D.3.1 Parameters for paging capacity calculation
Following are the parameters used to calculate the paging capacity of IoT-NTN
cells:
\- Paging Frames (PF) per second: $N_{\text{PF}}$
\- Paging Occasions (PO) per PF: $N_{\text{PO}\text{per}\text{PF}}$
\- Maximum number of paging records in paging message:
$N_{\text{UE}\text{per}\text{PO}}$
Out of the above parameters, number of PF and number of PO are based on DRX
cycle configuration, NB value configured in system information of NB-IoT and
eMTC cell. Maximum number of paging records applicable for NB-IOT/eMTC is 16.
The paging capacity of NB-IoT cell can be extended with additional non-anchor
carriers configured for paging. For eMTC additional paging narrow-bands can be
configured to handle additional paging load. So the following parameter can
also be used for calculation of paging capacity of base station.
\- Number of paging carriers or paging narrowband.
## D.3.2 Paging traffic load estimation
Estimated paging traffic load in IoT-NTN cell depends on the following
parameters:
\- Estimated Idle mode UE as per the connection density given in Annex B.2
\- Percentage of IoT users expecting network command and network command
Traffic model. Network command traffic model used to deduce arrival rate is
given in TR45.820 [4] Annex H.
If single cell is covering one tracking area or if the device is stationary
and base station only paging in the last connected cell, the paging load is
calculated as below.
**_Expected Paging Load in cell = A* Used Density * Arrival session rate._**
In case if the Tracking area consists of more than one cell and the network
needs to schedule the paging over all cells of the tracking area blindly the
expected paging load is calculated as below.
**_Expected Paging Load in Tracking Area = M* A* Used Density * Arrival
session rate_**
## D.3.3 Paging Capacity Evaluation
Following table illustrates the paging load estimation for given UE density
based on the paging capacity and arrival rates calculated as per the
information given in earlier clauses.
Table D.3.3-1: Paging channel load
+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | $$ | UE | Ar | M | r | P | P | Req | | \math | de | rival | | \ | aging | aging | uired | | bf{\t | nsity | se | | [km] | Load | Cap | n | | ext{P | [UE/ | ssion | | | | acity | umber | | aging | km2] | rate | | | ( | per | of | | }}\ma | | per | | | pages | Ca | car | | thbf{ | | hour | | | /sec) | rrier | riers | | \ }$$ | | | | | | | | | | | (As | | | | ( | | | $$\ | | per | | | | pages | | | mathb | | NW | | | | /sec) | | | f{\te | | co | | | | | | | xt{Co | | mmand | | | | | | | nfigu | | Tr | | | | | | | ratio | | affic | | | | | | | n}}$$ | | model | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | (N | | TR45 | | | | | | | B,DRX | | .820) | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | ycle, | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | aging | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | ecord | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sage) | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+===+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | T,10 | 400 | 0.46 | 1 | 250 | 1690 | 1600 | 1 | | 24,16 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4T,10 | 400 | 0.46 | 1 | 250 | 1690 | 6400 | 1 | | 24,16 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | T,10 | 20 | 0.46 | 1 | 250 | 420 | 1600 | 1 | | 24,16 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4T,10 | 20 | 0.46 | 1 | 250 | 420 | 6400 | 1 | | 24,16 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+
When extended coverage is supported for paging transmission beyond 4
repetitions, the number of available paging occasions needs to be reduced
depending on the maximum repetitions required in the cell. In the below table
the paging capacity calculations are provided for cell with configuration of
NB value which is fraction of DRX cycle.
Table D.3.3-2: Paging channel load / Extended coverage
+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | $$ | UE | Ar | M | r | P | P | Req | | \math | de | rival | | \ | aging | aging | uired | | bf{\t | nsity | se | | [km] | Load | Cap | n | | ext{P | [U/ | ssion | | | | acity | umber | | aging | km2] | rate | | | ( | per | of | | }}\ma | | per | | | pages | Ca | car | | thbf{ | | hour | | | /sec) | rrier | riers | | \ }$$ | | | | | | | | | | | (As | | | | ( | | | $$\ | | per | | | | pages | | | mathb | | NW | | | | /sec) | | | f{\te | | co | | | | | | | xt{Co | | mmand | | | | | | | nfigu | | Tr | | | | | | | ratio | | affic | | | | | | | n}}$$ | | model | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | (N | | TR45 | | | | | | | B,DRX | | .820) | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | ycle, | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | aging | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | ecord | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sage) | | | | | | | | +=======+=======+=======+===+=======+=======+=======+=======+ | T | 400 | 0.46 | 1 | 250 | 1690 | 400 | 4 | | /4,10 | | | | | | | | | 24,16 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | T | 20 | 0.46 | 1 | 250 | 420 | 400 | 1 | | /4,10 | | | | | | | | | 24,16 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+---+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Furthermore, the supported UE density given the UE arrival session rate per
UE, which is highly dependent on the size of the beam, can be calculated by:
$$\frac{\text{Supported\ arrival\ rate}}{\text{arrival\ session\ rate\ x\ }A}
= Supported\ UE\ density$$
Table D.3.3-3: Supported UE densities for a given arrival session rate per
carrier
$$\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{PF}}}\mathbf{,\ \
}\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{PO}}\mathbf{\text{per}}\mathbf{\text{PF}}}\mathbf{,\
\ }\mathbf{N}_{\mathbf{\text{UE}}\mathbf{\text{per}}\mathbf{\text{PO}}}$$
Arrival session rate M r [km] UE density [UE/km2]
* * *
4T,1024,16 0.46 1 250 1520 T,1024,16 0.46 1 250 380 T/4,1024,16 0.46 1 250 95
NOTE: Paging capacity calculation for tracking area wide paging depending on
number of cells per tracking area and capacity calculations considering
additional carriers in IoT-NTN base station needs to be updated in next
revision.
# D.4 Example 4 ([24])
## D.4.1 Paging capacity
For NB-IoT, considering the multi-carrier and the repetition, two cases are
evaluated.
Table D.4.1-1: Details of Case 1 and Case 2
+----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | | paging record | Multi carrier | PO per PF, PF | | | in a paging | | per second, | | | message | | paging records | | | | | per PO per | | | | | carrier | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Case 1 | 16 | 16 | 4, 100, 16 | | (NB-IoT, | | | | | normal | | | | | coverage) | | | | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+ | Case 2 | 16 | 16 | Anchor: 1, 1, | | (NB-IoT, | | | 16 | | enhanced | | | | | coverage) | | | Non-anchor: 1, | | | | | 4, 16 | +----------------+----------------+---------------+----------------+
The supported number of paging records per second are as following:
Case 1: _C~paging~_ = _N~carrier~_ × _N~PF\ ~_ × _N~PO\ ~_ × _N~records\ ~_ =
102400
Case 2: _C~paging~_ = _N~PF_anchor\ ~_ × _N~PO_anchor\ ~_ × _N~records~ \+
N~carrier_nonanchor~_ × _N~PF_nonanchor\ ~_ × _N~PO_nonanchor\ ~_ ×
_N~records\ ~_ = 976
Moreover, the area of the cell A has impact on results of the paging channel
load and achievable UE density. Considering that satellite parameter Set 4 may
be special, e.g., having the issue of discontinuous coverage, satellite beam
diameter of 1700km in Set 4 also needs to be taken into account. For example,
_R_ =250 km, _A_ =162379 km^2^; _R_ =850 km, _A_ =1877110 km^2^.
The results can be found in the following Table D.4.1-2 and Table D.4.1-3:
Table D.4.1-2: Paging channel load for a given number of paging attempts and
UE density
+-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+ | PO per | UE | **_N~ | M |_ R* | Paging | | PF, PF | density | pages~*** | | [km] | channel | | per | \ | | | | load | | second, | [UE/km2] | | | | | | paging | | | | | | | records | | | | | | | per PO | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+ | 4, 100, | 400 | 1 per | 1 | 250 | 18% | | 16 | | hour | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+ | | 400 | 1 per 24 | 1 | 250 | 1% | | | | hours | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+ | | 400 | 1 per | 1 | 850 | 204% | | | | hour | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+ | | 400 | 1 per 24 | 1 | 850 | 8% | | | | hours | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+ | Anchor: | 400 | 1 per | 1 | 250 | 1849% | | 1, 1, 16 | | hour | | | | | | | | | | | | No | | | | | | | n-anchor: | | | | | | | 1, 4, 16 | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+ | | 400 | 1 per 24 | 1 | 250 | 77% | | | | hours | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+ | | 400 | 1 per | 1 | 850 | 21370% | | | | hour | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+ | | 400 | 1 per 24 | 1 | 850 | 890% | | | | hours | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+---+-----------+-----------+
Table D.4.1-3: Supported UE density for a given number of paging attempts
+----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+ | PO per PF, PF | **_N~pages~_** | _M_ | _R_ [km] | Achievable UE | | per second, | | | | density | | paging records | | | | [UE/km2] | | per PO per | | | | | | carrier | | | | | +----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+ | 4, 100, 16 | 1 per hour | 1 | 250 | 2240 | +----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+ | | 1 per 24 hours | 1 | 250 | 54485 | +----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+ | | 1 per hour | 1 | 850 | 196 | +----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+ | | 1 per 24 hours | 1 | 850 | 4713 | +----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+ | Anchor: 1, 1, | 1 per hour | 1 | 250 | 21 | | 16 | | | | | | | | | | | | Non-anchor: 1, | | | | | | 4, 16 | | | | | +----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+ | | 1 per 24 hours | 1 | 250 | 519 | +----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+ | | 1 per hour | 1 | 850 | 2 | +----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+ | | 1 per 24 hours | 1 | 850 | 45 | +----------------+----------------+-----+------------+----------------+
###### ### Annex E: IoT NTN essential parts
# E.1 Introduction
This annex captures the agreements related to the evaluation of solutions
addressing essential functionality of IoT NTN scenarios further to RAN plenary
meeting #91e (March 2021).
# E.2 RAN2 Agreements
## E.2.1 Agreements at RAN2 #113bis-e (April 2021)
The following points are endorsed:
Enhancements to ra-ResponseWindow and mac-ContentionResolutionTimer are
essential. R2 assume that design can follow NR NTN agreements as baseline.
Enhancements to HARQ-RTT-Timer and UL-HARQ-RTT-Timer are essential. R2 assume
that design can follow NR NTN agreements as baseline.
Enhancements to sr-ProhibitTimer are essential. R2 assume that design can
follow NR NTN agreements as baseline.
Enhancements to RLC SN and PDCP SN are not essential.
Enhancements to tracking area management are essential.
Provisioning of ephemeris is essential. NR NTN agreements can be used as the
baseline.
There is significant interest for Power saving in idle mode for NTN IOT
devices, e.g. there is significant interest for enhancements to eDRX/PSM
(discontinuous coverage) and to relaxed monitoring, SI acquisition and WUS.
The following points are endorsed:
Enhancements to UL scheduling for latency reduction are not essential.
Enhancements to PUR are not essential. Enhancement to pur-ResponseTimer is
needed and feasibility of PUR in GEO and LEO scenarios needs to be checked by
RAN1.
Enhancements to RLC t-Reordering timer are essential. There is no need for
further study as design can follow NR NTN agreements.
## E.2.2 Agreements at RAN2 #114-e (May 2021)
Disabling of HARQ feedback is not essential.
No need has been identified in RAN2 for further Rel-17 IoT NTN enhancement
regarding eMTC and NB-IoT Coverage Enhancement features. They are assumed
applicable to IoT NTN. Layer 1 issues if any, and the potential related need
for further enhancement, are assumed to be addressed by RAN1.
Enhancement to PDCP discard timer is not essential but can be considered in
the WI as TS impact is very small.
No additional agreements on \"earth-moving cell\" are needed in the Technical
Report for Tracking Area Handling, as this is included in the already made
agreements.
Referring to a previous agreement: \"The NR-NTN agreements, where the network
may broadcast more than one TACs per PLMN in a cell is considered for IoT NTN
(other options not excluded for now)\", remove the text \"_(other options not
excluded for now)_ \" from previous agreement.
Referring to a previous agreement, \"[035] 15: RAN2 should wait until
agreements regarding TAU are made in the NR-NTN WI, and use those for eMTC/NB-
IoT over NTN, if applicable.\", TAU details based on agreements regarding TAU
made in the NR NTN WI is handled in the IoT NTN WI as a part of using the
earth-fixed TA concept.
Enhancements for SON and channel quality reporting for NTN have not been found
to be essential.
Support of legacy (Rel-16) cell selection/reselection mechanisms without major
enhancements is considered essential. Minor adjustments to existing mobility
mechanisms, such as a new parameter values, change to timing etc. can be
considered to adapt functionality to NTN.
From RAN2 point of view, the existing power saving mechanisms e.g. DRX, PSM,
eDRX, relaxed monitoring, and WUS can be reused without enhancement. Can
consider enhancements if found needed, to support discontinuous coverage.
Support of discontinuous coverage without excessive UE power consumption and
without excessive failures / recovery actions, is essential, Expectation that
this needs to be taken into account at least for Idle mode, and that this is
applicable for all reference scenarios (GEO, MEO and LEO).
Enhancements for power saving in connected mode are not essential. Minor
adaptations to enable support in NTN deployment of existing features e.g. EDT,
PUR for GEO may be considered in the WI phase (no major changes for adaptation
is assumed).
Support for EPC is essential. RAN2 believes that support for 5GC is not
essential, however the impact in RAN2 to additionally support 5GC is small and
is feasible.
The Study Item can be closed from a RAN2 perspective.
Support of legacy (Rel-16) Handover and RLF/reestablishment mechanisms without
major enhancements is considered essential. For eMTC, Rel-16 LTE CHO procedure
can be considered without major enhancements. Minor adjustments to existing
mobility mechanisms, such as a new parameter values, change to timing etc. can
be considered to adapt functionality to NTN.
#