# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item of Introduction
of upper 700MHz A block E-UTRA band for the US.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] RP-212618, "New WID: Introduction of upper 700MHz A block E-UTRA band for
the US"
[3] RP-212917, "Revised WID: Introduction of upper 700MHz A block E-UTRA band
for the US"
[4] Reallocation of TV Channels 60-69, the 746-806 MHz Band, ET Docket No.
97-157.
[5] https://www.fcc.gov/wireless/bureau-divisions/mobility-
division/lower-700-mhz-service.
[6] Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, Pub. L. No. 112-96,
126 Stat. 156 (2012).
[7] Implementing Public Safety Broadband Provisions of the Middle Class Tax
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, Docket No. DA 12-1462
[8] 3GPP TS 36.101 V15.3.0 (2018-07), Table 5.5-1 E-UTRA frequency bands.
[9] Reallocation and Service Rules for the 698-746 MHz Spectrum Band, GN
Docket No. 01-74.
[10] "700 MHz Public Safety Spectrum" (https://www.fcc.gov/700-mhz-public-
safety-narrowband-spectrum).
[11] PART 27 --- MISCELLANEOUS WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, Electronic
Code of Federal Regulations.
[12] R4-2119425, UE coexistence and emission requirements for 700 MHz NB-IoT,
RAN4#101-e.
[13] 3GPP TS 36.104 V17.4.0 "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA); Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**Example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> ERP Effective Radiated Power
>
> HAAT Height Above Average Terrain
>
> NAM North America
>
> PSNB Public Safety Narrow Band
\ \
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
During the RAN#93-e and RAN#94-e, the WI to introduce Upper 700MHz A Block as
an E-UTRA band for the US was approved [2][3]. The A Block in the Upper 700
MHz Band Plan [4], is shown in Figure 4.1-1. In 1998, the FCC reallocated the
746-806 MHz spectrum band (Upper 700 MHz Band as in Figure 4.1-1) that had
been allocated from television Channels 60-69 for public safety use and the
fixed, mobile services for commercial use [5].
{width="6.6875in" height="3.1145833333333335in"}
Figure 4.1-1 -- FCC Upper 700 MHz Band Plan
The FCC combined the D Block with the Broadband portion of the Public Safety
band [6] [7] to provide broadband public safety services; which were
standardized by 3GPP as Band 14.
The existing 3GPP Band Classes in the whole 700 MHz band for the North America
(NAM) is shown in Figure 4.1-2. In addition to Band 14, Upper 700 MHz C Block
became Band 13 [8]. Figure 4.1-2 also includes the Lower 700 MHz Band [9] with
the following 3GPP bands [8] defined: Band 12, Band 17, Band 85 that work in
FDD mode; as well as Band 29 that is used as a FDD supplemental downlink (SDL)
for Carrier Aggregation only.
{width="6.6875in" height="1.2708333333333333in"}
Figure 4.1-2 -- 700 MHz Band Plan and 3GPP Band Classes
From regulatory point of view, the Upper 700 MHz A Block and Band 13 are
subject to the same requirements (FCC 47 CFR § 27.53 part I); which are very
similar to those for the other adjacent band, that is, Band 14 (FCC 47 CFR
§90R).
Recently, Band 85 was created by adding a 1+1 MHz guard band to Band 12 [8].
This was facilitated by the vacating of the adjoining spectrum by the TV
broadcasters [8]. The guard bands are intended to be allocated for stand-alone
NB-IoT carriers. The successful standardization of Band 85 demonstrated that
NB-IoT can coexist with other services in the 700MHz Band.
The proposed Upper 700 MHz A Block as a new stand-alone band for NB-IoT is
shown in Figure 4.1-3. To be specific, the uplink band for this new band is 1
MHz, 787-788 MHz; the downlink band is 1 MHz, 757-758 MHz; the duplex spacing
is 30 MHz.
{width="6.739583333333333in" height="1.2291666666666667in"}
Figure 4.1-3 -- New Band Proposed for Upper 700 MHz A Block
The 700 MHz band is a premium spectrum that exhibits excellent propagation
characteristics, which makes it perfect for NB-IoT applications. The Upper 700
MHz A Block is currently used by utility companies and other critical
infrastructure industries in the US to provide critical communications
services. They have expressed a strong desire for standardizing this band to
ensure the interoperability and leverage the existing 3GPP eco-system (see the
accompanying Liaison Statements). Industrial IoT is an important vertical for
5G mMTC deployments. Standardizing this band will encourage the utility
industry to use standards-based 3GPP solutions instead of proprietary ones and
will co-exist better with the neighboring 3GPP bands.
The operation of NB-IoT in the Upper 700 MHz A Block has been successfully
demonstrated in field commercial networks in North Florida region using FCC
certified equipment for the past two years [9]. The required changes to
implement NB-IoT on this band using existing 700 MHz capable devices and
equipment were minimal.
## 4.2 Objectives
**The following are the core objectives of the Work Item:**
\- Study the need for any applicable co-location and/or co-existence
requirements for the 700MHz NB-IoT band, considering regional regulations, and
if needed specify the co-existence requirements
\- Study any identified unique aspects specific to the proposed new band.
\- Standardize a new FDD E-UTRA operating band based on the 2 MHz paired
spectrum consisting of Upper 700 MHz A Block. To be specific, the uplink band
for this new band is 1 MHz, 787-788 MHz; the downlink band is 1 MHz, 757-758
MHz; the duplex spacing is 30 MHz. Refer to Figure 4.1-3**.**
\- Support for 200 kHz bandwidth
\- Specify band numbering and RF characteristics of the new band.
\- Ensure the new band supports only NB-IoT operation.
\- Update the related 3GPP E-UTRA technical specifications for the core part
to include support for the new band
\- Update the related 3GPP E-UTRA technical specifications for the performance
part to include support for the new band, if necessary.
# 5 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
## 5.1 Frequency band and channel bandwidth
**The upper 700MHz block A to be introduced as a new E-UTRA band for
standalone NB-IoT operation is summarized as below:**
**\- Uplink Frequency Range: 787-788 MHz**
**\- Downlink Frequency Range: 757-758 MHz**
**\- Channel Bandwidth: 1 MHz**
**\- Duplex Spacing: 30 MHz**
## 5.2 Adjacent 3GPP bands
**The Region 2 3GPP bands nearby to operating band 103, were identified as the
following: 5, 12, 13, 14, 17, 26, 29, 71 and 85; as shown in Figure 5.2-1.**
Figure 5.2-1. 3GPP Bands operating nearby to Upper 700MHz Block A
**Operating Band 103 resides between E-UTRA Band 13 and Band 14.**
## 5.3 Nearby non-3GPP Services
**FCC assigned a pair of 6+6 MHz FDD spectrum for public safety narrow band
(PSNB) services [10]. The downlink is in 769 -- 775 MHz and uplink is in 799
-- 805 MHz.**
**In order to protect the PSNB services, FCC requires that the emission limits
to this band (both the uplink and downlink) be limited to -46 dBm / 6.25 kHz
from base stations operated in the Upper 700 MHz A block and -35 dBm / 6.25
kHz from mobile devices [11]; respectively.**
## 5.4 FCC regulatory requirements
**The relevant FCC rules governing the Upper 700 MHz Band (746 -- 806 MHz) can
be found in the 47 CFR Part 27 [2]. They are summarized as follows:**
  1. **Power Limits**
**The power limits are defined in the FCC 47 CFR Part 27 [2], §27.50 \-- Power
limits and duty cycle:**
**Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal must not exceed an effective
radiated power (ERP) of 1000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m height above
average terrain (HAAT).**
**Control stations and mobile stations transmitting in the 776-788 MHz band
and fixed stations transmitting in the 787-788 MHz band are limited to 30
watts ERP.**
**Portable stations (hand-held devices) transmitting in the band are limited
to 3 watts ERP.**
**For transmissions in the 757-758, 775-776, 787-788, and 805-806 MHz bands,
maximum composite transmit power shall be measured over any interval of
continuous transmission using instrumentation calibrated in terms of RMS-
equivalent voltage. The measurement results shall be properly adjusted for any
instrument limitations, such as detector response times, limited resolution
bandwidth capability when compared to the emission bandwidth, etc., so as to
obtain a true maximum composite measurement for the emission in question over
the full bandwidth of the channel.**
**2\. Emission Limits**
**The emission limits are defined in the FCC 47 CFR Part 27 [11], §27.53 --
Power limits and duty cycle:**
**The power of any emission outside a licensee´s frequency band/bands of
operations shall be attenuated below the transmitter power P, measured in
watts, by at least 43+10log10(P) dB, considering a resolution bandwidth of 100
kHz or greater, except within 0-100 kHz immediately outside and adjacent a
licensee´s frequency block where it is required to be 30 kHz. That corresponds
to a single absolute emission power spectral density limit of -13 dBm
(Emission limit = PdBW-43-PdB= - 43dBW = -13dBm) over the specified resolution
bandwidth for all transmitters (including base stations and portable devices)
regardless of actual ERP or frequency offset.**
**The emission power for all frequencies between 763-775 MHz and 793-805 MHz
shall be attenuated below the transmitter power P, measured in watts, by a
factor not less than 76 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for base
and fixed stations; and by a factor not less than 65 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25
kHz band segment, for mobile and portable stations**
**The emissions in the band 1559-1610 MHz shall be limited to −70 dBW/MHz
equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) for wideband signals, and −80
dBW EIRP for discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth. For the purpose
of equipment authorization, a transmitter shall be tested with an antenna that
is representative of the type that will be used with the equipment in normal
operation.**
**It should be noted from the above that the regulatory requirements regarding
emissions are the same for both Band 13 and upper 700 MHz block A.**
# 6 Operating band, channel bandwidths, channel numbering
**The core objective of the WI is to standardize the upper 700MHz A block
defined by the FCC in the US to support standalone NB-IoT operation [2][3].**
## 6.1 Operating bands
Band number 103 is assigned to the Upper 700 MHz A Block.
Table 6.1-1 E-UTRA operating bands
* * *
**E‑UTRA Operating Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band\** Downlink (DL)
operating band\ **Duplex Mode**  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit**UE receive**
                              **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**   **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
103 787 MHz -- 788 MHz 757 MHz -- 758 MHz FDD
* * *
## 6.2 Operating bands for category NB1 and NB2
Category NB1 and NB2 are designed to operate in the E-UTRA operating band 103
**which is** defined in Table 6.2-1.
Band 103 is subject to the same emission requirements as Band 13, therefore
NS_04 is applicable.
In case UE receives network signaling value NS_04 on any of the operating
bands listed in Table 6.2-1 then the lower and upper limit of those bands are
shown in Table 6.2-1 to account for the USA emission requirements.
**Table 6.2-1 E-UTRA operating bands for NB-IoT in the USA**
* * *
**E‑UTRA Operating Band** **Uplink (UL) operating band\** Downlink (DL)
operating band\ **Duplex Mode**  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit**UE receive**
                              **F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~**   **F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~**
13 777 MHz -- 786.9 MHz 746 MHz -- 755.9 MHz FDD
85 698.1 MHz -- 715.9 MHz 728.1 MHz -- 745.9 MHz FDD
103 787.1 MHz -- 787.9 MHz 757.1 MHz -- 757.9 MHz FDD
* * *
## 6.3 Channel bandwidth
Band 103 is the first band that supports NB-IoT only operation. Thus far, none
of the E-UTRA channel bandwidths is supported, as the whole band is only of
1+1 MHz paired spectrum.
# 7 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 7.1 UE aspect issues
The upper 700MHz A block resides between Band 13 and Band 14. Hence, this new
band and Band 13 / 14 exhibit the same propagation characteristics. Moreover
the regulatory requirements for this band are exactly the same as those for
Band 13. Therefore, it was decided to define the requirements based on the
work done for bands 13 with the support for NB-IoT operation only.
### 7.1.1 UE maximum output power for category NB1 and NB2
Following the above motivation to reuse the Band 13 work, Band 103 was agreed
to use the following NB1 and NB2 power classes, as listed in table 7.1.1-1.
Table 7.1.1-1: UE Power Class for Band 103
EUTRA band Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 5 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 6
(dBm) Tolerance (dB)
* * *
103 23 ±2 20 ±2 14 ±2.5
### 7.1.2 UE maximum output power with additional requirements for category
NB1 and NB2 UE
To address the additional spurious emission requirement of -13 dBm/30 kHz
outside of the band (787 -- 788 MHz), as described in Section 5.2, a 100 kHz
guard band at both band edges is introduced by making use of the NS_04
signaling for US NB-IoT bands [12]. For Band 103, the result is effectively
truncating its bandwidth from 1 MHz to 800 kHz. Band 103 is added to the row
of NS_04 in the following table.
Table 7.1.2-1: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR) for category NB1 and
NB2 UE
Network Signalling value Requirements (subclause) E-UTRA Band A-MPR (dB)
* * *
NS_04 5.5F 2, 4, 5, 12, 13, 17, 25, 26, 66, 71, 85, 103 N/A
### 7.1.3 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
UE to UE co-existence is specified the same as for Band 13, i.e., adopting the
-50 dBm/MHz emission requirement to/from other 3GPP bands.
Table 7.1.3-1: Requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | **E |** Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | B | emiss | | | | | | | | and**| ion** | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | * | * | **Ma |** MBW | **N | | | | |_Prot |_ Freq | ximum | (M | OTE** | | | | | ected | uency | Level | Hz)**| | | | | | b | range | (d | | | | | | | and** | (M | Bm)**| | | | | | | | Hz)** | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | 103 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 53, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 71, | | | | | | | | | 74, | | | | | | | | | 85, | | | | | | | | | 103 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NR | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | n77 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | 1.3-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+
## 7.2 BS aspect issues
To enable on the upper 700MHz A Block new E-UTRA band for NB-IoT standalone
operation, the following specific changes on the section 6 and 7 for BS
requirements in TS 36.104 [13], are expected due to introduction of Band 103.
In TS36.104 there is already a full set of requirements to enable NB-IoT
standalone operation. The introduction of E-UTRA Band 103 will have impact on
those requirements applicable for NB-IoT standalone operation except for those
requirements defined with band agnostic way. Particularly, the spurious
requirements and blocking requirements for co-existence purpose should be
updated to add the new band.
### 7.2.1 Transmitter characteristics
#### 7.2.1.1 Base station output power
For Base station output power defined in 6.2 of TS36.104, similar to Band 85,
dedicated paragraph should be added for Band 103 NB-IoT standalone operation
as the BS rated output power applies only within the range of the DL operation
band with assumption of equal PSD.
#### 7.2.1.2 Operating band unwanted emission
For minimum requirement of unwanted emission for NB-IoT standalone, the
reuiqrements are defined in clause 6.6.3.2E, 6.6.3.2F, 6.6.3.2G and 6.6.3.2H
of TS36.104 with band agnostic way. Hence no upldate to those clauses is
needed.
In the section of "6.6.3.3 additional requirements" for unwanted emissions of
TS36.104 [13], the additonal emission limits defined in table 6.6.3.3-2 ,
which are applicalbe to the newly introduced Band 103, should be updated with
band 103 accordingly.
#### 7.2.1.3 Spurious emission
For the section of " 6.6.4.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements" and "
6.6.4.4 Co-location with other base stations" for co-existence and co-location
requirements with the newly introduced band, changes are expected to table
6.6.4.3.1-1, table 6.6.4.3.1-1A, Table 6.6.4.3.1-3, table Table 6.6.4.4.1-1,
Table 6.6.4.4.1-2 and Table 6.6.4.4.1-3 to guarantee protection to related
system in applicable co-existence and co-location scenarios.
### 7.2.2 Receiver characteristics
#### 7.2.2.1 Blocking requirement
For the section of " 7.6.1 General blocking requirement" in TS 36.104, the new
band 103 shall be introduced in the NB-IoT standalone operation tables (for
different types of BS) as Table 7.6.1.1-3, Table 7.6.1.1-3a, Table 7.6.1.1-3b,
Table 7.6.1.1-3c to guarantee the receiver requirement for general blocking.
For the section of " 7.6.2 Co-location with other base stations" in TS 36.104,
the new band 103 shall be introduced in the tables (for different types of BS)
as Table 7.6.2.1-1, Table 7.6.2.1-2 and Table 7.6.2.1-3 to guarantee co-
located deployment with the BS in the newly introduced band.
#