# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the work item on LTE TDD HeNB
RF requirements, which was approved at TSG RAN#43. The objective of the WI is
to first identify the relevant scenarios and then write an RF requirements
specification that is applicable to LTE TDD HeNB.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21.912: \"Example 2, using fixed text\".
[4] 3GPP TS36.211, \"Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[5] 3GPP TS36.104, \"Base Station radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS36.101, \"User Equipment (UE) transmission and reception\".
[7] 3GPP TR 25 967 : \"FDD Home Node B (HNB) RF Requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TR36.804, \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception".
[9] 3GPP TR36.942, \"Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[10] 3GPP TR25.951, \"FDD Base Station (BS) classification\".
[11] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
[12] ITU-R M.1225, Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface technologies
for IMT-Advanced
[13] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Physical layer procedures\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
(Void)
## 3.2 Symbols
(Void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
HeNB Home Enhanced Node B
HNB Home NodeB
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
GPS Global Positioning System
# 4 General
This work item has the following objectives:
1\. Specify the RF requirements for the E-UTRA TDD Home eNodeB in TS36.104 and
the corresponding updates on the test specification in TS36.141. Some
requirements could refer to the outcome of existing/ongoing related studies.
2\. Investigate and find out effective interference control schemes to ensure
good performance of both macro layer and HeNB. Although some of the studies
could refer to UTRA HNB related work experience, e.g. deployment/interference
scenarios, amount of studies are needed to find out the effective interference
control schemes due to different physical techniques and system characters
between E-UTRA and UTRA. The work should include but not be limited to the
followings,
• The operator has the means to obtain interference control related
measurements reports from HeNB and/or HUE, e.g. the strength of signals and
the identity from the macro cell layer and from other HeNBs.
• The operator has the means to set the maximum output power and/or frequency
of HeNB. This is expected to introduce changes to TS36.104.
• The operator has the means to coordinate the HeNB and eNB timing and TDD
configuration. This is expected to introduce changes to TS36.104.
• The operator has guidance on how to control HeNB power and expected
performance levels in the relevant scenarios.
The scope of this work item is limited to the LTE TDD mode.
# 5 Radio scenarios
## 5.1 Deployment configurations
In TR 25.967 [7], a number of different deployment configurations have been
considered for FDD Home NodeB, including:
• Open access or CSG (Closed Subscriber Group)
• Dedicated channel or co-channel
• Fixed or adaptive (DL) maximum transmit power
For FDD or TDD Home eNodeB, the following deployment configuration should be
considered in addition to the ones listed above:
• Fixed or adaptive resource partitioning
Specifically, the resource partitioning could be performed in frequency, time
or spatial dimensions for interference coordination.
**[Frequency partitioning]{.underline}**
Most existing LTE ICIC mechanisms belong to this category, e.g., FFR and SFR.
Frequency partitioning can be combined with power control to achieve better
performance. Different from the partial co-channel configuration for HNB [7],
frequency partitioning can be performed at the granularities of RBs within a
carrier, as shown in Figure 5.1-1, which enables more flexible coordination
not only between Macro and Home eNodeB, but also between the Home eNodeBs. For
the frequency partitioning method, the Adjacent Channel Power Leakage (ACPL)
problem should be taken into account in performance evaluation, similar to the
dedicated channel configuration. If adaptive frequency partitioning is used,
possible information exchanges between Home eNodeBs may need to be supported.
Figure 5.1-1 Frequency Partitioning
**[Time partitioning]{.underline}**
The resources used in Macro and Home eNodeBs can also be partitioned and
coordinated in the time dimension. Different time zone or UL-DL configurations
between HeNBs and macro eNBs or among HeNBs under specific conditions may
provide some flexibility for interference coordination. However, it may also
bring new interference risks. Further interference mitigation method based on
the time partitioning is FFS.
**[Spatial partitioning]{.underline}**
Due to uplink-downlink channel reciprocity, TDD HeNBs can use beam
coordination to improve interference conditions. For example, the HeNB can
avoid beam collision with the Macro or other Home eNBs in a proactive or
reactive way. These mechanisms may require a certain amount of information
exchange between the HeNBs.
## 5.2 Interference scenarios
Table 5.2-1 and Figure 5.2-1 show the possible HeNB related interference
scenarios. The listed interference scenarios are the same for both TDD and
FDD. The main difference may exist in how to model the interference,
especially for some control channels that are always present, e.g., BCH, SCH.
For both TDD and FDD, we propose to evaluate the control interference based on
the assumption that different base stations are synchronized to ensure the
system performance even under the worst circumstance.
Table 5.2-1 Interference scenarios
Number Aggressor Victim Priority
* * *
**1** UE attached to Home eNode B Macro eNode B Uplink Yes **2** Home eNode B
Macro eNode B Downlink Yes **3** UE attached to Macro eNode B Home eNode B
Uplink Yes **4** Macro eNode B Home eNode B Downlink  
**5** UE attached to Home eNode B Home eNode B Uplink Yes **6** Home eNode B
Home eNode B Downlink Yes **7** UE attached to Home eNode B and/or Home eNode
B Other System  
**8** Other System UE attached to Home eNode B and/or Home eNode B
{width="5.625in" height="1.6041666666666667in"}
Figure 5.2-1 Interference Scenarios
# 6 RF Aspects
## 6.1 Transmitter characteristics
### 6.1.1 HeNB output power
#### 6.1.1.1 HeNB maximum output power
##### 6.1.1.1.1 Analysis
From HeNB coverage and capacity point of view, it will be beneficial to define
relatively larger output power. However, as already been demonstrated by
numerous contributions, the maximum output power should be limited in order to
control the HeNB->MeNB downlink interference. So, the maximum HeNB output
power should be a trade-off between the HeNB performance and the interference
towards close-by MeNB users, which do not have access to the HeNB. Based on
some studies in RAN4, the simulation results show that in some cases the HeNB
power can be set up to 20dBm. While in some other cases, e.g. in the case of
shared carrier deployment, the HeNB power should be limited to a relatively
low level.
Furthermore, the definition of the total HeNB output power should also
consider supporting existing E-UTRAN UEs. The interfering power level for HeNB
ACS requirement is defined -28dBm at 1% blocking probability, which means the
MCL between HeNB and UE is 45dB based on the 23dBm UE maximum power. For UE,
the current maximum tolerable interfering level for ACS is -25dBm. Assuming
the total HeNB output power (i.e. the sum over all transmit antennas) equal to
PheNB, the following formula should be true,
PheNB+25\ CPICH Êc + 43 dB | ≤ 10 dBm | | | | | And CPICH Êc ≥ -105dBm | | +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+ | Ioh ≤ CPICH Êc + 43 dB | ≤ max(8 dBm, min(20 dBm, CPICH Êc + 100 dB)) | | | | | and CPICH Êc ≥ -105dBm | | +-------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
Note 1: The Home BS transmitter output power specified in Table 6.1.1.2-1
assumes a Home BS reference antenna gain of 0 dBi, an target outage zone of
47dB around the Home BS for an UE on the adjacent channel, with an allowance
of 2 dB for measurement errors, an ACIR of 33 dB, an adjacent channel UE CPICH
Ec/Io target of -18 dB and the same CPICH Êc value at the adjacent channel UE
as for the Home BS.
Note 2: For CPICH Êc \ CRS Êc + + 30 dB | ≤ 10 dBm | | | | | and CRS Êc ≥ -127dBm | | +-------------------------+---------------------------------------------+ | Ioh ≤ CRS Êc + + 30 dB | ≤ max(8 dBm, min(20 dBm, CRS Êc + + 85 dB)) | | | | | and CRS Êc ≥ -127dBm | | +-------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
Note 1: The Home BS transmitter output power specified in Table 6.1.1.3-1
assumes a Home BS reference antenna gain of 0 dBi, an target outage zone of
47dB around the Home BS for an UE on the adjacent channel, with an allowance
of 2 dB for measurement errors, an ACIR of 30 dB, an adjacent channel UE
Ês/Iot target of -6 dB and the same CRS Êc value at the adjacent channel UE as
for the Home BS.
Note 2: For CRS Êc \UL switching time is less than 15us, one symbol is enough for
the switching, HeNB will receive the CRS from the 5^th^ OFDM symbol. Also by
configuring both macro eNB (config4) and HeNB (config2) with more symbols in
DwPTS, the user data transmission is improved, such as HeNB can start to
receive CRS from the 12^th^ symbol of the special subframe.
Example of Macro eNB and HeNB configuration refer to Figure
6.4.2.1.3-1.Considering HeNB DL-> UL switching time, HeNB can receive macro
eNB CRS in 5^th^ OFDM symbol successfully.
Figure 6.4.2.1.3-1: Normal CP case, Macro eNB and HeNB DwPTS/GP/UpPTS
configuration
Table 6.4.2.1.3-1: DwPT/GP/UpPTS configuration
Config Normal CP Extended CP
* * *
           DwPTS       GP            UpPTS   DwPTS   GP   UpPTS
**0** 3 10 1 3 8 1 **1** 9 4 1 8 3 1 **2** 10 3 1 9 2 1 **3** 11 2 1 10 1 1
**4** 12 1 1 3 7 2 **5** 3 9 2 8 2 2 **6** 9 3 2 9 1 2 **7** 10 2 2  
**8** 11 1 2
**2\. Extended CP case**
CRS on antenna port 0 and antenna port1 are located in 1^st^ and 4^th^ OFDM
symbol of each slot. Macro layer eNB can configure with more DwPTS symbols
(i.e. config1, 2, 3, 5, 6). HeNB use different configuration, such as config 0
or 4, in these configurations, HeNB only transmit 3 OFDM symbols. When HeNB
track the timing, after it\'s DwPTS transmission finish, HeNB transit to
receiver state, normally the HeNB eNB DL->UL switching time is less than 15us,
one symbol is for the switching, HeNB will receive the CRS from the 7^th^ OFDM
symbol. Also by configuring both macro eNB (config3) and HeNB (config1) with
more symbols in DwPTS, the user data transmission is approved, such as HeNB
can start to receive CRS 10^th^ symbol of the special subframe.
Example of Macro eNB and HeNB configuration refer to Figure 6.4.2.1.3-2.
Considering HeNB DL-> UL switching time, HeNB can receive macro eNB CRS in
7^th^ OFDM symbol successfully.
Figure 6.4.2.1.3-2: Extend CP case, Macro eNB and HeNB DwPTS/GP/UpPTS
configuration
This solution based on macro cell layer and HeNB layer deployed different
DwPTS/GP/UpPTS configurations. As for HeNB configuration, that can be fixed by
operator before distribution. There is no impact on the air interface
specifications. For two layers cell, only special subframe configuration is
different, there is no interference issue between macro layer eNB and HeNB or
related connected UE-UE. Also there is no backward compatibility issue for
Rel8 eNB and UE, only requirement is to home eNB which need odell the cell
search and track macro layer CRS function. Tracking period can be set by the
HeNB, for the oscillator frequency stability is affected by the ambient
temperature.
The feasibility of this scheme is relative to the macro cell configuration. If
macro layer eNBs are configured with max GP, there is no way that a HeNB could
use macro common reference signals for synchronization tracking.
For the scenario that HeNB are not able to synchronize directly to an eNB that
is GNSS-synchronized, utilizing the special subframe configuration pairs, this
solution also can fulfill 2 hops synchronization in some configurations. Take
extended CP case for example, macro cell can be set with configuration 3, the
first hop HeNB is set with configuration 1 or 5 and the second hop HeNB is set
with configuration 0 or 4.
##### 6.4.2.1.4 Indication of Stratum Level and Synchronization Status
The HeNB should be aware of its neighbours synchronization hierarchy (stratum
info), and then correspondingly decide its own stratum number. Also, the HeNB
needs to let others know its own synchronization status and stratum info. Two
solutions are proposed to fulfil this function as below.
Note that while the solutions are described in the context of the MBSFN-
subframe based scheme, the use of these solutions for other schemes (including
schemes not listed in the TR) is not precluded.
RAN4 endorses both backhaul signalling and blind detection schemes for
indication of stratum level and synchronization status, and their adoption
depends on the operator deployment choice.
It is up to the operator to choose either backhaul signalling or blind
detection depending on the deployment.
##### 6.4.2.1.4.1 Stratum Indication Using Backhaul Signalling {#stratum-
indication-using-backhaul-signalling .H6}
The optional backhaul signalling of time synchronization status and stratum
level are TDD HeNB specific. Optional only means that it is up to the operator
to decide whether to use the signalling or not depending on the deployment.
An HeNB can get information of neighboring eNB\'s time synchronization status
and stratum level over the backhaul by using the S1-AP eNB configuration
transfer procedure and the S1-AP MME configuration transfer procedure.
The HeNB_1 initiates S1-AP eNB configuration transfer procedure by sending the
MME the eNB CONFIGURATION TRANSFER message containing the target eNB ID and
Time Sync Info request. The MME forwards the request to the target eNB with
the MME CONFIGURATION TRANSFER message.
When the (H)eNB_2 receives the MME CONFIGURATION TRANSFER message with Time
Sync Info request, it replies to the MME with eNB CONFIGURATION TRANSFER
message containing its stratum level and sync status. The MME forwards the
received information to the HeNB1.
Figure 6.4.2.1.4.1-1 Stratum Indication by Backhaul Signalling
##### 6.4.2.1.4.2 Stratum Indication by Blind Detection {#stratum-indication-
by-blind-detection .H6}
Blind detection, as an alternative mechanism, is also proposed in RAN4, which
can fulfil the convey requirement for stratum info and synchronization status
without signalling when the OAM configures or all HeNBs embedded pre-configure
the same muting places (e.g. MBSFN subframes) for a given value of stratum and
status, while configures different muting places for other values of stratum
and status. Optional OAM signalling of MBSFN subframes as a function of
stratum is available. If with all HeNBs embedded pre-configurion, then it is
no need to send the OAM signalling. For blind detection, all HeNBs should well
know the mapping relationship of each stratum and its muting place, here one
instance of the muting place can be subframes declared as MBSFN for this
stratum. One mapping example is illustrated on Fig 6.4.2.1.4.2-1, that HeNB
stratum 1 will trace CRS in SF#2 of RF#1, HeNB stratum 2 will trace CRS of
stratum 1 in SF#2 of RF#2, also mute to avoiding interference to HeNB of
stratum 1 (this muting could be omitted if power control is appropriately
utilized then interference will be mitigated); similar ruling is taken to the
following strata.
HeNB do blind detection for the existence of CRS on muting place for all
possible stratum (normally on booting stage) and contrast the mapping table to
recognize the strata of its surrounding base stations, and basing some
strategy to decide its synchronization source, thus also decide its own
stratum and muting place.
On normal working, HeNB execute network listening on its specific muting place
according stratum, while that is also indicating its stratum and
synchronization info for new booted neighbour who is doing blind detection.
Periodically, this HeNB may reserve all muting places for one or several
rounds, and detect whether any change occurs which may impact its stratum,
e.g. synchronization source node shutting down or new node booting up
providing lower stratum than current source, and adapt its own stratum
accordingly. Non-GNSS synchronized stratum and GNSS synchronized stratum can
be differentiated if different muting places are used for the two which can
ensure smooth stratum change between both types.
{width="5.270833333333333in" height="3.2430555555555554in"}
Fig. 6.4.2.1.4.2-1 Explanation for blind detection on stratum info and
synchronization status
{width="5.340277777777778in" height="4.4375in"}
Fig. 6.4.2.1.4.2-2 HeNB procedure for blind detection on stratum info and
synchronization status
##### 6.4.2.1.5 Scheme Comparison
A brief comparison of the proposed schemes is shown in Table 6.4.2.1.5-1.
Table 6.4.2.1.5-1: Comparisons for different network listening schemes
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network Listening | Scheme 1 | Scheme 2 | | schemes | | | +======================+======================+======================+ | **Principle of the | > Use MBSFN | > Use DwPTS for | | scheme** | > subframes for | > tracking CRS of | | | > tracking CRS of | > donor (H)eNB | | | > donor (H)eNB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Performance** | Meets requirements | Meets requirements | | | | | | **(e.g. | Provides flexible | CRS tracing can be | | synchronization | overhead-tracking | done every Radio | | accuracy, speed, | periodicity tradeoff | Frame, which ensure | | etc)** | | robust | | | | synchronization | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **HeNB Overhead** | 0.3% for stratum-1 | Maximum 12.86% with | | | nodes when using the | 2 switch point per | | **(e.g. OFDM symbols | lowest periodicity | RF | | per [320ms])** | of only 1 MBSFN for | | | | tracking per 320ms | Minimum 1.43% with 1 | | | | switch point per RF | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Number of | 4 | 1, up to 2 with some | | multi-hops | | cases of special SF | | supported** | | configuration (e.g. | | | | Normal CP SSF Conf.4 | | | | Conf. 2 Conf. 5) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Compatibility and | Fully backward | Fully backward | | impacts on current | compatible | compatible | | network** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Impacts on | Optional backhaul | No extra signalling | | specifications** | signalling will be | is needed when | | | specified, and | supporting only | | | either backhaul | single hop | | | signalling or blind | | | | detection scheme | | | | used depending on | | | | operator deployment. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Others** | Could be used by a | Could be used by a | | | HeNB capable of | HeNB capable of TDD | | | either FDD or TDD | mode | | | mode | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
RAN4 endorses both the GP based solution and the MBSFN subframe based
solution.
# 7 Interference control
## 7.1 HeNB measurements
Several types of measurements that HeNB can perform are listed in the
following subsections. The objectives of the HeNB measurements are
\- to provide sufficient information to the HeNB for the purpose of
interference mitigation
\- to provide sufficient information to the HeNB such that the HeNB coverage
can be maintained.
According to the measurement type, some of these measurements can be collected
through Connected Mode UEs attached to the HeNB or via a DL Receiver function
within the HeNB itself. Such DL receiver function is also called Network
Listen Mode (NLM), Radio Environment Measurement (REM) or \"HeNB Sniffer\".
These measurements can also be used during the HeNB self-configuration
process.
### 7.1.1 Measurements from all cells
This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HeNB during
self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the measurements in Table
7.1.1-1, the HeNB can obtain useful information from its surrounding cells for
purposes such as interference management.
Table 7.1.1-1: HeNB measurements from surrounding cells
Measurement Type Purpose Measurement Source(s)
* * *
Received Interference Power Calculation of UL interference towards HeNB (from
MUE) HeNB UL Receiver
HeNB could use the Received Interference Power measurement to monitor the
uplink interference. For example, a Received Interference Power measurement
value larger than a pre-defined threshold would mean that at least an MUE
which is interfered by a HeNB is close to the HeNB and that the MUE\'s Tx
power would cause significant interference towards the HeNB. This measurement
value may be used in calculating path loss between the HeNB and the MUE
assuming that a single MUE dominates the interference. It is also preferable
for the HeNB to distinguish between UL interference from the MUE and wanted
signals from HUEs to improve the accuracy of interference measurement.
### 7.1.2 Measurements to identify surrounding cell layers
This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HeNB during
self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the measurements in Table
7.1.2-1, the HeNB can obtain useful information to identify the layer of its
surrounding cells and indirectly identifies other HeNBs nearby for purposes
such as mobility handling.
Table 7.1.2-1: HeNB measurements from surrounding cells
Measurement Type Purpose Measurement Source(s)
* * *
Cell reselection priority information Distinction between cell types based on
frequency layer priority HeNB DL Receiver CSG status and ID Distinction
between cell layers based on CSG, and self-construction of neighbour list,
HeNB DL Receiver
### 7.1.3 Measurements from macro cell layer
This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HeNB during
self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the measurements in Table
7.1.3-1, the HeNB can obtain useful information from its surrounding macro
cells for purposes such as interference management.
Table 7.1.3-1: HeNB measurements from surrounding macro cells
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement Type | Purpose | Measurement | | | | Source(s) | +======================+======================+======================+ | RSRP | Calculation of | HeNB DL Receiver | | | co-channel DL | | | | interference towards | HUE | | | macro UEs (from | | | | HeNB) | MUE (in case of | | | | hybrid cell) | | | Calculation of | | | | co-channel UL | | | | interference towards | | | | macro layer (from | | | | HUEs) | | | | | | | | Calculation of | | | | co-channel UL | | | | interference towards | | | | HeNB (from MUEs) | | | | based on estimated | | | | MUE Tx power | | | | | | | | Determine coverage | | | | of macro cell (for | | | | optimization of | | | | hybrid cell | | | | configuration) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Co-channel RSRQ | Determine quality of | HeNB DL Receiver | | | macro cell (for | | | | optimization of | HUE | | | hybrid cell | | | | configuration) | MUE (in case of | | | | hybrid cell) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reference Signal | Estimation of path | HeNB DL Receiver | | Transmission Power | loss from HUE to | | | | MeNB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical + Global | Allow HeNB to | HeNB DL Receiver | | Cell ID | Instruct UEs to | | | | measure specific | HUE | | | cells. | | | | | | | | Allow UE to report | | | | discovered cells to | | | | HeNB. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
If a HeNB has receiver capability, then it is able to measure the received CRS
Êc, measured in dBm, which is the Reference Signal Received Power per resource
element present at the Home BS antenna connector for the Reference Signal
received on the co-channel. For CRS Êc determination, the cell-specific
reference signal R0 according TS 36.211 shall be used. If the HeNB can
reliably detect that multiple TX antennas are used for transmission on the co-
channel, it may use the average in W of the CRS Êc on all detected antennas.
On start-up, the HeNB can measure the CRS Êc power from the most dominant co-
channel deployed macro cell.
Table 7.1.3-2: HeNB measurements from surrounding macro cells
Measurement Type Purpose Measurement Source(s)
* * *
Co-channel received CRS Êc (measured in dBm) Measurement is used to determine
whether HeNB is close to dominant Macro cell, or whether it is close to macro-
cell-edge border. HeNB DL Receiver
### 7.1.4 Measurements of other HeNB cells
This section identifies the potential measurements performed by HeNB during
self-configuration and normal operation. Based on the measurements in Table
7.1.4-1, the HeNB can obtain useful information from its adjacent HeNBs for
purposes such as interference management.
Table 7.1.4-1: HeNB measurements from adjacent HeNBs
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Measurement Type | Purpose | Measurement | | | | Source(s) | +======================+======================+======================+ | Co-channel RSRP | Calculation of | HeNB DL Receiver | | | co-channel DL | | | | interference towards | HUE | | | neighbour HUEs (from | | | | HeNB) | | | | | | | | Calculation of | | | | co-channel UL | | | | interference towards | | | | neighbour HeNBs | | | | (from HUEs) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reference Signal | Estimation of path | HeNB DL Receiver | | Transmission Power | loss from HUE to | | | | HeNB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical + Global | Allow HeNB to | HeNB DL Receiver | | Cell ID | Instruct UEs to | | | | measure specific | HUE | | | cells | | | | | | | | Allow UE to report | | | | discovered cells to | | | | HeNB. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 7.2 HeNB self-configuration
### 7.2.1 Information Exchange between eNBs and HeNBs
The provision of information exchange between eNBs ↔ HeNBs and HeNBs ↔ HeNBs
has potential benefits in allowing HeNBs to take account of uplink and
downlink conditions at nearby eNBs and HeNBs when configuring power and/or
resource blocks to use in uplink and downlink.
We consider several relevant metrics to compare these approaches:
(1) Latency: It was recognized in several contributions that a reliable low
latency scheme is desirable for interference management. In RAN4, it was
discussed that the adaptation of HeNB parameters could be relatively slow,
such that changes in interference/loading at eNB are not tracked on a sub-
frame by sub-frame, or frame by frame, but rather more slowly as the traffic
load varies on the eNB. Simulation results in RAN4 showed that with 50ms
latency such relatively slow adaptation still offers significant performance
benefits. Similarly simulation results also showed significant performance
benefits at comparable latencies. Further benefits can be obtained by faster
interference coordination, especially in the case of bursty traffic.
(2) Scalability and Complexity: It is desirable to have the network complexity
scale in a manageable manner with increasing number of HeNBs, UEs etc.
Furthermore, different approaches are expected to have different
implementation impacts at different network entities (eNB, MME etc.).
(3) Overhead: The signalling overhead for exchanging interference management
messages (for both the backhaul and Over-the-Air methods discussed
subsequently) should be small.
Possible approaches for performing the information exchange are illustrated in
Figure 7.2.1-1 and their potential benefits and drawbacks are described in the
following. Flexible operations should be allowed to choose one or combination
of information exchange approaches in HeNB deployment.
{width="5.465277777777778in" height="2.3333333333333335in"}
Figure 7.2.1-1: Illustration of information exchange for Over-the-Air and
Network based approaches
**_Option1. Over-the-air information, direct eNB to HeNB_**
Potential benefits of this approach include:
• No impact to network load.
• Low latency for information signalled from eNB to HeNBs.
• Predictable timeline (independent of backhaul conditions), can be used for
coordinated scheduling/transmission.
While this approach may offer low latency, there are several drawbacks:
• The eNB may not always be visible from the HeNB, even though there are
victims requiring protection.
• For some advanced approaches for managing interference, it may be desirable
to send different information to different groups of eNBs or HeNBs. An over
the air broadcast would preclude such operation.
• The downlink would need to be interrupted whenever information is read over
the air.
• Requires changes to eNB implementation
**_Option2. Over-the-air information, (H)eNB to HeNB via UE_**
For the DL, a victim UE forwards interference coordination related information
from its serving (H)eNB to the aggressor HeNB.
For the UL: An aggressor UE forwards interference coordination related
information from the victim (H)eNB to its serving (H)eNB.
Potential benefits of this approach:
• The downlink would not need to be interrupted to receive information over
the air.
• Lower latency compared to backhaul solutions (i.e. Option3 and 4) (higher
latency relative to Option 1).
• Predictable timeline (independent of backhaul conditions), can be used for
coordinated scheduling/transmission.
• Different information can be sent to different HeNBs
Potential drawbacks to this approach:
• Rel8 UEs can\'t be used to relay the messages.
• Requires changes to (H)eNB implementation
• Can increase the number of UEs that need to be handled by the HeNB.
**_Option3. X2 based interface between eNB and HeNB, and between HeNBs_**
The potential benefits of this approach:
• Higher accuracy of information received at destination than the Over-the-Air
approach
• Different information can be sent to different groups of eNBs or HeNBs
The potential drawbacks of this approach:
• The eNB may have large numbers of HeNBs within its coverage area which
potentially means the macro would need to deal with many messages to/from
HeNBs. Ways in which this could be mitigated could be considered by the
relevant working groups for further study e.g. X2 could be between macro eNBs
and HeNBs via HeNB gateways only, with the HeNB gateways performing a
distribution/aggregation function towards the HeNBs. To reduce the complexity
further the set of supported X2AP procedures could be limited, e.g. no
handover over X2, and only sending Load Indication (OI, HII, RNTP) in the
direction macro eNB to HeNB.
• Potentially large latency.
**_Option4. S1 based interface between eNB and HeNB, and between HeNBs_**
In some cases it is likely that direct physical links would not exist between
(H)eNBs and HeNBs, and as such X2 would be a logical interface sharing a
similar physical path to S1. With this in mind it could be argued that the
information exchange could be made over S1 instead of X2. If compared to the
X2 based approach there are some potential benefits to this approach:
• Higher accuracy of information received at destination than the Over-the-Air
approach
• Different information can be sent to different groups of eNBs or HeNBs
• S1 signalling interface already exist in the current specifications
Potential drawbacks of this approach:
• Increased functionality and processing load at the MME.
• Increased latency
• Lack of alignment between eNB↔eNB, eNB↔HeNB and HeNB↔HeNB SON/interference
management.
• Potential lack of alignment with likely future evolutions of interference
management in Release 10 and beyond (assuming that these are less likely to be
based on S1)
## 7.3 Uplink interference control
### 7.3.1 Control Channel Protection
#### 7.3.1.1 HeNB Uplink Control Channel Protection
In the uplink, physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) interference from
• HUE (aggressor) to macro-eNB (victim),
• MUE (aggressor) to HeNB (victim), and
• HUE (aggressor) to HeNB (victim)
can be mitigated by enabling orthogonal transmissions. Uplink control
signalling (PUCCH, CQI) reliability can be maintained for both HeNBs and
macro-eNBs by making use of PUCCH offsets for enabling orthogonal PUCCH
assignments between the HeNB and macro-eNB users. For PUCCH transmissions,
over-provisioning can be made use of to ensure orthogonality of control
channels between a HeNB UE and a macro-eNB UE as shown in Figure 7.3.1.1-1. It
is possible to employ this method for Release-8 UEs without changing the
physical layer design or RAN2 signalling.
{width="1.8125in" height="3.3541666666666665in"}
Figure 7.3.1.1-1 UL control interference mitigation by PUCCH orthogonalization
#### 7.3.1.2 Signalling offset over the backhaul
It would be desirable for the macro-eNB to signal an offset to all HeNBs
within its coverage area in order that transmissions from UEs connected to
HeNBs do not cause interference at the macro-eNB receiver (e.g., a HeNB
deployed in close range of a macro-eNB). Conversely, a macro-eNB UE that is at
the cell edge and therefore transmitting close to its maximum transmit power
can interfere severely with a HeNB UE and the signalling offset can be made
use of to mitigate interference. Alternately, a HeNB gateway can signal over
S1, the offsets that each HeNB should use, thus providing the capability of
configuring orthogonal PUCCH transmissions in neighboring HeNBs thereby
avoiding HeNB (aggressor) to HeNB (victim) interference on the uplink.
One option for the HeNBs is to not allocate PUCCH resources on edge RBs as
shown in Fig. 7.3.1.1-1 using over-provisioning. A typical macro-eNB
deployment is likely to have PUCCH transmission on the band-edges to maximize
the number of contiguous RBs that can be allocated to PUSCH. However, unlike
macro-eNBs, utilizing the full uplink bandwidth may not be critical for HeNBs
as they serve only a few users at a time. Therefore, the PUCCH resources in
HeNBs can be \"pulled\" inward. The edge RBs not used by the HeNBs can be used
by the macro-eNB for PUCCH for its UEs. Also, the macro-eNB, being aware of
the RBs used by HeNBs in its coverage area, can schedule some users (e.g. UEs
close to the macro and not near any HeNB) on RBs that overlap with HeNB UE
PUCCH region. This results in reduced interference from macro-eNB UEs to HeNB
UE PUCCH.
### 7.3.2 Smart Power Control based on Path Loss to Worst Victim Macro eNodeB
Interference from the Home UE (HUE) to the Macro eNodeB (MeNB) is particularly
significant if the HUE is located close to the MeNB. On the other hand, an
indoor HUE near its serving HeNB and far from the MeNB may be harmless. As
discussed in RAN4, the HUE transmission power should be controlled based on
path loss (PL) from the HUE to its worst victim MeNB (i.e. nearest neighbour
MeNB).
The PL from HUE to MeNB can be estimated from HUE measurements of Reference
Signal Received Power (RSRP) and MeNB Reference Signal (RS) Transmission (Tx)
power. HeNB might know MeNB RS Tx power by means of decoding the variable
\"referenceSignalPower\" in System Information Block Type2 (SIB2) message
broadcasted from MeNB.
During this work item, such smart power control methods are proposed and their
performance gain is investigated. The methods are as follows.
#### 7.3.2.1 Power Cap Method
In this method, the maximum transmission power density (i.e. power cap) of HUE
is restricted based on the interference rise at MeNB. The power cap is
calculated as the function of PL from the HUE to its worst victim MeNB. The
HUE is power-controlled based on PL to its serving HeNB, up to the level of
the power cap.
Simulation results have been generated for an urban deployment model with
varying HeNB density and for either full buffer or bursty traffic based on
FDD. Similar performance trends also apply to TDD. The results are assume a
fixed power cap of either 0.2 dB (labelled \"tight\") or 7 dB (labelled
\"loose\", and it should be noted that this is a very loose cap, for which in
practice the home UE power will likely be set considering coverage
requirements of the HeNB alone rather than also considering interference to
the macro layer).
##### 7.3.2.1.1 Simulation Assumptions
The simulation parameters largely follow the assumption in section 6.2.1.1.1
with the following specific parameters.
Table 7.3.2.1.1-1: Simulation Parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +==================================+==================================+ | Deployment | Urban signalling | | | | | | Macro layer has 7 sites (21 | | | sectors) with wrap-around, 500m | | | ISD. | | | | | | 0% (urban) of home UEs are | | | outdoors and 20% of macro UEs | | | are outdoors. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of macro UEs per sector | 20 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Exterior wall loss | 20dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadowing correlation (one BS to | Correlated shadowing | | multiple UEs) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macrocell power uplink control | Max power based on limiting | | | noise rise to macro neighbours | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Femtocell uplink power control | Max power based on limiting | | | noise rise to macro neighbours | | | (a similar approach to that | | | described in [7] section 7.3.1 | | | for WCDMA). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Link to system mapping | Per sub-carrier capacity | | | approach | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scheduler | Frequency selective/Proportional | | | fair | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer or Bursty | | | | | | In the case of bursty traffic | | | being modelled, 70% of UEs use | | | the bursty traffic model, the | | | remaining UEs are full-buffer. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Apartment block model | Dual stripe, 6 floors (=240 | | | apartments), one \"dual stripe\" | | | randomly dropped per macro | | | sector. A variable probability | | | of having active femto in each | | | apartment. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pathloss model | Full (rather than simplified) | | | model | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 7.3.2.1.2 Simulation Results
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-1 below shows the average macrocell sector throughput as a
function of the probability that there is an active HeNB in an apartment.
Results are shown for two values of the target maximum \"noise rise\" that the
home UE should generate at the macro eNB (\"tight\" and \"loose\"). It can be
seen that with a low density of active HeNBs the \"loose\" approach provides
adequate protection whereas at higher densities the \"tight\" cap is
appropriate. This goes for both the full buffer and the bursty traffic models.
{width="4.069444444444445in" height="3.0625in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-1: Macrocell uplink average sector throughput
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-2 below shows the cell edge (5 percentile) macro user
throughput as a function of the probability that there is an active HeNB in an
apartment. Again it can be seen that with a low density of active HeNBs the
\"loose\" approach provides adequate protection whereas at higher densities
the \"tight\" cap is appropriate. This goes for both the full buffer and the
bursty traffic models.
{width="4.069444444444445in" height="3.0625in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-2: Macrocell uplink 5 percentile user throughput
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-3 below shows the mean Interference over Thermal (IoT) at the
macro eNB. It can be seen that the IoT is controlled more with the \"tight\"
cap particularly at high HeNB densities.
{width="4.069444444444445in" height="3.0625in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-3: Macrocell Interference over Thermal
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-4 below shows the average HeNB sector throughput as a
function of the probability that there is an active HeNB in an apartment. It
can be seen that the \"loose\" cap results in a higher throughput. This goes
for both the full buffer and the bursty traffic models.
{width="4.069444444444445in" height="3.0625in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-4: Femtocell uplink average sector throughput
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-5 below shows the cell edge (5 percentile) home user
throughput as a function of the probability that there is an active HeNB in an
apartment. Again it can be seen that the \"loose\" cap results in a higher
throughput.
{width="4.069444444444445in" height="3.0625in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-5: Femtocell uplink 5 percentile user throughput
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-6 shows the mean Interference over Thermal (IoT) at the HeNB.
{width="4.069444444444445in" height="3.0625in"}
Figure 7.3.2.1.2-6: Femtocell Interference over Thermal
##### 7.3.2.1.3 Discussion of Results
For low densities of HeNB a \"loose\" power cap is sufficient which allows
higher HeNB throughputs than the \"tight\" power cap which is required for
higher HeNB densities.
#### 7.3.2.2 Power Control based on PL from HUE to its serving HeNB and PL
from HUE to its worst victim MeNB
The UE specific term of the transmission power density should be defined as
the function of PL from HUE to its serving HeNB () and PL from HUE to its
worst victim MeNB () because the uplink transmission power is explicitly
defined as the form using PL from UE to its serving eNodeB in the current
specification [13]. For example, the power control where the UE specific term
of is set to (in dB) corresponds to the power cap method (The term is
cancelled by path loss compensation term and the parameter is path loss
compensation coefficient [13]). In general, the UE specific term of might be
non-decreasing function of and the dependency of is implementation issue.
One realization of such power control is proposed during this work item; PL
difference based power control. In this method, the UE specific term of is
defined as the non-decreasing function of PL difference (in dB). The explicit
form of the UE specific term of is also given in RAN4.
##### 7.3.2.2.1 Simulation Assumptions
The simulation parameters largely follow the suburban model with the following
specific parameters. The following simulation is performed based on FDD.
Similar performance trends also apply to TDD.
Table 7.3.2.2.1-1: Simulation Parameters
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +==================================+==================================+ | Deployment | Suburban model | | | | | | Macro layer has 7 sites (21 | | | sectors) with wrap-around, 500m | | | ISD. | | | | | | 10% of home UEs are outdoors and | | | all macro UEs are indoors. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of macro UEs per sector | 10 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Exterior wall Loss | 20dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Shadowing correlation (one BS to | Correlated shadowing | | multiple UEs) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Macrocell power uplink control | Closed loop ICIC based on | | | overload indicator, targeting | | | the IoT value to 10 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Femtocell uplink power control | PL difference based TPC and | | | | | | FPC (for comparison) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Link to system mapping | **EESM, same value for all MCS** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scheduler | Frequency selective / | | | Proportional fair | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | Full buffer | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Pathloss model | Full model | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 7.3.2.2.2 Simulation Results
Figure 7.3.2.2.2-1 and Figure 7.3.2.2.2-2 show the MUE and HUE throughputs for
various HeNB densities, which is the number of HeNB per macro sector. The
power control based on PL difference (PL-diff.) and conventional fractional
power control (FPC) are compared.
Figure 7.3.2.2.2-1 indicates that the PL difference based power control
mitigates the degradation of MUE throughput than FPC. Figure 7.3.2.2.2-2
(right) shows the PL difference based power control can keep the HUE average
throughput at the same level of FPC. Its cost is the degradation of HUE 5
percentile throughput as shown in Fig. 7.3.2.2.2-2 (left). In the suburban
model with 10 % outdoor HUE, the HUE that is correspond to HUE 5 percentile
throughput is mainly located outdoors.
{width="3.0208333333333335in" height="3.0902777777777777in"}
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="3.2083333333333335in"}
Figure 7.3.2.2.2-1: MUE throughput (Left: Average, Right: 5 percentile)
{width="3.0972222222222223in"
height="3.013888888888889in"}{width="3.1041666666666665in"
height="3.013888888888889in"}
Figure 7.3.2.2.2-2: HUE throughput (Left: Average, Right: 5 percentile)
##### 7.3.2.2.3 Discussion of Results
The power control based on PL difference can mitigate the degradation of MUE
throughput. Its cost is the degradation of HUE 5 percentile throughput which
is mainly correspond to outdoor HUE.
#### 7.3.2.3 For Future Releases
The above smart power controls require no interference coordination between
eNodeBs. As the result, it might be difficult to manage the interference from
HUE as HeNB density increases. For future releases (LTE Release 10 or LTE-
Advanced), the adaptive power control by means of X2 or S1 signalling between
MeNB and HeNB or between HeNBs should be investigated (e.g. to take account of
the density of active femtocells within a macrocell coverage area). Notice
that during this work item, the adaptive power controls are proposed and their
performance gain is investigated.
## 7.4 Downlink interference control
### 7.4.1 Control Channel Protection
Several techniques have been considered for data interference management.
However control channel interference management is equally important since
improved data SINR is not useful if the UEs cannot receive control channels.
Thus, it is vital to have techniques that address control channel
interference.
Downlink control channel (PDCCH) interference can occur in two directions in
co-channel HeNB deployments.
• HeNB (aggressor) to macro-UE (victim), and
• macro-eNB (aggressor) to HUE (victim) if the UE is connected to a weaker
HeNB cell (e.g. to access local information at the HeNB).
This can lead to problems both in connected mode and in idle mode such as:
1\. UE being unable to reliably decode paging channel resulting in missed
pages and therefore a user\'s inability to receive UE-terminated calls,
2\. UE being unable to read common control channels, and
3\. throughput degradation or degraded PDSCH performance.
The following are some of the techniques that could be used for control
channel protection. It should be noted that some of these aspects may require
UE implementation changes and should be considered for Rel 10 and beyond. It
is possible that these methods offer gains for Rel 8/9 UEs; however, this
needs to be studied further.
#### 7.4.1.1 Control of HeNB downlink interference towards macro eNB control
channels by frequency partitioning with per-subband interference estimation
Frequency partitioning, or carrier offsetting, where HeNBs are confined to use
only a part of the bandwidth can be used to mitigate interference problems.
This scenario is shown in Fig. 7.4.1.1-1. By using scheduling techniques that
would avoid data transmissions on those parts of the bandwidth, the levels of
interference as seen at the receiver can be reduced. This could resolve the
interference problem for the data transmissions, however, control channels
such as PDCCH that span the entire bandwidth would still be affected.
{width="2.1666666666666665in" height="1.6666666666666667in"}
Fig. 7.4.1.1-1 Partial Bandwidth Coexistence
The effects of the high interference seen in one of the subbands can be
mitigated if the interference estimation is done on a per-subband basis. This
would confine the influence of the interference only to that subband and not
allow it to affect the entire bandwidth. This in turn would mean that only
some of the coded bits are affected. When wideband interference estimation is
used, all the bits are affected and the probability of successfully decoding
the message decreases. Assuming sufficient number of CCEs are used (i.e.,
enough code protection), the PDCCH BLER performance would be slightly
degraded. But the transmission would likely be reliable enough not to
significantly affect normal operation.
To illustrate the performance of this scheme, some simulation results are
given. A simulation was performed to evaluate the impact on control channel
performance of high interference on one of the subbands. Results for the cases
of per-subband interference estimation and wideband interference estimation
are presented.
The simulation considers a HeNB that uses one fourth of the bandwidth of the
macro as shown in Fig. 7.4.1.1-1. A UE connected to a macro-eNB and receiving
PDCCH transmission from it, sees high interference on one of the subbands. The
level of interference is varied as a parameter relative to the noise level.
The PDCCH error rate is compared for the cases when wideband interference
estimation and per-subband interference estimation are used. The simulation
parameters are given in Table 7.4.1.1-1. Only the results for 4 CCE PDCCH are
given here but similar results were observed for other PDCCH sizes.
Table 7.4.1.1-1: Simulation parameters used
Parameter Assumption
* * *
Information payload size 40 bits Coding 1/3 rate TBCC with rate matching Macro
Bandwidth 5 MHz HeNB bandwidth 1/4 of macro Bandwidth Channel model TU, 3km/h
Channel estimation 2-D MMSE channel estimation Interference estimation Ideal
{width="2.2291666666666665in" height="2.3402777777777777in"}
Fig. 7.4.1.1-2 CCE PDCCH BLER with wideband interference estimation
{width="2.2291666666666665in" height="2.3402777777777777in"}
Fig.7.4.1.1-3 4CCE PDCCH BLER with subband interference estimation
#### 7.4.1.2 Control of HeNB downlink interference among neighboring HeNBs
control channels by frequency partitioning
Unlike data (PDSCH, PUSCH), there is no HARQ for control channel transmissions
which must typically target fairly low BLER of 1% or less. HeNBs that are in
close proximity of each other will not have reliable downlink control channels
(e.g. PDCCH, PHICH, PCFICH, PBCH, P/S-SCH). One way to solve this is to
segment the LTE carrier and allow the interfering HeNBs to transmit their
control signalling in separate frequency domain resources. For example, if the
LTE carrier is 20MHz then it would be segmented into two 10MHz carriers on the
downlink with each of the two interfering HeNBs transmitting its control
signalling (PDCCH, PHICH, PCFICH, P-SCH, S-SCH, PBCH) on one of the 10 MHz
carriers.
Both Release-8 UEs and Release-9 UEs would access the HeNB as a 10 MHz carrier
and receive control and broadcast signalling from HeNB within 10 MHz. However,
Release-10 UEs can additionally be assigned PDSCH resource on the remaining 10
MHz frequency resources using carrier aggregation. Therefore, while
Release-8/9 UEs are limited to allocations of 50 RBs, Release-10 UEs could be
assigned any portion of the 100 RBs.
### 7.4.2 Data Channel Protection
#### 7.4.2.1 Control of HeNB Downlink Interference towards macro eNB data
channels by frequency partition
Frequency partition between Macro eNB and HeNB can be utilized to mitigate the
interference from HeNB to Macro eNB. HeNB can get frequency partition
information of its neighbour Macro eNB through air link measurement if
additional receiver is enabled on HeNB. Alternatively, a semi-static scheme
can be adopted if a pre-configuration of the frequency partition can be
determined by Macro eNB management server. For example, Macro eNB will
schedule resource blocks to Macro UE based on its location. When HeNB gets its
own location information, it will know which resource blocks will be assigned
to a nearby macro UE.
With the knowledge of the frequency partition information, for example, HeNB
knows which set of resource blocks will be used for Macro eNB cell center
users (CCU), and which set of resource blocks will be used for Macrocell cell
edge users (CEU), HeNB can coordinate its transmission to avoid its
interference to nearby Macro UE by giving high scheduling priority to resource
blocks not used by the nearby Macro UE. For example, if HeNB is located at the
edge of the Macro eNB, HeNB will give higher priority to resource blocks used
by macro center UEs for downlink transmission. If HeNB is located at the
center of the Macro eNB, HeNB will give higher priority to resource blocks
used by macro edge UEs for downlink transmission as shown in Figure 7.4.2.1-1.
{width="3.1305555555555555in" height="1.488888888888889in"}
Figure 7.4.2.1-1 Examples of HeNB and macro UE location
#### 7.4.2.2 Control of HeNB Downlink Interference among neighboring HeNBs
HeNBs listen to neighboring HeNBs\' control channel and reference signal
transmissions, determines the cell ID of each neighboring HeNB and measure the
path loss from each of them. In addition, the HeNBs could also use reports
from UEs.
Based on this information, HeNBs could use fractional frequency reuse (FFR) to
orthogonalize the resources used and increase the overall performance of the
network.
##### 7.4.2.2.1 Centralized coordination
The centralized coordinator can form an adjacency graph of all HeNBs based on
the reports from each HeNB.
Each HeNB estimates the fraction of time it needs to transmit according to the
traffic load and channel conditions of its UEs, and reports this ratio to the
centralized controller via S1 signalling.
• For mixed traffic with both delay sensitive traffic and delay tolerant
traffic, two ratios which correspond to both traffic types will be reported.
• Each HeNB needs to update its report when at least one of the following
event happens:
▪ New traffic session initiation
▪ UE channel condition variation over a pre-defined threshold
Given the adjacency graph and the reported ratios from each HeNB, the
centralized coordinator determines
Option 1: the subframes that each HeNB is allowed to transmit, and notifies
each HeNB of its transmission pattern via S1 signalling. A HeNB needs to
properly configure DRX parameters of its UEs according to the transmission
pattern notified by the centralized coordinator.
Option 2: the subbands or carrier frequency that each HeNB is allowed to
transmit, and notifies each HeNB of its transmission pattern via S1
signalling.
Note that the S1 signalling load between HeNBs and the centralized coordinator
could be large if the number of HeNB connections per coordinator is
significant. To reduce S1 signalling, it is preferable to limit the number of
HeNB reports to the centralized coordinator. For example, the centralized
coordinator can assign a HeNB a lot more resources than it actually needs, and
the HeNB will not send a report to the centralized controller unless it uses
up all the assigned resources. As HeNBs are generally lightly loaded, a HeNB
may rarely send a report if it is assigned a large fraction of resources (i.e.
subframes, subbands or carrier frequency).
##### 7.4.2.2.2 Distributed Dynamic Frequency Partitioning
Based on the information collected, the HeNBs can construct a \"Jamming
Graph\" where each node denotes an active HeNB and an edge denotes jamming
condition between two HeNBs. A jamming condition is declared when the channel
gain difference between the interfering and serving links exceeds a certain
threshold. The distributed fractional frequency reuse planning problem is now
converted into a graph coloring problem, which could be solved in a
distributed manner at low complexity.
Examples of such algorithms and brief performance analysis are given in
several RAN4 contributions for both the FDD and TDD case.
This algorithm could be an adaptive algorithm in which resources are
negotiated and adaptively allocated for different nodes, based on a utility
function that enables nodes to quantify the benefit or loss due to each
resource coordination action. These utility values can then be used at each
node to select the right resource coordination requests to be sent to their
neighbors, or to select the best requested coordination action from among
multiple received requests, and hence to grant/reject the requests based on
their quantified benefit to the network.
To support this adaptive algorithm, network nodes need to exchange information
such as subbands reuse updates and utility information. The performance
depends significantly on the latency of the messaging, especially in the case
of non-full buffer traffic. This information should be taken into account
while analyzing the different options for such information exchange (e.g. X2,
S1, over-the-air, over-the-air via UE).
#### 7.4.2.3 Adaptive Frequency Selection
To minimize the mutual interference between HeNB and surrounding cells, RSRP
measurements and cell re-selection priority information in SIBs or RRC message
from neighbour cells could be utilized for HeNB to adaptively select its
operating carrier frequency.
The original purpose of cell-reselection priority information is for UE to
properly select its camping cell based on the frequency layer priority of each
carrier. For interference avoidance, this information can be utilized by HeNB
to appropriately select its operating frequency by decoding SIBs or RRC
message from its neighbour cells during normal operation or in self-
configuration mode. At the same time, HeNB should also measure co-channel or
adjacent channel RSRP of the neighbour cells to make a proper selection.
Furthermore, if the priority information of the neighbour cells is changed at
a certain time after the HeNB has already started up, the HeNB should
periodically update the priority information, measure the RSRP and adjust its
operating frequency (if necessary).
Figure 7.4.2.3-1 below depicts a scenario where the HeNB is overlaid by both
higher and lower priority frequency layers as shown for HeNB cell 1, and
another scenario where the HeNB is overlaid by only one frequency layer as
shown for HeNB cell 2.
For HeNB cell 1, when the measured RSRP of both higher and lower priority
frequency layers exceed a predefined set of thresholds which implies that it
is overlaid by more than one frequency layers, the HeNB should select its
operating frequency that is being used by the cell that has the lower priority
for interference mitigation. As illustrated in Figure 7.4.2.3-1, the HeNB cell
1 should select RF1 which is the lower priority carrier frequency. On the
other hand, if the HeNB is overlaid by only one priority carrier frequency as
shown for HeNB cell 2 in Figure 7.4.2.3-1, the HeNB should select a carrier
frequency that corresponds to the smaller measured RSRP. For example, the HeNB
cell 2 in Fig.7.4.2.3-1 should select RF2 which has smaller RSRP.
{width="4.653472222222222in" height="1.5118055555555556in"}
Figure 7.4.2.3-1 Examples of adaptive frequency selection scheme
The adaptive frequency selection scheme is applied most effectively to HeNBs
in non-allowed CSG mode for avoiding the interference. In the case when the
HeNB is operating in an open or hybrid access mode, it may also apply the
scheme for interference avoidance.
#### 7.4.2.4 Downlink interference management based on mapping between PCIs
and transmission patterns
Interference Management based on mapping between PCIs and transmission
patterns requires a centralized coordinator. The centralized coordinator
generates a number of transmission patterns and a function which maps
transmission patterns to PCIs, and then sends to all cells the information of
transmission patterns and the mapping function. The essentials of this scheme
are as follows:
\- When powered on, a HeNB will listen to neighboring cell transmissions,
determine the Cell ID of these neighboring HeNBs, and report them to the
centralized coordinator.
\- The centralized coordinator can form an adjacency graph of all HeNBs based
on the reports from each HeNB as well as its UEs.
\- Given the adjacency graph, the centralized coordinator determines the
followings semi-statically:
▪ a set of transmission patterns; A pattern shows a profile of maximum Tx
power for each PRB or group of PRBs
▪ a function which maps transmission patterns to PCIs
\- The centralized coordinator notifies to HeNBs and MeNBs of the followings
via S1 signalling.
▪ the set of transmission patterns
▪ the function which maps transmission patterns to PCIs
\- This notification makes it possible that all cells share the information of
the transmission patterns and the mapping between the patterns and PCIs.
\- HeNB should use PRBs according to the transmission pattern corresponding to
its PCI.
Downlink interference management can be done as follows:
If a UE connected to a serving (H)eNB is close to a neighbouring HeNB, the
downlink of the UE can be severely degraded due to high interference from the
neighbouring HeNB. The serving (H)eNB can be macro eNB or HeNB. The UE detects
the PCI and measures the RSRP of the neighbouring HeNB, and reports these to
the serving (H)eNB. Because of the sharing of the information of the
transmission patterns and the mapping between these patterns and PCI, the
serving (H)eNB knows the transmission pattern of the neighbouring HeNB that
the UE is close to. This makes it possible for the serving (H)eNB to allocate
downlink resource such that the UE is not severely interfered by the
neighbouring HeNB on its downlink.
#### 7.4.2.5 Control of HeNB Downlink Interference by dynamically changing
HeNB CSG ID
To mitigate HeNB interference as well as to prevent free HeNB usage by
neighbors, one option is to change the CSG ID of a closed access HeNB
dynamically between
• Its default CSG ID which is assigned when it is deployed and
• A dedicated CSG ID which is configured by the operator.
This dedicated CSG ID is included in the Operator CSG list for every UE in the
operator network. When the closed access HeNB changes its CSG ID to the
dedicated CSG ID, it actually becomes accessible to each passing-by UE, thus
alleviating its interference towards the macro cell. Note that this scheme
would only be beneficial when a large fraction of UEs support CSG.
By dynamically changing the CSG IDs of closed access HeNBs in a coordinated
manner, it might be possible to ensure that the number of closed access HeNBs
using default CSG IDs under each macro cell does not go beyond a pre-defined
upper bound at any time instant.
• A centralized controller (e.g. HeNB Gateway or HeNB management server) can
set the upper bound, and configures, for each HeNB, the time intervals it
supports the default CSG ID and the dedicated CSG ID, respectively. Then each
HeNB dynamically varies its CSG ID based on the configuration parameters
provided by the centralized controller.
▪ Different macro cells may have different or common upper bounds.
▪ Whenever a HeNB is deployed, the centralized controller can determine its
adjacent macro cell based on its location and configure the time intervals it
will employ the default CSG ID and the dedicated CSG ID, respectively.
▪ `The mechanisms of when and how to select a set of HeNBs is FFS. It may be
possible to carefully arrange time intervals to employ default CSG IDs for
different HeNBs to ensure that the number of closed access HeNBs using default
CSG IDs under every macro cell can be upper limited at any time instant.
\- E.g. some HeNBs may use default CSG IDs the first 30 minutes of every hour,
but others may not; alternatively, some HeNBs may use default CSG IDs 9AM-11PM
everyday, but others may do.
▪ The upper bound can be determined by
\- Simulation/numerical analysis
\- HeNB subscription profile
> E.g. make HeNBs \"less open\" if the subscription rate is high and the
> subscribers desire to do so.
\- Macro cell load
> E.g. make HeNBs \"more open\" when macro cell is heavy loaded, and \"less
> open\" when macro cell is lightly loaded.
Further study of this proposals and comparison to alternatives (e.g. hybrid
cells) may be needed. In particular, the UE and core network impact of
dynamically changing the CSG ID is for further study by the relevant working
groups.
### 7.4.3 Power Control
#### 7.4.3.1 HeNB power control based on HeNB-MUE path loss
HeNB should adjust the downlink transmit power by taking into account the path
loss between the HeNB and an outdoor neighbour MUE including penetration loss
in order to provide better interference mitigation for the MUE while
maintaining good HeNB coverage for HUEs.
HeNB should set the transmit power of reference signal P_tx as follows:
P_tx (dBm) = MEDIAN( P_m + P_offset, P_tx_upp, P_tx_low )
Where:
\- P_m (dBm) is RSRP from the nearest MeNB measured by the HeNB. P_m is
dependent on path loss which includes the penetration loss between the nearest
MeNB and the HeNB.
\- P_offset (dB) is the power offset described below in detail.
\- P_tx_upp/P_tx_low (dBm) is the upper/lower limit value for the transmit
power of the reference signal. The maximum and the minimum total transmit
power of HeNB should follow HNB in [7].
The HeNB can also set the maximum downlink transmit power in proportion to the
transmit power of the reference signal. As the RSRP decreases, which means the
HeNB is located close to the edge of the macro cell, the transmit power should
be small in order to mitigate the downlink interference to the MUE.
P_offset above should be defined based on path loss between the HeNB and the
MUE. The path loss may consist of indoor path loss between the HeNB and cell
edge of HeNB cell and the penetration loss. Therefore, P_offset should be
formulated as follows:
P_offset = MEDIAN( P_offset_o + K*LE, P_offset_max, P_offset_min )
Where:
\- P_offset_o (dB) is a predetermined power offset value corresponding to the
indoor path loss. Typical value range between 50 and 100dB, and can be
determined by the averaged measurement value.
\- K is an adjustable positive factor can be determined by the priority of
HeNB operation. This value should be high to increase the total transmit power
(MeNB is more acceptable to higher interference) and low to reduce the
interference to MeNB operation.
\- LE (dB) is estimated penetration loss as below.
\- P_offset_max/P_offset_min (dB) is the maximum/minimum value of the P_offset
by which the estimated and calculated P_offset can be prevented from being too
large or too small. This value is dependent of the actual wall penetration
loss plus P_offset_o. And the typical wall penetration loss ranges between 10
and 30dB.
If the path loss between the HeNB and the MUE can be estimated, then the
transmit power of the HeNB should be set accordingly.
The path loss between the HeNB and the MUE should be estimated based on the
difference between the estimated UL transmit power and the UL reception power
(as the Received Interference Power) of the MUE. The estimated UL transmit
power is based on the assumption that UL power control is applied for both MUE
and HeNB as a UE. Then the UL transmit power can be calculated by the DL
propagation loss from the surrounding MeNB to the HeNB utilizing the RSRP
measurement.
#### 7.4.3.2 Smart power control based on interference measurement from macro
BS
In the absence of alternative techniques such as resource partitioning, a
fixed maximum power setting configured by the network is not sufficient to
ensure minimum HeNB coverage range while protecting macro in all cases. Hence,
a sensing of the HeNB environment can be used for setting the transmit power.
The HeNB adjust its maximum DL transmit power as a function of air interface
measurements to avoid interfering with macro cell UEs. Examples of such
measurements are total received interference, received CRS Êc from the most
dominant macro cell eNB, etc. The scheme is open loop, and does not involve
the UEs and signalling between network nodes.
The HeNB shall adjust its maximum transmit power according to the following
formula,
(1)
where parameters P~max~ and P~min~ is the maximum and minimum HeNB transmit
power settings, CRS Êc is measured in dBm, which is the Reference Signal
Received Power per resource element present at the Home BS antenna connector
received from the strongest co-channel macro cell. is the number of downlink
resource blocks in the HeNB channel. is the number of subcarriers in a
resource block (). Parameter α is a linear scalar that allows altering the
slope of power control mapping curve, β is a parameter expressed in dB that
can be used for altering the exact range of CRS Êc covered by dynamic range of
power control.
Parameters P~min\ ,~ α, and β are considered to be HeNB configuration
parameters, and P~max~ corresponds to the HeNBs maximum transmit power
capability.
For the special case where the HeNB is unable to detect any co-channel
deployed macro cells. The HeNB is free to use its maximum transmit power, or
apply pre-set parameterized value based on the requirement of operator.
## 7.5 Hybrid Cells
Hybrid cells are being included in the 3GPP release 9 specifications. Hybrid
HeNBs may provide different service levels to UEs that are members of the HeNB
and non-member UEs. In RAN4, extensive deployment scenarios of hybrid cells
have been discussed. The interference scenarios apply to most of the
deployments under consideration.
For the scenario where HeNBs are on a shared carrier with eNBs, the
interference management considerations are different between closed and hybrid
access modes. For the closed access mode the used HeNB resources (e.g. power,
RBs) are selected as a trade-off between performance at the HeNB/HUEs and
interference caused to the macro eNB/MUEs. For the hybrid access mode the
trade-off is between overall system performance (including both macro eNB and
HeNB layers), and resources consumed at the HeNB by \"visiting\" (i.e. non-CSG
member) UEs. These aspects are considered in more detail in the following sub-
sections.
### 7.5.1 Hybrid Access Level of Service
Hybrid HeNB may provide different service levels to UEs that are members of
the HeNB and non-member UEs. The lowest level of services is paging service,
where a hybrid cell allows a non-member UE to access the cell to receive
pages. A paging only hybrid cell is an interesting alternative to pure CSG
cells. Since CSG cells have separate PCID space, switching between CSG and
hybrid mode would have impact on both idle state and connected state home UEs.
On the contrary, a hybrid cell could with paging-only service provides similar
functionality as a CSG cell without incurring CSG-hybrid switching penalty.
If a hybrid cell only provides paging services to non-member UEs, data channel
interference is similar to CSG HeNBs. The difference is that the hybrid cell
has more information about the victim UE than a CSG cell. When the hybrid cell
decides to handover (HO) the UE to a macro cell, interference coordination
could be negotiated with the macro as part of the HO procedure. Some examples,
are:
1\. DL interference: The hybrid cell could reduce transmit power such that the
UE handed over to the target cell has sufficient DL C/I to receive DL control
channels from the target cell. The hybrid cell could also engage in fractional
frequency reuse (FFR) with the target cell to enhance DL data rate of the
victim UE.
2\. UL interference: A hybrid cell and HO target cell could choose the power
setting of this UE such that UL interference could be coordinated. UL control
channels of the HO sUE could also be orthogonalized with the PUCCH of the
source hybrid cell. UL data channel coordination through UL FFR could be
configured on a semi-static basis.
Note that hybrid cells also have additional information on the channel quality
of active UEs. Hence the adjustment made at the hybrid cell could fully take
into account on the impact to ongoing traffic. In some extreme scenarios,
hybrid cell could handover both the member UEs and non-member UEs to the macro
cell.
If a hybrid cell provides data services to non-member UEs, the hybrid HeNB is
similar to a pico cell with lower Tx power and different service level for
members and non-members. In addition, a hybrid HeNB is different from a
operator deployed pico cell in the following areas
1\. A release 9 hybrid HeNB does not support X2 interface.
2\. A hybrid HeNB could be customer deployed without proper RF planning
3\. The density of hybrid HeNB could have much high density than operator
deployed pico cells.
Given the challenges mentioned above, non-Rel-8 interference coordination
schemes should be investigated for hybrid cells.
### 7.5.2 DL Performance Evaluation
Full buffer performance analysis is performed for CSG and hybrid HeNB
deployments based on FDD. The dense-urban model corresponds to densely-
populated areas where there are multi-floor apartment buildings with smaller
size apartment units. Similar performance trends can be observed for TDD.
The set of simulation parameters are shown below:
• System bandwidth 5 MHz
• Macro Power = 43dBm
• HeNB power between [-10 dBm, 10 dBm].
• Case 1, the HeNB power is fixed to 8 dBm
• Case 2, the adaptive HeNB power setting is used to reduce the MUE outage
• ISD of 1km
• Noise power = -99dBm
• 57 cell wrap around model with 3 center cells simulated for traffic
• 10 macro UEs per cell
• HeNB penetration rate of 5%, and activity factor of 13%, this leads to 12
active home UEs per cell
The association algorithm in all cases is based on the best RSRQ among allowed
cells. In the case of CSG cells, UEs are only allowed to associate with the
macro cell or the HeNB in the same CSG group. In the case of hybrid cells, all
cells are open.
The C/I and throughput distribution for CSG and hybrid cells are shown in
Figures 7.5.2-1 to 7.5.2-4. As discussed in RAN4, adaptive power control could
reduce outage for CSG cells. In the case of hybrid cells, there is no outage
even without adaptive power control due to open association. Note that if
different service levels are enforced for group member and non-group members,
the fairness could be different from those shown in the figures.
Key mobile statistics (outage, 20% throughput and median throughput) are shown
in Table 7.5.2-1. It is noted that hybrid cells improve the outage and edge
user performance, while making little difference in high throughput region.
This is consistent with the expectation that with hybrid cells, the network
would be able to offload macro UEs in poor channel conditions to close by
hybrid cells. It is also interesting to note that the improvements due to
hybrid cell is much higher when adaptive HeNB power control is not available
(800% gain versus 60% gain).
Note that backhaul limitation of CSG and hybrid cells are not modelled in the
simulations. For practical deployments, users close by a hybrid cell is likely
to be backhaul limited rather than air-interface limited.
{width="2.8055555555555554in"
height="2.1041666666666665in"}{width="2.8958333333333335in"
height="2.1527777777777777in"}
(a) CSG cells (b) Hybrid cells
Figure 7.5.2-1 C/I for CSG cells and hybrid cells deployments with 8 dBm HeNB
Tx power
{width="2.8055555555555554in" height="2.1041666666666665in"}{width="2.875in"
height="2.1527777777777777in"}
(a) CSG cells (b) Hybrid cells
Figure 7.5.2-2 Throughput for CSG cells and hybrid cells deployments with 8
dBm HeNB Tx power
{width="2.9305555555555554in" height="2.1944444444444446in"}{width="2.8125in"
height="2.1041666666666665in"}
(a) CSG cells (b) Hybrid cells
Figure 7.5.2-3 C/I for CSG cells and hybrid cells deployments with adaptive
HeNB Tx power
{width="2.8055555555555554in"
height="2.1041666666666665in"}{width="2.9097222222222223in"
height="2.173611111111111in"}
(a) CSG cells (b) Hybrid cells
Figure 7.5.2-4 Throughput for CSG cells and hybrid cells deployments with
adaptive HeNB Tx power
Table 7.5.2-1 Summary of results
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Outage | Worst 20% | Median | | | Probability | mobile | throughput | | | | throughput | (kbps) | | | (SNR \< -6 dB) | (kbps) | | +================+================+================+================+ | No HeNB | 12.7% | 35 | 150 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CSG HeNB with | 18.9% | 100 | 5600 | | fixed Tx power | | | | | of 8 dBm | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | CSG HeNB with | 9.8 % | 250 | 3300 | | adaptive Tx | | | | | power | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Hybrid HeNB | 2% | 900 | 5100 | | with fixed Tx | | | | | power of 8 dBm | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Hybrid HeNB | 3% | 400 | 3400 | | with adaptive | | | | | Tx power | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 7.5.3 Hybrid Cell RB Resource Management
For hybrid cells, non-CSG members consume RB resources at the HeNB, the amount
of which will depend on the number of non-CSG UEs and the service level
provided to the non-CSG UEs. One possible method of managing the RB resources
used at a HeNB for non-CSG UEs is to reserve some RB resources for use by non-
CSG UEs.
In hybrid access mode, if a HeNB accepts non-CSG members as temporary users,
it would degrade CSG members\' capacity similar to the open access HeNB.
Moreover, when HeNB is under heavily loading, non-CSG UEs may be blocked first
and diverted to macro eNBs. These diverted non-CSG UEs that are still within
the coverage of the hybrid access HeNB may experience strong interferences
from the HeNB.
In order to manage RB resource and mitigate the DL interference of the hybrid
cells, a method called \"Resource Priority Region (RPR)\" may be used which
guarantees a small percentage of HeNB resources for non-CSG members.
The RPR for the hybrid access HeNB divides radio resources of a HeNB into two
regions for non-CSG members and CSG members respectively. The detailed
definitions for each resource region are:
1\. Non-CSG member priority region -- non-CSG members have higher priority
than CSG members.
2\. CSG member priority region -- CSG members have higher priority than non-
CSG members.
Fig.7.5.3-1 Resource Priority Region
A threshold -- _Priority Region Threshold_ (PRT) is set to separate resources
between two priority regions. The PRT could be a time or physical resource
block (PRB) in radio frames, and PRT could be statically or dynamically
adjusted by exchanging ICIC messages between HeNB and macro eNB. The HeNB
could autonomously define the threshold for release 9, and further
enhancements allowing the threshold to be adapted e.g. based on S1 signalling
could be considered for release 10.
The hybrid access HeNB with RPR efficiently decreases the blocking probability
to non-CSG members when HeNB is exhausting its resource. Also, this method
guarantees the CSG members throughput that HeNB are not affected by sharing
the resource with non-CSG members.
### 7.5.4 Hybrid Cell Power Management
The optimum power setting for hybrid cells is likely to be different than for
closed cells, in that for closed cells the power is set as a compromise
between HeNB coverage and interference caused to neighbour \"victim\" cells,
whereas for hybrid HeNB it is set as a compromise between overall system
performance versus resources used at the HeNB by non-CSG UEs.
Measurements made by the HeNB of neighbour cells (\"sniffing\") can be used to
set an appropriate downlink power. However the propagation conditions between
a neighbouring (H)eNB and its associated UEs may differ significantly from the
propagation conditions between a neighbouring (H)eNB and the HeNB as measured
during \"sniffing\". Furthermore the propagation conditions between the HeNB
and nearby non-served UEs will not be known. These differences will result in
uncertainty when estimating the coverage of HeNB and neighbouring (H)eNBs to
non-served UEs.
One potential way to allow a hybrid access mode HeNB to get a more accurate
picture of its local environment is for the HeNB to request a UE to measure
RSRP and/or RSRQ of both source and target cells immediately after a UE hands-
in (active state) or registers with (idle state) the HeNB. This would apply
particularly to non-CSG UEs but could also apply to CSG UEs. In this way the
HeNB could, for example, determine if the hand-in or re-selection is a) due to
poor signal level from the source (e.g. macro) cell or b) due to high
interference from the HeNB. This would then allow the HeNB to determine its
output power appropriately. For example if the signal is particularly poor on
the source (e.g. macro) cell, the HeNB could use a relatively high power
and/or provide relatively high access priorities for non CSG UEs, compared to
the case where the signal level on the source cell is not so poor.
This basic approach would require no standards changes. Future standards
releases could consider more sophisticated approaches aimed at improved
performance e.g. based on UE storing measurement reports and/or events prior
to a hand-in or reselection of a HeNB, with subsequent reporting to the HeNB.
#