# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is a Technical Report on Release 9 work item \"RF requirements
for LTE Pico NodeB\".
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[4] 3GPP TR 25.951: \"FDD Base Station (BS) classification\".
[5] 3GPP TR 36.942: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Frequency (RF) system scenarios\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[7] ITU-R Reccommendation P.1238: \"Propagation data and prediction methods
for the planning of indoor radiocommunication systems and radio local area
networks in the frequency range 900 MHz to 100 GHz\".
[8] ITU-R Recommendation SM.329: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
(Void)
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
(void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
(void)
# 4 General
## 4.1 Work item objective
The objective is to define LTE Pico BS and then specify the corresponding RF
requirements according to the followings:
\- definition of LTE Pico BS class
\- the RF requirements for LTE Pico BS class
\- introduction of BS transmission and reception requirements, but no baseband
performance requirements
\- update of conformance test specifications
# 5 System scenarios
This clause describes the system scenarios for LTE operation that are
considered when defining LTE Pico BS class. It also includes typical radio
parameters that are used to derive requirements.
## 5.1 Pico NodeB class
Pico Base Stations are **characterised by requirements derived from Pico
Cell** scenarios with **a BS to UE minimum coupling loss (MCL) equal to 45
dB**.
Note: This value was derived from 2GHz Band.
[Editor\'s Note: The impact on the MCL values due to different frequency bands
is for FFS.]
## 5.2 Radio scenario
Pico radio scenarios have these characteristics: relatively large coverage,
dense user population, easy and flexible installation, and large capacity data
service. Pico BS is typically used in indoor offices, indoor hotspots, outdoor
hotspots, or dense blocks, and is located on walls, ceilings, or masts.
## 5.3 Simulation assumptions
### 5.3.1 Deployment modelling
#### 5.3.1.1 Pico deployment
This modelling is referenced to the Pico scenario described in 3GPP TR 25.951
[4]. A model indoor environment is specified below and consists of a large
office building with an open floor plan layout. Figure1 shows a diagram of the
environment. The parameters of the Pico environment are the following:
\- building size = 100 x 100 metres
\- room size = 23 x 20 metres
\- corridor width = 4 metres
{width="2.7916666666666665in" height="2.388888888888889in"}
Figure 5.3.1.1-1 Pico deployment
#### 5.3.1.2 Macro-Pico deployment
The hexagonal cells represent the macro cells and the indoor systems have been
mapped onto the macro cells. The indoor layout has been adopted from clause
5.3.1.1. A certain number of indoor systems are dropped within the macro
coverage area with a random uniform distribution.
{width="5.458333333333333in" height="3.611111111111111in"}
Figure 5.3.1.2-1. Macro-Pico deployment
### 5.3.2 Channel models
#### 5.3.2.1 Antenna patterns
The macro BS antenna radiation pattern to be used for each sector in 3-sector
cell sites is plotted in Figure 3. The pattern is identical to those defined
in 3GPP TR 36.942 [5].
,
is the 3dB beam width which corresponds to 65 degrees, and is the maximum
attenuation
[[CHART]]{.chart}
Figure 5.3.2.1-1 Antenna Pattern for 3-Sector Cells
For initial coexistence simulations, the azimuth antenna patterns for Pico BS
are assumed to be omnidirectional.
#### 5.3.2.2 Propagation model
##### 5.3.2.2.1 Indoor path loss model
According to Keenan-Motley and ITU-R P.1238 [7] indoor models, the indoor
propagation model expressed in dB is in the following form, which gives the
similar results with the indoor model in 3GPP TR 25.951 [4] when a carrier
frequency of 2000MHz is used.
Where:
\- R：transmitter-receiver separation given in metres
\- f：the carrier frequency given in MHz
\- n：number of penetrated walls
\- Pi：loss of wall number i
To be convenient for simulation, according to the parameters given for office
environment in ITU-R P.1238 [7], the indoor path loss model is represented by
the following formula when considering a carrier frequency of 2000 MHz.
where:
R = transmitter-receiver separation given in metres
Slow fading deviation in Pico environment is assumed to be 6 dB.
##### 5.3.2.2.2 Macro cell propagation model
Macro cell propagation model for urban area is applicable for scenarios in
urban and suburban areas outside the high rise core where buildings are of
nearly uniform height (3GPP TR 36.942 [5]). Assuming that the base station
antenna height is fixed at 15 m above the rooftop, and a carrier frequency of
2 GHz is used, the path loss L can be expressed as below:
Where:
> R is the transmitter-receiver separation in kilometers
Slow fading deviation in Macro environment is assumed to be 10 dB.
### 5.3.3 Macro cell parameters
The macro cell parameters are proposed as follows:
Table 5.3.3-1: Macro system assumptions
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Parameters** | **Assumptions** | | +===========================+===========================+===========+ | **Carrier frequency** | 2000 MHz | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **System bandwidth** | 10 MHz(aggressor), | | | | | | | | 10 MHz(victim) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Cellular layout** | Hexagonal grid, 19 cell | | | | sites, | | | | | | | | with BTS in the corner of | | | | the cell , | | | | | | | | 65-degree sectored beam. | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Wrap around** | Employed | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Inter-site distance** | 750 m | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Traffic model** | Full buffer | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **UE distribution** | UEs dropped with uniform | | | | density within the macro | | | | coverage area, | | | | | | | | Indoor UEs ratio is a | | | | parameter depending on | | | | the simulation scenario. | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Path loss model** | L = 128.1 + 37.6 log10 ( | | | | R ), | | | | | | | | R in kilometers | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Lognormal shadowing** | Log Normal Fading with 10 | | | | dB standard deviation | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **LTE BS Antenna gain | 15 dBi | | | after cable loss** | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **UE Antenna gain** | 0 dBi | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Outdoor wall | 10 dB | | | penetration loss** | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **White noise power | -174 dBm/Hz | | | density** | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **BS noise figure** | 5 dB | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **UE noise figure** | 9 dB | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Maximum BS TX power** | 46dBm | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Maximum UE TX power** | 23dBm | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Minimum UE TX power** | -30dBm | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **MCL** | 70 dB | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Scheduling algorithm** | Round Robin | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **RB width** | 180 kHz, total 50 RBs | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **RB numbers per user** | Downlink:1 | Uplink:16 | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
### 5.3.4 Pico cell parameters
The Pico cell parameters are proposed as follows:
Table 5.3.4-1: Pico system assumptions
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Parameters** | **Assumptions** | | +===========================+===========================+===========+ | **Carrier frequency** | 2000 MHz | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **System bandwidth** | 10 MHz(aggressor), | | | | | | | | 10 MHz(victim) | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Path loss model** | L = 38 + 30 log10 ( R ), | | | | | | | | R in metres | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Lognormal shadowing** | Log Normal Fading with 6 | | | | dB standard deviation | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Antenna gain** | 0 dBi or 2 dBi | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Outdoor wall | 10 dB | | | penetration loss** | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Pico BS noise figure** | 6 dB | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Maximum Pico TX power** | 24dBm | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Min separation UE to | 2 m | | | Pico BS** | | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **Scheduling algorithm** | Round Robin | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **RB width** | 180 kHz, total 50 RBs | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | **RB numbers per user** | Downlink:1 | Uplink:16 | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
### 5.3.5 Scheduler
For initial coexistence simulations, Round Robin scheduler shall be used.
### 5.3.6 Power control modelling
No power control in downlink, fixed power per frequency resource block is
assumed.
The fractional power control described in 3GPP TR 36.942 [5] shall be used for
the initial uplink coexistence simulations.
# 6 Changes for the Release 9 in addition to Release 8
## 6.1 Changes in 36.104
This clause describes the necessary changes to requirements on BS minimum RF
characteristics, with respect to Release 8 requirements in 3GPP TS 36.104 [2].
### 6.1.1 Changes to transmitter characteristics
#### 6.1.1.1 Frequency error
The frequency error requirement may be specified separately for different base
station classes. In Pico cells, the Doppler shift of the mobile should be
lower than that in general cells. For that reason we consider that the
requirement of frequency error for Pico BS may be relaxed without performance
degradation. Meanwhile, the demodulation performance with high order
modulation which is sensitive to the frequency error should be considered.
It is agreed to set the frequency error requirement for Pico eNodeB to ±[0.1]
ppm.
#### 6.1.1.2 Base station maximum output power
Maximum output power, Pmax, of the base station is the mean power level per
carrier measured at the antenna connector during the transmitter ON period in
a specified reference condition.
Base Station maximum output power for Pico NodeB shall be as specified in
table 6.1.1.2-1.
Table 6.1.1.2-1: Base Station maximum output power
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | BS Class | Maximum output power | +------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+ | Pico NodeB | [\<]{.underline} + 24 dBm (for one transmit antenna port) | | | | | | [\<]{.underline} + 21 dBm (for two transmit antenna ports) | | | | | | [\<]{.underline} + 18 dBm (for four transmit antenna ports) | +------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
#### 6.1.1.3 Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)
##### 6.1.1.3.1 Relative value
Downlink interference between Macro cell and Pico cell was evaluated in
R4-093591, from the simulation results, average downlink throughput loss for
LTE Macro is less than 0.5% and capacity loss for UTRA Macro is less than 2.5%
when LTE Macro or UTRA Macro and Pico cells are deployed on adjacent
frequencies (ACIR = 33 dB).
ACIR defines the protection against adjacent channel interference. In the
downlink, ACIR is the function of Pico BS ACLR and UE ACS as follows:
ACS1 of MUE is assumed to be 33 dB 3GPP TS 36.101 [6], the relationship
between ACIR and ACLR1 is provided in Table 6.1.1.3.1-1. It is observed that
the ACIR is mainly dominated by the UE ACS1 performance and tightening the BS
ACLR1 only would insignificantly improve the overall ACIR.
Table 6.1.1.3.1-1 Relationship between ACIR and ACLR
**BS ACLR (dB)** **UE ACS (dB)** **ACIR (dB)**
* * *
45 33 32.73 50 33 32.91 55 33 32.97
Based on the above investigation, a relative ACLR1 value of 45 dB could ensure
Macro downlink performance degradation to an acceptable level. Due to the fact
that ACS2 of UE is better than ACS1, the requirement of ACLR2 would be lower
than ACLR1 for Pico BS to get the same ACIR. The same requirements for ACLR1
and ACLR2 are appropriate. So there is no need to tighten the relative ACLR
requirements for the Pico BS from requirements used for general purpose BS.
##### 6.1.1.3.2 Absolute value
For wide area base stations, absolute limits of -15 dBm/MHz for Category B and
-13dBm/MHz for Category A are specified in 3GPP TS 36.104 [2]. Assuming these
limits are applicable to Pico NB and taking 10 MHz bandwidth as an example,
the corresponding relative ACLR is 29 dB for Category B and 27 dB for Category
A. It may influence co-existence performance under these absolute limits. It
is proposed to use a level of -32 dBm/MHz as the absolute limit, which is 5 dB
below SEM mask level in spurious domain inside the operating band.
#### 6.1.1.4 Operating band unwanted emissions
For LTE Pico NodeB, emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in
tables 6.1.1.4-1 to 6.1.1.4-3.
Table 6.1.1.4-1: Pico eNodeB operating band unwanted emission limits for 1.4
MHz channel bandwidth
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum requirement Measurement
bandwidth (Note 1) 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 1.4 MHz 0.05 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 1.45 MHz 100
kHz 1.4 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 2.8 MHz 1.45 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 2.85 MHz -31 dBm 100 kHz
2.8 MHz ≤ ∆f ≤ ∆f~max~ 2.85 MHz ≤ f_offset \< f_offset~max~ -31 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.1.1.4-2: Pico eNodeB operating band unwanted emission limits for 3 MHz
channel bandwidth
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum requirement Measurement
bandwidth (Note 1) 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 3 MHz 0.05 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 3.05 MHz 100 kHz
3 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 6 MHz 3.05 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 6.05 MHz -35 dBm 100 kHz 6 MHz ≤ ∆f
≤ ∆f~max~ 6.05 MHz ≤ f_offset \< f_offset~max~ -35 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
Table 6.1.1.4-3: Pico eNodeB operating band unwanted emission limits for 5,
10, 15 and 20 MHz channel bandwidth
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f Frequency offset of
measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum requirement Measurement
bandwidth (Note 1) 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 5 MHz 0.05 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 5.05 MHz 100 kHz
5 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 10 MHz 5.05 MHz ≤ f_offset \< 10.05 MHz -37 dBm 100 kHz 10 MHz ≤
∆f ≤ ∆f~max~ 10.05 MHz ≤ f_offset \< f_offset~max~ -37 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
#### 6.1.1.5 Transmitter spurious
##### 6.1.1.5.1 Mandatory requirement
The mandatory requirements of spurious emission are defined according to the
ITU-R Recommendation SM.329 [8] and are independent of BS classes. It shall
also be applied for Pico eNode B.
##### 6.1.1.5.2 Protection of the BS receiver of own or different BS
This requirement is to protect the receivers of the BSs that may be
desensitised by emissions from a BS transmitter. Assuming 30 dB coupling loss
between the Tx and Rx antenna ports, 5 dB noise figure and 0.8 dB
desensitization (interferer 7 dB below noise floor), the maximum allowed level
of Macro eNodeB is -96 dBm with 100kHz bandwidth. For Pico eNodeB the noise
figure is agreed as 13dB, so for the Pico eNode B any spurious emissions for
protection of the own or other Pico eNode B receiver shall not exceed the
limits in table 6.1.1.5.2-1.
Table6.1.1.5.2-1: Pico eNodeB spurious emissions limits for protection of the
BS receiver
     Frequency range             Maximum Level   Measurement Bandwidth   Note
* * *
     F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~   -88dBm          100 kHz
##### 6.1.1.5.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements
These requirements are applied for the protection of specific equipment
operating in specific systems (GSM, UTRA, E-UTRA, etc.). The requirements are
used for protection of E-UTRA system in other band or other systems which are
not belong to LTE and are independent of the BS classifications. The
requirement in clause 6.6.4.3 of TS36.104 shall also be applied for Pico eNode
B.
##### 6.1.1.5.4 Co-location with other base stations
These requirements are applied to the BSs of the same classification. Similar
to UTRA it is reasonable to reuse the co-location scenarios that defined for
GSM Base stations, which also involves in 30 dB coupling loss between the Tx
and Rx antenna ports. Considering that both the UTRA and E-UTRA system are may
operate within the same band, both the two systems should be protected. The
spurious emission limit is determined by the E-UTRA and UTRA spurious
requirement whichever is more stringent.
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of table
6.1.1.5.4-1 for a Pico eNodeB where requirements for co-location with a BS
type listed in the first column apply.
Table 6.1.1.5.4-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for Pico eNodeB co-located
with another BS
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | co-located | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | BS | co-location | | | | | | requirement | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | Pico GSM900 | 876-915 MHz | -70 dBm | 100 kHz | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pico | 1710 - 1785 | -80 dBm | 100 kHz | | | DCS1800 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pico | 1850 - 1910 | -80 dBm | 100 kHz | | | PCS1900 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pico GSM850 | 824 - 849 | -70 dBm | 100 kHz | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1920 - 1980 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band I or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1850 - 1910 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band II or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 2 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1785 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band III or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 3 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1755 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band IV or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 4 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 824 - 849 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band V or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 5 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 815 - 850 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band VI or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 6 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 2500 - 2570 | -88dBm | 100 KHz | | | Band VII or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 7 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 880 - 915 | -88dBm | 100 KHz | | | Band VIII | MHz | | | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1749.9 - | -88dBm | 100 KHz | | | Band IX or | 1784.9 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 9 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1710 - 1770 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band X or | MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 10 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1427.9 - | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XI or | 1452.9 MHz | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 11 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 698 - 716 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XII or | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 12 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 777 - 787 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XIII | MHz | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 13 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 788 - 798 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | Band XIV or | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 14 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 704 - 716 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | | | 17 | MHz | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 1900 - 1920 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | in Band a) | MHz | | | applicable | | or E-UTRA | | | | to E-UTRA | | Band 33 | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 33 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 2010 - 2025 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | in Band a) | MHz | | | applicable | | or E-UTRA | | | | to E-UTRA | | Band 34 | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 34 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 1850 -- | -88dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | in Band b) | 1910 MHz | | | applicable | | or E-UTRA | | | | to E-UTRA | | Band 35 | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 35 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 1930 - 1990 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | in Band b) | MHz | | | applicable | | or E-UTRA | | | | to E-UTRA | | Band 36 | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 2 | | | | | | and 36 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 1910 - 1930 | -88dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | in Band c) | MHz | | | applicable | | or E-UTRA | | | | to E-UTRA | | Band 37 | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 37. | | | | | | This | | | | | | unpaired | | | | | | band is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | ITU-R | | | | | | M.1036, but | | | | | | is pending | | | | | | any future | | | | | | deployment. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 2570 -- | -88dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | in Band d) | 2620 MHz | | | applicable | | or E-UTRA | | | | to E-UTRA | | Band 38 | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 38. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA E-UTRA | 1880 -- | -88dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band 39 | 1920MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to E-UTRA | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 33 | | | | | | and 39 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA E-UTRA | 2300 -- | -88dBm | 100 kHz | This is not | | Band 40 | 2400MHz | | | applicable | | | | | | to E-UTRA | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 40 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 6.1.2 Changes to receiver characteristics
#### 6.1.2.1 Receiver reference sensitivity
##### 6.1.2.1.1 Discussion
Two contributions were presented during the RAN4 #52bis proposing the receiver
reference sensitivity requirement for the LTE Pico NodeB in R4-093588 and
R4-093987. This two contributions both provided simulation results on uplink
performance degradation of Macro cell and Noise rise at Pico NB. From these
simulation results, 2 aspects were identified:
1) Pico Node B operating on adjacent channel will not cause noticeable
throughput loss of Macro NodeB.
2) Due to the different setting on probability of Pico NodeB suffering from
the highest interference, 10 dB noise rise is proposed in R4-093588 and 4\~6
dB is proposed in R4-093987.
Considering both system performance and implementation cost, it is proposed
that the receiver sensitivity for Pico BS is relaxed by 8dB compared to that
for Macro BS.
The receiver reference sensitivity for Pico NodeB can be specified as below:
##### 6.1.2.1.2 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in annex A in 3GPP TS 36.104 [2] with
parameters specified in table 6.1.2.1.2-1.
Table 6.1.2.1.2-1: BS reference sensitivity levels
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Reference | | | measurement channel | sensitivity power | | channel bandwidth | | level, PREFSENS | | [MHz] | | | | | | [dBm] | +======================+======================+======================+ | 1.4 | FRC A1-1 in annex | -98.8 | | | A.1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | FRC A1-2 in annex | -95.0 | | | A.1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | FRC A1-3 in annex | -93.5 | | | A.1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | FRC A1-3 in annex | -93.5 | | | A.1* | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | FRC A1-3 in annex | -93.5 | | | A.1* | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | FRC A1-3 in annex | -93.5 | | | A.1* | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note*: P~REFSENS~ | | | | is the power level | | | | of a single instance | | | | of the reference | | | | measurement channel. | | | | This requirement | | | | shall be met for | | | | each consecutive | | | | application of a | | | | single instance of | | | | FRC A1-3 mapped to | | | | disjoint frequency | | | | ranges with a width | | | | of 25 resource | | | | blocks each. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.1.2.2 Blocking characteristics
##### 6.1.2.2.1 General blocking requirement
The blocking characteristic is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an unwanted
interferer, which is either a 1.4 MHz, 3 MHz or 5 MHz E-UTRA signal for in-
band blocking or a CW signal for out-of-band blocking. For the out-of-band
blocking, the same requirement which is a -15 dBm CW signal as for general
purpose BS may apply to the Pico BS. Meanwhile, due to the fact that
separation between UE and Pico BS may be relatively close, the in-band
blocking requirements for Pico BS may be more stringent than that for general
purpose BS.
The deployment scenario and simulation assumptions are the same as in clause
5.3. The Macro and Pico layers are deployed on different frequencies. One
block is located in each Macro sector. Number of Pico NB per block is 4.
Indoor UE ratio of Macro cell is set to 20%. The total received power level at
Pico NodeB in 10 MHz bandwidth in Macro operating frequency from MUEs is
calculated.
Figure 6.1.2.2.1-1 and figure 6.1.2.2.1-2 show the CDF curves of the total
received blocking power level at Pico NB from Macro UEs. It is observed that
the interfering level of -35 dBm corresponds to the case that 99.8%
probability of the blocking levels at the receivers is below this level.
In reality, macro UEs will be blocked due to the strong signal from Pico NB,
before they can cause significant interference to Pico BS. A blocking
threshold of --39 dBm for UE is assumed (assuming 5dB higher than the blocking
level of --44 dBm in 3GPP TS 36.101 [6]). Figure 6.1.2.2.1-3 shows the CDF
with DL UE blocking. It is observed that all the interference levels will less
than -37 dBm.
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.3819444444444446in" | | height="2.5625in"} | height="2.5416666666666665in"} | | | | | Figure 6.1.2.2.1-1 CDF of the | Figure 6.1.2.2.1-2 CDF of the | | total received blocking power, | total received blocking power | | no UE blocking | (zoomed version), no UE blocking | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
{width="5.361111111111111in" height="3.1041666666666665in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2.1-3 CDF of the total received blocking power, with UE blocking
Based on these findings, it is proposed that a blocking level of -35 dBm for
in-band blocking is sufficient for Pico NB.
It is expected that the receiver blocking should be tested with a wanted
signal 6 dB above sensitivity as for a general purpose BS. The receiver
blocking for Pico NodeB can be specified as below:
###### 6.1.2.2.1.1 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS
antenna input using the parameters in tables 6.1.2.2.1.1-1 and 6.1.2.2.1.1-2.
The reference measurement channel for the wanted signal is identified in table
6.1.2.1.2-1 for each channel bandwidth and further specified in annex A of
3GPP TS 36.104 [2].
Table 6.1.2.2.1.1-1: Blocking performance requirement
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | tab | table | | 1 | _low~ | | high~ | | + | le6.1 | 6.1 | | 3-14, | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | .2.2. | .2.2. | | 1 | | | | | | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 33-40 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | tab | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | le6.1 | 6.1 | | | -20) | | +10) | | 6dB* | .2.2. | .2.2. | | | | | | | | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +10) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 6.1 | 6.1 | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | .2.2. | .2.2. | | | | | | | | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 6.1 | 6.1 | | | -20) | | +18) | | 6dB* | .2.2. | .2.2. | | | | | | | | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +18) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | No | | | | | | | | | te*: | | | | | | | | | P~REF | | | | | | | | | SENS~ | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | pends | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in v | | | | | | | | | tab | | | | | | | | | le 6. | | | | | | | | | 1.2.1 | | | | | | | | | .4-1. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 6.1.2.2.1.1-2: Interfering signals for blocking performance requirement
for
+--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | E-UTRA | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | | centre frequency | signal | | channel BW [MHz] | minimum offset to the | | | | channel edge of the | | | | wanted signal [MHz] | | +====================+=======================+=======================+ | 1.4 | 2.1 | 1.4MHz E-UTRA signal | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 3 | 4.5 | 3MHz E-UTRA signal | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 5 | 7.5 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 10 | 7.5 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 15 | 7.5 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | 20 | 7.5 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +--------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 6.1.2.2.2 Collocation with other base stations
This additional blocking requirement may be applied for the protection of Pico
E-UTRA BS receivers when GSM, UTRA or E-UTRA Pico BS operating in a different
frequency band are collocated with an LTE Pico BS.
The requirements are applied to the BSs of the same classification. The
requirements in this clause assume a 30 dB coupling loss between interfering
transmitter and Pico BS receiver. For the maximum output power of UTRA or LTE
Pico BS is 24 dBm, the interfering Signal mean power equals to -6 dBm.
###### 6.1.2.2.2.1 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to BS
antenna input using the parameters in table 6.1.2.2.2.1.-1. The reference
measurement channel for the wanted signal is identified in table 6.1.2.1.2-1
for each channel bandwidth and further specified in annex A in 3GPP TS 36.104
[2].
Table 6.1.2.2.2.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for LTE Pico BS when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Co-located | Centre | Interfering | Wanted | Type of | | BS type | Frequency | Signal mean | Signal mean | Interfering | | | of | power (dBm) | power (dBm) | Signal | | | Interfering | | | | | | Signal | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pico GSM850 | 869 -- 894 | -7 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | | | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pico GSM900 | 921 -- 960 | -7 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | | | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pico | 1805 -- | -4 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | DCS1800 | 1880 | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pico | 1930 -- | -4 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | PCS1900 | 1990 | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band I or | 2170 | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1930 -- | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band II or | 1990 | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 2 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1805 -- | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band III or | 1880 | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 3 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band IV or | 2155 | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 4 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 869 -- 894 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band V or | | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 5 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 875 -- 885 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band VI or | | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 6 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 2620 -- | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band VII or | 2690 | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 7 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 925 -- 960 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band VIII | | | + 6dB* | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1844.9 -- | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band IX or | 1879.9 | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 9 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 2110 -- | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band X or | 2170 | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 10 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 1475.9 - | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XI or | 1500.9 | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 11 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 728 - 746 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XII or | | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 12 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 746 - 756 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XIIII | | | + 6dB* | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | Band 13 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 758 - 768 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XIV or | | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 14 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA E-UTRA | 734 - 746 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band 17 | | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA E-UTRA | 860 - 875 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band 18 | | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA FDD | 875 - 890 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | Band XIX or | | | + 6dB* | | | E-UTRA Band | | | | | | 19 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 1900-1920 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band a) | | | + 6dB* | | | | 2010-2025 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA E-UTRA | 1900-1920 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | TDD in Band | | | + 6dB* | | | 33 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA E-UTRA | 2010-2025 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | TDD in Band | | | + 6dB* | | | 34 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 1850-1910 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band b) | | | + 6dB* | | | | 1930-1990 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA E-UTRA | 1850-1910 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | TDD in Band | | | + 6dB* | | | 35 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA E-UTRA | 1930-1990 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | TDD in Band | | | + 6dB* | | | 36 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 1910-1930 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band c) | | | + 6dB* | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | TDD in Band | | | | | | 37 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LA UTRA TDD | 2570-2620 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band d) | | | + 6dB* | | | or E-UTRA | | | | | | in Band 38 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pico E-UTRA | 1880-1920 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band 39 | | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pico E-UTRA | 2300-2400 | -6 | P~REFSENS~ | CW carrier | | in Band 40 | | | + 6dB* | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note*: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in table | | | | | | 6.1.2.1.2-1 | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 6.1.2.3 Dynamic range
The dynamic range is specified as a measure of the capability of the receiver
to receive a wanted signal in the presence of an interfering signal inside the
received channel bandwidth. In this condition a throughput requirement shall
be met for a specified reference measurement channel. The interfering signal
for the dynamic range requirement is an AWGN signal.
##### 6.1.2.3.1 Analysis
The evaluation of the Macro eNodeB receiver dynamic range is shown as the
following equations.
[Interfering signal mean power]= [noise floor] + [20 dB interference-over-
thermal]
[Wanted signal mean power]= [Interfering signal mean power] + [SNR at 95%
throughput] + [implement margin]
In the formulas above the additional noise of 20 dB and SNR point are proposed
based on simulations, and the implement margin which is due to receiver chain
imperfections is chosen as 2.5 dB. The simulation assumptions for Pico eNB are
the same as clause 5.3. There are 10 pico eNBs per sector and 80% MUE indoor.
The Macro and Pico layers are deployed on adjacent frequencies, Adjacent
Channel Interference Ratio (ACIR) is set to 30 dB and the Pico eNodeB building
block is located in the cell border.
{width="5.833333333333333in" height="4.375in"}.I
Figure 6.1.2.3.1-1: probability of IoT
Figure 6.1.2.3.1-1 gives the IoT caused by uncoordinated macro UE, and the IoT
of 20dB is corresponding to 98.4% probability, so it is reasonable to reuse
the 20dB IoT which is proposed above.
Figure 6.1.2.3.1-2 shows the CDF of interfering signal level based on another
deployment scenario. In the simulation, one block is randomly located in each
Macro sector. Number of Pico NB per block is 4. Indoor UEs ratio of Macro cell
is set to 20%. The total received interference power from uncoordinated macro
UEs is calculated.
In Figure 6.1.2.3.1-2, we can see the distribution of the interference from
uncoordinated macro UEs. The simulations show that the interfering level of
-76.5 dBm corresponds to the case that 99% probability of the interference
levels to the receivers are below this level. This corresponds to a level 14.5
dB above the noise floor for Pico BS, which is ‑91 dBm according to R4-094034.
{width="5.208333333333333in" height="3.1180555555555554in"}
Figure 6.1.2.3.1-2 Interfering signal power CDF
Based on these findings, the conclusion is that the receiver dynamic range of
20 dB as for macro BS is sufficient for Pico NB.
The dynamic range for Pico Node B can be specified as below:
##### 6.1.2.3.2 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in annex A with parameters specified in table
6.1.2.3.2-1.
Table 6.1.2.3.2-1: Dynamic range
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Wanted | Interfering | Type of | | | measurement | signal mean | signal mean | interfering | | channel | channel | power | power | signal | | bandwidth | | [dBm] | [dBm] | | | [MHz] | | | /channel BW | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1.4 | FRC A2-1 in | -68.3 | -80.7 | AWGN | | | annex A.2 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | FRC A2-2 in | -64.4 | -76.7 | AWGN | | | annex A.2 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | FRC A2-3 in | -62.2 | -74.5 | AWGN | | | annex A.2 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | FRC A2-3 in | -62.2 | -71.5 | AWGN | | | annex A.2* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | FRC A2-3 in | -62.2 | -69.7 | AWGN | | | annex A.2* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | FRC A2-3 in | -62.2 | -68.4 | AWGN | | | annex A.2* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 6.1.2.4 In-channel selectivity
Receiver in-channel selectivity requirement is a measure of the receiver
ability to receive a wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in
the presence of an interfering signal received at a larger power spectral
density.
##### 6.1.2.4.1 Analysis
For Pico eNode B, the same method as that for Macro eNB can be used for
defining this requirement. The UL signals are just defined for 2 users, one
being the \"wanted\" signal and the other one being the \"interfering\" signal
at elevated power as following:
[Wanted signal mean power]= [RBs noise floor] + [wanted signal C/I] +
[implement margin] + [desensitization of 3 dB]
[Interfering signal mean power]= [RBs noise floor] + [16dB interference-over-
thermal] + [assumption of 9 dB C/I]
Regarding the interferer level, a 16QAM \"interfering\" signal is proposed 25
dB above its noise floor to mask the impact of receiver\'s own noise floor.
The \"wanted\" signal was defined as a QPSK modulated FRC, for which ≥95%
T-put should be achieved in the presence of the interfering signal. The only
difference between Macro eNB and Pico eNB is the RBs noise floor. Since the
noise figure has been agreed as 13 dB (8 dB degradation compared to Macro
eNB), the wanted signal and interfering signal levels for Pico eNode B is
shown as following:
##### 6.1.2.4.2 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel as specified in annex A of 3GPP TS 36.104 [2] with
parameters specified in table 6.1.2.4.2-1 for Pico eNode B.
Table 6.1.2.4.2-1 E-UTRA Pico BS in-channel selectivity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Wanted | Interfering | Type of | | | measurement | signal mean | signal mean | interfering | | channel | channel | power | power | signal | | bandwidth | | [dBm] | [dBm] | | | (MHz) | | | | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1.4 | A1-4 in | -98.9 | -79 | 1.4 MHz | | | annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 3 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | A1-5 in | -94.1 | -76 | 3 MHz | | | annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 6 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | A1-2 in | -92.0 | -73 | 5 MHz | | | annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 10 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | A1-3 in | -90.5 | -69 | 10 MHz | | | annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 25 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | A1-3 in | -90.5 | -69 | 15 MHz | | | annex A.1* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 25 | | | | | | RBs* | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | A1-3 in | -90.5 | -69 | 20 MHz | | | annex A.1* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 25 | | | | | | RBs* | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note*: | | | | | | Wanted and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | placed | | | | | | adjacently | | | | | | around Fc | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 6.1.2.5 Adjacent Channel Selectivity (ACS) and narrow-band blocking
Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) is a measure of the receiver ability to
receive a wanted signal at its assigned channel frequency in the presence of
an adjacent channel signal with a specified centre frequency offset of the
interfering signal to the band edge of a victim system.
##### 6.1.2.5.1 Analysis
In UTRA the ACS of Local Area BS was not changed from the requirement used for
a general purpose BS, as the ACIR in the up-link is dominated by the ACLR
performance of the terminals. For Pico eNodeB the similar criteria may also be
taken.
Based on these assumptions, it is recommended to change the wanted signal mean
power level and the interferer signal mean power of Pico eNode B ACS
requirement linearly with the rise of noise figure.
##### 6.1.2.5.2 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted and an interfering signal coupled to the BS
antenna input as specified in tables 6.1.2.5.2-1 and 6.1.2.5.2-2 for
narrowband blocking and in table 6.1.2.5.2-3 for ACS. The reference
measurement channel for the wanted signal is identified in clause 6.1.2 for
each channel bandwidth and further specified in annex A of 3GPP TS 36.104 [2].
Table 6.1.2.5.2-1: Narrowband blocking requirement
Wanted signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal mean power [dBm] Type of
interfering signal
* * *
P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* -41 See table 6.1.2.5.2-2 Note*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the
channel bandwidth as specified in table 6.1.2.1.2-1
Table 6.1.2.5.2-2: Interfering signal for Narrowband blocking requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA | Interfering RB | Type of interfering | | | centre frequency | signal | | Assigned BW [MHz] | offset to the | | | | channel edge of the | | | | wanted signal | | | | [kHz] | | +======================+======================+======================+ | 1.4 | 252.5+m*180, | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | | signal, 1 RB* | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | 247.5+m*180, | 3 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, | | | | 10, 13 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | 342.5+m*180, | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, | | | | 14, 19, 24 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | 347.5+m*180, | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, | | | | 14, 19, 24 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | 352.5+m*180, | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, | | | | 14, 19, 24 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | 342.5+m*180, | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB* | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, | | | | 14, 19, 24 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note*: Interfering | | | | signal consisting of | | | | one resource block | | | | adjacent to the | | | | wanted signal | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 6.1.2.5.2-3: Adjacent channel selectivity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | Type of | | | signal mean | signal mean | signal | interfering | | channel | power | power | centre | signal | | bandwidth | [dBm] | [dBm] | frequency | | | [MHz] | | | offset from | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | edge of the | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal | | | | | | [MHz] | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1.4 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 0.7025 | 1.4MHz | | | + 11dB* | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 1.5075 | 3MHz E-UTRA | | | + 8dB* | | | signal | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 2.5025 | 5MHz E-UTRA | | | + 6dB* | | | signal | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 2.5075 | 5MHz E-UTRA | | | + 6dB* | | | signal | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 2.5125 | 5MHz E-UTRA | | | + 6dB* | | | signal | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 2.5025 | 5MHz E-UTRA | | | + 6dB* | | | signal | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note*: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | depends on | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in | | | | | | table 6 | | | | | | .1.2.1.2-1. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 6.1.2.6 Receiver Intermodulation
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two
interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted
signal.
##### 6.1.2.6.1 Analysis
For the UTRA Wide area BS, the level of IM interfering signals are 8 dB lower
compared to Blocking requirement. It used the same relative values for the
UTRA Local area BS. The reason is described in [4]: the receiver
intermodulation can occur when two interfering signals with a particular
relationship are applied to a BS receiver. Two large interfering signals at
the same time occur less frequently than a single interfering signal. Due to
lower probability of two large interfering signals, the power level of the
interfering signals for the Intermodulation requirement should be lower
compared to Blocking requirement.
For the E-UTRA eNodeB, the level of IM interfering signals are 9dB lower
compared to Blocking requirement. It is proposed that the same relative values
also could be used for the Pico eNode B.
Following signals for Intermodulation is proposed:
[Wanted signal mean power]=Reference sensitivity level +6 dB
[IM Interfering signals mean power]= -44 dBm.
##### 6.1.2.6.2 Minimum requirement
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channel, with a wanted signal at the assigned channel frequency
and two interfering signals coupled to the BS antenna input, with the
conditions specified in tables 6.1.2.6.2-1 and 6.1.2.6.2-2 for intermodulation
performance and in table 6.1.2.6.2-3 for narrowband intermodulation
performance. The reference measurement channel for the wanted signal is
identified in clause 6.1.2.1 for each channel bandwidth and further specified
in annex A of 3GPP TS 36.104 [2].
Table 6.1.2.6.2-1: Intermodulation performance requirement
Wanted signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal mean power [dBm] Type of
interfering signal
* * *
P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* -44 See table 6.1.6.2-2 Note*: P~REFSENS~ depends on the
channel bandwidth as specified in clause 6.1.2.1.
Table 6.1.2.6.2-2: Interfering signal for Intermodulation performance
requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | | centre frequency | signal | | channel bandwidth | offset from the | | | [MHz] | channel edge of the | | | | wanted signal | | | | [MHz] | | +======================+======================+======================+ | 1.4 | 2.1 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 4.9 | 1.4MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | 4.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 10.5 | 3MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | 7.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 17.5 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | 7.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 17.7 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | 7.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 18 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | 7.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 18.2 | 5MHz E-UTRA signal | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 6.1.2.6.2-3: Narrowband intermodulation performance requirement
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | Type of | | | signal mean | signal mean | RB centre | interfering | | channel | power | p | frequency | signal | | bandwidth | [dBm] | ower[dBm] | offset from | | | [MHz] | | | the channel | | | | | | edge of the | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal | | | | | | [kHz] | | +=============+=============+=============+=============+=============+ | 1.4 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 270 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -44 | 790 | 1.4 MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 275 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -44 | 790 | 3.0 MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 360 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -44 | 1060 | 5 MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 415 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | | | | | | | | | (***) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -44 | 1420 | 5 MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 380 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | | | | | | | | | (***) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -44 | 1600 | 5MHz E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | P~REFSENS~ | -44 | 345 | CW | | | + 6dB* | | | | | | | | | | | | (***) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | -44 | 1780 | 5MHz E-UTRA | | | | | | signal, 1 | | | | | | RB** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note*: | | | | | | P~REFSENS~ | | | | | | is related | | | | | | to the | | | | | | channel | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | as | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 6.1.2.1. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note**: | | | | | | Interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | consisting | | | | | | of one | | | | | | resource | | | | | | block | | | | | | positioned | | | | | | at the | | | | | | stated | | | | | | offset. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note***: | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | shall apply | | | | | | only for a | | | | | | FRC A1-3 in | | | | | | [2] | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range at | | | | | | the channel | | | | | | edge | | | | | | adjacent to | | | | | | the | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signals | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 6.1.3 Clarification on performance requirements
The typical deployment scenarios for Pico eNodeB are indoor environments,
outdoor hotspots areas, and outdoor dense blocks etc. All these scenarios
correspond to low UE speeds and small delay spreads environments. Among the 4
types of propagation conditions defined for Macro eNB, Static propagation
condition and EVA /EPA mode of Multi-path fading propagation conditions are
applicable for Pico eNB.
Considering the assumption that the speed of UE served by Pico eNB is no more
than 50km/h, it is suggested to focus on the maximum Doppler frequencies of
5Hz and 70Hz for Pico eNB performance requirement of multi-path fading
propagation condition.
As the performance requirement is independent of classification of BS, it is
suggested to use the same requirement for Pico eNB and Macro eNB under the
same reference measurement channel and propagation conditions.
## 6.2 Changes in 36.141
This clause describes the necessary changes to base station conformance
testing, with respect to Release 8 requirements in 3GPP TS 36.141 [3].
Editor\'s note: For further study.
# 7 Impacts to other WGs
Editor\'s note: For further study.
#