# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
NOTE 1: The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the
context of normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
NOTE 2: The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as
substitutes for \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as
possible, and they are not used in a normative context except in a direct
citation from an external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain
continuity of style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a
referenced document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
NOTE 3: The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
NOTE 4: The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as
substitutes for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
NOTE 5: The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides an overview and overall description of the LTE-
based 5G terrestrial broadcast comprising:
\- a service delivering Free To Air content [2];
\- a radio network comprising only MBMS-dedicated cells or FeMBMS/Unicast-
mixed cells [3] as transmitters; and
\- Receive Only Mode (ROM) devices and UEs supporting FeMBMS [4] as receivers.
Details of the radio interface protocols and procedures are specified in
companion specifications of the 36 series.
This document is a \'living\' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC) Protocol\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.116: \"Stage 3 aspects of system architecture enhancements for
TV services\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"E-UTRA; Physical Channels and Modulation\".
[9] 3GPP TR 36.776: \"Study on LTE-based 5G terrestrial broadcast\".
[10] 3GPP TR 38.913: \"Study on scenarios and requirements for next generation
access technologies\".
[11] 3GPP TR 36.440: \"General aspects and principles for interfaces
supporting Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service (MBMS) within E-UTRAN\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.117: \"TV service configuration Management Object (MO)\".
[13] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"E-UTRA; Physical layer procedures\".
[14] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"E-UTRA; Procedures in idle mode\".
[15] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"E-UTRA; Requirements for support of radio resource
management\".
[16] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"E-UTRA; MAC protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
> CAS Cell acquisition subframe
>
> CFI Control format indicator
>
> DRX Discontinuous reception
>
> eMBMS Evolved MBMS
>
> FeMBMS Further enhanced MBMS
>
> HPHT High power high tower
>
> ISD Inter-site distance
>
> LPLT Low power low tower
>
> MBMS Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast System
>
> MBSFN Multicast/Broadcast Single Frequency Network
>
> MCCH Multicast Control Channel
>
> MPMT Medium power medium tower
>
> MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel
>
> NAS Non-access stratum
>
> PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
>
> PCFICH Physical Control Format Indicator Channel
>
> PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
>
> PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
>
> PMCH Physical Multicast Channel
>
> PSS Primary synchronization signal
>
> ROM Receive only mode
>
> RRC Radio Resource Control
>
> RRM Radio resource management
>
> SSS Secondary synchronization signal
>
> TV Television
# 4 Introduction
## 4.1 General
The main aspects of the LTE-based 5G terrestrial broadcast described in this
specification are:
\- radio network comprising only MBMS-dedicated cells or FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed
cells [3] as transmitters; and
\- ROM devices and UEs supporting FeMBMS [4] as receivers.
NOTE: ROM devices support only ROM service [5]. ROM service uses one of the
reserved TMGI values [7].
MBMS-dedicated cells support only MBMS transmission and do not support uplink
transmission. MBSFN subframes of a MBMS-dedicated cell do not have a control
region and can therefore be 100% allocated to MBMS. Non-MBSFN subframes, also
called Cell Acquisition Subframes (CAS), which contain the control region, are
used for transmission of the system acquisition signals (PSS/SSS), PDCCH, and
system information on PBCH and PDSCH. CAS are transmitted with a periodicity
of 40ms and use subframes with _∆f_ = 15 kHz. PBCH of a MBMS-dedicated cell
uses a different scrambling sequence initialization than PBCH of a non-MBMS-
dedicated cell, which prevents UEs that do not support MBMS-dedicated cell
from camping on it. For more information about MBMS-dedicated cell see TS
36.300 [3].
Multicast data is transmitted over PMCH. PMCH supports SFN transmission, where
multiple eNBs synchronously transmit the same waveform. Multiple numerologies
are supported for PMCH (see Clause 6.1), tailored for different scenarios
(e.g. support of different mobility and ISD). A single cell can belong to
multiple (up to 8) SFN areas, where different SFN areas may have different
numerologies. The PMCH carries the MCCH and MTCH logical channels. The MCCH
provides scheduling information for multicast data over the MTCH. The MTCH
contains user plane data. MCCH scheduling information is provided in system
information.
ROM devices support MBMS reception but do not support uplink transmission. ROM
devices may not have USIM. As such, ROM devices do not support two-way
signalling procedures with the network, including connection establishment
procedures and security procedures. ROM devices only support the idle mode.
Not all idle mode procedures are supported, as described in clause 7.3. For
more details on ROM devices see clause 7, TS 36.300 [3] clause 15.11, TS
23.246 [4] Annex D and TS 24.116 [7] clause 4.
NOTE 1: As a matter of implementation, a cellular device can host a ROM device
and a traditional UE capable of unicast. Such device is further described in
TS 36.246 [4] Annex E and called _ROM device with independent unicast_. The
co-hosted UE is connected to a different cell from the MBMS-dedicated cell
serving the co-hosted ROM device. If the co-hosted UE and ROM device share
baseband resources, the co-hosted UE can use _MBMSInterestIndication_
signalling procedure, specified in TS 36.331 [6], to inform the serving RAN
about the baseband resources occupied by the co-hosted ROM device and
therefore not available for unicast.
NOTE 2: There may be awareness at the application layer of the ROM device with
independent unicast. How this awareness is created is outside of the scope of
specifications.
## 4.2 Use cases and requirements
In Release 14, the use cases and scenarios for eMBMS services based on LTE
have been expanded to include terrestrial broadcasting (the feature also
referred to as \"EnTV\"). This included new requirements:
\- network dedicated to TV broadcast via eMBMS;
\- SFN deployments with ISD significantly larger than a typical ISD associated
with typical cellular deployments;
\- support for ROM device.
NOTE: At the upper layers, the requirements included the support for Free to
Air service [2] and for eMBMS network sharing [4].
In Release 16, a gap analysis documented in TR 36.776 [9] compared the Release
14 LTE terrestrial broadcasting capabilities with the requirements for 5G
dedicated broadcast networks in TR 38.913 [10]. As a result of this analysis,
the following two requirements were deemed unfulfilled by Release 14 LTE
eMBMS:
1\. Support for service over large geographic area, including SFN with ISD >
100km;
2\. Support for mobility scenarios including speeds of up to 250 km/h.
In relation to the first requirement, the new ISD of 125 km, referred to as
HPHT network, with omni-directional transmitters was defined. The following
two ISD were also included in the evaluation:
\- 15 km, referred to as LPLT network with sectorized cells;
\- 50 km, referred to as MPMT network with omni-directional transmitters.
The first requirement is associated with receivers with high-gain rooftop
directional antennas, low mobility and a predominantly line-of-sight channel.
The second requirement is associated with receivers in cars, with external
omni-directional antennas.
In addition to the above two requirements, a third requirement was added
related to improving the CAS reception for both large ISD and high mobility
scenarios.
## 4.3 Enhancements targeting LTE terrestrial broadcast
In Release 14, the following key RAN enhancements were made to the
specifications to enable LTE terrestrial broadcast:
\- MBMS-dedicated cell [3];
\- MBSFN subframes using _∆f_ = 1.25 kHz [8], with a cyclic prefix duration of
200µs and a symbol duration of 1ms;
\- New information blocks on PBCH and PDSCH of CAS [3], [6]:
\- _MIB-MBMS_ is transmitted with a 40ms periodicity and updated every 160 ms;
and
\- _SIB1-MBMS_ is transmitted with an 80ms periodicity and updated every 160
ms, containing information relevant for receiving MBMS service and,
optionally, the scheduling of other system information blocks;
\- _MBMSInterestIndication RRC signalling procedure (see clause 4.1)._
NOTE: For upper layer enhancements, see TS 23.246 [4] Annex D and E, TS 24.116
[7], TS 24.117 [12] and TS 26.346 [5] (ROM service aspects).
In Release 16, the following RAN enhancements were made to address the use
cases described in clause 4.2:
\- MBSFN subframes using _∆f_ = 0.37 kHz, with a cyclic prefix duration of
300µs and a symbol duration of 3ms, for the support of large ISD;
\- MBSFN subframes using _∆f_ = 2.5 kHz, with a cyclic prefix duration of
100µs and a symbol duration of 0.5ms, for the support of high mobility;
\- The following enhancements on the CAS:
\- PDCCH enhancements:
\- CFI indication in MIB [6] to avoid the need to decode PCFICH; and
\- New aggregation level 16;
\- Repetition of PBCH to increase its robustness.
In Release 17, the following RAN enhancement was introduced to enable
deployment of LTE-based 5G terrestrial broadcast in broadcast UHF spectrum,
where the channelization is 6/7/8MHz (depending on the geography):
\- PMCH bandwidth of 30, 35 and 40 PRBs (corresponding to 6/7/8MHz),
applicable for CAS bandwidth of 15 or 25 PRBs (corresponding to 3 and 5MHz).
# 5 Architecture
The network architecture for LTE-based 5G terrestrial broadcast is described
in TS 36.300 [3] clause 15.1.1, with the exception that only:
\- ROM reception via MBMS-dedicated cell; or
\- MBMS reception via FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cell
is supported.
RAN interfaces for LTE-based 5G terrestrial broadcast are described in TS
36.300 [3] clause 15.1.1 and in TS 36.440 [11]. In case of a MBMS-dedicated
cell, the counting procedure is not supported by the eNB.
User plane and control plane protocol stack for LTE-based 5G terrestrial
broadcast is described in TS 36.300 [3] clause 15.1.2 and clause 15.1.3,
respectively.
NOTE: For upper layer architecture, see TS 23.246 [4].
# 6 Protocol aspects
## 6.1 Frame structure and numerologies
Only frame structure type 1 is supported. All numerologies specified in TS
36.211 [8] are supported. For subframes using _∆f_ other than 0.370 kHz, the
frame structure is according to Figure 6.1-1. For transmissions using _∆f_ =
0.370 kHz, the frame structure is shown in Figure 6.1-2.
Figure 6.1-1: Frame structure type 1 for subframes not using _∆f_ = 0.370 kHz
For _∆f_ = 1.25 kHz, one subframe contains a single slot with a duration of
1ms.
Figure 6.1-2: Frame structure type 1 for transmissions using _∆f_ = 0.370 kHz.
The CAS is a non-MBSFN subframe, and is configured with 15 kHz subcarrier
spacing
Table 6.1 summarizes the supported numerologies for MBMS transmission over
PMCH. The theoretical equalization interval is obtained as the maximum channel
delay spread that can be estimated from the pilot pattern, and is equal to the
Symbol duration (excluding CP) divided by the frequency separation (in number
of subcarriers) between two consecutive pilot tones.
Table 6.1: Summary of supported numerologies for MBMS transmission over PMCH
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Su | Symbol | Cyclic | Time | F | The | | bcarrier | duration | prefix | se | requency | oretical | | | | | paration | se | equa | | spacing | (e | length | between | paration | lization | | | xcluding | | pilots | between | | | | CP) | | in the | pilots, | interval | | | | | same | in | | | | | | sub | number | | | | | | carrier, | of | | | | | | in | sub | | | | | | number | carriers | | | | | | of OFDM | (after | | | | | | symbols | de- | | | | | | | stagger) | | +==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+==========+ | 15 kHz | 66.6 µs | 16.6 µs | 8 (NOTE) | 1 | 66.6 µs | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7.5 kHz | 133.3 µs | 33.3 µs | 4 (NOTE) | 2 | 66.6 µs | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2.5 kHz | 400 µs | 100 µs | 2 | 2 | 200 µs | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1.25 kHz | 800 µs | 200 µs | 2 | 3 | 266.67 | | | | | | | µs | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 0.370 | 2700 µs | 300 µs | 2 or 4 | 3 | 900 µs | | kHz | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE: | | | | | | | For 15 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | 7.5kHz, | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | denotes | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | paration | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | subframe | | | | | | | of one | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | taggers. | | | | | | | See TS | | | | | | | 36.211 | | | | | | | [8] | | | | | | | Figures | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | 10.2.2-1 | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | 6.1 | | | | | | | 0.2.2-3. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 6.2 MBMS Transmission
MBMS transmission is performed according to TS 36.300 [3] clause 15.3.3.
MCCH configuration and scheduling is performed according to TS 36.300 [3]
clause 15.3.5 and TS 36.331 [6] clause 5.8.1. In case of a MBMS-dedicated
cell, the MBMS counting configuration is not supported.
MCCH information acquisition is performed according to TS 36.300 [3] clause
15.3.5 and TS 36.331 [6] clause 5.8.2. In case of a MBMS-dedicated cell, only
RRC_IDLE is supported.
## 6.3 MAC Layer
MAC layer supports only:
\- BCH reception for BCCH;
\- DL-SCH reception for BCCH; and
\- MCH reception for MCCH/MTCH.
BCH reception and DL-SCH reception in the MAC layer use transparent MAC [16],
i.e. single MAC PDU per TTI with no headers. HARQ entity uses the dedicated
broadcast HARQ process, defined in [16].
MCH reception in the MAC layer is specified in TS 36.321 [16] clause 5.12 and
in TS 36.300 [3] clause 15.3.3.
## 6.4 RLC layer
BCCH uses the RLC-TM mode.
MTCH and MCCH use the RLC-UM mode. RLC operation for MTCH and MCCH is
described in TS 36.300 [3] clause 15.3.3.
## 6.5 RRC layer
RRC layer supports only:
\- System information reception (see TS 36.331 [6] clause 5.2) in MBMS-
dedicated cell; and
\- MBMS reception (see TS 36.331 [6] clause 5.8) in MBMS-dedicated cell and in
FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cell.
For system information reception, the following applies:
\- only _BCCH-BCH-Message-MBMS and BCCH-DL-SCH-Message-MBMS message class is
supported;_
_\- acquisition of system information messages is performed according to_ TS
36.331 [6] clause 5.2.3b.
For MBMS reception, the following applies:
\- MBMS counting procedure and MBMS interest indication procedure are not
supported.
# 7 ROM aspects
## 7.1 General
Since a ROM device does not support uplink transmission or two-way signalling
procedures, and does not comprise USIM, it cannot support all the physical
layer procedures of the conventional UE. By the same token, only a subset of
idle mode procedures and RRM requirements applicable to a conventional UE will
be supported. The following clauses provide an overview of the physical layer
and idle mode procedures and the RRM requirements applicable to a ROM device.
## 7.2 Physical layer procedures
ROM device only supports the following physical layer procedures specified in
TS 36.213 [13]:
\- Cell search;
\- Timing synchronization;
\- PDSCH procedures;
\- PDCCH assignment procedure;
\- PMCH procedures; and
\- Assumptions independent on physical channels (clause 12) related to MBMS-
dedicated cell.
## 7.3 Idle mode procedures
ROM device only supports the following idle mode procedures specified in TS
36.304 [14]:
\- Cell selection; and
\- Cell reselection.
PLMN prioritization for cell reselection is specified in TS 36.304 [14] clause
5.2.4.1.
NOTE: NAS layer PLMN selection does not apply to ROM device. PLMN selection
for ROM device is specified in TS 24.116 [7].
ROM device does not support DRX.
## 7.4 RRM requirements
ROM device only supports the following requirements specified in TS 36.133
[15]:
\- Cell selection; and
\- Cell reselection, except for:
\- IRAT reselection;
\- paging-related requirements; and
\- CSG cell-related requirements.
# Appendix Upper layer aspects
LTE-based 5G terrestrial broadcast supports _transparent delivery_ , which
allows for broadcasting of IP-based services for which the media codecs and
application protocols are defined outside 3GPP (see clause 8B, TS 26.346 [5]).
Broadcast service announcement and session management are defined in clause
4.4.3, TS 23.246 [4].
ROM devices are defined in clause 7, TS 36.300 [3] clause 15.11, TS 23.246 [4]
Annex D and TS 24.116 [7] clause 4.
#