# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Radio Frequency (RF) test methods and
Minimum Requirements for LCR TDD Repeaters. These have been derived from, and
are consistent with the LCR TDD Repeater specifications defined in TS 25.116.
This document establishes the minimum RF characteristics of the LCR TDD
Repeater.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.105: "Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception
(TDD)".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.942: "RF system scenarios".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.113 : " Base station EMC ".
[4] ITU-R recommendation SM.329: "Unwanted emissions in the spurious domain ".
[5] ITU-T recommendation O.153: "Basic parameters for the measurement of error
performance at bit rates below the primary rate".
[6] IEC 60721-3-3 (1994): "Classification of environmental conditions \-- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities
-- Section 3: Stationary use at weather protected locations".
[7] IEC 60721-3-4 (1995): "Classification of environmental conditions \-- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities
-- Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations".
[8] IEC 60068-2-1 (1990): "Environmental testing -- Part 2: Tests. Tests A:
Cold".
[9] IEC 60068-2-2 (1974): "Environmental testing -- Part 2: Tests. Tests B:
Dry heat".
[10] IEC 60068-2-6 (1995): "Environmental testing -- Part 2: Tests -- Test Fc:
Vibration (sinusoidal)".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.142: "Base station conformance testing (TDD)".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.106: "UTRA Repeater; Radio transmission and reception".
[13] 3GPP TS 25.116: "LCR TDD Repeater; Radio transmission and reception"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Donor coupling loss:** is the coupling loss between the repeater and the
donor base station.
**Down-link:** signal path where base station transmits and mobile receives
**Maximum output power, Pmax:** This is the mean power level per carrier
measured at the antenna connector of the Repeater in specified reference
condition.
**Pass band:** the Repeater can have one or several pass bands. The pass band
is the frequency range that the Repeater operates in with operational
configuration. This frequency range can correspond to one or several
consecutive nominal 5 MHz channels. If they are not consecutive each subset of
channels shall be considered as an individual pass band.
**Repeater:** a device that receives, amplifies and transmits the radiated or
conducted RF carrier both in the down-link direction (from the base station to
the mobile area) and in the up-link direction (from the mobile to the base
station).
**Up-link:** signal path where mobile transmits and base station receives.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW~Channel~ Channel bandwidth
BW~Config~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in MHz.
BW~Meas~ Measurement bandwidth
BW~Signal~ Bandwidth of the repeater input signal filling the repeater pass
band
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
f_offset_PB Distance from the channel edge frequency of the first or last
channel in the pass band
N~DL~ Downlink LARFCN
N~Offs-DL~ Offset used for calculating downlink LARFCN
N~Offs-UL~ Offset used for calculating uplink LARFCN
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
N~UL~ Uplink LARFCN
Pmax Maximum output power
Pout Output power
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BTS Base Transceiver Station
CW Continuous Wave (unmodulated signal)
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FFS For Further Study
IMT2000 International Mobile Telecommunication-2000
ITU International Telecommunication Union
MS Mobile Station
RF Radio Frequency
TDD Time Division Duplex
LARFCN LCR TDD Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 Frequency bands and channel arrangement
## 4.1 Frequency bands
UTRA/TDD is designed to operate in the following bands;
a) 1900 - 1920 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
2010 - 2025 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
b) 1850 - 1910 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
1930 - 1990 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
c) 1910 - 1930 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
d) 2570 - 2620 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
e) 2300 - 2400 MHz Uplink and downlink transmission
f) 1880 - 1920 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
Note: Deployment in existing and other frequency bands is not precluded.
## 4.2 TX-RX frequency separation
No TX-RX frequency separation is required as Time Division Duplex (TDD) is
employed. Each subframe consists of 7 main timeslots where all main timeslots
(at least the first one) before the single switching point are allocated DL
and all main timeslots (at least the last one) after the single switching
point are allocated UL.
## 4.3 Channel arrangement
### 4.3.1 Channel spacing
The channel spacing is 1.6MHz, but this can be adjusted to optimise
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 4.3.2 Channel raster
The channel raster is 200 kHz for all bands, which means that the carrier
frequency must be a multiple of 200 kHz.
### 4.3.3 Channel number
The carrier frequency is designated by the UTRA absolute radio frequency
channel number (UARFCN). The value of the UARFCN in the IMT2000 band is
defined in the general case as follows:
N~t~ = 5 ∗ F 0.0 ≤ F ≤ 3276.6 MHz
where F is the carrier frequency in MHz.
# 5 General test conditions and declarations
This specification applies only to LCR TDD Repeater.
The requirements of this clause apply to all applicable tests in this
specification. Many of the tests in this specification measure a parameter
relative to a value, that is not fully specified in the LCR TDD
specifications. For these tests, the Minimum Requirement is determined
relative to a nominal value specified by the manufacturer.
Some requirements for the Repeater may be regional as listed in subClause 5.6.
When specified in a test, the manufacturer shall declare the nominal value of
a parameter, or whether an option is supported.
Schematic drawings for the individual measurement set-up can be found in the
Annex A.
## 5.1 Acceptable uncertainty of Test System
The maximum acceptable uncertainty of the Test System is specified below for
each test, where appropriate. The Test System shall enable the stimulus
signals in the test case to be adjusted to within the specified tolerance, and
the equipment under test to be measured with an uncertainty not exceeding the
specified values. All tolerances and uncertainties are absolute values, and
are valid for a confidence level of 95 %, unless otherwise stated.
A confidence level of 95% is the measurement uncertainty tolerance interval
for a specific measurement that contains 95% of the performance of a
population of test equipment.
For RF test it should be noted that the uncertainties in subClause 5.1 apply
to the Test System operating into a nominal 50 ohm load and do not include
system effects due to mismatch between the DUT and the Test System.
### 5.1.1 Measurements of test environments
The measurement accuracy of the Repeater test environments defined in
SubClause 5.4, Test environments shall be.
> Pressure: ± 5 kPa.
>
> Temperature: ± 2 degrees.
>
> Relative Humidity: ± 5 %.
>
> DC Voltage: ± 1,0 %.
>
> AC Voltage: ± 1,5 %.
>
> Vibration: 10 %.
Vibration frequency: 0,1 Hz.
The above values shall apply unless the test environment is otherwise
controlled and the specification for the control of the test environment
specifies the uncertainty for the parameter.
### 5.1.2 Measurements of Repeater
Table 5.1: Maximum Test System Uncertainty
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Subclause | Maximum Test System | Range over which | | | Uncertainty | Test System | | | | Uncertainty applies | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6 Maximum output | ±0,7 dB | | | power | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 7 Frequency error | ±12 Hz | Measurement results | | | | of ± 500 Hz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 8 Out of band gain | ±0,5 dB | | | | | | | | Calibration of test | | | | set-up shall be made | | | | without D.U.T. in | | | | order to achieve the | | | | accuracy | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 9.1 Spectrum | ±1,5 dB | | | emission mask | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 9.2 Spurious | I± 2,0 dB for BS and | | | emissions | coexistence bands | | | | for results | | | | | | | | > -60 dBm | | | | | | | | ± 3,0 dB for results | | | | \ 4 GHz: ± 4,0 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10.1 Error vector | ± 2,5 % (single code | Measurement results | | magnitude | applied) | from 12,5% to 22,5% | | | | at signal power = | | | (±2,5 % measurement | P_max -- 3dB to | | | error for single | P_max -- 18 dB | | | code). | | | | | | | | 5,0 % EVM in the | | | | stimulus signal | | | | (single code) will | | | | shift the EVM | | | | maximum value 0,7% | | | | to 18,2%. (RSS | | | | repeater EVM and | | | | Stimulus EVM.) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10.2 Peak code | ±1,1dB | Measurement results | | domain error | | from -- 36 dB to -- | | | Formula: RSS | 30 dB, at signal | | | measurement error | power = P_max -- 3 | | | and impedance | dB to P_max -- 18 | | | mismatch error | dB | | | | | | | (using ±1,0 dB | | | | measurement error | | | | and ±0,5 dB | | | | impedance mismatch | | | | error (stimulus | | | | side) assuming 14 dB | | | | return loss) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 11 Input | ±1,2 dB | | | intermodulation | | | | Characteristics | Formula: RSS CW1 | | | | level error, 2 x CW2 | | | | level error, and | | | | measurement error | | | | (using all errors = | | | | ±0,5 dB) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 12 Output | The value below | The uncertainty of | | Intermodulation | applies to the | the interferer has | | | setting of the | double the effect on | | | interference signal | the result due to | | | level only and is | the frequency | | | unrelated to the | offset. | | | measurement | | | | uncertainty of the | | | | tests (9.1and 9.2) | | | | which have to be | | | | carried out in the | | | | presence of the | | | | interference signal. | | | | | | | | ± 1 dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 13 Adjacent Channel | ±0,7 dB | | | Rejection Ratio | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.2 Repeater test tolerances (informative)
The Test Tolerances defined in this subclause have been used to relax the
Minimum Requirements in this specification to derive the Test Requirements.
The Test Tolerances are derived from Test System uncertainties, regulatory
requirements and criticality to system performance. As a result, the Test
Tolerances may sometimes be set to zero.
The test tolerances should not be modified for any reason e.g. to take account
of commonly known test system errors (such as mismatch, cable loss, etc.)
Table 5.2: Test Tolerance
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Subclause | Test Tolerance (Note | Notes | | | 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6 Maximum output | 0,7 dB | | | power | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 9.1 Spectrum | 1,5 dB | 0 dB test tolerance | | emission mask | | for the additional | | | | Band II, IV and V | | | | requirements | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 9.2 Spurious | 0 dB | | | emissions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 7 Frequency error | 12 Hz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10.1 Error vector | 0 % | Target value is | | magnitude | | shifted due to | | | | stimulus EVM | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10.2 Peak code | 1,1 dB | | | domain error | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 8 Out of band gain | 0,5dB | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 11 Input | 1,2dB | | | intermodulation | | | | Characteristics | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 12 Output | 1,5 dB for spectrum | | | intermodulation | emission | | | | | | | | 0 dB for spurious | | | | emission | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 13 Adjacent Channel | 0,7 dB | | | Rejection Ratio | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: Unless | | | | otherwise stated, | | | | The Test Tolerances | | | | are applied to the | | | | DUT Minimum | | | | Requirement. See | | | | Annex B. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.3 Interpretation of measurement results
The measurement results returned by the Test System are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ETR 273 Part 1 sub-part 2 section 6.5.
The actual measurement uncertainty of the Test System for the measurement of
each parameter shall be included in the test report.
The recorded value for the Test System uncertainty shall be, for each
measurement, equal to or lower than the appropriate figure in subClause 5.1 of
this specification.
If the Test System for a test is known to have a measurement uncertainty
greater than that specified in subClause 5.1, it is still permitted to use
this equipment provided that an adjustment is made as follows:
Any additional uncertainty in the Test System over and above that specified in
subClause 5.1 shall be used to tighten the Test Requirement \- making the test
harder to pass.
This procedure will ensure that a Test System not compliant with subClause 4.1
does not increase the chance of passing a device under test where that device
would otherwise have failed the test if a Test System compliant with subClause
4.1 had been used.
## 5.4 Test Environment
For each test in the present document, the environmental conditions under
which the Repeater is to be tested are defined.
### 5.4.1 Normal test environment
When a normal test environment is specified for a test, the test should be
performed under any combination of conditions between the minimum and maximum
limits stated in table 5.3.
Table 5.3: Limits of conditions for Normal Test Environment
* * *
Condition Minimum Maximum Barometric pressure 86 kPa 106 kPa Temperature 15°C
30°C Relative Humidity 20 % 85 % Power supply Nominal, as declared by the
manufacturer  
Vibration Negligible
* * *
The ranges of barometric pressure, temperature and humidity represent the
maximum variation expected in the uncontrolled environment of a test
laboratory. If it is not possible to maintain these parameters within the
specified limits, the actual values shall be recorded in the test report.
NOTE: This may, for instance, be the case for measurements of radiated
emissions performed on an open field test site.
### 5.4.2 Extreme test environment
The manufacturer shall declare one of the following:
a) The equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in IEC
60721-3-3 [2].
b) The equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in IEC
60721-3-4 [3].
c) For equipment that does not comply to the mentioned classes, the relevant
classes from IEC 60 721 documentation for Temperature, Humidity and Vibration
shall be declared.
NOTE: Reduced functionality for conditions that fall out side of the standard
operational conditions are not tested in this TS. These may be stated and
tested separately.
#### 5.4.2.1 Extreme temperature
When an extreme temperature test environment is specified for a test, the test
shall be performed at the standard minimum and maximum operating temperatures
defined by the manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test.
**Minimum temperature:**
\- The test shall be performed with the environmental test equipment and
methods of inducing the required environmental phenomena into the equipment,
conforming to the test procedure of IEC 60 068‑2‑1 [4], Environmental Testing,
Part 2: Tests ‑ Tests A: Cold. The equipment shall be maintained at the
stabilized condition for the duration of the test sequence.
**Maximum temperature:**
\- The test shall be performed with the environmental test equipment and
methods of inducing the required environmental phenomena in to the equipment,
conforming to the test procedure of IEC 60 068‑2‑2 [5] (Environmental Testing,
Part 2: Tests ‑ Tests Bd Dry heat). The equipment shall be maintained at the
stabilized condition for the duration of the test sequence.
NOTE: It is recommended that the equipment is made fully operational prior to
the equipment being taken to its lower operating temperature.
### 5.4.3 Vibration
When vibration conditions are specified for a test, the test shall be
performed while the equipment is subjected to a vibration sequence as defined
by the manufacturers declaration for the equipment under test. This shall use
the environmental test equipment and methods of inducing the required
environmental phenomena in to the equipment, conforming to the test procedure
of IEC 60 068‑2‑6 [8], Environmental Testing, Part 2: Tests ‑ Test Fc and
guidance: Vibration (Sinusoidal). Other environmental conditions shall be
within the ranges specified in subClause 4.4.1, Normal test environment.
NOTE: The higher levels of vibration may induce undue physical stress in to
equipment after a prolonged series of tests. The testing body should only
vibrate the equipment during the RF measurement process.
### 5.4.4 Power supply
When extreme power supply conditions are specified for a test, the test shall
be performed at the standard upper and lower limits of operating voltage
defined by the manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test.
**Upper voltage limit**
\- The equipment shall be supplied with a voltage equal to the upper limit
declared by the manufacturer (as measured at the input terminals to the
equipment). The tests shall be carried out at a steady state minimum and
maximum limit declared by the manufacturer for the equipment, to the methods
described in IEC 60 068‑2‑1 [4] Test Ab/Ad: Cold and IEC 60 068‑2‑2 [5] Test
Bb/Bd: Dry Heat.
**Lower voltage limit**
\- The equipment shall be supplied with a voltage equal to the lower limit
declared by the manufacturer (as measured at the input terminals to the
equipment). The tests shall be carried out at a steady state minimum and
maximum limit declared by the manufacturer for the equipment, to the methods
described in IEC 60 068‑2‑1 [4] Test Ab/Ad: Cold and IEC 60 068‑2‑2 [5] Test
Bb/Bd: Dry Heat.
## 5.5 Selection of configurations for testing
Measurements shall be performed within the time slots under test as specified
individually for each test within the subclause \" Procedure \".
Most tests in this TS are only performed for a subset of the possible
combinations of test conditions. For instance:
‑ Only one RF channel may be specified to be tested.
‑ Only one timeslot may be specified to be tested.
When a test is performed by a test laboratory, the choice of which
combinations are to be tested shall be specified by the laboratory. The
laboratory may consult with operators, the manufacturer or other bodies.
When a test is performed by a manufacturer, the choice of which combinations
are to be tested may be specified by an operator.
## 5.6 Regional requirements
Some requirements in TS 25.153 may only apply in certain regions. Table 5.4
lists all requirements that may be applied differently in different regions.
Table 5.4: List of regional requirements
* * *
Sub-clause number Requirement Comments
4.1 Frequency bands Some bands may be applied regionally.
4.2 Up-link to down-link frequency separation The requirement is applied
according to what frequency bands in clause 5.1 that are supported by the
Repeater.
4.3 Channel arrangement The requirement is applied according to what frequency
bands in clause 5.1 that are supported by the Repeater.
6 Maximum output power In certain regions, the minimum requirement for normal
conditions may apply also for some conditions outside the ranges of conditions
defined as normal.
9.1 Spectrum emission mask The mask specified may be mandatory in certain
regions. In other regions this mask may not be applied.
9.2.2.1.1 Spurious emissions (Category A) These requirements shall be met in
cases where Category A limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [4], are applied.
9.2.2.1.2 Spurious emissions (Category B) These requirements shall be met in
cases where Category B limits for spurious emissions, as defined in ITU-R
Recommendation SM.329 [4], are applied.
9.2.2.2.1 Co-existence with GSM900 -Operation in the same geographic area This
requirement may be applied for the protection of GSM 900 MS and GSM 900 BTS in
geographic areas in which both GSM 900 and UTRA are deployed.
9.2.2.2.2 Co-existence with GSM900 -\ This requirement may be applied for the
protection of GSM 900 BTS receivers when GSM 900 BTS and UTRA BS are co-
located. Co-located base stations
9.2.2.3.1 Co-existence with DCS1800 -Operation in the same geographic area
This requirement may be applied for the protection of DCS 1800 MS and DCS 1800
BTS in geographic areas in which both DCS 1800 and UTRA are deployed.
9.2.2.3.2 Co-existence with DCS1800 -\ This requirement may be applied for the
protection of DCS 1800 BTS receivers when DCS 1800 BTS and UTRA BS are co-
located. Co-located base stations
9.2.2.4.1 Co-existence with UTRA FDD -\ This requirement may be applied to
geographic areas in which both UTRA-TDD and UTRA-FDD are deployed. Operation
in the same geographic area
9.2.2.4.2 Co-existence with UTRA FDD -\ This requirement may be applied for
the protection of UTRA-FDD BS receivers when UTRA-TDD BS and UTRA FDD BS are
co-located. Co-located base stations
9.2.2.5.1 Co-existence with unsynchronised TDD - Operation in the same
geographic area This requirement may be applied for the protection of TDD BS
receivers in geographic areas in which unsynchronised TDD is deployed.
9.2.2.5.2 Co-existence with unsynchronised TDD - Co-located base stations This
requirement may be applied for the protection of TDD BS receivers when
unsynchronised TDD BS are co-located.
11.2.2 Input intermodulation: Co-location with other systems The requirement
may be applied when GSM 900, DCS 1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD BS
operating in another frequency band and LCR TDD Repeaters are co-located.
11.2.3 Input Intermodulation: Co-existence with other systems These
requirements may apply in geographic areas in which both LCR TDD Repeater and
GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850 and/or UTRA FDD operating in another
frequency band are deployed.
* * *
## 5.7 Format and interpretation of tests
Each test in the following clauses has a standard format:
**X Title**
All tests are applicable to all equipment within the scope of the present
document, unless otherwise stated.
**X.1 Definition and applicability**
> This subclause gives the general definition of the parameter under
> consideration and specifies whether the test is applicable to all equipment
> or only to a certain subset.
**X.2 Minimum Requirements**
> This subclause is an informative copy of the Minimum Requirement defined by
> the core specification.
>
> In addition, this subclause contains the reference to the subclause to the
> 3GPP reference (or core) specification which defines the Minimum
> Requirement.
**X.3 Test purpose**
This subclause defines the purpose of the test.
**X.4 Method of test**
**X.4.1 Initial conditions**
This subclause defines the initial conditions for each test, including the
basic measurement set-up.
**X.4.2 Procedure**
> This subclause describes the steps necessary to perform the test and
> provides further details of the test definition like point of access (e.g.
> antenna port), domain (e.g. frequency-span), range, weighting (e.g.
> bandwidth), and algorithms (e.g. averaging).
**X.5 Test Requirements**
This subclause defines the pass/fail criteria for the equipment under test.
See subClause 4.3 Interpretation of measurement results.
## 5.8 Repeater configurations
### 5.8.1 Power supply options
If the repeater is supplied with a number of different power supply
configurations, it may not be necessary to test RF parameters for each of the
power supply options, provided that it can be demonstrated that the range of
conditions over which the equipment is tested is at least as great as the
range of conditions due to any of the power supply configurations.
### 5.8.2 Combining of Repeaters
If the repeater is intended for combination with additional apparatus
connected to a repeater port and this combination is supplied as a system, the
combination of repeater together with the additional apparatus shall also
fulfil the repeater requirements. E.g. if the repeater is intended for
combination such that multiple repeaters amplify the same signals into the
same ports the combination shall also fulfil the repeater requirements.
An example of such a configuration is shown in figure 5.1
Figure 5.1: Example of repeater configuration
# 6 Output power
Output power, Pout, of the repeater is the mean power of one carrier at
maximum repeater gain delivered to a load with resistance equal to the nominal
load impedance of the transmitter.
Rated output power, PRAT, of the repeater is the mean power level per carrier
at maximum repeater gain that the manufacturer has declared to be available at
the antenna connector.
## 6.1 Definition and applicability
Maximum output power, Pmax, of the repeater is the mean power level per
carrier measured at the antenna connector in specified reference condition.
## 6.2 Minimum Requirements
The requirements shall apply at maximum gain, with LCR TDD signals in the pass
band of the repeater, at levels that produce the maximum rated output power
per channel.
When the power of all signals is increased by 10 dB, compared to the power
level that produce the maximum rated output power, the requirements shall
still be met.
In normal conditions, the Repeater maximum output power shall remain within
limits specified in Table 6.1 relative to the manufacturer\'s rated output
power.
Table 6.1: Repeater output power; normal conditions
* * *
Rated output power Limit P ≥ 31 dBm +2 dB and -2 dB P \ 1) Set the Repeater to maximum gain.
>
> 2) Set the signal generator(s) to generate signal(s) in accordance to table
> 9.4, at level(s) which produce the manufacturer specified maximum output
> power at maximum gain.
Table 9.4: Parameters of the transmitted signal for spectrum emission mask
testing
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value/description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TDD Duty Cycle | TS i; i = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6: | | | | | | transmit, if i is 0,4,5,6; | | | | | | receive, if i is 1,2,3. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Time slots under test | TS4, TS5 and TS6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS output power setting | PRAT | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of DPCH in each time slot | 8 | | under test | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power of each DPCH | 1/8 of Base Station output power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Data content of DPCH | real life (sufficient irregular) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
> 3) Measure the emission at the specified frequencies with specified
> measurement bandwidth and note that the measured value does not exceed the
> specified value.
>
> 4) Increase the power with 10 dB compare to the level obtained in step 2.
>
> 5) Measure the emission at the specified frequencies with specified
> measurement bandwidth and note that the measured value does not exceed the
> specified value.
### 9.1.5 Test Requirements
The spectrum emissions measured according to subclause 9.1.4.2 shall be within
the mask defined in the table 9.5 to 9.7.
Table 9.5: Spectrum emission mask values, maximum output power P ≥ 34 dBm
* * *
Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Maximum
level Measurement bandwidth 0.815MHz ≤ f_offset \ 2) Set the signal generator(s) to generate signal(s) in accordance to table
> 9.4, at level(s) which produce the manufacturer specified maximum output
> power at maximum gain.
3) The detecting device shall be configured with a measurement bandwidth as
stated in the tables.
4) Measure the emission at the specified frequencies with specified
measurement bandwidth and note that the measured value does not exceed the
specified value.
5) Increase the input power with 10 dB compare to the level obtained in step
2.
6) Measure the emission at the specified frequencies with specified
measurement bandwidth and note that the measured value does not exceed the
specified value.
### 9.2.5 Test Requirements
The spurious emissions measured according to subclause 9.2.4.2 shall not
exceed the limits specified in the relevant tables of 9.2.2.
# 10 Modulation accuracy
## 10.1 Error Vector Magnitude
### 10.1.1 Definition and applicability
The modulation accuracy is defined by the Error Vector Magnitude (EVM), which
is a measure of the difference between the theoretical waveform and a modified
version of the measured waveform. This difference is called the error vector.
The measured waveform is modified by first passing it through a matched root
raised cosine filter with bandwidth 1.28MHz and roll-off α=0.22. The waveform
is then further modified by selecting the frequency, absolute phase, absolute
amplitude and chip clock timing so as to minimise the error vector. The EVM
result is defined as root of the ratio of the mean error vector power to the
mean reference signal power expressed as a %.
The measurement interval is one power control group (timeslot). The repeater
shall operate with an ideal LCR TDD signal in the pass band of the repeater at
a level, which produce the maximum rated output power per channel, as
specified by the manufacturer.
### 10.1.2 Minimum requirements
The Error Vector Magnitude shall not be worse than 8 %.
### 10.1.3 Test purpose
To verify that the EVM is within the limit specified in 10.1.2 after the
signal passed through the Repeater..
### 10.1.4 Method of test
#### 10.1.4.1 Initial conditions
1) Set-up the equipment as shown in annex A.
2) Connect the signal generator equipment to the Repeater input port.
3) Connect the signal analyser to the Repeater output port..
#### 10.1.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the signal generator to transmit one signal according to table 10.1.
Table 10.1: Parameters of the transmitted signal for Error Vector Magnitude
testing
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value/description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TDD Duty Cycle | TS i; i = 0, 1, 2, ..., 6: | | | | | | Transmit, if i is 0,4,5,6; | | | | | | receive, if i is 1,2,3. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Time slots under test | TS4, TS5 and TS6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of DPCH in each time slot | 10 | | under test | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power of each DPCH | 1/10 of Base Station output | | | power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Base station power | PRAT | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
2) Adjust the input power to the Repeater to create the maximum nominal
Repeater output power at maximum gain.
3) Measure the Error Vector Magnitude for both paths uplink and downlink of
the Repeater.
### 10.1.5 Test requirements
The error vector magnitude (EVM) measured according to subclause 10.1.4.2
shall not exceed 8 %.
## 10.2 Peak code domain error
### 10.2.1 Definition and applicability
The code domain error is computed by projecting the error vector power onto
the code domain at a specific spreading factor. The error power for each code
is defined as the ratio to the mean power of the reference waveform expressed
in dB. And the Peak Code Domain Error is defined as the maximum value for Code
Domain Error. The measurement interval is one timeslot.
### 10.2.2 Minimum requirement
The peak code domain error shall not exceed -30 dB at spreading factor 16.
### 10.2.3 Test purpose
To verify that the peak code domain error is within the limit specified in
10.2.2 after the signal passed through the Repeater.
### 10.2.4 Method of test
#### 10.2.4.1 Initial conditions
1) Set-up the equipment as shown in annex A.
2) Connect the signal generator equipment to the Repeater input port.
3) Connect the signal analyser to the Repeater output port..
#### 10.2.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the signal generator to transmit one signal according to table 10.2.
Table 10.2: Parameters of the transmitted signal for Peak Code Domain Error
testing
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value/description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TDD Duty Cycle | TS i; i = 0, 1, 2, ..., 6: | | | | | | transmit, if i is 0,4,5,6; | | | | | | receive, if i is 1,2,3. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Time slots under test | TS4, TS5 and TS6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS output power setting | PRAT | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of DPCH in each time slot | 10 | | under test | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power of each DPCH | 1/10 of Base Station output | | | power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Data content of DPCH | real life (sufficient irregular) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Spreading factor | 16 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
2) Adjust the input power to the Repeater to create the maximum nominal
Repeater output power at maximum gain.
3) Measure the Peak Code Domain Error for both paths uplink and downlink of
the Repeater.
### 10.2.5 Test requirements
The peak code domain error measured according to subclause 10.2.4.2 shall not
exceed -30 dB at spreading factor 16.
# 11 Input Intermodulation
The input intermodulation is a measure of the capability of the repeater to
inhibit the generation of interference in the pass band, in the presence of
interfering signals on frequencies other than the pass band.
## 11.1 Definition and applicability
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the Repeater to maintain
the wanted frequency free of internally created interference.
This test applies to uplink and downlink path of the Repeater.
## 11.2 Minimum requirement
### 11.2.1 General requirement
For the parameters specified in table 11.1, the power in the pass band shall
not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as measured in
the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained without
interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the 3^rd^ order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre of
the pass band.
Table 11.1 specifies the parameters for two interfering signals, where:
\- f~1~ offset is the offset from the channel edge frequency of the first or
last channel in the pass band of the closer carrier.
Table 11.1: Input intermodulation requirement
* * *
f~1~ offset Interfering Signal Levels Type of signals Measurement bandwidth
1,0 MHz -40 dBm 2 CW carriers 1 MHz
* * *
### 11.2.2 Co-location with BS in other systems
This additional input intermodulation requirement may be applied for the
protection of TDD Repeater input when GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850, UTRA
FDD, UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA BS are co-located with an LCR TDD Repeater.
Unless otherwise stated this requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of
the repeater, at maximum gain.
For the parameters specified in table 11.2, the power in the pass band shall
not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as measured in
the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained without
interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the lowest order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre
of the pass band.
NOTE 1: The lowest intermodulation products correspond to the 4^th^ and 3^rd^
order for the GSM 900 and DCS 1800 bands, respectively.
Table 11.2: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in co-
located other systems
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Co |** F | **Int |** Type | **Mea |** Note**| | -located | requency | erfering | of | surement | | | other | of | Signal | s | ban | | | s | int | Levels** | ignals**| dwidth** | | | ystems**| erfering | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ignals** | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM900 | 921 ‑ | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | | 960 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DCS1800 | 1805 ‑ | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | | 1880 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | PCS1900 | 1930 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | | 1990 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM850 | 869 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | | 894 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 2110 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band I | 2170 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 1 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1930 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band II | 1990 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 2 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1805 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band III | 1880 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 3 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 2110 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band IV | 2155 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 869 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band V | 894 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 5 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 875 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band VI | 885 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 6 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 2620 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band VII | 2690 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 7 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 925 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band | 960 MHz | | carriers | | | | VIII or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1844.9 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band IX | 1879.9 | | carriers | | | | or\ | MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 9 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 2110 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band X | 2170 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 10 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA-FDD | 1475.9 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band XI | 1500.9 | | carriers | | | | or\ | MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 728 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band XII | 746 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 12 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 746 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band | 756 MHz | | carriers | | | | XIII or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 13 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 758 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band XIV | 768 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 14 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1900 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1920 MHz | | carriers | | req | | a) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 33 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | a), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 2010 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 2025 MHz | | carriers | | req | | a) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 34 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | a), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1850 -- | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1910 MHz | | carriers | | req | | b) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 35 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | b), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1930 -- | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1990 MHz | | carriers | | req | | b) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 36 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | b), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1910 - | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1930 MHz | | carriers | | req | | c) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 37 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | c), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 2570 -- | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 2620 MHz | | carriers | | req | | d) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 38 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | d), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 2300 -- | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 2400 MHz | | carriers | | req | | e) or | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA | | | | | apply to | | Band 40 | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | e), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1880 -- | +16 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1920 MHz | | carriers | | req | | f) or | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA | | | | | apply to | | Band 39 | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | f), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1, | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | requires | | | | | | | a 86dB | | | | | | | coupling | | | | | | | loss | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | base | | | | | | | station | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | repeater | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | port. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
NOTE 1: The co-location requirements in Table 11.2 do not apply when the
repeaters pass band frequency range is adjacent to the band for the co-
location requirement in the Table 11.2. The current state-of-the-art
technology does not allow a single generic solution for co-location with other
system on adjacent frequencies for 30dB Repeater-BS minimum coupling loss.
However, there are certain site-engineering solutions that can be used. These
techniques are addressed in TR 25.942 [13].
NOTE 2: The Table 11.2 assumes that two operating bands, where the
corresponding transmit and receive frequency ranges would be overlapping, are
not deployed in the same geographical area. For such a case of operation with
overlapping frequency arrangements in the same geographical area, special co-
location requirements may apply that are not covered by the 3GPP
specifications.
### 11.2.3 Co-existence with other systems
This additional input intermodulation requirement may be applied when GSM900,
DCS1800, PCS1900, GSM850, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA BS operating in
another frequency band co-exist with an E-UTRA FDD Repeater.
Unless otherwise stated this requirement applies to the uplink and downlink of
the repeater, at maximum gain.
For the parameters specified in table 11.3, the power in the pass band shall
not increase with more than 10 dB at the output of the repeater as measured in
the centre of the pass band, compared to the level obtained without
interfering signals applied.
The frequency separation between the two interfering signals shall be adjusted
so that the lowest order intermodulation product is positioned in the centre
of the pass band.
NOTE 1: The lowest intermodulation products correspond to the 4^th^ and 3^rd^
order for the GSM 900 and DCS 1800 bands, respectively.
Table 11.3: Input intermodulation requirements for interfering signals in co-
existing other systems
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Co-e | F | Int | Type of | Mea | Note | | xistence | requency | erfering | signals | surement | | | with | of | Signal | | b | | | other | int | Levels | | andwidth | | | systems | erfering | | | | | | | signals | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM900 | 876 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | | 915 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DCS1800 | 1710 ‑ | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | | 1785 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | PCS1900 | 1850 ‑ | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | | 1910 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM850 | 824 ‑ | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | | 849 MHz | | carriers | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 1920 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band I | 1980 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 1 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 1850 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band II | 1910 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 2 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band III | 1785 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 3 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band IV | 1755 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 824 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band V | 849 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 5 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 815 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band VI | 850 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 6 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 2500 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band VII | 2570 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 7 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 880 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band | 915 MHz | | carriers | | | | VIII or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 8 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 1749.9 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band IX | 1784.9 | | carriers | | | | or\ | MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 9 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 1710 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band X | 1770 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 10 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 1427.9 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band XI | 1452.9 | | carriers | | | | or\ | MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 698 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band XII | 716 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 12 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 777 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band | 787 MHz | | carriers | | | | XIII or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 13 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA FDD | 788 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | | | Band XIV | 798 MHz | | carriers | | | | or\ | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | Band 14 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1900 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1920 MHz | | carriers | | req | | a) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 33 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | a), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 2010 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 2025 MHz | | carriers | | req | | a) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 34 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | a), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1850 -- | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1910 MHz | | carriers | | req | | b) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 35 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | b), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1930 -- | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1990 MHz | | carriers | | req | | b) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 36 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | b), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1910 - | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1930 MHz | | carriers | | req | | c) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 37 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | c), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 2570 -- | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 2620 MHz | | carriers | | req | | d) or\ | | | | | uirement | | E-UTRA | | | | | does not | | Band 38 | | | | | apply to | | | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | d), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 2300 -- | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 2400 MHz | | carriers | | req | | e) or | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA | | | | | apply to | | Band 40 | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | e), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | UTRA TDD | 1880 -- | -15 dBm | 2 CW | 1 MHz | This | | in Band | 1920 MHz | | carriers | | req | | f) or | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA | | | | | apply to | | Band 39 | | | | | LCR TDD | | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | perating | | | | | | | in band | | | | | | | f), | | | | | | | since it | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | already | | | | | | | covered | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | b-clause | | | | | | | 11.1. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
NOTE 1: The co-existence requirements in Table 11.3 do not apply when the
repeaters pass band frequency range is adjacent to the band for the co-
existence requirement in the Table 11.3. The current state-of-the-art
technology does not allow a single generic solution for co-existence.
NOTE 2: The Table 11.3 assumes that two operating bands, where the frequency
ranges would be overlapping, are not deployed in the same geographical area.
For such a case of operation with overlapping frequency arrangements in the
same geographical area, special co-existence requirements may apply that are
not covered by the 3GPP specifications.
## 11.3 Test purpose
The purpose of this test is to verify that the Repeater meets the
intermodulation characteristics requirements as specified by the minimum
requirements.
## 11.4 Method of test
### 11.4.1 Initial conditions
1) A measurement system set-up is shown in annex A.
2) Set the Repeater to maximum gain.
3) Connect two signal generators with a combining circuit or one signal
generator with the ability to generate several CW carriers to the input.
4) Connect a spectrum analyser to the output of the Repeater. Set the
resolution bandwidth to 1 MHz in the centre of the pass band. Set averaging to
1 second or more.
### 11.4.2 Procedure
1) Adjust the frequency of the input signals, either below or above the pass
band, so that one carrier, f~1~, is 1 MHz outside the channel edge frequency
of the first or last channel in the pass band, and the lowest order
intermodulation product from the two carriers is positioned in the centre of
the pass band, according to subclause 11.2.
2) Take the measurement of the rise of the output signal.
3) Repeat the measurement for the opposite path of the Repeater.
## 11.5 Test requirements
The Input intermodulation measured according to subclause 11.4.2 shall not
exceed the limits specified in the relevant tables of 11.2.
# 12 Output Intermodulation
The transmit intermodulation performance is a measure of the capability of the
transmitter to inhibit the generation of signals in its non linear elements
caused by presence of the wanted signal and an interfering signal reaching the
transmitter via the antenna.
## 12.1 Definition and applicability
The transmit intermodulation level is the power of the intermodulation
products when a LCR TDD modulated interference signal is injected into the
antenna connector at a mean power level of 30 dB lower than that of the mean
power of the subject signal.
The requirement is applicable for downlink signals.
## 12.2 Minimum requirements
The frequency of the interference signal shall be ±1.6 MHz, ±3.2 MHz and ±4.8
MHz offset from the subject signal. The Transmit intermodulation level shall
not exceed the out of band or the spurious emission requirements of section
9.1 and 9.2.
## 12.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the ability of the repeater to restrict the
generation of intermodulation products in the presence of a subject signal on
the repeater input and output ports, and an interfering signal applied at the
repeater output port.
## 12.4 Method of test
### 12.4.1 Initial conditions
1) A measurement system set-up is shown in annex A.
2) Connect a signal generator to the input port of the Repeater (wanted
signal). Connect a signal generator to the circulator on the output port
(interfering signal) and make sure the signal generator power is directed to
the repeater output port.
> 3) Detection mode: True RMS.
### 12.4.2 Procedures
1) Set the Repeater to maximum gain.
2) Set the signal generator at the repeater input port (subject signal) to
generate a signal in accordance to table 12.1, at the level which produce the
manufacturer specified maximum output power at maximum gain.
Table 12.1: Parameters of the transmitted signal for transmit intermodulation
testing
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value/description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TDD Duty Cycle | TS i; I = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6: | | | | | | transmit, if i is 0,4,5,6; | | | | | | receive, if i is 1,2,3. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Time slots under test | TS4, TS5 and TS6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS output power setting | PRAT | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of DPCH in each time slot | 8 | | under test | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power of each DPCH | 1/8 of Base Station output power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Data content of DPCH | real life (sufficient irregular) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
3) Set the signal generator at the repeater output port (interference signal)
to generate a signal in accordance to table 12.1, at the level producing
signal power corresponding to 30 dB below the manufacturer specified maximum
output power at the repeater output port with the specified frequency offset
from the wanted signal.
4) Measure the emission at the specified frequencies with specified
measurement bandwidth and note that the measured value does not exceed the
specified value. Measurements in the band of the interfering signal shall be
excluded. The measurements can be limited to the power of all third and fifth
order intermodulation products.
5) Repeat from clause 3 until interference signals ±1,6MHz, ±3,2MHz and
±4,8MHz frequency offset from the wanted signal has been tested. Note that
interfering signals outside the UTRA-FDD allocated frequency band , as
specifies in section 4.1. need not be tested.
## 12.5 Test requirements
The mean power level of the interference signal shall be 30 dB below the mean
power level of the wanted signal.
At the frequencies of all third and fifth order intermodulation products, the
Test Requirements for out of band and spurious emissions as specified in
subclauses 9.1.5 (Spectrum emission mask),and 9.2.5 (Spurious emissions) shall
be met.
# 13 Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR)
## 13.1 Definitions and applicability
Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio (ACRR) is the ratio of the RRC weighted gain
per carrier of the repeater in the pass band to the RRC weighted gain of the
repeater on an adjacent channel. The carrier in the pass band and in the
adjacent channel shall be of the same type (reference carrier).
The requirement shall apply to the uplink and downlink of Repeater, at maximum
gain, where the donor link is maintained via antennas (over the air Repeater).
## 13.2 Minimum Requirements
In normal conditions the ACRR shall be higher than the value specified in the
Table 13.1.
Table 13.1: Repeater ACRR
* * *
Repeater maximum output Pmax Channel offset from the channel edge from the
first or last channel within the pass band. ACRR limit P ≥ 31 dBm 1,6 MHz 33dB
P ≥ 31 dBm 3,2 MHz 33dB P \< 31 dBm 1,6 MHz 20dB P \< 31 dBm 3,2 MHz 20dB
* * *
Note: For co-existence with TDD, a narrow band requirement is for further
study.
## 13.3 Test purpose
To verify that the Repeater ACRR requirement shall be met as specified in
subclause 13.1.
## 13.4 Method of test
### 13.4.1 Initial conditions
1) Set-up the equipment as shown in annex A.
2) Connect the signal generator equipment to the Repeater input port.
3) Connect the power measuring equipment to the Repeater output port.
4) The measurement device characteristics shall be:
\- measurement filter bandwidth: defined in subclause 13.1;
\- detection mode: true RMS voltage or true average power.
### 13.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the signal generator to transmit a signal according to table 13.2.
Table 13.2: Parameters of the transmitted signal for ACRR test
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value/description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TDD Duty Cycle | TS i; i = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6: | | | | | | transmit, if i is 0,4,5,6; | | | | | | receive, if i is 1,2,3. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Time slots under test | TS4, TS5 and TS6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | output power setting | PRAT | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of DPCH in each time slot | 8 | | under test | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power of each DPCH | 1/8 of Base Station output power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Data content of DPCH | real life (sufficient irregular) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
2) Adjust the input power to the Repeater to create the maximum nominal
Repeater output power at maximum gain
3) Measure the RRC filtered mean power at the RF output port over a certain
slot.
4) Set the signal generator to transmit the same signal and the same input
power at one of the channel offsets according to Table 13.1.
5) Measure the RRC filtered mean power at the RF output port over a certain
slot.
6) Calculate the ratio of the measured power in the pass band to the measured
power at the channel offset.
7) Repeat step 4) to 6) until all channel offsets in Table 13.1 are measured.
## 13.5 Test Requirements
In normal conditions as specified in section 5.4.1, the ACRR shall be higher
than the value specified in the Table 13.3.
Table 13.3: Repeater ACRR
* * *
Repeater maximum output power as in 9.1.1.1 Channel offset from the centre
frequency of the first or last channel within the pass band. ACRR limit P ≥ 31
dBm 1,6 MHz 32,3dB P ≥ 31 dBm 3,2 MHz 32,3dB P \< 31 dBm 1,6 MHz 19,3dB P \<
31 dBm 3,2 MHz 19,3dB
* * *
# 14 Timing Accuracy
## 14.1 Definition and applicability
Timing Accuracy is the repeater synchronization accuracy with NodeB, it
includes the downlink ramp on/off time and uplink ramp on/off time.
## 14.2 Minimum requirements
The downlink gain versus time should meet the mask specified in figure 14.1.
The beginning and end point of downlink burst is calculated according to the
trigger given by NodeB or LCR TDD signal generator.
Figure 14.1: Downlink gain ON/OFF template
The uplink gain versus time should meet the mask specified in figure 14.2. The
beginning and end point of uplink burst is calculated according to the trigger
given by NodeB or LCR TDD signal generator.
Figure 14.2: Uplink gain ON/OFF template
## 14.3 Test purpose
This test verifies the ability of the LCR TDD repeater to reduce its transmit
power outside of the active part of the Tx time slot (burst without guard
period) to values below specified limits. This ability is needed to minimize
the interference for other users receiving on the same frequency.
## 14.4 Method of test
### 14.4.1 Initial conditions
1) Set-up the equipment as shown in annex A.
2) Connect the signal generator equipment to the Repeater input port.
3) Connect the signal analyser to the Repeater output port..
### 14.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the signal generator to transmit one signal according to table 14.1.
Table 14.1: Parameters of the transmitted signal for Timing Accuracy testing
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value/description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TDD Duty Cycle | TS i; i = 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6: | | | | | | transmit, if i is 0,4,5,6; | | | | | | receive, if i is UpPCH,1,2,3. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Time slots under test | TS4, TS5 and TS6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | BS output power setting | PRAT | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of DPCH in each time slot | 8 | | under test | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Power of each DPCH | 1/8 of Base Station output power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
2) Measure the RRC filtered mean power of the LCR TDD repeater output signal
chipwise (i.e. averaged over time intervals of one chip duration) over the
transmit off power period starting 8 chips before the beginning point of
uplink/downlink burst, and ending 8 chips after the end point of
uplink/downlink burst.
## 14.5 Test Requirements
The Timing Accuracy measured according to subclause 14.4.2 shall not exceed
the limits specified in the relevant figures of 14.1 and 14.2.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Repeater measurement system set-up
Example of measurement system set-ups are attached below as an informative
annex.
# A.1 Maximum output power
Figure A.1: Measuring system set-up for maximum output power.
Note that a repeater is a bi-directional device. The signal generator may need
protection.
# A.2 Frequency stability
Figure A.2: Measurement system set-up for RF frequency stability.
Note that a repeater is a bi-directional device. The signal generator may need
protection.
# A.3 Out of band gain
Figure A.3: Measuring system set-up for out of band gain.
Note that a repeater is a bi-directional device. The signal generator may need
protection.
# A.4 Unwanted emission: Spectrum emission mask
Figure A.4: Measuring system Set-up for unwanted emission: spectrum emission
mask.
Note that a repeater is a bi-directional device. The signal generator may need
protection.
# A.5 Unwanted emission: Spurious emission
Figure A.5: Measuring system set-up for unwanted emission: spurious emission.
Note that a repeater is a bi-directional device. The signal generator may need
protection.
# A.6 Modulation Accuracy: Error Vector Magnitude
Figure A.6: Measuring system set-up for modulation accuracy: error vector
magnitude.
Note that a repeater is a bi-directional device. The signal generator may need
protection.
# A.7 Modulation Accuracy: Peak Code Domain Error
Figure A.7: Measuring system set-up for modulation accuracy: peak code domain
error.
Note that a repeater is a bi-directional device. The signal generator may need
protection.
# A.8 Input inter modulation
Figure A.8: Measuring system set-up for input intermodulation.
# A.9 Output Intermodulation
Figure A.9: Measuring system set-up for Output Intermodulation.
Note that a repeater is a bi-directional device. The signal generator may need
protection.
# A.10 Timing Accuracy
Figure A.10: Measuring system set-up for Timing Accuracy.
Note that a repeater is a bi-directional device. The signal generator may need
protection.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Derivation of Test Requirements
The Test Requirements in this specification have been calculated by relaxing
the Minimum Requirements of the core specification using the Test Tolerances
defined in subclause 4.2. When the Test Tolerance is zero, the Test
Requirement will be the same as the Minimum Requirement. When the Test
Tolerance is non-zero, the Test Requirements will differ from the Minimum
Requirements, and the formula used for this relaxation is given in table B.1.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Clause | Title | Minimum | Test | Test | | number | | Requirement | Tolerance\ | Requirement | | | | in TS | (TT) | in | | | | 25.116 | | TS 25.153 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 6 | Maximum | In normal | 0,7 dB | Formula: | | | output | conditions | | | | | power | Table 6.1 | | Upper limit | | | | | | + TT | | | | | | | | | | | | Lower limit | | | | | | -- TT | | | | | | | | | | | | In normal | | | | | | conditions | | | | | | refer to | | | | | | Table 6.4 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | In extreme | 0,7dB | In extreme | | | | conditions | | conditions | | | | Tabel 6.2 | | refer to | | | | | | Table 6.5 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 9.1 | Spectrum | Tables 9.1, | 1,5 dB | Formula: | | | emission | 9.2 and | | | | | mask | 9.3: | | Maximum | | | | | | level + TT | | | | "Maximum | | | | | | level" = X | | Refer to | | | | dB | | tables 9.5, | | | | | | 9.6 and 9.7 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 7 | Frequency | 7.1 minimum | 12 Hz | Formula: | | | stability | requirement | | | | | | | | Relative | | | | | | error + TT | | | | | | | | | | | | Refer to | | | | | | 7.5 Test | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 8 | Out of Band | Table 8.1: | 0,5 dB | Formula: | | | Gain | Out of band | | | | | | gain limits | | Maximum | | | | | | level + TT | | | | | | | | | | | | Refer to | | | | | | table 8.2 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 9.2 | Spurious | Tables 9.8, | 0 dB | | | | emissions | to 9.19 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10.1 | Error | 10.1.2 | 0 % | Formula: | | | Vector | Minimum | | | | | Magnitude | requirement | | RSS | | | | | | Stimulus | | | | | | EVM and | | | | | | Repeater | | | | | | EVM to get | | | | | | target EVM | | | | | | | | | | | | Refer to | | | | | | 10.1.5 Test | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10.2 | Peak code | 10 | 1,1 dB | Formula: | | | domain | .2.2Minimum | | | | | error | requirement | | Maximum | | | | | | error + TT | | | | | | | | | | | | Refer to | | | | | | 10.2.5 Test | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 11 | Input | 11.2 | 1,2 dB | Maximum | | | inte | Minimum | | in-band | | | rmodulation | re | | power | | | | quirements, | | increase + | | | | and Tables | | TT | | | | 11.1 | | | | | | ,11.2and | | Refer to | | | | 11.3 | | 11.5 Test | | | | | | re | | | | | | quirements. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 12 | Output | 12.2 | 1,5 dB for | Maximum | | | inte | Minimum | spectrum | level + TT | | | rmodulation | r | emission | | | | | equirements | mask. | Refer to | | | | | | tables 9.5 | | | | | 0 dB for | to 9.19 | | | | | spurious | | | | | | emissions | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table B.1: Derivation of Test Requirements
###### ## Annex C (informative): Acceptable uncertainty of Test Equipment
This informative annex specifies the critical parameters of the components of
an overall Test System (e.g. signal generators, signal analysers etc.) which
are necessary when assembling a Test System which complies with subclause5.1
Acceptable uncertainty of Test System. These Test Equipment parameters are
fundamental to the accuracy of the overall Test System and are unlikely to be
improved upon through System Calibration.
Table C.1: Equipment accuracy
* * *
Test Equipment accuracy Test condition
6 Output power Not critical Not critical
9.1 Spectrum emission mask Not critical Not critical
9.2 Spurious emissions Not critical Not critical
11 Input intermodulation (interferer requirement) Not critical Not critical
7 Frequency error ±10 Hz + timebase = 12 Hz Range 0 to 500 Hz. (This is to
allow for UE range that at 0,1 PPM is larger than BTS).
10.1 Error vector magnitude ±2,5 % (for single code) P_Max-3 to P_Max -- 18
dB\ Applies for reading from 10% to 25%.
10.2 Peak code domain error ± 1 dB Measurements in the range -25 dB to -30 dB
at signal power = Pmax
8 Out of band gain
11 Input intermodulation Not critical Not critical
12 Output intermodulation Not critical Not critical
13 ACRR
14 Timing Accuracy Not critical Not critical
* * *
#