# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements on UEs supporting a frequency band
that is independent of release.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] to [29] Void.
[30] 3GPP TS 25.101: \"UE Radio Transmission and Reception (FDD)\".
[31] 3GPP TS 25.102: \"UE Radio Transmission and Reception (TDD)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
[1] apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
RRC Radio Resource Control
UE User Equipment
# 3A General
TSG-RAN has agreed that the standardisation of new frequency bands may be
independent of a release. However, in order to implement a UE that conforms to
a particular release but supports a band of operation that is specified in a
later release, it is necessary to specify some extra requirements.
For example, Band III is contained in the Release 5 specifications. In order
to implement a UE conforming to Release \'4 but supporting Band III, it is
necessary for the UE to additionally conform to some parts of the Release 5
specifications, such as the radio frequency requirements for the Band III and
some signalling extensions relating to the UE radio access capabilities.
NOTE: See NOTE in clause 4.4 in [30] or [31].
# 4 Void
# 5 Void
# 6 Void
# 7 Void
# 8 Void
# 9 Void
# 10 Void
# 11 Void
# 12 Void
# 13 Void
# 14 Void
# 15 Void
# 16 Void
# 17 Void
# 18 Void
# 19 Void
# 20 Void
# 21 Void
# 22 Void
# 23 Void
# 24 Void
# 25 Void
###### ## Annex A (normative): Void
###### ## Annex B (normative): Frequency arrangement for overlapping operating
bands
The following information is provided in order to assist a UE to derive the DL
UARFCN and UL UARFCN in a multi-band environment, in which multiple
overlapping operating bands may be indicated in the IE \"Multiple Frequency
Band indicator list\" (System Information Block type 5, System Information
Block type 5bis and System Information Block type 6), or the IE \"Multiple
Frequency Info List FDD\" (System Information Block type 11, System
Information Block type 11bis and System Information Block type 12).
The sets of bands (multi-band environment), independent of release, that may
be indicated in a cell are shown in Table B-1. Subsets of these may also be
indicated. The DL UARFCN and UL UARFCN are derived according to [25.101].
Table B-1: Overlapping bands (multi-band environments) for each UTRA band
* * *
UTRA Operating Band Overlapping UTRA operating bands Duplex Mode 2 25 FDD 3 9
FDD 4 10 FDD 5 18, 19, 26 FDD 9 3 FDD 10 4 FDD 18 5, 26 FDD 19 5, 26 FDD 25 2
FDD 26 5, 18, 19 FDD
* * *
#