# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical specification of the overall support of
Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) Function in UTRA.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Base UTRAN Cell:** A cell in UTRAN for which a missing neighbour cell is
detected.
**Neighbour Cell:** A cell in UTRAN, LTE or GSM/GERAN that is a neighbour cell
to a Base UTRAN Cell.
**Neighbour Cell Identifier (NCI):** The identifier of a Neighbour Cell
**Neighbour cell Relation (NR):** Information that a Neighbour Cell,
identified with NCI, is a neighbour to a Base UTRAN Cell. NR is stored in the
RNC controlling the Base UTRAN Cell.
**Conceptual Neighbour Relation Functions:** The ANR is described using a
number of conceptual entities and functions in the RNC: Neighbour Relation
Table, Neighbour Relation Table Management Function, Neighbour Removal
Function and Neighbour Detection Function. These entities and functions are
used for descriptive purpose only and shall not be regarded as requirements on
the implementation in RNC.
**Receiving RNC:** the RNC receiving the ANR report over Uu
**Base RNC:** the CRNC of the Base UTRAN Cell
**Neighbour RNC:** the CRNC of the Neighbour Cell in UTRAN
**ANR-PLMN List:** A list of PLMNs that is the RPLMN and the list of
equivalent PLMNs for the UE at the point of receiving ANR logging
configuration.
**ANR measurement:** Physical measurements and reading of System Information
towards detected cells outside NCL.
**ANR logging:** Storing of essential information of detected cell into UE
internal ANR log, when one or more detected cell satisfies ANR logging
criteria.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply.
# 4 Automatic Neighbour Relation Function, Main Concepts
## 4.1 General
Figure 4.1-1: Interaction between RNC and O&M due to ANR
The ANR function resides in the RNC and is composed of the Neighbour Relation
Table (NRT) Management Function, Neighbour Detection Function and Neighbour
Removal Function.
The Neighbour Detection Function detects new neighbours and adds them to the
NRT. The Neighbour Removal Function removes outdated NRs.
A Neighbour cell Relation (NR) between a Base UTRAN Cell and a Neighbour Cell
exists if the RNC controlling the Base UTRAN Cell:
a) Knows the following Neighbour Cell information:
\- Neighbour cell is in UTRAN: PLMN-Id, Cell Identifier(C-ID), RNC-ID/Extended
RNC-ID,
\- Neighbour cell is in LTE: ECGI (PLMN Id + Cell Identity)
\- Neighbour cell is in GSM/GERAN: PLMN Id, LAC, CI, BSIC
b) Has an entry in the Neighbour Relation Table for the Base UTRAN Cell
identifying the neighbour cell.
c) Has all required attributes defined in the Neighbour Relation Table entry
or set to default values. Among these attributes are the frequency information
(UARFCN, BCCH ARFCN, EARFCN) and handover routing parameters not already
considered in (a):
\- Neighbour cell is in UTRAN: LAC and RAC
\- Neighbour cell is in LTE: TAI
For each NR, the NRT contains the Neighbour Cell Identifier (NCI), which
identifies the neighbour cells. A neighbour cell may be a UTRAN, LTE or GSM
cell. Furthermore, each NR has two attributes, the No Remove and the No HO
attributes. These attributes have the following definitions:
\- No Remove: If checked, the RNC shall not remove the Neighbour cell Relation
from the NRT.
\- No HO: If checked, the Neighbour cell Relation shall not be used as a
neighbour cell by Intra RNS, Inter RNS or Inter RAT mobility functions in
UTRAN.
The ANR function also allows O&M to manage the NRT. O&M can add and delete
NRs. It can also change the attributes of the NR. The O&M system is informed
about changes in the NRT.
## 4.2 ANR Handling in the UTRAN Infrastructure - Overall Description
If UTRAN ANR functionality is supported in UTRAN, RNC shall be able to
configure the UE to perform the ANR measurement. ANR capable UE performs the
ANR measurement and records in its logbook newly detected cells which meet the
criteria given in the configuration. The Receiving RNC uses RRC signalling to
retrieve the ANR report over the Uu interface after the UE has indicated that
it has a logged ANR report. The Receiving RNC handles the ANR report and may
forward the ANR report to different RNCs.
This chapter illustrates the handling and message sequences to be used to
configure a new neighbour relation for a UTRAN cell.
### 4.2.1 Iur Connectivity exists between the involved RNCs
The ANR function supports forwarding of ANR reports from the Receiving RNC to
RNCs indicated as Base RNCs in the ANR report. Furthermore the ANR function
supports suspension (and resuming) ANR logs reporting over Iur from other RNCs
as described in 5.1.2. This chapter describes the handling in the Receiving,
Base and Neighbour RNCs when Iur connectivity exists between the involved
RNCs.
#### 4.2.1.1 ANR Report over Uu for UTRAN cells
When receiving an ANR report over Uu, the Receiving RNC uses the globally
unique cell identities in the report to determine the network addresses of the
RNCs that are controlling the Base UTRAN cells. The network address of this
Base RNC is retrieved using configuration in the Receiving RNC and/or O&M.
The Receiving RNC decides the necessity to forward the ANR report. If the Base
UTRAN Cell is under control of the Receiving RNC, the Receiving RNC terminates
the relevant ANR report entry, and may update the Neighbouring Relation
accordingly. Otherwise, the ANR report is forwarded to the Base RNCs over Iur
with the RNSAP Direct Information Transfer procedure.
If newly detected neighbour cells are controlled by another RNC the RNSAP
Information Exchange Initiation procedure is used to request cell information
from the neighbour RNC. In addition the Base RNC may interact with O&M before
a neighbour relation is stored in the NRT.
Figure 4.2.1.1‑1 ANR Report over Uu for UTRAN cells
#### 4.2.1.2 ANR Report over Iur for UTRAN cells
On reception of an ANR report from another RNC using the RNSAP Direct
Information Transfer procedure, the Base RNC uses the globally unique cell
identities and L1 information in the ANR report, and optionally also
configuration in the RNC/O&M, to determine if the ANR report contains any
potential neighbour cells. If any of these potential neighbour cells is
controlled by another RNC the RNSAP Information Exchange Initiation procedure
may be used to request cell information from the neighbour RNC. In addition
the Base RNC may interact with O&M before a neighbour relation is be stored in
the NRT as shown in the figure below:
Figure 4.2.1.2‑1 ANR Report over Iur for UTRAN cells
**_A Base RNC may control the information flow for ANR reporting over Iur. The
suspension and resume are initiated from Base RNC to Receiving RNC using class
2 RNSAP procedure (Information Transfer Control procedure, defined in 5.1.2).
The suspension may be performed per single cell basis or the whole cells under
control of Base RNC. The ANR reporting is resumed again with initiating resume
procedure for a certain target in the message._**
Figure 4.2.1.2‑2 ANR Report suspension and resume
#### 4.2.1.3 ANR Report over Iur for IRAT cells
On reception of an ANR report containing IRAT neighbour cells from another
RNC, using the RNSAP Direct Information Transfer procedure, the Base RNC uses
the globally unique cell identities and L1 information in the ANR report, and
optionally also configuration in the RNC/O&M, to determine if any of these
IRAT neighbour cells are potential neighbour cells. The RNC retrieves the
necessary information about these potential neighbour IRAT cells from
configuration in the RNC/O&M. In addition the Base RNC may interact with O&M
before a neighbour relation is stored in the NRT as shown in the figure below:
Figure 4.2.1.3‑1 ANR Report over Iur for IRAT cells
_[The working assumption is that ANR report reports are forwarded in current
RNSAP IE \"L3 Information\".]_
### 4.2.2 Iur Connectivity does not exist between some RNCs involved in ANR
This chapter describes the handling in the Receiving RNC when the ANR function
can not rely on Iur connectivity between the involved RNCs.
#### 4.2.2.1 ANR report over Uu for UTRAN cells
When receiving an ANR report over Uu the Receiving RNC uses the globally
unique cell identities in the report to determine the network address of the
Base RNCs that are controlling the Base UTRAN cells. The network address of
this Base RNC is retrieved using configuration in the Receiving RNC and/or
O&M. If any Base RNC involved in the logged neighbour relations in the ANR
report is another RNC than the Receiving RNC, and no Iur connectivity exists
to this RNC, the Receiving RNC may report the neighbour relation to O&M.
On reception of an ANR report over Uu the Receiving RNC uses the globally
unique cell identities and L1 information in the ANR report, and optionally
also configuration in the RNC/O&M, to determine if the ANR report contains
potential neighbours to the cells controlled by the Receiving RNC. If any of
these potential neighbour cells is controlled by another RNC without Iur
connectivity, the configuration in the RNC/O&M may be used to determine the
necessary cell information. In addition the Base RNC may interact with O&M
before a neighbour relation is stored in the NRT.
Figure 4.2.2.1-1 Example: UTRAN network without Iur between some of the RNCs
Example of the handling in a receiving RNC (RNC1) when there is no Iur
connectivity to some of the RNCs included in the ANR report.
The RNC1 receives an ANR report over Uu:
\- UE ANR Report sent to RNC 1:
\- B.C1(RNC1) -> N.C2(RNC3)
\- B.C3(RNC1) -> N.C4(RNC2)
\- B.C5(RNC4) -> N.C6(RNC3)
In the role of a receiving RNC, the RNC 1 uses the RRC Cell-ID in the ANR
report to retrieve the addresses of the CRNCs involved in neighbour relations
of the ANR report as Base RNC (from configuration and/or O&M). RNC 1 reports
the entry B.C5(RNC4) -> N.C6(RNC3) to O&M[^1] as there are no Iur connectivity
between RNC 1 and RNC 4.
RNC 1 identifies the neighbour relations in which RNC1 is involved: B.C1(RNC1)
-> N.C2(RNC3), B.C3(RNC1) -> N.C4(RNC2). For B.C3(RNC1) -> N.C4(RNC2) the
actions in 4.2.1.1 are performed. For B.C1(RNC1) -> N.C2(RNC3) the cell
N.C2(RNC3) is configured as an external cell in RNC1^1^ and the necessary cell
information is already known to RNC1, hence after O&M interaction the
neighbour relation B.C1(RNC1) -> N.C2(RNC3) is stored in the NRT.
### 4.2.3 ANR Report over Uu for IRAT cells - with and without Iur
When receiving an ANR report over Uu where neighbour cell(s) are in another
RAT, the Receiving RNC performs the forwarding of the report to Base RNCs over
Iur as described in chapter 4.2.1.1 or, in case of no Iur connectivity between
Receiving RNC and Base RNC, handles the IRAT neighbour relation as described
in 4.2.2.1. Reception over Iur of an ANR report containing IRAT neighbour
cells are described in 4.2.1.3.
When an RNC receives an ANR report over Uu containing IRAT neighbour cells,
and if the Receiving RNC is also the Base RNC, it retrieves the necessary
information for neighbour IRAT cells from O&M and/or the information of the
ANR logs and determines if any of these IRAT neighbour cells are potential
neighbour cells. In addition the Base RNC may interact with O&M before the
neighbour relation is stored in the NRT.
Figure 4.2.3‑1 ANR Report over Uu for IRAT cells
# 5 Functions and Procedures
The ANR for UTRAN supports the following functions:
\- ANR Management
\- Neighbour cell configuration
\- Neighbour cell configuration for Intra-RNS cells
\- Neighbour cell configuration for Inter-RNS cells (with Iur)
\- Neighbour cell configuration (without Iur)
_-_ ANR Logging configuration
\- Configuration parameters
\- Configuration validity
_-_ Measurement Collection
_-_ Measurement Reporting
_-_ UE Capabilities
## 5.1 ANR Management
The ANR Management function provides means for an RNC, which receives an ANR
report over the Uu interface, to distribute the report to other RNCs involved
in the neighbour relations contained in the report as Base RNCs. The function
also enables RNC for suspending and resuming ANR report over Iur.
### 5.1.1 ANR Report Forwarding
The ANR Report Forwarding uses RNSAP Direct Information Transfer procedure for
sending of the ANR Report received over the Uu interface to the involved Base
RNCs.
Figure 5.1.1-1 ANR Report Forwarding
Using the RNSAP: Direct Information Transfer procedure, the RNC receiving an
ANR report over Uu may forward the ANR report to RNCs involved as Base RNCs in
neighbour relations of the ANR report. The ANR report received in the RRC
message over Uu is transparently forwarded in the RNSAP message. The receiving
RNC extracts the neighbouring ANR cell information concerning the Base RNC
from the Logged ANR Report Info list contained in the ANR Report over Uu, and
includes the whole RRC message in RNSAP _L3 Information_ IE _._
Abnormal conditions:
When an RNC receives an ANR report outside the defined services of the ANR
Report Distribution function, or if the ANR Report Distribution from the
sender of the report has been suspended as described in 5.1.2, local error
handling in the receiving RNC should be invoked.
### 5.1.2 ANR Report Distribution Controlling
The ANR Report Distribution Controlling function uses a new RNSAP procedure,
Information Transfer Control procedure, for suspending and resuming ANR log
reporting over Iur. An RNC receiving ANR report over Iur suspends (or resumes)
ANR Reports over Iur for particular cells or for all cells in the initiating
RNC.
Figure 5.1.1-2 ANR Report Distribution Controlling (Suspend/Resume)
The ANR report over Iur is resumed again using the same procedure with resume
indication for any particular cells or all cells belong to initiating RNC.
## 5.2 Neighbour Cell Configuration
The Neighbour Cell Configuration function supports configuration of new
neighbour cell relations between:
\- cells controlled by the same RNC
\- cells controlled by different RNCs
\- UTRAN cells and cells controlled by LTE or GERAN
For the case of inter RNS and inter RAT neighbour cells, the neighbour cell
may also be configured in the Base RNC. Such cell is called external cell in
this chapter.
### 5.2.1 Neighbour Cell Configuration for Intra-RNS cells
At the reception of the ANR report over Uu interface, or at the reception of
RNSAP: DIRECT INFORMATION TRANSFER message that contains an ANR report, the
CRNC may configure new neighbour cell relations between the cells it controls.
### 5.2.2 Neighbour Cell Configuration for Inter-RNS cells (with Iur)
For configuration of neighbour cell relations and external cells when the Base
UTRAN Cell and the Neighbour Cell are in different RNS, the Base RNC may use
Iur to fetch the necessary cell information of the neighbour cell from
neighbour RNC. The Neighbour Cell Configuration function uses RNSAP:
Information Exchange Initiation procedure to fetch this cell information of
the potential neighbour cell from the neighbour RNC.
Figure 5.2.2-1 Neighbour Cell Configuration using Iur
Base RNC requests cell information required to configure the neighbour cell
relation from the CRNC of potential neighbour cells using the RNSAP
Information Exchange Initiation.
### 5.2.3 Neighbour Cell Configuration (without Iur)
At the reception of the ANR report over Uu, or at the reception of a RNSAP:
DIRECT INFORMATION TRANSFER message that contains an ANR report, the Neighbour
Cell Configuration function configures inter RNS and/or inter RAT neighbour
cell relations and external cells in the RNC. For the necessary cell
information of the neighbour cell in neighbour RNC, neighbour BSS or neighbour
eNB, the Base RNC uses local configuration and/or O&M.
## 5.3 ANR Logging configuration
ANR logging is configured with Logged Measurements Configuration procedure, as
shown in Figure 5.3-1.
Figure 5.3-1: ANR Logging configuration with Logging measurement configuration
message
UTRAN initiates the ANR logging procedure to UE by sending _ANR logging
configuration in the Logging measurement configuration_ message as defined in
TS 25.331.
### 5.3.1 Configuration parameters
\- ANR logging threshold for Intra-RAT:
\- ANR logging relative threshold. If the measured signal strength/quality of
a detected cell exceeds the threshold relative to signal strength/quality in
the serving cell, the UE shall treat the detected cell as candidate for one
log entry in its ANR log. The detailed usage and value range of ANR logging
relative threshold is defined in TS 25.304 and TS 25.331.
\- ANR logging absolute threshold. If the measured signal strength/quality of
a detected cell exceeds the absolute threshold, the UE shall treat the
detected cell as candidate for one log entry in its ANR log . The detailed
usage and value range of ANR logging absolute threshold is defined in TS
25.304 and TS 25.331.
Note: The UTRAN provide an ANR logging absolute threshold and optionally an
ANR logging relative threshold in an ANR logging configuration.
\- ANR logging duration timer. This configuration parameter defines a timer
activated at the moment when UE receives ANR configuration. When the timer
expires, the ANR logging is stopped, and the ANR configuration is deleted
completely. The details and value range of ANR logging duration timer is
defined in TS 25.331.
\- ANR logging indicators for Inter-RAT. The detailed usage of ANR logging
indicators for Inter-RAT are defined in TS 25.331.
### 5.3.2 Configuration validity
The ANR logging configuration is provided in the UTRA serving cell, and its
validity is described below:
\- ANR logging configuration is:
\- enabled in IDLE mode, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH states in UTRAN.
\- enabled in Cell_FACH state when second DRX cycle is used in UTRAN
\- valid until ANR logging is disabled as specified in 5.4.
\- ANR logging configuration is maintained regardless of RRC state, e.g.
during multiple IDLE periods interrupted by IDLE-> Cell_FACH or Cell_DCH->IDLE
state transitions. The configured ANR logging is enabled as described in first
bullet above.
\- When UE is not in IDLE mode, CELL_PCH, URA_PCH state or Cell_FACH state
when second DRX cycle is used and has a valid ANR logging configuration, the
ANR logging duration timer is kept running.
\- ANR logging configuration is maintained by the UE regardless of camping
RAT. When UE changes the RAT, the ANR logging duration timer is kept running.
The configured ANR logging is enabled as described in first bullet above.
\- When ANR log is retrieved by UTRAN, UE deletes the ANR configuration and
the logged data.
\- When UE moves to a new PLMN within its ANR-PLMN List, the ANR logging
configuration is maintained.
## 5.4 Measurement Collection
Within a serving cell, the UE may log multiple detected cells if satisfied by
the ANR logging threshold and other criteria specified in this section. The UE
should ensure that, for a serving cell, the log contains only one entry per
detected cell, identified with Cell Id (i.e. Cell Identity in UTRAN, CGI for
LTE and GSM).
UE collects ANR measurement results and continues ANR logging according to the
ANR logging configuration, and ANR logging shall be disabled if any of the
following conditions is met:
\- the maximum number of NRs are reached.
\- the ANR logging duration timer expires.
Once ANR logging is disabled, the UE stops ANR logging and stops the ANR
logging duration timer and the ANR logging configuration is deleted.
Note: The maximum number of NRs to be logged by the UE is hard coded.
During ANR logging, UE should decide when to read the system information
blocks of the target detected cell that can be logged by UE, in order to
acquire the necessary ANR related information to be logged as defined in TS
25.331. The SI-reading activity in support of ANR is of best effort from UE
perspective, and should not impact UE paging or mobility behaviour.
For intra-UTRA case, the UE is allowed to perform ANR logging when camping on
any cell belonging to its ANR-PLMN List, as well as to perform ANR measurement
and to log any UTRA cell that it can detect.
For logging of intra or inter -RAT neighbors, UE shall not log any
neighbouring relationship entry related to CSG cell.
For logging of inter-RAT GERAN neighbors, UE shall only log if the GERAN cell
is not included in the neighbour list in SIB11/11bis/12.
For logging of inter-RAT E-UTRAN neighbours, UE shall only log if the E-UTRAN
cell is not included in the exclude-list for the EUTRAN frequency in SIB19.
When UE camps on certain GSM/GERAN or E-UTRAN cell with valid ANR logging
configuration and the ANR logging duration timer is still running, and then UE
reselects to a certain target UTRAN cell from the source GSM/GERAN or E-UTRAN
cell, UE shall log inter-RAT cell information for the source GSM/GERAN or
E-UTRAN cell.
## 5.5 Measurement Reporting
A UE configured to perform ANR logging indicates the availability of ANR logs,
by means of a one bit indicator in RRC_CONNECTION_SETUP_COMPLETE, CELL UPDATE,
URA UPDATE and MEASUREMENT REPORT (only applicable in case when UE is able to
make seamless transition from Cell_PCH state to Cell_FACH state) messages.
The network may decide to retrieve the ANR logs based on this indicator in
Cell_DCH or Cell_FACH states.
In case the network will not retrieve ANR logs, UE should store non-retrieved
ANR logs for 48 hours from the moment when the UE receives the logged ANR
configuration. There is no requirement to store non-retrieved ANR logs beyond
48 hours. In addition, all related ANR configuration and ANR logs shall be
removed by the UE at NAS detach or switch off.
For Logged ANR, UE checks if the RPLMN is the same as one of the PLMNs in the
\"ANR-PLMN List\" before signalling the presence of ANR logs in its memory,
and UE checks if the RPLMN is the same as one of the PLMNs in the \"ANR-PLMN
List\" before sending back the ANR logs to the network.
When ANR logs are retrieved, the reported measurement results are deleted.
The ANR log reporting should not prevent reporting two detected cells with the
same PSC/Frequency if the Cell-Id is different for the two detected cells.
Note: The UE information request/response procedure is used for ANR log
request/reporting. The details for ANR log retrieval is defined in TS 25.331.
## 5.6 UE Capabilities
One UE capability indicator is used to indicate UE support of UTRA ANR,
covering both Intra-RAT and Inter-RAT detected cells. The UTRAN ANR logging
capability is independent of other logging capability in UE.
#