# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This present document is the technical report for the study item \"Evolved
UTRA and UTRAN\" [1]. The objective of the study item is to develop a
framework for the evolution of the 3GPP radio-access technology towards a
high-data-rate, low-latency and packet-optimized radio access technology.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TD RP-040461: \"Proposed Study Item on Evolved UTRA and UTRAN\".
[2] 3GPP TR 25.814: \"Physical Layer Aspects for Evolved UTRA\"
[3] 3GPP TR 23.882: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution: Report on Technical
Options and Conclusions\"
[4] 3GPP TR 25.913: \"Requirements for Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN
(E-UTRAN)\"
[5] 3GPP TR 25.813: \"Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN (E-UTRAN): Radio
Interface Protocol Aspects.\"
[6] 3GPP TD RP-060292 R3.018: \"E-UTRA and E-UTRAN; Radio access architecture
and interfaces.\"
[7] Recommendation ITU-R SM.329-10: \"Unwanted emissions in the spurious
domain\"
[8] 3GPP TD R4-060660: \"E-UTRA Radio Technology Aspects V0.1.0\", NTT DoCoMo
[9] 3GPP TD R4-051146: \"Some operators requirements for prioritisation of
performance requirements work in RAN WG4\"
[10] 3GPP TD R1-070674: \"LTE physical layer framework for performance
verification\"\ Orange, China Mobile, KPN, NTT DoCoMo, Sprint, T-Mobile,
Vodafone, Telecom Italia.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
void
## 3.2 Symbols
void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ACK Acknowledgement
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
aGW Access Gateway
AM Acknowledge Mode
ARQ Automatic Repeat Request
AS Access Stratum
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
BCH Broadcast Channel
C/I Carrier-to-Interference Power Ratio
CAZAC Constant Amplitude Zero Auto-Correlation
CMC Connection Mobility Control
CP Cyclic Prefix
C-plane Control Plane
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
DCCH Dedicated Control Channel
DL Downlink
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DTCH Dedicated Traffic Channel
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
eNB E-UTRAN NodeB
EPC Evolved Packet Core
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FDM Frequency Division Multiplexing
GERAN GSM EDGE Radio Access Network
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GSM Global System for Mobile communication
HARQ Hybrid ARQ
HO Handover
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
ICIC Inter-Cell Interference Coordination
IP Internet Protocol
LB Load Balancing
LCR Low Chip Rate
LTE Long Term Evolution
MAC Medium Access Control
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MME Mobility Management Entity
MTCH MBMS Traffic Channel
NACK Non-Acknowledgement
NAS Non-Access Stratum
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
OFDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access
PA Power Amplifier
PAPR Peak-to-Average Power Ratio
PCCH Paging Control Channel
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU Packet Data Unit
PHY Physical layer
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PRB Physical Resource Block
PSC Packet Scheduling
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QoS Quality of Service
RAC Radio Admission Control
RACH Random Access Channel
RAT Radio Access Technology
RB Radio Bearer
RBC Radio Bearer Control
RF Radio Frequency
RLC Radio Link Control
RNL Radio Network Layer
ROHC Robust Header Compression
RRC Radio Resource Control
RRM Radio Resource Management
RU Resource Unit
S1 interface between eNB and aGW
S1-C S1-Control plane
S1-U S1-User plane
SAE System Architecture Evolution
SAP Service Access Point
SC-FDMA Single Carrier -- Frequency Division Multiple Access
SCH Synchronization Channel
SDMA Spatial Division Multiple Access
SDU Service Data Unit
SFN Single Frequency Network
TA Tracking Area
TB Transport Block
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TDD Time Division Duplex
TM Transparent Mode
TNL Transport Network Layer
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UM Un-acknowledge Mode
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System
UPE User Plane Entity
U-plane User plane
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VRB Virtual Resource Block
X2 interface between eNBs
X2-C X2-Control plane
X2-U X2-User plane
# 4 Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #26 meeting, the SI description on \"Evolved UTRA and
UTRAN\" was approved [1].
The justification of the study item was, that with enhancements such as HSDPA
and Enhanced Uplink, the 3GPP radio-access technology will be highly
competitive for several years. However, to ensure competitiveness in an even
longer time frame, i.e. for the next 10 years and beyond, a long-term
evolution of the 3GPP radio-access technology needs to be considered.
Important parts of such a long-term evolution include reduced latency, higher
user data rates, improved system capacity and coverage, and reduced cost for
the operator. In order to achieve this, an evolution of the radio interface as
well as the radio network architecture should be considered.
Considering a desire for even higher data rates and also taking into account
future additional 3G spectrum allocations the long-term 3GPP evolution should
include an evolution towards support for wider transmission bandwidth than 5
MHz. At the same time, support for transmission bandwidths of 5MHz and less
than 5MHz should be investigated in order to allow for more flexibility in
whichever frequency bands the system may be deployed
# 5 Deployment scenario
A very large set of scenarios are foreseen, as stated in 25.913 [4]:
\- Standalone deployment scenario: In this scenario the operator is deploying
E-UTRAN either with no previous network deployed in the area or it could be
deployed in areas where there is existing UTRAN/GERAN coverage but for any
reason there is no requirement for interworking with UTRAN/GERAN (e.g.
standalone wireless broadband application).
\- Integrating with existing UTRAN and/or GERAN deployment scenario: In this
scenario it is assumed that the operator is having either a UTRAN and/or a
GERAN network deployed with full or partial coverage in the same geographical
area. It is assumed that the GERAN and UTRAN networks respectively can have
differently levels of maturity.
In order to enable the large number of possibilities, E-UTRAN will support the
following:
1) shared networks, both in initial selection and in mobile-initiated
(controlled by system broadcast) and network-initiated/--controlled mobility.
2) high-velocity and nomadic mobiles. Mobility mechanisms include a handover
mechanism with short latency, short interruption and minimizing of data losses
(when the user has high data activity). Hence both high mobile velocities and
Conversational QoS can be supported (as elaborated in 13.6).
3) various cell sizes and radio environments. The radio aspects are analyzed
in chapter 10, but the specified mobility mechanisms are deemed adequate to
support different cell sizes (also mixed) and both planned or adhoc
deployments.\ Note: ad hoc deployment inherently does not support high user
QoS classes.
4) co-operation with legacy systems as required in 25.913 chapter 8.4. In
particular Handover to and from GERAN and UTRAN is supported. Handover can be
triggered by combinations of radio quality and requested bearer quality. This
capability enables all combinations of E-UTRAN and GERAN/UTRAN coverage,
ranging from full to partial coverage, overlapping to adjacent coverage and
ranging from co-siting (with re-use of equipment) to separate sites for LTE,
as required in 25.913 chapter 8.3. It also enables operator control of RAT and
QoS selection per user.
5) The requirement on efficiency is to a large extent determined by radio
functions (described in chapters 9 and 10, analyzed in chapter 13). However,
the designed mobility procedures are (for the intra-E-UTRAN case) potentially
considerably faster than the ones in legacy systems and can thus be considered
to support the requirement on efficiency (as described in detail in 13.6.2).
E-UTRAN also supports the requirements of:
6) Simplicity, due to only one type of node.
7) Low user data delay, due to low number of nodes in the data path
E-UTRAN shall support IP transport networks and all data link options. E-UTRAN
will use separated RNL and TNL QoS. This permits co-use of existing transport
networks.
# 6 Radio interface protocol architecture for evolved UTRA
The E-UTRAN consists of eNBs, providing the E-UTRA U-plane (RLC/MAC/PHY) and
C-plane (RRC) protocol terminations towards the UE. The eNBs interface to the
aGW via the S1 [5].
Figure 6.1 below gives an overview of the E-UTRAN architecture where yellow-
shaded boxes depict the logical nodes, white boxes depict the functional
entities of the C-plane, and blue boxes depict the functional entities of the
U-plane.
Figure 6.1: E-UTRAN Architecture
The functions hosted by the eNB are:
\- Selection of aGW at attachment;
\- Routing towards aGW at RRC activation;
\- Scheduling and transmission of paging messages;
\- Scheduling and transmission of BCCH information;
\- Dynamic allocation of resources to UEs in both uplink and downlink;
\- The configuration and provision of eNB measurements;
\- Radio Bearer Control;
\- Radio Admission Control;
\- Connection Mobility Control in LTE_ACTIVE state.
The functions hosted by the aGW are:
\- Paging origination;
\- LTE_IDLE state management;
\- Ciphering of the U-plane;
\- PDCP;
\- SAE Bearer Control (see [3]);
\- Ciphering and integrity protection of NAS signalling.
## **6.1 User plane**
Figure 6.2 below shows the U-plane protocol stack for E-UTRAN, where:
\- RLC and MAC sublayers (terminated in eNB on the network side) perform the
functions listed in clause 8, e.g.:
\- Scheduling;
\- ARQ;
\- HARQ.
\- PDCP sublayer (terminated in aGW on the network side) performs for the
U-plane the functions listed in clause 8, e.g.:
\- Header Compression;
\- Integrity Protection (to be determined during WI phase)
\- Ciphering.
Figure 6.2: U-plane protocol stack
## 6.2 Control plane
Figure 6.3 below shows theC-plane protocol stack for E-UTRAN. The following
working assumptions apply:
\- RLC and MAC sublayers (terminated in eNB on the network side) perform the
same functions as for the U-plane;
\- RRC (terminated in eNB on the network side) performs the functions listed
in clause 8, e.g.:
\- Broadcast;
\- Paging;
\- RRC connection management;
\- RB control;
\- Mobility functions;
\- UE measurement reporting and control.
\- PDCP sublayer (terminated in aGW on the network side) performs for the
C-plane the functions listed in clause 8, e.g.:
\- Integrity Protection;
\- Ciphering.
\- NAS (terminated in aGW on the network side) performs among other things:
\- SAE bearer management;
\- Authentication;
\- Idle mode mobility handling;
\- Paging origination in LTE_IDLE;
\- Security control for the signalling between aGW and UE, and for the
U-plane.
NOTE: The NAS control protocol is not covered by the scope of this TR and is
only mentioned for information.
Figure 6.3: C-plane protocol stack
# 7 Physical layer for evolved UTRA
Supported bandwidths are 1.25MHz, 1.6MHz, 2.5MHz, 5MHz, 10MHz, 15MHz, and
20MHz.
Note: 1.6 MHz has been introduced with spectrum compatibility with LCR-TDD in
mind.
## 7.1 Downlink transmission scheme
For both FDD and TDD, the downlink transmission scheme is based on OFDMA. Each
10 ms radio frame is divided into 10 equally sized sub-frames. In addition,
for coexistence with LCR-TDD, a frame structure according to [2], clause
6.2.1.1.1, is also supported when operating E-UTRA in TDD mode. Channel-
dependent scheduling and link adaptation can operate on a sub-frame level.
### 7.1.1 Basic transmission scheme based on OFDMA
#### 7.1.1.1 Basic parameters
The downlink transmission scheme is based on conventional OFDM using a cyclic
prefix. Information about the basic downlink parameters for operation in both
paired and unpaired spectrum are given in [2] clause 7.1.1. For operation in
unpaired spectrum with these parameters (generic frame structure), idle
symbols are included at DL/UL switching points and the idle period, required
in the Node B at UL/DL switching points, is created by timing advance means.
Note that, for operation in unpaired spectrum there is also an additional
numerology, compatible with LCR-TDD, see [2].
The sub-carrier spacing is constant regardless of the transmission bandwidth.
To allow for operation in differently sized spectrum allocations, the
transmission bandwidth is instead varied by varying the number of OFDM sub-
carriers.
##### 7.1.1.1.1 Modulation scheme
Supported downlink data-modulation schemes are QPSK, 16QAM, and 64QAM.
#### 7.1.1.2 Multiplexing including reference-signal structure
##### 7.1.1.2.1 Downlink data multiplexing
The channel-coded, interleaved, and data-modulated information [Layer 3
information] is mapped onto OFDM time/frequency symbols. The OFDM symbols are
organized into a number of _physical_ resource blocks (PRB) consisting of a
number of consecutive sub-carriers for a number of consecutive OFDM symbols.
The granularity of the resource allocation is matched to the expected minimum
payload.
The frequency and time allocations to map information for a certain UE to
resource blocks are determined by the Node B scheduler, see Clause 7.1.2.1
(time/frequency-domain channel-dependent scheduling). The channel-coding rate
and the modulation scheme are also determined by the Node B scheduler and also
depend on the reported CQI (time/frequency-domain link adaptation). Both
block-wise transmission (localized) and transmission on non-consecutive
(scattered, distributed) sub-carriers are supported. To describe this, the
notion of a _virtual_ resource block (VRB) is introduced. A virtual resource
block has the following attributes:
\- Size, measured in terms of time-frequency resource
\- Type, which can be either \'localized\' or \'distributed\'
\- Distributed VRBs are mapped onto the PRBs in a distributed manner.
Localized VRBs are mapped onto the PRBs in a localized manner.
The multiplexing of localized and distributed transmissions within one sub-
frame is accomplished by FDM.
##### 7.1.1.2.2 Downlink reference-signal structure
The downlink reference signal(s) can be used for at least
\- Downlink-channel-quality measurements
\- Downlink channel estimation for coherent demodulation/detection at the UE
\- Cell search and initial acquisition
The basic downlink reference-signal structure consists of known _reference
symbols transmitted in known positions within the OFDM time/frequency grid._
Reference symbols (a.k.a. \"_First reference symbols_ \") are located in the
first OFDM symbol of every sub-frame assigned for downlink transmission. This
is valid for both FDD and TDD as well as for both long and short CP.
Additional reference symbols (a.k.a. \"_Second reference symbols_ \") are
located in the third last OFDM symbol of every sub-frame assigned for downlink
transmission. This is the baseline for both FDD and TDD as well as for both
long and short CP. See [2] clause 7.1.1.2.2 for more details.
Orthogonality between reference signals of different TX antennas of the same
cell/beam is created by means of FDM. This implies that the reference-signal
structure with different antenna-specific frequency shifts is valid for each
antenna. The reference signals of different cells/beams belonging to the same
Node B are orthogonal to each other.
##### 7.1.1.2.3 Downlink L1/L2 Control Signaling
The downlink outband control signaling consists of
\- scheduling information for downlink data transmission,
\- scheduling grant for uplink transmission, and
\- ACK/NAK in response to uplink transmission.
Transmission of control signalling from these groups is mutually independent,
e.g., ACK/NAK can be transmitted to a UE regardless of whether the same UE is
receiving scheduling information or not.
Downlink scheduling information is used to inform the UE how to process the
downlink data transmission.
Uplink scheduling grants are used to assign resources to UEs for uplink data
transmission.
The hybrid ARQ (HARQ) feedback in response to uplink data transmission
consists of a single ACK/NAK bit per HARQ process.
#### 7.1.1.3 MIMO and transmit diversity
The baseline antenna configuration for MIMO and antenna diversity is two
transmit antennas at the cell site and two receive antennas at the UE. The
higher-order downlink MIMO and antenna diversity (four TX and two or four RX
antennas) is also supported.
Spatial division multiplexing (SDM) of multiple modulation symbol streams to a
single UE using the same time-frequency (-code) resource is supported. When a
MIMO channel is solely assigned to a single UE, it is known as single user
(SU)-MIMO. The spatial division multiplexing of the modulation symbol streams
for different UEs using the same time-frequency resource is denoted as spatial
division multiple access (SDMA) or multi-user (MU)-MIMO.
Modes of operation of multiple transmit antennas at the cell site (denoted as
MIMO mode) are spatial multiplexing, beamforming, and single-stream transmit
diversity mode(s). The MIMO mode is restricted by the UE capability, e.g.
number of receive antennas, and is determined taking into account the slow
channel variation. The MIMO mode is adapted slowly (e.g. only at the beginning
of communication or every several 100 msec), in order to reduce the required
control signalling (including feedback) required to support the MIMO mode
adaptation.
For control channel, only single stream using the multiple transmit antennas
is supported.
#### 7.1.1.4 MBMS
MBMS transmissions are performed in the following two ways:
\- Multi-cell transmissions
\- Single-cell transmissions
At least in case of multi-cell transmissions, the MTCH is mapped onto the MCH.
Tight inter-cell synchronization, in the order of substantially less than the
cyclic prefix, is assumed in order for the UE to be able to combine multi-cell
MBMS transmissions.
The MBMS transmission consisting of only broadcast/MBMS related information
share the same carrier with unicast traffic or can be transmitted on a
separate carrier (e.g. for a mobile TV application).
### 7.1.2 Physical layer procedure
#### 7.1.2.1 Scheduling
The Node B scheduler (for unicast transmission) dynamically controls which
time/frequency resources are allocated to a certain user at a given time.
Downlink control signaling informs UE(s) what resources and respective
transmission formats have been allocated. The scheduler can instantaneously
choose the best multiplexing strategy from the available methods; e.g.
frequency localized or frequency distributed transmission. The flexibility in
selecting resource blocks and multiplexing users (7.1.1.2) will influence the
available scheduling performance. Scheduling is tightly integrated with link
adaptation (7.1.2.2) and HARQ (7.1.2.3). The decision of which user
transmissions to multiplex within a given sub-frame may for example be based
on
\- QoS parameters and measurements,
\- payloads buffered in the Node-B ready for scheduling,
\- pending retransmissions,
\- CQI reports from the UEs,
\- UE capabilities,
\- UE sleep cycles and measurement gaps/periods,
\- system parameters such as bandwidth and interference level/patterns,
\- etc.
#### 7.1.2.2 Link adaptation
Link adaptation (AMC: adaptive modulation and coding) with various modulation
schemes and channel coding rates is applied to the shared data channel. The
same coding and modulation is applied to all groups of resource blocks
belonging to the same L2 PDU scheduled to one user within one TTI and within a
single stream. This applies to both localized and distributed transmission.
The overall coding and modulation is illustrated in Figure 7.1.
{width="3.2645833333333334in" height="3.3666666666666667in"}
Figure 7.1: Resource block-common adaptive modulation and resource block-
common channel coding rate scheme (for localized and distributed transmission
modes).
#### 7.1.2.3 HARQ
Downlink HARQ is based on Incremental Redundancy. Note that Chase Combining is
a special case of Incremental Redundancy and is thus implicitly supported as
well.
The N-channel Stop-and-Wait protocol is used for downlink HARQ.
#### 7.1.2.4 Cell search
Cell search is the procedure by which a UE acquires time and frequency
synchronization with a cell and detects the Cell ID of that cell. E-UTRA cell
search supports a scalable overall transmission bandwidth from 1.25 to 20 MHz.
E-UTRA cell search is based on two signals (\"channels\") transmitted in the
downlink, the \"SCH\" (Synchronization Channel) and \"BCH\" (Broadcast
Channel).
The primary purpose of the SCH is to enable acquisition of the frequency and
received timing, i.e., at least the SCH symbol timing, and frequency of the
downlink signal. The UE can obtain the remaining cell/system-specific
information from the BCH, SCH and also from some additional channels, such as
the reference symbols. The primary purpose of the BCH is to broadcast a
certain set of cell and/or system-specific information similar to the current
UTRA BCH transport channel.
Aside from the SCH symbol timing and frequency information, the UE must
acquire at least the following cell-specific information.
\- The overall transmission bandwidth of the cell
\- Cell ID
**\- Radio frame timing information** when this is not directly given by the
SCH timing, i.e., if the SCH is transmitted more than once every radio frame
\- Information regarding **the antenna configuration of the cell (number of
transmitter antennas)**
\- Information regarding the BCH bandwidth if multiple transmission bandwidths
of the BCH are defined
\- CP length information regarding the sub-frame in which the SCH and/or BCH
are transmitted
Each set of information is detected by using one or several of the SCH,
reference symbols, or the BCH.
The SCH and BCH are transmitted one or multiple times every 10-msec radio
frame.
SCH structure is based on the constant bandwidth of 1.25 MHz regardless of the
overall transmission bandwidth of the cell, at least for initial cell search.
#### 7.1.2.5 Inter-cell interference mitigation
There are three, not mutually exclusive approaches to inter-cell interference
mitigation:
\- Inter-cell-interference randomization
\- Inter-cell-interference cancellation
\- Inter-cell-interference co-ordination/avoidance
In addition, the use of beam-forming antenna solutions at the base station is
a general method that can also be seen as a means for downlink inter-cell-
interference mitigation. The main focus during the study item has been on
different schemes for interference coordination. The common theme of inter-
cell-interference co-ordination/avoidance is to apply restrictions to the
downlink resource management (configuration for the common channels and
scheduling for the non common channels) in a coordinated way between cells.
These restrictions can be in the form of restrictions to what time/frequency
resources are available to the resource manager or restrictions on the
transmit power that can be applied to certain time/frequency resources. It has
been concluded that this is mainly a scheduler implementation issue apart from
additional inter-node communication and/or additional UE measurements and
reporting.
### 7.1.3 Physical layer measurements
#### 7.1.3.1 UE measurements
##### 7.1.3.1.1 Measurements for Scheduling
###### 7.1.3.1.1.1 Channel Quality Measurements
The UE is able to measure and report to the Node B the channel quality of one
resource block or a group of resource blocks, in form of a Channel quality
indicator (CQI). In order to allow for efficient trade-off between UL
signaling overhead and link-adaptation/scheduling performance taking varying
channel-conditions and type of scheduling into account, the time granularity
of the CQI reporting is adjustable in terms of sub-frame units (periodic or
triggered) and set on a per UE or per UE-group basis.
CQI feedback from UE which indicates the downlink channel quality can be used
at Node B at least for the following purposes:
\- Time/frequency selective scheduling
\- Selection of modulation and coding scheme
\- Interference management
\- Transmission power control for physical channels, e.g., physical/L2-control
signaling channels.
###### 7.1.3.1.1.2 Measurements for Interference Coordination/Management
Channel quality measurements defined in clause 7.1.3.1.1.1 and some
measurements defined in clause 7.1.3.1.2 can be used for interference
coordination/management purpose.
##### 7.1.3.1.2 Measurements for Mobility
In order to support efficient mobility in E-UTRAN, the UEs are required to
identify and measure the relevant measurement quantities of neighbour cells
and the serving cell. Such measurements for mobility are needed in the
following mobility functions:
1) PLMN selection
2) Cell selection and cell reselection
3) Handover decision
###### 7.1.3.1.2.1 Intra-frequency neighbour measurements
Neighbour cell measurements performed by the UE are named intra-frequency
measurements when the UE can carry out the measurements without re-tuning its
receiver.
###### 7.1.3.1.2.2 Inter-frequency neighbour measurements
Neighbour cell measurements are considered inter-frequency measurements when
the UE needs to re-tune its receiver in order to carry out the measurements.
In case of inter-frequency measurements, the network needs to be able to
provide UL/DL idle periods for the UE to perform necessary neighbour
measurements.
###### 7.1.3.1.2.3 Inter RAT measurements
Neighbour measurements are considered inter-RAT measurements when UE needs to
measure other radio access technology cells. For these kinds of measurements,
the network needs to be able to provide UL/DL idle periods.
###### 7.1.3.1.2.4 Measurement gap control
In case the UE needs UL/DL idle periods for making neighbour measurements or
inter-RAT measurements, the network needs to provide enough idle periods for
the UE to perform the requested measurements. Such idle periods are created by
the scheduler, i.e. compressed mode is assumed not needed.
## 7.2 Uplink transmission scheme
For both FDD and TDD, the basic uplink transmission scheme is based on low-
PAPR single-carrier transmission (SC-FDMA) with cyclic prefix to achieve
uplink inter-user orthogonality and to enable efficient frequency-domain
equalization at the receiver side. Each 10 ms radio frame is divided into 20
equally sized sub-frames and scheduling can operate on a sub-frame level. In
addition, for coexistence with LCR-TDD, a frame structure according to [2],
clause 6.2.1.1.1, is also supported when operating E-UTRA in TDD mode. To
allow for multi-user MIMO reception at the Node B, transmission of orthogonal
pilot patterns from single Tx-antenna UEs is part of the baseline uplink
transmission scheme.
### 7.2.1 Basic transmission scheme
The basic uplink transmission scheme is SC-FDMA with cyclic prefix to achieve
uplink inter-user orthogonality and to enable efficient frequency-domain
equalization at the receiver side, see Figure 7.2.
Figure 7.2: Transmitter structure for SC-FDMA.
The sub-carrier mapping determines which part of the spectrum that is used for
transmission by inserting a suitable number of zeros at the upper and/or lower
end in Figure 7.3. Between each DFT output sample _L_ -1 zeros are inserted. A
mapping with _L_ =1 corresponds to localized transmissions, i.e.,
transmissions where the DFT outputs are mapped to consecutive sub-carriers.
With _L_ >1, distributed transmissions result, which are considered as a
complement to localized transmissions for additional frequency diversity.
Figure 7.3: Localized mapping (left) and distributed mapping (right).
Information about the basic uplink parameters for operation in both paired and
unpaired spectrum are given in [2] clause 9.1.1. For operation in unpaired
spectrum with these parameters (generic frame structure), idle symbols are
included at DL/UL switching points and the idle period, required in the Node B
at UL/DL switching points, is created by timing advance means. Note that, for
operation in unpaired spectrum there is an additional numerology, compatible
with LCR-TDD, see [2]. The sub-frame structure defined in [2] contains two
short blocks and N long blocks.
The minimum TTI for uplink transmission is equal to the uplink sub-frame
duration.
#### 7.2.1.1 Modulation scheme
Information about the uplink modulation scheme for operation are given in [2]
clause 9.1.1.1.
#### 7.2.1.2 Multiplexing including reference signal structure
##### 7.2.1.2.1 Uplink data multiplexing
The channel-coded, interleaved, and data-modulated information [Layer 3
information] is mapped onto SC-FDMA time/frequency symbols. The overall SC-
FDMA time/frequency resource symbols can be organized into a number of
resource units (RU). Each RU consists of a number (M) of consecutive or non-
consecutive sub-carriers during the N long blocks within one sub-frame. To
support the localized and distributed transmission two types of RUs are
defined as follows:
\- Localized RU (LRU), which consists of M consecutive sub-carriers during N
long blocks.
\- Distributed RU (DRU), which consists of M equally spaced non-consecutive
sub-carriers during N long blocks.
This results in the number of RUs depending on system bandwidth as shown in
[2] clause 9.1.1.2.1.
##### 7.2.1.2.2 Uplink reference-signal structure
Uplink reference signals are transmitted within the two short blocks, which
are time-multiplexed with long blocks. Uplink reference signals are received
and used at the Node B for the following two purposes:
\- Uplink channel estimation for uplink coherent demodulation/detection
\- Uplink channel-quality estimation for uplink frequency- and/or time-domain
channel-dependent scheduling
The uplink reference signals are based on CAZAC sequences.
Multiple mutually orthogonal reference signals can be created and be allocated
to:
\- A single multi-transmit-antenna UE to support e.g. uplink multi-layer
transmission (MIMO)
\- Different UEs within the same Node B
The uplink reference-signal structure allows for:
\- Localized reference signals.
\- Distributed reference signals.
##### 7.2.1.2.3 Multiplexing of L1/L2 control signaling
**There are two types of L1 and L2 control-signaling information:**
\- ata-associated signaling (e.g., transport format and HARQ information),
which is associated with uplink data transmission, and
\- data-non-associated signaling (e.g., CQI and/or ACK/NAK due to downlink
transmissions, and scheduling requests for uplink transmission).
**There are three multiplexing combinations for the uplink pilot, data, and
L1/L2 control signaling within a sub-frame for a single UE:**
\- Multiplexing of pilot, data, and data-associated L1/L2 control signaling
\- Multiplexing of pilot, data, data-associated, and data-non-associated L1/L2
control signaling
\- Multiplexing of pilot and data-non-associated L1/L2 control signaling
##### 7.2.1.2.4 Uplink L1/L2 Control Signalling
Depending on presence or absence of uplink timing synchronization, the uplink
L1/L2 control signaling can differ.
In the case of time synchronization being present, the outband control
signaling consists of
\- Data-associated control signaling
\- CQI
\- ACK/NAK
\- Synchronous random access (scheduling request, resource request)
Data-associated control signalling can only be transmitted together with user
data.
The CQI informs the scheduler about the current channel conditions as seen by
the UE. If MIMO transmission is used, the CQI includes necessary MIMO-related
feedback.
The HARQ feedback in response to downlink data transmission consists of a
single ACK/NAK bit per HARQ process.
The synchronized random access is used by the UE to request resources for
uplink data transmission.
In the case of time synchronization not being present, the outband control
signalling consists of
\- Non-synchronized random access
#### 7.2.1.3 MIMO
The baseline antenna configuration for uplink single-user MIMO is two transmit
antennas at the UE and two receive antennas at the Cell site. If the UE has
only single power amplifier and two transmit antennas, the antenna
switching/selection is the only option that is supported for SU-MIMO.
To allow for Multi-user MIMO reception at the Node B, allocation of the same
time and frequency resource to two UEs, each of which transmitting on a single
antenna, is supported as part of the uplink baseline configuration.
#### 7.2.1.4 Power De-rating Reduction
Single-carrier transmission allows for further power de-rating reduction,
e.g., through the use of specific modulation, clipping, spectral filtering,
etc.
### 7.2.2 Physical channel procedure
#### 7.2.2.1 Random access procedure
The random access procedure is classified into two categories:
\- non-synchronized random access, and
\- synchronized random access.
##### 7.2.2.1.1 Non-synchronized random access
The non-synchronized random access is used when i) the UE uplink has not been
time synchronized or ii) the UE uplink loses synchronization. The non-
synchronized access allows the Node B to estimate, and, if needed, adjust the
UE transmission timing to within a fraction of the cyclic prefix.
The random-access procedure is based on transmission of a random-access burst.
Time frequency resources for the random-access attempts are controlled by the
RRM configuration.
The non-synchronized random access preamble is used for at least UE uplink
time synchronization, signature detection.
Prior to attempting a non-synchronized random access, the UE shall synchronize
to the downlink transmission.
###### 7.2.2.1.1.1 Power control for non-synchronized random access
The power control scheme designed assumes no intra-cell interference from data
transmissions (i.e., TDM/FDM operation).
Open loop power control is used to determine the initial transmit power level.
It is possible to vary the random access burst transmit power between
successive bursts using:
a) Power ramping with configurable step size including zero step size for both
FDD and TDD case
b) Per-burst open loop power determination for TDD case only
##### 7.2.2.1.2 Synchronized random access
The synchronized random access is used when the UE uplink is time synchronized
by the Node B. The purpose is for the UE to request resources for uplink data
transmission. One of the objectives of the synchronized random access
procedure is to reduce the overall latency.
Synchronized random access and data transmission are also time and/or
frequency multiplexed.
#### 7.2.2.2 Scheduling
The uplink should allow for both scheduled (Node B controlled) access and
contention-based access.
In case of scheduled access the UE is dynamically allocated a certain
frequency resource for a certain time (i.e. a time/frequency resource) for
uplink data transmission. Downlink control signaling informs UE(s) what
resources and respective transmission formats have been allocated. The
decision of which user transmissions to multiplex within a given sub-frame may
for example be based on
\- QoS parameters and measurements,
\- payloads buffered in the UE ready for transmission,
\- pending retransmissions
\- uplink channel quality measurements
\- UE capabilities,
\- UE sleep cycles and measurement gaps/periods,
\- system parameters such as bandwidth and interference level/patterns,
\- etc.
#### 7.2.2.3 Link adaptation
Uplink link adaptation is used in order to guarantee the required minimum
transmission performance of each UE such as the user data rate, packet error
rate, and latency, while maximizing the system throughput.
Three types of link adaptation are performed according to the channel
conditions, the UE capability such as the maximum transmission power and
maximum transmission bandwidth etc., and the required QoS such as the data
rate, latency, and packet error rate etc. Three link adaptation methods are as
follows.
\- Adaptive transmission bandwidth
\- Transmission power control
\- Adaptive modulation and channel coding rate
#### 7.2.2.4 Power control
For the uplink, transmission power control, being able to compensate for at
least path loss and shadowing is applied.
#### 7.2.2.5 HARQ
Uplink HARQ is based on Incremental Redundancy. Note that Chase Combining is a
special case of Incremental Redundancy and is thus implicitly supported as
well.
The N-channel Stop-and-Wait protocol is used for uplink HARQ.
#### 7.2.2.6 Uplink timing control
In order to keep time alignment between uplink transmissions from multiple UEs
at the receiver side, timing-control commands, commanding UEs to advance or
retract the respective transmit timing, can be transmitted on the downlink.
#### 7.2.2.7 Inter-cell interference mitigation
The basic approaches to inter-cell interference mitigation for uplink are as
follows.
\- Co-ordination/avoidance i.e. by fractional re-use of time/frequency
resources
\- Inter-cell-interference randomization
\- Inter-cell-interference cancellation
\- Power control
In addition, the use of beam-forming antenna solutions at the base station is
a general method that can also be seen as a means for uplink inter-cell-
interference mitigation.
The main focus during the study item has been on different schemes for
interference coordination. The common theme of inter-cell-interference co-
ordination/avoidance is to apply restrictions to the uplink resource
management in a coordinated way between cells. These restrictions can be in
the form of restrictions to what time/frequency resources are available to the
resource manager or restrictions on the transmit power that can be applied to
certain time/frequency resources. It has been concluded that this is mainly a
scheduler implementation issue apart from additional inter-node communication
and/or additional UE measurements and reporting.
# 8 Layer 2 and RRC evolution for evolved UTRA
Layer 2 is split into the following sublayers: Medium Access Control (MAC),
Radio Link Control (RLC) and Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP). Figure
8.1 and Figure 8.2 below depict the PDCP/RLC/MAC architecture for downlink and
uplink respectively, where:
\- Service Access Points (SAP) for peer-to-peer communication are marked with
circles at the interface between sublayers. The SAP between the physical layer
and the MAC sublayer provides the transport channels. The SAPs between the MAC
sublayer and the RLC sublayer provide the logical channels. The SAPs between
the RLC sublayer and the PDCP sublayer provide the radio bearers.
\- The multiplexing of several logical channels on the same transport channel
is possible;
\- In the uplink, only one transport block is generated per TTI in the non-
MIMO case;
Figure 8.1: Layer 2 Structure for DL in eNB and aGW
Figure 8.2: Layer 2 Structure for UL in UE
## 8.1 MAC sublayer
This subclause provides an overview on services and functions provided by the
MAC sublayer.
### 8.1.1 Services and functions
The main services and functions of the MAC sublayer include at least:
\- Mapping between logical channels and transport channels;
\- **Multiplexing/demultiplexing of RLC PDUs belonging to one or different
radio bearers into/from transport blocks (TB) delivered to/from the physical
layer on transport channels;**
\- Traffic volume measurement reporting;
\- Error correction through HARQ;
\- Priority handling between logical channels of one UE;
\- Priority handling between UEs by means of dynamic scheduling;
\- Transport format selection;
### 8.1.2 Logical channels
The MAC sublayer provides data transfer services on logical channels. A set of
logical channel types is defined for different kinds of data transfer services
as offered by MAC. Each logical channel type is defined by what type of
information is transferred.
A general classification of logical channels is into two groups:
\- Control Channels (for the transfer of C-plane information);
\- Traffic Channels (for the transfer of U-plane information).
There is one MAC entity per cell. MAC generally consists of several function
blocks (transmission scheduling functions, per UE functions, MBMS functions,
MAC control functions, transport block generation...).
#### 8.1.2.1 Control channels
Control channels are used for transfer of C-plane information only. The
control channels offered by MAC are listed below. Note that the need for
additional channels may be identified in the WI phase.
**\- Broadcast Control Channel (BCCH)**
A downlink channel for broadcasting system control information.
**\- Paging Control Channel (PCCH)**
A downlink channel that transfers paging information. This channel is used
when the network does not know the location cell of the UE.
**\- Multicast Control Channel (MCCH)**
A point-to-multipoint downlink channel used for transmitting MBMS control
information from the network to the UE, for one or several MTCHs. This channel
is only used by UEs that receive MBMS.
**\- Dedicated Control Channel (DCCH)**
A point-to-point bi-directional channel that transmits dedicated control
information between a UE and the network. Used by UEs having an RRC
connection.
#### 8.1.2.2 Traffic channels
Traffic channels are used for the transfer of U-plane information only. The
traffic channels offered by MAC are:
**\- Dedicated Traffic Channel (DTCH)**
A Dedicated Traffic Channel (DTCH) is a point-to-point channel, dedicated to
one UE, for the transfer of user information. A DTCH can exist in both uplink
and downlink.
**\- Multicast Traffic Channel (MTCH)**
A point-to-multipoint downlink channel for transmitting traffic data from the
network to the UE. This channel is only used by UEs that receive MBMS.
### 8.1.3 Mapping between logical channels and transport channels
Figure 8.3 depicts the mapping between logical and transport channels. Note
that the need for other mappings may be identified in the WI phase.
Figure 8.3: Mapping between logical channels and transport channels
#### 8.1.3.1 Mapping in Uplink
In the uplink, at least the following connections between logical channels and
transport channels exist:
\- DCCH can be mapped to UL- SCH;
\- DTCH can be mapped to UL-SCH.
#### 8.1.3.2 Mapping in downlink
In the downlink, at least the following connections between logical channels
and transport channels exist:
\- BCCH can be mapped to BCH;
\- PCCH can be mapped to PCH;
\- DCCH can be mapped to DL-SCH;
\- DTCH can be mapped to DL-SCH;
\- MTCH can be mapped to MCH;
## 8.2 RLC sublayer
The main services and functions of the RLC sublayer include at least:
\- Transfer of upper layer PDUs supporting at least AM;
\- Error Correction through ARQ;
\- Segmentation according to the size of the TB;
\- Resegmentation (e.g. when the radio quality, i.e. the supported TB size
changes);
\- In-sequence delivery of upper layer PDUs;
\- Duplicate Detection;
\- Protocol error detection and recovery;
\- Reset.
Note that the reliability of RLC is configurable: for some bearers may
tolerate rare losses (e.g. TCP traffic).
## 8.3 PDCP sublayer
Figure 8.4 illustrates a model of the PDCP sublayer.
Figure 8.4: Model of PDCP sublayer
The main services and functions of the PDCP sublayer include at least:
\- Header compression and decompression: ROHC only;
\- Transfer of user data: transmission of user data means that PDCP receives
PDCP SDU from the NAS and forwards it to the RLC layer and vice versa;
\- Ciphering of U- plane data and C-plane data (NAS Signalling);
\- Integrity protection of C-plane data (NAS signalling);
NOTE 1: The U-plane and C-plane PDCP entities are located in the UPE and MME,
respectively.
NOTE 2: When compared to UTRAN, the _lossless DL RLC PDU size change_ is not
required.
## 8.4 RRC
This subclause provides an overview on services and functions provided by the
RRC sublayer.
### 8.4.1 Services and functions
The main services and functions of the RRC sublayer include at least:
\- Broadcast of System Information related to the non-access stratum (NAS);
\- Broadcast of System Information related to the access stratum (AS);
\- Paging;
\- Establishment, maintenance and release of an RRC connection between the UE
and E-UTRAN including:
\- Allocation of temporary identifiers between UE and E-UTRAN;
\- Configuration of radio resources for RRC connection.
\- Security functions including:
\- Integrity protection for RRC messages;
\- Establishment, maintenance and release of point to point Radio Bearers
including configuration of radio resources for the Radio Bearers;
\- Mobility functions including:
\- UE measurement reporting and control of the reporting for inter-cell and
inter-RAT mobility;
\- Inter-cell handover;
\- UE cell selection and reselection and control of cell selection and
reselection;
\- Context transfer between eNBs.
\- UE measurement reporting and control of the reporting;
\- NAS direct message transfer to/from NAS from/to UE.
### 8.4.2 RRC protocol states & state transitions
RRC uses the following states:
\- **RRC_IDLE** :
\- UE specific DRX configured by NAS;
\- Broadcast of system information;
\- Paging;
\- Cell re-selection mobility;
\- The UE shall have been allocated an id which uniquely identifies the UE in
a tracking area;
\- No RRC context stored in the eNB.
\- **RRC_CONNECTED** :
\- UE has an E-UTRAN-RRC connection;
\- UE has context in E-UTRAN;
\- E-UTRAN knows the cell which the UE belongs to;
\- Network can transmit and/or receive data to/from UE;
\- Network controlled mobility (handover);
\- Neighbour cell measurements;
\- At RLC/MAC level:
\- UE can transmit and/or receive data to/from network;
\- UE monitors control signalling channel for shared data channel to see if
any transmission over the shared data channel has been allocated to the UE;
\- UE also reports channel quality information and feedback information to
eNB;
\- DRX/DTX period can be configured according to UE activity level for UE
power saving and efficient resource utilization. This is under control of the
eNB.
# 9 Architecture for evolved UTRAN
## 9.1 Evolved UTRAN architecture
This chapter describes the definition of an evolved UTRAN Architecture in
terms of logical nodes, each node hosting a set of functions and the related
physical interfaces.
The evolved UTRAN consists of eNBs, providing the evolved UTRA U-plane and
C-plane protocol terminations towards the UE. The eNBs are interconnected with
each other by means of the X2 interface. It is assumed that there always exist
an X2 interface between the eNBs that need to communicate with each other,
e.g. for support of handover of UEs in LTE_ACTIVE.
The eNBs are also connected by means of the S1 interface to the EPC (Evolved
Packet Core). The S1 interface support a many-to-many relation between aGWs
and eNBs.
The EUTRAN architecture is illustrated in Figure 9.1.
Figure 9.1: E-UTRAN architecture
## 9.2 Functional split
The eNB host the following functions:
\- Functions for Radio Resource Management: Radio Bearer Control, Radio
Admission Control, Connection Mobility Control, Dynamic Resource Allocation
(scheduling).
The MME hosts the following functions:
\- Distribution of paging messages to the eNBs.
The UPE hosts the following functions:
\- IP Header Compression and encryption of user data streams;
\- Termination of U-plane packets for paging reasons;
\- Switching of U-plane for support of UE mobility.
## 9.3 Interfaces
### 9.3.1 S1 interface
#### 9.3.1.1 Definition
The S1 interface is the interface that separate E-UTRAN and EPC. The S1
interface consists of two parts:
> C-plane: S1-C is the interface between eNB and MME function in EPC.
>
> U-plane: S1-U is the interface between eNB and UPE function in EPC.
The S1 interface shall be specified so that there is a many-to-many relation
between aGWs and eNBs.
#### 9.3.1.2 S1-C RNL protocol functions
The S1-C interface supports at least the following functions:
\- Mobility functions: Support for intra- and inter-system mobility of UE(s).
\- Connection Management Functions: Functions for handling LTE_IDLE to
LTE_ACTIVE transitions, roaming area restrictions etc.
\- SAE Bearer Management: Setup, modification and release of SAE Bearers.
\- General S1 management and error handling functions: Request to release, and
release of all bearers, S1 reset functions, as well as some kind of path
supervision.
\- Paging of a UE in the eNB.
\- Transport of NAS information between EPC and UE.
\- MBMS support functions.
#### 9.3.1.3 S1-U RNL protocol functions
The S1-U interface supports the tunnelling of end user packets between the eNB
and the UPE. The tunnelling protocols support the following functions:
\- Indication of the SAE Access Bearer in the target node that the packet
belongs to.
\- Means to minimize packet losses due to mobility.
\- Error handling mechanism
\- MBMS support functions
\- Packet loss detection mechanism
#### 9.3.1.4 S1-X2 similarities
S1-U and X2-U use the same U-plane protocol in order to minimize protocol
processing for the eNB at the time of data forwarding.
### 9.3.2 X2 interface
#### 9.3.2.1 Definition
The X2 interface is the interface between eNBs. The X2 interface consists of
two parts:
> C-plane: X2-C is the C-plane interface between eNBs.
>
> U-plane: X2-U is the U-lane interface between eNBs
#### 9.3.2.2 X2-C RNL Protocol Functions
The X2-C interface supports the following functions:
\- Mobility functions: Support for UE mobility between eNBs, including e.g.
handover signalling and control of U-plane tunnels.
\- Multi-cell RRM functions: Support for multi-cell RRM, e.g. measurement
reporting.
\- General X2 management and error handling functions.
#### 9.3.2.3 X2-U RNL Protocol Functions
The X2-U interface supports the tunneling of end user packets between the
eNBs. The tunneling protocols support the following functions:
\- Indication of the SAE Access Bearer in the target node that the packet
belongs to.
\- Means to minimize packet losses due to mobility.
## 9.4 Intra-LTE-access-system mobility
### 9.4.1 Intra-LTE-access-system mobility support for UE in LTE_IDLE
Refer to clause 7.7 in [3].
### 9.4.2 Intra LTE-Access-System Mobility Support for UE in LTE_ACTIVE
#### 9.4.2.1 Description of Intra-LTE-Access Mobility Support for UEs in
LTE_ACTIVE
The Intra-LTE-Access Mobility Support for UEs in LTE_ACTIVE handles all
necessary steps already known from state of the art relocation/handover
procedures, like processes that precedes the final HO decision on the source
network side (control and evaluation of UE and eNB measurements taking into
account certain UE specific area restrictions), preparation of resources on
the target network side, commanding the UE to the new radio resources and
finally releasing resources on the (old) source network side. It contains
mechanisms to transfer context data between evolved nodes, and to update node
relations on C-plane and U-plane.
#### 9.4.2.2 Solution for Intra-LTE-Access Mobility Support for UEs in
LTE_ACTIVE
##### 9.4.2.2.1 C-plane handling:
The HO procedure is performed without MME/UPE involvement, i.e. preparation
messages are directly exchanged between the eNBs. The release of the resources
at the source side during the HO completion phase is triggered by the eNB.
Figure 9.2: Information flow for Intra-LTE-Access Mobility Support
1) The UE context within the source eNB contains information regarding roaming
restrictions which where provided either at connection establishment or at the
last TA update.
2) The source eNB entity configures the UE measurement procedures according to
the area restriction information. Measurements provided by the source eNB
entity may assist the function controlling the UE\'s connection mobility.
3) Based on measurement results from the UE and the source eNB, probably
assisted by additional RRM specific information, the source eNB decides to
handover the UE to a cell controlled by the target eNB.
4) The source eNB issues a HO Request to the target eNB entity passing
necessary information to prepare the HO at the target side. The target eNB
configures the required resources.
5) Admission Control is performed by the target eNB to increase the likelihood
of a successful HO, if the resources can be granted by target eNB.
6) The HO preparation is finished at the target side, information for the UE
to reconfigure the radio path towards the target side is passed to the source
eNB.
A) from step 7) until 12) means to avoid data loss during HO are provided and
are detailed in §9.4.2.2.2.
7) The UE is commanded by the source eNB entity to perform the HO, target side
radio resource information is contained.
8) The UE gains synchronisation at the target side.
9) Once the UE has successfully accessed the cell, it sends an indication to
the target eNB that the handover is completed.
10) The MME/UPE is informed that the UE has changed cell. The UPE switch the
data path to the target side and can release any U-plane/TNL resources towards
the source eNB.
11) The MME/UPE confirms the HO Complete message with the HO Complete ACK
message.
12) The target eNB triggers the release of resources at the source side. The
target eNB can send this message directly after reception of message 9.
13) Upon reception of the Release Resource message, the source eNB can release
radio and C-plane related resources in relation to the UE context. The source
eNB should continue to perform data forwarding until an implementation
dependent mechanism decides that data forwarding can be stopped and
U-plane/TNL resources can be released.
14) If the new cell is member of a new Tracking Area, the UE needs to register
with the MME/UPE which in turn updates the area restriction information on the
target side.
##### 9.4.2.2.2 U-plane handling
The U-plane handling during the Intra-LTE-Access mobility activity for UEs in
LTE_ACTIVE takes the following principles into account to avoid data loss
during HO and hence to support seamless/lossless service provision:
\- During HO preparation a U-plane tunnel is established between the source
eNB and the target eNB.
\- During HO execution, user data may be forwarded from the source eNB to the
target eNB. The forwarding may take place in a service dependent and
implementation specific way.
\- Forwarding of user data from the source to the target eNB should take place
as long as packets are received at the source eNB from the UPE.
\- During HO completion:
\- After the MME/UPE was informed by the target eNB that the UE has gained
access at the target eNB by the HO Complete message, the U-plane path is
switched by the MME/UPE from the source eNB to the target eNB.
\- The source eNB shall continue forwarding of U-plane data as long as packets
are received at the source eNB from the UPE.
## 9.5 Inter 3GPP access system mobility
### 9.5.1 Inter 3GPP access system mobility in Idle state
Refer to clause 7.5 in [3].
### 9.5.2 Inter 3GPP access system mobility handover
Refer to clause 7.8.2 in [3].
## 9.6 Resource establishment and QoS signalling
### 9.6.1 QoS concept and bearer service architecture
Refer to clause 7.12.2 and 7.12.3 in [3].
### 9.6.2 Resource establishment and QoS signalling
Resource establishment and QoS signaling in LTE/SAE has been accelerated by
removing the signaling hierarchy in SAE bearer establishment in S1 control
plane. Signalling of Access Stratum and Non Access Stratum information is done
in parallel by piggybacking the NAS information in the AS signalling in S1
interface.
Figure 9.3: Information flow for Resource Establishment in the Radio Network
for application level signalling
1) The UE has a signalling relation established with the network which relies
on the default IP Access service.
2) The MME/UPE is triggered by a resource request which contains Policy/QoS
Information corresponding to the requested service.
3) The MME/UPE checks the UE\'s subscription, performs admission control.
4) The MME/UPE reserves a U-plane configuration (including a tunnel endpoint)
in the UPE
5) MME/UPE sends a request to the eNB to establish a Radio Bearer (RB)
6) The eNB performs admission control for RNL radio resources, and maps the
received QoS information for the \"PHY/MAC control\" entity and triggers the
allocation of radio resources002E
The \"PHY/MAC control\" receives the QoS information from the \"RRC.\"
The \"PHY/MAC control\" uses this information to perform admission control for
radio and processing resources at cell level and to generate the relevant HARQ
entities and also to perform any mapping of logical channel to resource
identifier configures the scheduler according to the received QoS information
and allocates resources according to the received QoS information.
The \"PHY/MAC control\" returns the relevant configuration information (e.g.
HARQ configuration, air interface identifiers, channel mapping etc) to the
\"RRC\" entity.
7) The RB is established and UE is provided with information about the radio
configuration necessary for the service.
8) The MME/UPE is informed about the successful outcome of the radio bearer
establishment.
9) UPE function in the EPC is informed about tunnel endpoint.
10) The MME/UPE reports the outcome of the resource establishment.
## 9.7 Paging and C-plane establishment
Refer to clause 7.14 in [3].
For C-plane establishment, several control plane procedures will be executed
in parallel. Encrypted NAS messages will be carried as Direct Transfer
messages in both S1 and RRC messages.
## 9.8 Evaluations on for E-UTRAN architecture and migration
Following requirements on E-UTRAN architecture and migration have been
identified in clause 9 of TR 25.913. For each requirement it is shortly
discussed how it is fulfilled by the LTE architecture.
a) A single E-UTRAN architecture should be agreed.
The agreed architecture for LTE is captured in clause 9.1.
_b) The E-UTRAN architecture shall be packet based, although provision should
be made to support systems supporting real-time and conversational class
traffic._
The E-UTRAN architecture in clause 9.1 is packet based and supports all kinds
of services including real-time and conversational type of services.
_c) E-UTRAN architecture shall minimize the presence of \"single points of
failure\" where possible without additional cost for backhaul._
Effects of \"single points of failures\" are limited to eNB sites, which are
defined without architectural redundancy.
_d) E-UTRAN architecture shall simplify and minimize the introduced number of
interfaces where possible_
The E-UTRAN architecture consist of eNBs with corresponding interfaces. The
E-UTRAN architecture contains two interfaces: S1 which is the interface
between EPC and eNB, and X2 which is the interface between eNBs.
_e) Radio Network Layer (RNL) and Transport Network Layer (TNL) interaction
should not be precluded if in the interest of improved system performance._
Interaction between RNL and TNL has not been precluded in the proposed
architecture.
_f) E-UTRAN architecture shall support an end-to-end QoS. The TNL shall
provide the appropriate QoS requested by the RNL._
The architecture supports end-to-end QoS and enhancements/simplifications of
the QoS concept of Rel. 6.
_g) QoS mechanism(s) shall take into account the various types of traffic that
exists to provide efficient bandwidth utilization: \"C-plane\" traffic,
\"U-plane\" traffic, O &M traffic etc._
The discussed QoS mechanisms allow for differentiation of different types of
traffic, e.g. signalling and different kinds of user data, and supports
prioritization between different kinds of traffic.
_h) The E-UTRAN shall be designed in such a way to minimize the delay
variation (jitter) for e.g. TCP/IP for packet communication._
The radio interface protocols of the U-plane are terminated in the eNB and
UPE, which allows for small delay variations. E-UTRAN architecture allows for
the minimisation of data loss during UE mobility between eNBs, which is
expected to minimize the impact on TCP performance.
## 9.9 Support of roaming restrictions in LTE_ACTIVE
Handling of roaming/area restrictions and handling of subscription specific
preferences in LTE_ACTIVE is performed in the eNB based on information
provided by the aGW over the S1 interface.
# 10 RF related aspects of evolved UTRA
## 10.1 Scalable bandwidth
E-UTRA shall according to [4] allow scalable bandwidth operation of 1.25 MHz,
1.6MHz, 2.5 MHz, 5 MHz, 10 MHz, 15 MHz and 20 MHz. There are several
implications of the flexible bandwidth, including performance and
implementation aspects. When unwanted emissions requirements for a scalable
bandwidth system are specified, there are also regulatory aspects related to
both the way the unwanted emission requirements are specified and to
identifying the relevant emission limits.
For the out-of-band emissions (close to the carrier) the present UTRA limits
are specified both as ACLR (Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio) and a Spectrum
Mask. Several proposals in several RAN4 documents* discuss how to specify ACLR
and spectrum mask in a way similar to UTRA. It is also shown how emissions
vary with the scalable bandwidth, which should be reflected in the out-of-band
limits, at least for the UE. Proposals in ‎several RAN4 documents* introduce a
new concept where adjacent channel leakage is specified in a measurement
bandwidth related to the resource block size. It is pointed out in a RAN4
document* that Out-of-band emissions for E-UTRA does not necessarily have to
be specified as a spectrum mask, or that it has to be identical to the UTRA
mask. What is important is that assurance is provided for co-existence,
through ACLR, spectrum mask or other limits on Out-of-band emissions.
Out-of-band limits are set by 3GPP, but are referenced, included and applied
by external regulatory bodies in recommendations, reports and co-existence
studies*. In defining the limits for LTE, those references should be
considered to assure that E-UTRA provides sufficient compatibility with other
services.
The present UTRA spurious emission limits are based on ITU-R SM.329 ‎[7],
which should also be the basis for LTE as discussed in ‎several RAN4
documents*. There are also additional UE and BS spurious emission limits
defined as regional requirements for co-existence between different systems,
including UTRA, GSM and PHS in the same or different bands. Some of these
requirements should remain as pointed out in several of RAN4 documents*, but
there may also be new co-existence scenarios to consider. It is important for
3GPP to respect regional requirements and to take into account how the limits
are applied and referenced in international and regional bodies.
It was shown in ‎a RAN4 document* that some aspects of the ITU-R SM.329 limits
‎[7] may lead to unnecessarily tight requirements for the eNB. The regulatory
aspects of this issue are at the moment being addressed further within
CEPT/ECC.
Spurious emission limits are mainly driven by international recommendations,
but some implementation considerations are also important. One such issue is
how to define the limit between out-of-band and spurious emissions. ITU-R
SM.329 ‎[7] recommends this limit to be proportional to the (necessary)
emission bandwidth. Several RAN4 documents* considered the concept of starting
the domain of the spurious emission requirements at a fixed offset of 10 MHz
from the edge of the LTE carrier for any bandwidth. From an implementation
perspective a RAN4 document* indicated this to be feasible for the eNB.
However, it was shown in several RAN4 documents* that this approach appears to
be not viable for the UE. Also here, considerations must be taken of
implementation and regulatory aspects as well as co-existence with adjacent
systems.
In some of the potential frequency bands, depending on the spectrum allocation
conditions, sufficient frequency spectrum for the wider operation bandwidths
may not be available. In that case, resource aggregation has been considered
as one option. The implementation and complexity aspects of this issue are
studied and summarized further in clause 12.2 in this TR.
As a summary of these studies it can be concluded that the scalable bandwidth
needs to be properly considered when defining LTE unwanted emission
requirements, taking into account co-existence with other systems,
implementation and regulatory aspects. Based on the studies to date, scalable
bandwidth is considered feasible.
Note: *See clause 5.2 in ‎[8]
## 10.2 Spectrum deployment
The conclusions in this chapter are preliminary and may need to be updated
once the work in RAN4 progresses. Specially the comprehensive analysis of
coexistence of E-UTRA operating in the same frequency band with other radio
systems spans a large number of scenarios and requires a considerable amount
of simulation work which is still ongoing. However, based on initial
coexistence simulation results and additional analytical analysis RAN4 can
draw a draft conclusion for the purpose of the Study Item.
Regarding coexistence of E-UTRA with E-UTRA and other radio technologies
operating in different frequency bands similar requirements as currently
specified for UTRA are anticipated. This concerns additional transmitter and
receiver spurious emission requirements for coexistence which will be for LTE
eNB and UE the same as today for UTRA and receiver blocking requirements for
coexistence which need to be specified by RAN4 during the Work Item phase.
Regarding coexistence of E-UTRA with E-UTRA and E-UTRA with UTRA operating in
the same frequency band on adjacent channels, initial coexistence simulation
results for downlink have shown that this is feasible with requirements for
E-UTRA similar to those for the current UTRA system. The analysis of the
transmitter emissions of the E-UTRA UE indicated that behaviour is expected to
be similar to the downlink however uplink coexistence simulation results are
not available yet. Coexistence with GSM also needs to be analysed. Further
coexistence studies for uplink and downlink are ongoing.
Based on the studies described above, focussed on scenarios considered most
critical, coexistence of E-UTRA with E-UTRA and other radio technologies is
seen feasible.
# 11 Radio resource management aspects of evolved UTRA
## 11.1 Introduction
The purpose of radio resource management (RRM) is to ensure the efficient use
the available radio resources and to provide mechanisms that enable E-UTRAN to
meet radio resource related requirements identified in Chapter 10 of [4]. In
particular, RRM in E-UTRAN provides means to manage (e.g. assign, re-assign
and release) radio resources taking into account single and multi-cell
aspects.
## 11.2 Definition and description of RRM functions
### 11.2.1 Radio Bearer Control (RBC)
The establishment, maintenance and release of Radio Bearers (as defined in
[25.813]) involves the configuration of radio resources associated with them.
When setting up a radio bearer for a service, radio bearer control takes into
account the overall resource situation in E-UTRAN, the QoS requirements of in-
progress sessions and the QoS requirement for the new service. RB control is
also concerned with the maintenance of radio bearers of in-progress sessions
at the change of the radio resource situation due to mobility or other
reasons. RB control is involved in the release of radio resources associated
with RB:s at session termination, handover or at other occasions.
RBC is located in the eNodeB.
### 11.2.2 Radio Admission Control (RAC)
The task of radio admission control is to admit or reject the establishment
requests for new radio bearers. In order to do this, RAC takes into account
the overall resource situation in E.UTRAN, the QoS requirements, the priority
levels and the provided QoS of in-progress sessions and the QoS requirement of
the new RB request. The goal of RAC is to ensure high radio resource
utilization (by accepting RB requests as long as radio resources available)
and at the same time to ensure proper QoS for in-progress sessions (by
rejecting RB requests when they cannot be accommodated).
RAC is located in the eNodeB.
### 11.2.3 Connection Mobility Control (CMC)
Connection mobility control is concerned with the management of radio
resources in connection with idle or active mode mobility. In idle mode, the
cell reselection algorithms are controlled by setting of parameters
(thresholds and hysteresis values) that define the best cell and/or determine
when the UE should select a new cell. Also, E-UTRAN broadcasts parameters that
configure the UE measurement and reporting procedures. In active mode, the
mobility of radio connections has to be supported. Handover decisions may be
based on UE and eNodeB measurements. In addition, handover decisions may take
other inputs, such as neighbor cell load, traffic distribution, transport and
hardware resources and Operator defined policies into account.
CMC is located in the eNodeB.
### 11.2.4 Packet Scheduling (PSC)
The task of packet scheduling is to allocate and de-allocate resources
(including buffer and processing resources and resource blocks (_i.e.
chunks)_) to user and control plane packets. PSC involves several sub-tasks,
including the selection of RB:s whose packets are to be scheduled and managing
the necessary resources (e.g. the power levels or the specific resource blocks
used). PSC typically takes into account the QoS requirements associated with
RB:s, the channel quality information for UE:s, buffer status, interference
situation, etc.
PSC is located in the eNodeB.
### 11.2.5 Inter-cell Interference Coordination (ICIC)
Inter-cell interference coordination has the task to manage radio resources
(notably the radio resource blocks) such that inter-cell interference is kept
under control. The specific ICIC techniques that will be used in E-UTRA are
decided by RAN1.
ICIC is inherently a multi-cell RRM function that needs to take into account
information (e.g. the resource usage status and traffic load situation) from
multiple cells. The optimal placement of ICIC will also depend on the specific
ICIC technique.
### 11.2.6 Load Balancing (LB)
Load balancing has the task to handle uneven distribution of the traffic load
over multiple cells. The purpose of LB is thus to influence the load
distribution in such a manner that radio resources remain highly utilized and
the QoS of in-progress sessions are maintained to the extent possible. LB
algorithms may result in hand-over decisions with the purpose of redistribute
traffic from highly loaded cells to underutilized cells.
The placement of LB is in the eNodeB is possible.
### 11.2.7 Inter-RAT Radio Resource Management
Inter-RAT RRM is primarily concerned with the management of radio resources in
connection with inter-RAT mobility, notably inter-RAT hand-over. At inter-RAT
hand-over, the hand-over decision may take into account the involved RAT:s
resource situation as well as UE capabilities and Operator policies. The
importance of Inter-RAT RRM may depend on the specific scenario in which
E-UTRAN is deployed.
The decision to initiate the inter-RAT HO for HOs towards non-LTE access is
placed in the eNodeB.
## 11.3 RRM architecture in LTE
The RRM architecture for LTE is designed to support the RRM functions listed
in the previous clause. Therefore, the function allocation to LTE nodes
creates the basis for the architecture, including interfaces between nodes and
the protocols to be used.
**_It is assumed that a logical E-UTRAN node in addition to the eNB is not
needed for RRM purposes._**
Moreover, due to the different usage of inter-cell RRM functionalities, each
inter-cell RRM functionality should be considered separately in order to
assess whether it should be handled in a centralised manner or in a
distributed manner
The allocation of RRM functions, as indicated in the preceding Clause, in LTE
is as follows:
**eNodeB:**
\- Radio Bearer Control
\- Radio Admission Control
\- Connection Mobility Control
\- Packet Scheduling
\- Load Balancing
\- The decision to initiate the inter-RAT HO for HOs towards non-LTE access is
placed in the eNodeB.
**_Inter-cell Interference Coordination can, depending on outcome of further
more detailed studies, be decided to be realized as anything from an
implementation specific matter (e.g. more static schemes -- like \"planning\")
to completely distributed schemes operating on fully specified interfaces.
Factors to weight into such decision can be for example expected performance
gain, required update frequency, and expected implementation accuracy._**
## 11.4 Support of load sharing and policy management across different Radio
Access Technologies (RATs)
The E-UTRAN architecture will support load sharing across RATs.
# 12 System and terminal complexity
## 12.1 Over all system complexity
A key requirement of E-UTRAN is to maintain the complexity at a reasonable
level. Although no firm analysis on the final complexity has been performed,
in this respect the following decisions have been taken:
Decreased complexity:
\- The number of transport channels is reduced compared to UTRAN, by making
use of shared channels and not supporting dedicated transport channels.
\- The number of different MAC entities is reduced compared to UTRAN (e.g.
MAC-d not needed in the absence of dedicated transport channels).
\- The BMC layer and the CTCH of UTRAN are not needed in E-UTRAN, i.e. all
data broadcast is on MBMS and on e.g. MTCH.
\- There is no inter-eNB SHO in the downlink and in the uplink (as currently
supported for Rel-6 dedicated channels in UTRAN) for the shared channel, in
case of unicast transmissions.
\- Compressed mode as defined for UTRAN is not supported. If some
transmission/reception gaps for measurement purpose have to be provided to the
UE, this will be based on scheduling gaps.
\- RRC is simplified by e.g. reducing the number of RRC states compared to
UTRAN (e.g. removal of UTRAN CELL_FACH is agreed).
Increased complexity:
\- Minimum UE bandwidth capability is smaller than largest cell bandwidths.
\- RAN1 assumes SFN operation for efficient broadcast which requires
synchronised network operation.
## 12.2 Physical layer complexity
Overall, no issue has been raised that would indicate that physical layer
complexity would be unacceptably high and it can thus be concluded that E-UTRA
implementation is feasible from a physical layer perspective.
The E-UTRA system will provide significantly higher data rates than Release 6
WCDMA and, as a consequence hereof, the physical layer complexity will
increase accordingly compared to lower-rate systems. The increase in data rate
is achieved through higher transmission bandwidth and/or support for MIMO and
will have complexity impacts such as:
\- higher channel decoding capacity
\- larger soft buffer sizes for HARQ processing.
This complexity is not seen as E-UTRA specific, but is similar to the
complexity experienced in any high data rate system.
One of the advantages of an OFDM/SC-FDMA based system is that it allows for
implementation of a lower complexity receiver at wider bandwidths. Another
advantage is the possibility of operating MBMS in a single frequency network
manner where significant performance gains can be achieved with no additional
complexity increase in the UE receiver (see clause 12.3).
E-UTRA will support multiple bandwidth options ranging from 1.25 to 20 MHz and
both FDD and TDD modes. The variable bandwidth options has a complexity
impact, however with proper channel structures, e.g., designing control
channels such that decoding is invariant to the transmission bandwidth,
limited additional complexity due to the multiple bandwidths has been
identified. Support for both FDD and TDD modes is not expected to have major
complexity impact provided that maximum commonality between the two modes is
maintained.
Based on what was seen as acceptable increase in complexity, it has been
decided that all UEs shall have a reception- and transmission-bandwidth
capability of at least 10 MHz. Limiting the bandwidth to 10 MHz creates
challenges in mobility measurements when 10 MHz UEs are receiving data from
cells with 20 MHz operating bandwidth, but these problems are solvable with a
limited complexity impact.
To the extent possible, the design of E-UTRA has been done with the aim of
reducing the number of unnecessary options in order to simplify implementation
and testing.
## 12.3 UE complexity
With the progress of technology over time, some of the complexity restrictions
may no longer apply, and allow reconsideration regarding addition of
functionalities currently considered to be too complex, as well as
functionalities currently not considered, in a later Release of the
specification. However, if new functionalities are considered in the future,
incremental gains that these additions could provide should also be evaluated.
The document [9] introduced and proposed the following set of resource
aggregation options for E-UTRA.
\- Resource aggregation type 1 - over adjacent channels in the same band with
same content
\- Resource aggregation type 2 - over separated channels in the same band with
same content
\- Resource aggregation type 3 - over separated channels in different bands
with same content
\- Resource aggregation type 4 - DL broadcast channel and bidirectional
channel in the same band
\- Resource aggregation type 5 -- DL broadcast channel and bidirectional
channel in the different bands
RAN4 has analysed the feasibility and necessity of these different resource
aggregation options.
It was recognised in [9] that there may be benefits of having aggregation for
different kinds of spectrum allocations for the operators. However, it was
also considered in a RAN4 document* that E-UTRA complexity compared to UTRA is
already increased due to e.g. scalable bandwidths. It is also pointed out in
the RAN4 document* that the uplink and downlink parts of each type of resource
aggregation have different implementation impacts and should be considered
separately. The position of different aggregated carriers affects RF
implementation and related complexity. However, as discussed in the RAN4
document* from an RF implementation point-of-view, it does not matter for the
downlink whether two aggregated resources support unicast data, broadcast data
or any combination of these two.
Resource aggregation types 1-3 have been discussed and analysed in several
RAN4 documents*.
**Type1:** It was considered in a RAN4 document* that instead of using
resource aggregation a wider bandwidth carrier on a contiguous spectrum
allocation would offer lower complexity and better performance allowed by
advanced network algorithms like frequency domain scheduling. The presented
simulation results in a RAN4 document* indicated that the transmission of
multiple SC-FDMA channels is significantly more inefficient from the PA
perspective than the transmission of one wider bandwidth channel because
PAR/CM levels would be higher for the transmission of multiple bandwidth
channels meaning that at least in the uplink it is likely that there would be
further specification impacts in terms of complexity of the RAN4 ACLR/emission
requirements.
**Type2:** As stated in a RAN4 document* it is seen to be more efficient to
improve the performance of data reception on one operating bandwidth rather
than increasing UE complexity for supporting resource aggregation of the same
content on more than one bandwidth. As for the type 1 also in this case at
least in the uplink there would be further specification impacts in terms of
complexity of the RAN4 ACLR/emission requirements. There are also impacts to
theNB scheduler design and corresponding signalling.
**Type3:** With the resource aggregation of the same content over different
band, in addition to UE complexity issues network planning issues ( i.e. cell
borders and sites being at different locations) were considered more
challenging in RAN4 document*, which would lead to more complicated RRM and
network signalling. There are also UL specification impacts and issues in
terms of spurious emissions requirements.
**[Conclusions on resource aggregation with same content]{.underline}**
Based on the findings of several RAN4 documents* and RAN4 discussions, it is
proposed to avoid resource aggregation for the same content (types 1, 2, and
3). The concerns raised in [9] are addressed as the minimum UE UL and DL
bandwidth capabilities are agreed to be 10 MHz. Additionally terminals will
support all bandwidth options within its bandwidth capability. Hence, this
should give operators some flexibility in terms of channel arrangements.
**Type 4 &5:** The MBMS targets for the E-UTRA system in [4] indicate that
some level of resource aggregation is probably needed for providing unicast
and MBMS services simultaneously due to a requirement for a possibility to
deploy MBMS on separate carrier. Both Type 4 and Type 5 are considered
feasible. Complexity level depends on frequency separation.
**[Conclusions on resource aggregation with bi-directional and broadcast
channels]{.underline}**
Based on the MBMS requirements in [4]and the recommendations on the resource
aggregation of bi-directional and broadcast channels in several RAN4
documents*, it is proposed that the resource aggregation of bi-directional and
broadcast channels is considered further when developing the E-UTRA
specifications in the work item phase.
**UE complexity issues related to the UE maximum output power**
A RAN4 document* considered UE complexity issues related to the UE maximum
output power. The document concluded that it should be possible to reuse the
rel-6 PA in order **to allow for a single PA implementation for multi-mode
(E-UTRA, UTRA) and multi-band terminals and that the E-UTRA UE power class
should be a subset of the current UTRA Rel-6 power classes.**
**Conclusions on UE output power**
**It is proposed to consider the outcome of RAN1 analyses on coverage and cell
edge performance before concluding the UE maximum output power requirements.**
Note: *See clause 5.3 in ‎[8]
# 13 Performance assessments
## 13.1 Peak data rate
The estimated peak rates deemed feasible with E-UTRA are summarized in table
13.1 and table 13.2 for FDD and TDD. For both uplink and downlink, it was
found that achieving and even exceeding the peak rate requirements outlined in
[4] is feasible. This is based on a preliminary layer 1 and layer 2 control
overhead as well as realistic assumptions on the highest modulation order
which can be used in the most favorable WAN environments.
Table 13.1: DL Peak rates for E-UTRA FDD/TDD (frame structure type 1)
+-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | | Downlink | | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | Assumptions | 64 QAM, R=1 | | | | | | | | Signal overhead for reference signals and | | | | control channel occupying one OFDM symbol | | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | Unit | Mbps in 20 MHz | b/s/Hz | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | Requirement | 100 | 5.0 | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | 2x2 MIMO | **172.8** | 8.6 | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | 4x4 MIMO | **326.4** | 16.3 | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+
**Table 13.1a: UL Peak rates for E-UTRA FDD/TDD frame structure type 1**
+-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | | Uplink | | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | Assumptions | Single TX UE, R=1 | | | | | | | | Signal overhead for reference signals and | | | | control channel occupying 2RB | | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | Unit | Mbps in 20 MHz | b/s/Hz | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | Requirement | 50 | 2.5 | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | 16QAM | 57.6 | 2.9 | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+ | 64QAM | 86.4 | 4.3 | +-------------+---------------------------------------------+--------+
Table 13.2: Peak rates for E-UTRA TDD (TDD frame structure type 2)
+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | | Downlink | Uplink | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | Assumptions | 64 QAM, R=1 | Single TX | | | | | | UE, 64 QAM, | | | | | frame | R=1 | | | | | structure | | | | | | type 2 | frame | | | | | | structure | | | | | | type 2 | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | Unit | Mbps in 20 | b/s/Hz | Mbps in 20 | b/s/Hz | | | MHz | | MHz | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | Requirement | 100 | 5.0 | 50 | 2.5 | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | 2x2 MIMO in | 142 | 7.1 | 62.7 | 3.1 | | DL | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+ | 4x4 MIMO in | 270 | 13.5 | | | | DL | | | | | +--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------+
## 13.2 C-plane latency
Figure 13.1 provides an example C-plane flow for the LTE_IDLE to LTE_ACTIVE
transition in LTE/SAE and is based on the procedure described in sub-clause
7.14.2 of [3].
{width="5.761111111111111in" height="3.9972222222222222in"}
Figure 13.1: C-plane activation procedure (example)
NOTE: The RRC Contention Resolution message (between steps 7 and 8) does not
contribute to the overall state transition latency and is therefore not
included in the analysis.
### 13.2.1 FDD frame structure
Tables 13.3 and 13.3a provide a timing analysis, assuming FDD frame structure,
of the flow depicted in Figure 13.1. The analysis illustrates that the
requirement for the state transition from LTE_IDLE to LTE_ACTIVE can be
achieved within the 100ms requirement.
Table 13.3: C-plane latency analysis (based on the procedure depicted in
Figure 13.1)
* * *
Step Description Duration 0 UE wakeup time Implementation dependent -- Note
included 1 Average delay due to RACH scheduling period 5ms 2 RACH Preamble 1ms
3 Preamble detection and transmission of RA response (Time between the end
RACH transmission and UE's reception of scheduling grant and timing
adjustment) 5ms 4 UE Processing Delay (decoding of scheduling grant, timing
alignment and C-RNTI assignment + L1 encoding of RRC Connection Request) 2.5ms
5 TTI for transmission of RRC Connection Request 1ms 6 HARQ Retransmission (@
30%) 0.3 *5ms 7 Processing delay in eNB (Uu --> S1-C) 4ms 8 S1-C Transfer
delay Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) 9 MME Processing Delay (including UE context
retrieval of 10ms) 15ms 10 S1-C Transfer delay Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) 11
Processing delay in eNB (S1-C --> Uu) 4ms 12 TTI for transmission of RRC
Connection Setup (+Average alignment) 1.5ms 13 HARQ Retransmission (@ 30%) 0.3
*5ms 14 Processing delay in UE 3ms 15 TTI for transmission of L3 RRC
Connection Complete 1ms 16 HARQ Retransmission (@ 30%) 0.3 *5ms **Total LTE
IDLE  ACTIVE delay (C-plane establishment)** 47.5ms + 2 * Ts1c
* * *
**Table 13.3a:** U-plane establishment latency
* * *
**Step** **Description** **Duration** LTE_IDLELTE_ACTIVE delay (C-plane
establishment) 47.5ms + 2 * Ts1c 17 TTI for UL DATA PACKET (Piggy back
scheduling information) 1ms 18 HARQ Retransmission (@ 30%) 0.3 * 5ms 19 eNB
Processing Delay (Uu --> S1-U) 1ms **U-plane establishment delay (RAN edge
node)** **51ms + 2 * Ts1c** 20 S1-U Transfer delay Ts1u (1ms -- 15ms) 21 UPE
Processing delay (including context retrieval) 10ms **U-plane establishment
delay (Serving GW)** **61ms + 2 * Ts1c + Ts1u**
* * *
Note 1: The figures included in Steps 8, 9, 10, 20 and 21 are outside the
scope of RAN WG2.
Note 2: The S1-C transfer delay is estimated to be longer than the S1-U
transfer delay, since more reliable L2 protocol stack is assumed for S1-C.
Note 3: For procedural aspects which remain to be agreed in RAN WG2, the
analysis contains preliminary assumptions.
### 13.2.2 TDD frame structure type 1
Table 13.3b provides a timing analysis, assuming TDD frame structure 1 with
different frame formats as shown in Figure 13.1a. The analysis illustrates
that the requirement for the state transition from LTE_IDLE to LTE_ACTIVE can
be achieved within the 100ms requirement.
{width="4.25in" height="1.9909722222222221in"}
**Figure 13.1a: TDD frame formats**
**Table 13.3b: C-plane latency analysis for TDD frame structure 1 (based on
the procedure depicted in Figure 13.1**)
* * *
**Step** **Description** **4-Dl/1-UL** **3-DL/2-UL** **2-DL/3-UL**
**1-DL/4-UL** 0 UE wakeup time Implementation dependent -- Not included  
1 Average delay due to RACH scheduling period 5ms 5ms 5ms 5ms 2 RACH Preamble
1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 3 Preamble detection and transmission of RA response (Time
between the end RACH transmission and UE's reception of scheduling grant and
timing adjustment) 6ms 6ms 6ms 6ms 4 UE Processing Delay (decoding of
scheduling grant, timing alignment and C-RNTI assignment + L1 encoding of RRC
Connection Request ) 3ms 3ms 3ms 3ms 5 TTI for transmission of RRC Connection
Request 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 6 HARQ Retransmission (@ 30%) 0.3*5ms 0.3*4.5ms
0.3*4.33ms 0.3 * 5.75ms 7 Processing delay in eNB (Uu --> S1-C) 4ms 4ms 4ms
4ms 8 S1-C Transfer delay Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) Ts1c (2ms --
15ms) Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) 9 MME Processing Delay (including UE context
retrieval of 10ms) 15ms 15ms 15ms 15ms 10 S1-C Transfer delay Ts1c (2ms --
15ms) Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) 11 Processing
delay in eNB (S1-C --> Uu) 4ms 4ms 4ms 4ms 12 TTI for transmission of RRC
Connection Setup (+Average alignment) 1.7ms 2.1ms 2.7ms 3.5ms 13 HARQ
Retransmission (@ 30%) 0.3*5.75ms 0.3*4.33ms 0.3*4.5ms 0.3 *5ms 14 Processing
delay in UE 3ms 3ms 3ms 3ms 15 TTI for transmission of L3 RRC Connection
Complete (+Average alignment) 3.5ms 2.7ms 2.1ms 1.7ms 16 HARQ Retransmission
(@ 30%) 0.3*5ms 0.3*4.5ms 0.3*4.33ms 0.3 * 5.75ms **Total LTE_IDLELTE_ACTIVE
delay (C-plane establishment)** **51.925 + 2*Ts1c** **50.799 + 2*Ts1c**
**50.748 + 2*Ts1c** **52.15 + 2*Ts1c**
* * *
**Table 13.3c:** U-plane establishment latency
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Step** | **Descr |** 4-D | **3-D |** 2-D | **1-D | | | iption** | L/1-UL**| L/2-UL** | L/3-UL**| L/4-UL** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | LTE_ | 51.925 + | 50.799 + | 50.748 + | 52.15 + | | | IDLELTE | 2*Ts1c | 2*Ts1c | 2*Ts1c | 2*Ts1c | | | _ACTIVE | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | (C-plane | | | | | | | establ | | | | | | | ishment) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 17 | TTI for | 3.5ms | 2.7ms | 2.1ms | 1.7ms | | | UL data | | | | | | | packet + | | | | | | | average | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | lignment | | | | | | | (Piggy | | | | | | | back | | | | | | | sc | | | | | | | heduling | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | rmation) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 18 | HARQ | 0.3*5ms | 0. | 0.3 | 0.3 * | | | Retran | | 3*4.5ms | *4.33ms | 5.75ms | | | smission | | | | | | | (@ 30%) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 19 | eNB | 1ms | 1ms | 1ms | 1ms | | | Pr | | | | | | | ocessing | | | | | | | Delay | | | | | | | (Uu --> | | | | | | | S1-U) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | * | ** | ** | ** | ** | | | _U-plane | 57.925_ _| 55.849_ _| 54.148_ _| 56.575_ _| | | estab | | | | | | | lishment |__\+ |__\+ |__\+ |__\+ | | | delay | 2 | 2 | 2 | 2 | | | (RAN | *Ts1c_ _| *Ts1c_ _| *Ts1c_ _| *Ts1c_ _| | | edge | | | | | | | node)__| | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 20 | S1-U | Ts1u | Ts1u | Ts1u | Ts1u | | | Transfer | (1ms -- | (1ms -- | (1ms -- | (1ms -- | | | delay | 15ms) | 15ms) | 15ms) | 15ms) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 21 | UPE | 10ms | 10ms | 10ms | 10ms | | | Pr | | | | | | | ocessing | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | (i | | | | | | | ncluding | | | | | | | context | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | trieval) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | * | ** | ** | ** | ** | | |_ U-plane | 67.925**| 65.849** | 64.148**| 66.575** | | | estab | | | | | | | lishment | **\+ |** \+ | **\+ |** \+ | | | delay | 2*Ts1c | 2*Ts1c | 2*Ts1c | 2*Ts1c | | | (Serving | + Ts1u**| + Ts1u** | + Ts1u**| + Ts1u** | | | GW)** | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### 13.2.3 TDD frame structure type 2
The C-plane establishment latency analysis for TDD frame structure 2 is
summarised in table13.3d.
**Table 13.3d:** C-plane establishment latency analysis (based on the
procedure depicted in Figure 13.1)
* * *
**Step** **Description** **Duration** 0 UE wakeup time Implementation
dependent -- Not included 1 Average delay due to RACH scheduling period 2.5ms
2 RACH Preamble 0.95ms 3 Preamble detection and transmission of RA response
(Time between the end RACH transmission and UE's reception of scheduling grant
and timing adjustment) 7.025ms 4 UE Processing Delay (decoding of scheduling
grant, timing alignment and C-RNTI assignment + L1 encoding of RRC Connection
Request) 2.3ms 5 TTI for transmission of RRC Connection Request 0.675ms 6 HARQ
Retransmission (@ 30%) 0.3 * 5ms 7 Processing delay in eNB (Uu --> S1-C) 4ms 8
S1-C Transfer delay Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) 9 MME Processing Delay (including UE
context retrieval of 10ms) 15ms 10 S1-C Transfer delay Ts1c (2ms -- 15ms) 11
Processing delay in eNB (S1-C --> Uu) 4ms 12 TTI for transmission of RRC
Connection Setup (+Average alignment) 2.163ms 13 HARQ Retransmission (@ 30%)
0.3 * 5ms 14 Processing delay in UE 2.975ms 15 TTI for transmission of L3 RRC
Connection Complete 0.675ms 16 HARQ Retransmission (@ 30%) 0.3 * 5ms **Total
LTE_IDLELTE_ACTIVE delay (C-plane establishment)** **46.763ms + 2 * Ts1c**
* * *
For TDD frame structure type 2, U-plane establishment delay data was not
available at the time of writing.
## 13.3 U-plane latency
The requirement on U-plane latency in clause 6.2.2 of TR 25.913 [4] reads as
follows:
\"_**U-Plane Delay Definition** \-- U-plane delay is defined in terms of the
one-way transit time between a packet being available at the IP layer in
either the UE/RAN edge node and the availability of this packet at IP layer in
the RAN edge node/UE. The RAN edge node is the node providing the RAN
interface towards the core network._
_Specifications shall enable an E-UTRA U-plane latency of less than 5 ms in
unload condition (i.e. single user with single data stream) for small IP
packet, e.g. 0 byte payload + IP headers E-UTRAN bandwidth mode may impact the
experienced latency_
_Note: This requirement, more specifically the exact definition of latency,
may be revisited and further clarified once there is a 3GPP system end-to-end
requirement agreed and the overall system architecture is settled, including
the RAN and core network functional split. This means that the network
entities between which the U-plane latency requirement of E-UTRA and E-UTRAN
applies, will finally be defined at a later stage._ \"
With PDCP terminated in the eNB, it is understood that the RAN edge node is
the eNB . The U-plane assessment assumes, in accordance with the requirement,
unload conditions where scheduling delays are negligible. Further, it is
assumed that a valid scheduling grant is available; i.e. no random access
procedure needs to be performed.
### 13.3.1 FDD frame structure
The LTE U-plane delay consists of node processing delays, TTI duration, and
radio frame alignment. The delay components are summarised in Figure 13.2.
{width="3.9993055555555554in" height="3.051388888888889in"}
Figure 13.2: U-plane latency components in LTE
Based on the assumptions above, the LTE U-plane latency can be written:
D~UP~ [ms] = 1 + 1.5 + 1+ n*5 = 3.5 + n*5,
where n is the number of HARQ re-transmissions. In typical cases there would
be 0 or 1 re-transmissions yielding an approximate average U-plane latency of
D~UP,typical~ [ms] = 3.5 + p*5,
where p is the error probability of the first HARQ transmission. Hence the
U-plane latency is a function of the HARQ operating point. Table 13.4 shows
the U-plane latency when HARQ is operated at an initial transmission error
probability of 0.0 and 0.3, respectively.
Table 13.4: U-plane latency analysis (estimated average)
* * *
Step Description Value (0% HARQ) Value (30% HARQ) 0 UE wakeup time
Implementation dependent -- Not included Implementation dependent -- Not
included 1 UE Processing Delay 1ms 1ms 2 Frame Alignment 0.5ms 0.5ms 3 TTI for
UL DATA PACKET (Piggy back scheduling information) 1 ms 1 ms 4 HARQ
Retransmission 0 ms 0.3*5ms 5 eNB Processing Delay (Uu --> S1-U) 1ms 1ms
**Total one way delay** **3.5ms** **5ms**
* * *
Note: While table 13.4 illustrates the U-plane latency for the UL, the
indicated latencies, although applied in a different order, should be
understood as representative also for the DL.
For FDD frame structure, it is concluded that for a typical case with an
initial HARQ error rate of 0.0 and 0.3, total average U-plane latencies of
3.5ms and 5.0ms, respectively, can be achieved.
### 13.3.2 TDD frame structure type 1
The LTE U-plane delay consists of node processing delays, TTI duration, radio
frame alignment and S1-U delay. The delay components are summarised in Figure
13.2a for TDD.
{width="4.003472222222222in" height="4.627777777777778in"}
**Figure 13.2a: U-plane latency components in TDD**
Where
> Th~dl~: average HARQ RTT in downlink
>
> Tf~dl~: average frame alignment delay in downlink
>
> Th~ul~: average HARQ RTT in uplink
>
> Tf~ul~: average frame alignment delay in uplink
Based on the assumptions above, the LTE U-plane latency can be written:
D~UP~ [ms] = 1 + 1+Tf + 1+ n*Th
where Tf is the frame alignment delay, Th is the HARQ RTT and n is the number
of HARQ re-transmissions. As indicated above, Tf and Th can be different for
ulink and downlink. In typical cases there would be 0 or 1 re-transmissions
yielding an approximate average U-plane latency of
D~UP,typical~ [ms] = 3+ Tf + p*Th,
where p is the error probability of the first HARQ transmission. Hence the
U-plane latency is a function of the HARQ operating point. Tables 13.4a and
13.4b show the U-plane latency in downlink and uplink, respectively, for
different TDD frame formats when no HARQ retransmission is assumed for the
first transmission.
**Table 13.4a: U-plane latency** analysis with 0% HARQ (estimated average in
downlink)
* * *
**Step** **Description** **4-DL/1-UL** **3-Dl/2-UL** **2-DL/3-UL**
**1-Dl/4-UL** 0 UE wakeup time Implementation dependent -- Not included  
1 UE Processing Delay 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 2 Frame Alignment 0.7ms 1.1ms 1.7ms
2.5ms 3 TTI for UL DATA PACKET (Piggy back scheduling information) 1ms 1ms 1ms
1ms 4 HARQ Retransmission 0ms 0ms 0ms 0ms 5 eNB Processing Delay (Uu --> S1-U)
1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms **Total one way delay** **3.7ms** **4.1ms** **4.7ms**
**5.5ms**
* * *
**Table 13.4b: U-plane latency** analysis with 0% HARQ (estimated average in
uplink)
* * *
**Step** **Description** **4-DL/1-UL** **3-DL/2-UL** **2-DL/3-UL**
**1-DL/4-UL** 0 UE wakeup time Implementation dependent -- Not included  
1 UE Processing Delay 1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms 2 Frame Alignment 2.5ms 1.7ms 1.1ms
0.7ms 3 TTI for UL DATA PACKET (Piggy back scheduling information) 1ms 1ms 1ms
1ms 4 HARQ Retransmission 0ms 0ms 0ms 0ms 5 eNB Processing Delay (Uu --> S1-U)
1ms 1ms 1ms 1ms **Total one way delay** **5.5ms** **4.7ms** **4.1ms**
**3.7ms**
* * *
Analysis shows that the 5ms U-plane latency requirement may be simultaneously
satisfied in TDD for both uplink and downlink using the 2-DL/3-UL and
3-DL/2-UL framing structures with no re-transmission assumed for the first
transmission.
### 13.3.3 TDD frame structure type 2
Tables 13.4c and 13.4d show the U-plane latency in downlink and uplink,
respectively, for a 4-DL/3-UL configuration of TDD frame structure 2.
**Table 13.4c: U-plane latency** analysis (estimated average in downlink)
* * *
**Step** **Description** **Value (0% HARQ)** **Value (30% HARQ)** 0 UE wakeup
time Implementation dependent -- Not included Implementation dependent -- Not
included 1 eNB Processing Delay (S1-U->Uu) 1ms 1ms 2 Frame Alignment 1.022ms
1.022ms 3 TTI for DL DATA PACKET 0.675ms 0.675ms 4 HARQ Retransmission 0ms
0.3*5ms 5 UE Processing Delay 1ms 1ms **Total one way delay** **3.697ms**
**5.197ms**
* * *
**Table 13.4d: U-plane latency** analysis (estimated average in uplink)
* * *
**Step** **Description** **Value (0% HARQ)** **Value (30% HARQ)** 0 UE wakeup
time Implementation dependent -- Not included Implementation dependent -- Not
included 1 UE Processing Delay 1ms 1ms 2 Frame Alignment 1.423ms 1.423ms 3 TTI
for UL DATA PACKET (Piggy back scheduling information) 0.675ms 0.675ms 4 HARQ
Retransmission 0ms 0.3*5ms 5 eNB Processing Delay (Uu --> S1-U) 1ms 1ms
**Total one way delay** **4.098ms** **5.598ms**
* * *
In TDD frame structure type 2, the requirements on U-plane delay can be
reached.
## 13.4 User throughput
### 13.4.1 Fulfilment of uplink user-throughput targets
#### 13.4.1.1 Initial performance evaluation
According to [4], the agreed target for the LTE radio-access concept in terms
of average and cell-edge user throughput are 2-3 times gain compared to the
baseline configuration.
Multiple evaluations that directly evaluate the uplink system performance of
the LTE concept vs. the baseline configuration have been carried out. The
evaluations have been carried out by different sources/companies and for
different scenarios, something that provides a certain degree of diversity in
the evaluation results.
In terms of average user throughput, the results indicate gains vs. the
baseline configuration also ranging from around 2 times to above 3 times.
In terms of cell-edge user throughput, the results indicate gains vs. the
baseline configuration ranging from around 2 times to, in some cases, well
above 3 times.
It should be pointed out that some proposed and considered LTE features, such
as the possibility for a variable TTI for overhead/delay optimization and
different schemes for interference mitigation, have not been included in all
of the evaluations. Thus there is a potential for further LTE uplink
performance enhancements.
Based on this, one can conclude that the LTE SC-FDMA-based uplink as currently
defined includes the features needed to fulfil the agreed targets on uplink
user throughput.
#### 13.4.1.2 UL user throughput performance evaluation
According to evaluation metric and assumption in [10], multiple evaluations
that directly evaluate the uplink system performance of the LTE concept vs.
the baseline configuration have been carried out. Efforts have been made to
use realistic physical and link layer model. Further, fairness and coverage
aspects are controlled through not only measuring average performance, but
also cell-edge performance. The evaluations have been carried out by different
sources/companies and for different scenarios. For both the baseline UTRA and
E-UTRA results, the average cell throughput figures match well between
companies. Summaries of the results for simulation cases 1 and 3 are presented
in Table 13.4e and Table 13.4f, respectively. The figures for each system
concept and metric have been obtained by averaging the results presented in
the individual input papers. It can be seen that the requirements given in [4]
are met, i.e. 2-3 times improvement in cell user throughputs.
Table 13.4e: UL user throughput performance for Case 1(500m ISD)
* * *
**Case 1** **Mean User Throughput** **Cell-Edge User Throughput** x UTRA x
UTRA **UTRA baseline** **x1.0** **x1.0** **E-UTRA 1x2** **x2.2** **x2.5**
**E-UTRA 1x4** **x3.3** **x5.5** **E-UTRA 2x2 SU-MIMO** **x2.3** **x1.1**
* * *
Table 13.4f: UL user throughput performance for Case 3(1732m ISD)
* * *
**Case 3** **Mean User Throughput** **Cell-Edge User Throughput** x UTRA x
UTRA **UTRA baseline** **x1.0** **x1.0** **E-UTRA 1x2** **x2.2** **x2.0**
**E-UTRA 1x4** **x3.3** **x4.2**
* * *
### 13.4.2 Fulfilment of downlink user-throughput targets
#### 13.4.2.0 Initial performance evaluation
According to [4], the agreed targets for the LTE radio-access concept in terms
of average and cell-edge user throughput are 3-4 times gain and 2-3 times gain
vs. the baseline configuration defined in [4], respectively.
Multiple evaluations that directly evaluate the downlink system performance of
the LTE concept vs. the baseline configuration have been carried out. The
evaluations have been carried out by different sources/companies and for
different scenarios, something that provides a certain degree of diversity in
the evaluation results.
Evaluations have been carried out both assuming that MIMO is used in case of
LTE evaluation(s) and that MIMO is not used in case of the LTE evaluation(s).
As expected, including MIMO in the evaluations provide higher LTE system
performance. It should be pointed out that including MIMO for LTE _is_ inline
with the agreed assumptions in [4].
\- All evaluations indicate that the LTE concept fulfils the agreed target for
cell-edge throughput, assuming a lower-speed (3 km/h) scenario.
\- In terms of average user throughput, the evaluation indicate that the LTE
concept fulfils or is very close (within 10%) to the agreed target.
Based on these evaluations one cannot directly conclude that the LTE concept
fulfils the LTE downlink user-throughput targets. However, these evaluations
do not include all the features that are suggested to be part of the LTE
radio-access concept, most notably different schemes for more advanced
interference mitigation (e.g. interference coordination and/or cancellation)
and variable TTI for overhead/delay optimization. Adding the potential gains
of this to the above summarized gains would indicate that the LTE downlink
radio-access concept can fulfil the agreed user-throughput targets.
More information can be found in clause 8 of [2].
#### 13.4.2.1 Fulfilment of downlink user-throughput targets by enhancement
techniques
Multiple evaluations that directly evaluate the gains of downlink system
performance of the LTE concept with enhancement techniques have been carried
out. Specifically, the enhancement techniques are longer TTI, static
interference coordination, interference cancellation adaptive antenna schemes
and semi-static interference coordination. The evaluations have been carried
out by different sources/companies and for different scenarios, something that
provides a certain degree of diversity in the evaluation results. Each
technique can improve both average user throughput and 5%-tile user throughput
performance by at least 10%.
Without performing simulations including, at same time, all these techniques,
it is somewhat difficult to conclude on exact cumulative gain figures for all
the techniques. However it is likely that with these techniques included in
LTE specification and implementation, at least 3.5x gain in sector spectral
efficiency together with at least 3x gain in 5%-tile user throughput can be
achieved. There is the potential, considering some of the simulation results,
that even higher gains could be achieved.
Note that these gains can be achieved simultaneously with corresponding gains
in spectral efficiency (system throughput), see subclause 13.5.2.1.
More information can be found in clause 8 of [2].
##### 13.4.2.1.1 Performance Enhancement by Additional Transmit Antennas: 4
Transmit Antennas
Multiple evaluations that directly evaluate the gains of downlink system
performance of the LTE concept with additional TX and RX antennas (up to four
antennas) have been carried out. The evaluations have been carried out by
different sources/companies and for different scenarios, something that
provides a certain degree of diversity in the evaluation results.
\- Additional gain of 4x2 antenna vs. 2x2 antenna LTE is more than 10%.
\- Additional gain of 4x4 antenna vs. 2x2 antenna LTE is more than 60%.
Based on these evaluations, one can draw the conclusion that additional
antennas can improve both average and 5%-tile downlink user throughput
significantly
More information can be found in clause 8 of [2].
#### 13.4.2.2 DL user throughput performance evaluation
According to evaluation metric and assumption in [10], multiple evaluations
that directly evaluate the downlink system performance of the LTE concept vs.
the baseline configuration have been carried out. Efforts have been made to
use realistic physical and link layer model. Further, fairness and coverage
aspects are controlled through not only measuring average performance, but
also cell-edge performance. The evaluations have been carried out by different
sources/companies and for different scenarios, something that provides a
certain degree of diversity in the evaluation results. Summaries of the
results for simulation cases 1 and 3 are presented in Table 13.4g and 13.4h
respectively. For E-UTRA, results are presented both for the 2x2 (Ntx x Nrx
antennas) reference configuration, as well as for the enhanced 4x2 and 4x4
configurations. The figures for each system concept and metric have been
obtained by averaging the results presented in the individual input papers. It
can be seen that the requirements given in [4] are met, i.e. 3-4 times
improvement in average user throughputs, and 2-3 times improvement in cell-
edge user throughput
Table 13.4g: DL user throughput performance for Case 1 (500m ISD).
* * *
**Case 1** **Mean User Throughput** **Cell-Edge User Throughput** x UTRA x
UTRA **UTRA baseline 1x2** **x1,0** **x1,0** **E-UTRA 2x2 SU-MIMO** **x3,2**
**x2,7** **E-UTRA 4x2 SU-MIMO** **x3,5** **x3,0** **E-UTRA 4x4 SU-MIMO**
**x5,0** **x4,4**
* * *
Table 13.4h: DL user throughput performance for Case 3 (1732m ISD).
* * *
**Case 3** **Mean User Throughput** **Cell-Edge User Throughput** x UTRA x
UTRA **UTRA baseline 1x2** **x1,0** **x1,0** **E-UTRA 2x2 SU-MIMO** **x3,0**
**x2,3** **E-UTRA 4x2 SU-MIMO** **x3,6** **x2,8** **E-UTRA 4x4 SU-MIMO**
**x4,6** **x4,8**
* * *
## 13.5 Spectrum efficiency
### 13.5.1 Fulfilment of uplink spectrum-efficiency target
#### 13.5.1.1 Initial performance evaluation
According to [4], the agreed target for the LTE radio-access concept in terms
of uplink spectrum efficiency is 2-3 times gain vs. the baseline configuration
defined in [4].
Multiple evaluations that directly evaluate the uplink system performance of
the LTE concept vs. the baseline configuration have been carried out. The
evaluations have been carried out by different sources/companies and for
different scenarios, something that provides a certain degree of diversity in
the evaluation results. In terms of spectrum efficiency, the results of these
evaluations indicate gains vs. the baseline configuration ranging from around
2 times to above 3 times.
The system performance for VoIP traffic has also been evaluated, and VoIP
capacity of more than 3 times versus the baseline configuration defined in [4]
has been observed.
It should be pointed out that some proposed and considered LTE features, such
as the possibility for a variable TTI for overhead/delay optimization and
different schemes for interference mitigation, have not been included in all
of the evaluations. Thus there is a potential for further LTE uplink
performance enhancements.
Based on this, one can conclude that the LTE SC-FDMA-based uplink as defined
in clause 7.2 of this TR includes the features needed to fulfil the agreed
targets on uplink spectrum efficiency.
#### 13.5.1.2 UL spectrum efficiency performance evaluation
According to evaluation metric and assumption in [10], multiple evaluations
that directly evaluate the uplink system performance of the LTE concept vs.
the baseline configuration have been carried out. Efforts have been made to
use realistic physical and link layer model. Further, fairness and coverage
aspects are controlled through not only measuring average performance, but
also cell-edge performance. The evaluations have been carried out by different
sources/companies and for different scenarios. For both the baseline UTRA and
E-UTRA results, the spectrum efficiency figures match well between companies.
Summaries of the results for simulation cases 1 and 3 are presented in Table
13.4i. The figures for each system concept and metric have been obtained by
averaging the results presented in the individual input papers. It can be seen
that the requirements given in [4] are met, i.e. 2-3 times improvement in
spectrum efficiency
Table 13.4i: UL spectrum efficiency performance for Case1 (500m ISD) and Case
3 (1732m ISD).
* * *
                           **Case 1**        **Case 3**                     
                           \[bps/Hz/cell\]   x UTRA       \[bps/Hz/cell\]   x UTRA
**UTRA baseline** **0.332** **x1,0** **0.316** **x1.0** **E-UTRA 1x2**
**0.735** **x2.2** **0.681** **x2.2** **E-UTRA 1x4** **1.103** **x3.3**
**1.038** **x3.3** **E-TURA 2x2 SU-MIMO** **0.776** **x2.3** **-** **-**
* * *
### 13.5.2 Fulfilment of downlink spectrum-efficiency target
#### 13.5.2.0 Initial performance evaluation
According to [4], the agreed target for the LTE radio-access concept in terms
of downlink spectrum efficiency is 3-4 times gain vs. the baseline
configuration defined in [4].
Multiple evaluations that directly evaluate the downlink system performance of
the LTE concept vs. the baseline configuration have been carried out. The
evaluations have been carried out by different sources/companies and for
different scenarios, something that provides a certain degree of diversity in
the evaluation results.
Evaluations have been carried out both assuming that MIMO is used for the case
of LTE and that MIMO is not used for the case of LTE. It should be pointed out
that the use of MIMO for LTE _is_ inline with the agreed assumptions in [4].
Assuming MIMO most evaluations indicate that the LTE concept fulfils or are
within approximately 10% of the agreed spectrum-efficiency target, assuming a
lower-speed (3 km/h) scenario.
At higher UE speed (30 km/h), the performance gains are somewhat reduced which
is also inline with the mobility requirement of [4], Clause 7.3.
The system performance for VoIP traffic has also been evaluated, and VoIP
capacity of more than 3 times versus the baseline configuration defined in [4]
has been observed.
Based on these evaluations one cannot directly conclude that the LTE concept
fulfils the LTE downlink spectrum-efficiency target. However, these
evaluations do not include all the features that are suggested to be part of
the LTE radio-access concept, most notably different schemes for more advanced
interference mitigation (e.g. interference coordination and/or cancellation)
and variable TTI for overhead/delay optimization. Adding the potential gains
of this to the above summarized gains would indicate that the LTE downlink
radio-access concept can fulfil the agreed spectrum-efficiency targets.
More information can be found in clause 10 of [2].
#### 13.5.2.1 Fulfilment of downlink spectrum-efficiency targets by
enhancement techniques
Multiple evaluations that directly evaluate the gains of downlink system
performance of the LTE concept with enhancement techniques have been carried
out. Specifically, the enhancement techniques are longer TTI, static
interference coordination, interference cancellation adaptive antenna scheme
and semi-static interference coordination have been carried out. The
evaluations have been carried out by different sources/companies and for
different scenarios, something that provides a certain degree of diversity in
the evaluation results. Each technique can improve the spectrum efficiency by
at least 10% or more.
Without performing simulations including, at the same time, all these
techniques it is somewhat difficult to conclude on exact cumulative gain
figures for all the techniques. However it is likely that with these
techniques included in LTE specification and implementation at least 3.5x gain
in sector spectral efficiency can be achieved. There is the potential,
considering some of the simulation results, that even higher gains could be
achieved.
Note that these gains can be achieved simultaneously with corresponding gains
in user throughput, see subclause 13.4.2.1.
More information can be found in clause 8 of [2].
#### 13.5.2.2 DL spectrum efficiency performance evaluation
According to evaluation metric and assumption in [10], multiple evaluations
that directly evaluate the downlink system performance of the LTE concept vs.
the baseline configuration have been carried out. Efforts have been made to
use realistic physical and link layer model. Further, fairness and coverage
aspects are controlled through not only measuring average performance, but
also cell-edge performance. The evaluations have been carried out by different
sources/companies and for different scenarios, something that provides a
certain degree of diversity in the evaluation results. Summaries of the
results for simulation cases 1 and 3 are presented in Table 13.4j. For E-UTRA,
results are presented both for the 2x2 (Ntx x Nrx antennas) reference
configuration, as well as for the enhanced 4x2 and 4x4 configurations. The
figures for each system concept and metric have been obtained by averaging the
results presented in the individual input papers. It can be seen that the
requirements given in [4] are met, i.e. 3-4 times improvement in spectrum
efficiency
Table 13.4j: DL spectrum efficiency performance for Case 1 (500m ISD) and Case
3 (1732m ISD).
* * *
                           **Case 1**        **Case 3**                     
                           \[bps/Hz/cell\]   x UTRA       \[bps/Hz/cell\]   x UTRA
**UTRA baseline 1x2** **0,53** **x1,0** **0,52** **x1,0** **E-UTRA 2x2 SU-
MIMO** **1,69** **x3,2** **1,56** **x3,0** **E-UTRA 4x2 SU-MIMO** **1,87**
**x3,5** **1,85** **x3,6** **E-UTRA 4x4 SU-MIMO** **2,67** **x5,0** **2,41**
**x4,6**
* * *
## 13.6 Mobility
### 13.6.1 Features supporting various mobile velocities
The E-UTRA supports seamless mobility across the cellular network; in
RRC_CONNECTED handovers are supported with resource preparations at the target
cell, whereas in RRC_IDLE the UE performs cell reselections and updates
tracking areas. Inter-frequency mobility is also supported, hence making the
E-UTRA flexible in supporting various deployment scenarios.
The E-UTRA is capable of supporting various mobile velocities. The main
features that support efficient data transmission at various speeds are listed
below.
\- The subframe size of 0.5 ms makes the E-UTRA capable of adapting to fast
changing radio link conditions and allows exploitation of multiuser diversity.
\- The use of scheduled and diversity resource allocation in the frequency
domain allows optimisation for various speeds, i.e., the diversity resource
allocation increases frequency diversity gain at high speeds, whereas the
scheduled resource allocation increases multiuser diversity gain at low
speeds.
\- The RLC and MAC (HARQ) status can be inherited at the target cell when the
handover is intra-eNB.
\- Forwarding of the data buffered in the source eNB to the target eNB
prevents packet loss at handovers.
\- The measurements for neighbour cells are performed without compressed mode,
hence without wasting radio resources. The relevant measurements for neighbour
cells that operate on a different carrier frequency from the currently served
frequency, are performed during transmission/reception gaps provided by
DTX/DRX, or by the packet scheduler.
### 13.6.2 Assessment on U-plane interruption time during handover
{width="5.7756944444444445in" height="3.252083333333333in"}
Figure 13.3: U-Plane interruption involved in the intra-MME/UPE HO procedure
in E-UTRAN
The generic handover procedure assumed in E-UTRAN is shown in Figure 13.3,
with associated delays encountered in the procedure. In the figure four
constituents for the U-plane interruption are identified, i.e., (a) radio
layer process, (b) UL RRC signalling, (c) DL RRC signalling, and (d) path
switch. Each component is elaborated below.
\- Radio layer process (a)
This is the delay between HO command to UL resource allocation, hence
consisting of these elements:
1) Frequency synchronization: The time taken for frequency synchronisation
depends whether the target cell is operating on the same carrier frequency as
the currently served frequency or not. However, this should be very small
because the UE has already identified and measured the target cell. Thus, the
UE should have somewhat recent frequency synchronization, and the delay caused
by this element is then negligible.
2) DL synchronization: It is thought that baseband and RF alignments may take
some time. Although concrete evaluation was not performed, it was assumed that
UE has acquired DL synchronisation to the target cell in conjunction with
previous measurement and can relate the target cell DL timing to the source
cell DL timing with an offset. Hence, the delay caused by this element should
be less than 1 ms.
3) UL resource request and timing advance acquisition: This delay depends on
the procedure applied:
i) RACH procedure: Should the RACH procedure be applied, the RACH allocation
in the cell would dictate how long the UE has to wait before getting the first
opportunity to send a RACH message and the possible need for resending. This
is a fallback option for cases where non-contention based access (option ii)
below) fails or is not possible.
ii) Dedicated RACH preamble procedure: Should the RACH procedure be applied,
the RACH allocation in the cell would dictate how long the UE has to wait
before getting the first opportunity to send a RACH message and the possible
need for resending due to e.g. power ramping.
Some details as to the timing of the RA response remain to be settled.
Reasonably accurate estimates of the delay for UL resource request and timing
advance acquisition can however be provided as follow. For method i (worst
case), if no retransmission is needed, the delay consists of (1) waiting for
an access slot for the preamble, (2) transmission of the RA preamble, and (3)
waiting for the decoding of the RA response which contains timing advance
information and UL resource allocation for the HO complete message. The mean
time of (1) could be 2.5 ms (assuming two access slots in 10 ms). The duration
of (2) depends on the deployment scenario (e.g. ISD), but a common value is 1
sub-frame, i.e. 1ms. The delay (3) from the end of the preamble transmission
to having decoded the RA response is eNB implementation dependent, but 7.5ms
is considered feasible (items 3 + 4 in C-plane latency assessment). These
numbers result in a mean delay of 11 ms from the moment that the UE has
synchronized to the downlink to the moment that an UL grant has been received.
. A retransmission of the preamble adds to the delay at least one RTT or the
access slot separation, whichever is longer. A random back-off system may also
be employed, which implies that the mean delay for a retransmission is larger
than the access slot separation. Various proposals for how the initial random
waiting time can be reduced or avoided have been made, but are not considered
in this analysis.
NOTE: If SFN would be required, it can be provided either in the HO command or
by UE reading it from broadcasted System Information.
\- RRC signalling (b), (c)
The detailed relation between RRC signalling and pausing/resuming of the
U-plane is yet to be concluded.
> For contention based access (method i), this evaluation assumes that
> resuming of the U-plane is triggered by RRC signalling, i.e., the HO
> complete triggers resuming of the DL U-plane in the target eNB, whereas the
> HO complete ack triggers resuming of the UL U-plane. The delay represented
> in this component includes the time taken to encode the RRC message at the
> transmitter, the time taken to transmit the message over the radio
> interface, and the time required to process the message at the receiver. Of
> the three, the time taken to transmit over the radio interface is thought to
> be the dominant factor. This delay can be reduced by scheduling the message
> at a high priority and by using a low error rate transport format. In the
> optimal case, this delay is expected to be approximately 5 ms, but could end
> up significantly longer, e.g. 20 ms, due to HARQ/ARQ. Analogous to the
> C-plane latency assessment, we here assume a 30% HARQ retransmission, which
> with a HARQ RTT of 5 ms corresponds to an average additional delay of 1.5
> ms.
NOTE: For time critical messages such as RRC signalling at HO, 30% HARQ
retransmission is considered a pessimistic assumption.
> For non-contention based access (method ii), U-plane transmissions can
> possibly be resumed before RRC signalling is completed since the UE and its
> arrival is uniquely identified to the network by the preamble itself and
> successful access is acknowledged to the UE by the RA response. Hence, for
> non-contention based access , UP delay due to RRC signalling can be avoided
> if there is no need for eNB to receive HO COMPLETE before continuing U-plane
> transmission.
\- Forwarding delay at path switch (d)
Packets sent to the source eNB just before the switching in the GW experience
additional transport delay to the target-eNB because they are routed via the
source eNB. However this delay does not generally result in an increase of
handover interruption time if there is other data available to transmit. Worst
case is when there is only 1 packet to transmit to the UE around the handover
and this packet is just sent to the source-eNB when the GW decides to switch.
Assuming that S1 delays to source eNB and target eNB are similar, this packet
will experience an additional delay from source eNB processing and X2
transport delay. I.e., the patch switch
According to this model, the total interruption time of the U-plane in the UL
is (a) + (b) + (c), whereas the interruption in the DL is (a) + (b) or (d),
whichever is larger. Note that if forwarded packets are available in the
target eNB before path switch, the total interruption time in the DL would be
(a) + (b). The forwarding can continue even after the path switch, depending
on the amount of data that had to be forwarded and the transmission rate over
the inter-eNB interface. However, what is essential is the delay for the first
forwarded packet to arrive at the target eNB, as the target eNB can then
resume transmission as soon as the radio layer is ready, receiving the HO
complete. It is generally assumed that the forwarding delay (of the first
packet) is smaller than the radio layer delay (a) + (b).
Table 13.5: U-Plane interruption components and estimates
+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | Component | Cause | Estimate | Estimate | | | | | [ms] | [ms] | | | | | | | | | | | (contention | (cont | | | | | based) | ention-free) | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | (a) | Radio layer | - DL | 12 ± 2.5 | 12 ± 2.5 | | | process | syn | | | | | | chronization | | | | | | time, | | | | | | including | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | baseband and | | | | | | RF switching | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | | | | | - UL | | | | | | resource | | | | | | request and | | | | | | timing | | | | | | advance | | | | | | acquisition | | | | | | | | | | | | - UL | | | | | | resource | | | | | | granting | | | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | (b) | UL RRC | - RRC | 6.5 | 0 | | | signaling | message | | | | | | encoding at | | | | | | the | | | | | | transmitter | | | | | | | | | | | | - RRC | | | | | | transmission | | | | | | over the | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | | | | - RRC | | | | | | processing | | | | | | time at the | | | | | | receiver | | | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | (c) | DL RRC | - RRC | 6.5 | 0 | | | signaling | message | | | | | | encoding at | | | | | | the | | | | | | transmitter\ | | | | | | - RRC | | | | | | transmission | | | | | | over the | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | | | | - RRC | | | | | | processing | | | | | | time at the | | | | | | receiver | | | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | (d) | Forwarding | - Source | 5 | 5 | | | delay | eNB | | | | | | processing\ | | | | | | - Packet | | | | | | transmission | | | | | | over the X2 | | | | | | interface | | | +-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
Table 13.5 shows the estimated mean value for each delay component assuming an
FDD frame structure. The total average interruption time are estimated as
below:
Contention-based access:
> \- UL interruption time = 25 ms
>
> \- DL interruption time = 18.5 ms.
Contention-free access:
> \- UL interruption time = 12 ms
>
> \- DL interruption time = 12 ms.
Note that these estimates may vary depending on the detailed procedures that
are yet to be decided. Depending on how U-plane data forwarding is done
between the source and target eNBs, the U-plane interruption time seen by the
application layer may be increased due to possible duplicate transmissions of
the forwarded data from the target eNB. However, in a typical case the U-plane
interruption time is unlikely to exceed 100 ms. On the optimistic end,
interruption times below as 12 ms are possible.
The time spent between the instance when the UE decides to transmit the
measurement report and the UE receives the HO command does not contribute to
the U-plane interruption. However, this delay is also expected to be kept
within a bearable limit in order to avoid radio link loss between the UE and
eNB, and to avoid impact on capacity.
### 13.6.3 Means to minimise packet loss during handover
As a means to minimise packet loss during handover, packet forwarding from the
source eNB to the target eNB is supported using the X2 interface. When the
handover does not incur change of the serving eNB, the RLC and MAC status can
be inherited after the handover. If the handover involves change of the
serving eNB, packets that are buffered in the source eNB are forwarded to the
target eNB via the X2 interface. Hence, packet loss due to handover can be
avoided. The forwarding may take place in a service dependent and
implementation specific manner [6].
## 13.7 Coverage
The requirements on coverage as fulfilling requirements on user throughput,
spectrum efficiency and mobility cases is defined in [4]. It is also defined
in [4] that LTE operation should not be precluded even in very large cells (up
to 100 km).
**[System performance at larger cell size]{.underline}**
The simulation cases defined in [2] covers cell ISD up to 1732 m. The
fulfilment of the spectral efficiency and user throughput targets are
discussed in Clause 13.5 and 13.4 respectively. This discussion is based on a
number of diverse evaluation results submitted by a number of companies. A
sub-set of these evaluation results also include evaluation for larger cell
size up to an inter-site distance of 7500 m and a cell radius of 5000 m. These
evaluations indicates that the relative gains in LTE system performance vs.
the baseline configuration defined on TR25.912, for this larger cell ranges,
are in the same order as or only somewhat lower than the corresponding gains
for the smaller cell ranges (1732 m).
**[Operation in very large cell sizes]{.underline}**
TR25.913 [2] specifies that LTE operation should be possible with cell sizes
up to 100 km. It should be noted that [2] explicitly points out that high
performance is not expected in such extreme cases.
One function that may limit the cell size is the random-access procedure.
However, the support for very large cell size has been taken into account as
part of the random-access procedure with the support of an adjustable random-
access-burst length, see [2] clause 9.1.2.1.1.1
In case of TDD mode of operation ,an additional critical aspect is the timing
advance at the transmitter side, in order to time-align reception/transmission
at the corresponding receiver side. This is enabled by the possibility for a
variable number of idle symbols at the downlink/uplink switching point, see
[2] clause 6.2.1. In case of very large cells, a larger number of idle symbols
may be needed which may lead to a large efficiency loss in case of frequent
downlink/uplink switching points, e.g. every sub-frame. However, in very-
large-cell scenarios, very low round-trip time is of less importance and this
less frequent downlink/uplink switching points can be applied, implying less
overhead due to idle symbols. Thus, at least in this respect, also LTE TDD
supports very large cell sizes.
## 13.8 Support for point to multipoint transmission
It was found that E-UTRA point to multipoint transmission can be specified
such that the corresponding requirements outlined in [4] can be met or
exceeded.
The study confirmed the feasibility of efficiently multiplexing point to point
and point to multi-point transmissions over the same physical channel
structure thus allowing for simultaneous support of unicast and multicast
services in the UE with minimum additional receiver complexity compared to UE
supporting unicast services only. Such a structure also allows for the
operation of point to multipoint transmissions on a separate carrier when
there is a need for higher capacity as could be the case when offering mobile
TV services.
The study found that with E-UTRA it would be feasible to operate point to
multipoint transmissions as a single frequency network and benefit from energy
combining without experiencing inter-cell interference; this is feasible
provided that the cells are synchronized within a few micro seconds, that the
OFDM symbol cyclic prefix duration is long enough compared to the time
difference between the signals received from multiple cells; this also
requires that the channel structure is such that at known time instants the
exact same signal is transmitted from a cluster of neighboring cells; the UE
will then receive the signals from multiple cells as if they were transmitted
from a single cell; the interference contribution therefore only results from
thermal noise and interference from cells not in the multicast cluster or
cells which timing is significantly outside of the cyclic prefix. This mode of
operation is often referred to as single frequency network (SFN) and is used
in state of the art digital broadcast systems. E-UTRA would still allow point
to multipoint transmission within a cluster of asynchronous cells. Four cases
are identified depending on the network synchronization and content
transmission:
\- Transmission with synchronous cells
\- Cell common point to multipoint transmission
\- E-UTRA provides significant improvements over Rel-6 MBMS (see Table 13.8-1)
\- Cell specific point to multipoint transmission
\- This scenario has not been fully evaluated but no significant gain is
expected over Rel-6 MBMS.
\- Transmission with asynchronous cells
\- Cell common point to multipoint transmission
\- E-UTRA is expected to perform worse than Rel-6 MBMS with combining of
multiple cells. This assumes that for E-UTRA the UE would not support
simultaneous data reception from multiple asynchronous cells.
\- Cell specific point to multipoint transmission
\- This scenario has not been fully evaluated but no significant gain is
expected over Rel-6 MBMS.
### 13.8.1 Initial performance evaluation
Table 13.6 provides a summary of the expected spectral efficiency of
synchronized multi-cell point to multi-point transmission (i.e. SFN
operation). The actual efficiency is directly related to the C/I at the edge
of the cell and therefore highly sensitive to the maximum cell transmit power,
the propagation loss (site distance, frequency band) and the cyclic prefix
duration. The corresponding E UTRA requirements have to be clarified in order
to proceed with the selection of the proper cyclic prefix duration for point
to multipoint transmission.
Table 13.6: Spectral efficiency of SFN multicast for E-UTRA
+-----------------+-------+-----------------+-------+-----------------+ | Case | Band | Site to site | Speed | SFN Multicast | | | | distance | | | | | (MHz) | | (kph) | 1% BLER, 95% | | | | (m) | | coverage | | | | | | | | | | | | (Mbps) | +-----------------+-------+-----------------+-------+-----------------+ | 1 | 2000 | 500 | 3 | > 5.5 (1.1 | | | | | | b/s/Hz) | +-----------------+-------+-----------------+-------+-----------------+ | 2 | 2000 | 500 | 30 | > 5.5 (1.1 | | | | | | b/s/Hz) | +-----------------+-------+-----------------+-------+-----------------+ | 3 | 2000 | 1732 | 3 | \ 5.5 (1.1 | | | | | | b/s/Hz) | +-----------------+-------+-----------------+-------+-----------------+ | Note: 5 MHz | | | | | | allocation, all | | | | | | cell resource | | | | | | assigned to | | | | | | multicast | | | | | | services, | | | | | | reference | | | | | | signal overhead | | | | | | is accounted | | | | | | for, any other | | | | | | control channel | | | | | | overhead is not | | | | | | accounted for. | | | | | +-----------------+-------+-----------------+-------+-----------------+
Additional details can be found in [5] and in clauses 7.1.1.6 and 8.1.3 of
[2].
### 13.8.2 MBSFN performance evaluation
According to evaluation metric and assumption in [10], multiple evaluations
that directly evaluate the uplink system performance of the LTE concept vs.
the baseline configuration have been carried out. Efforts have been made to
use realistic physical and link layer model. Further, fairness and coverage
aspects are controlled through not only measuring average performance, but
also cell-edge performance. The evaluations have been carried out by different
sources/companies and for different scenarios. For both the baseline UTRA and
E-UTRA results, the spectrum efficiency figures match well between companies.
Summaries of the results for simulation cases 1 - 4 are presented in Table
13.7. The figures for each system concept and metric have been obtained by
averaging the results presented in the individual input papers.
**Table 13.7. Summary of MBSFN performance**
* * *
Deployment Spectrum Efficiency\ Inter-site Distance @ 1bps/Hz\ [bps/Hz] [m]
Case 1 **3.13** **1619**
Case 2 **3.02** **2310**
Case 3 **0.99** **1619**
Case 4 **3.18** **4375**
* * *
## 13.9 Network synchronisation
The E-UTRAN design principle has been the use of an asynchronous network in
case of FDD operation, i.e. in general case, tight inter-cell synchronisation
is not required to provide good system performance and synchronisation is not
assumed in any basic procedures like cell search, though some of the proposed
methods for inter-cell interference mitigation assume synchronisation.
However, for the special case of providing multi-cell MBMS/Broadcast service
there is a clear gain with tight inter-cell synchronization as this allows for
an efficient and low-complexity combining of multiple cells. In the case of
allocation of a separate carrier for MBMS, fewer sites can be used for MBMS
and only those sites that are part of MBMS SFN need to be synchronised.
Furthermore, in case of TDD mode of operation, the network is expected to be
deployed with tight inter-cell synchronization, similar to the UTRAN TDD mode
of operation in order to avoid UE to UE (and eNB to eNB) interference. In this
case the timing requirements might not be as tight as with the MBMS multi-cell
reception, with the details depending on solutions derived.
In the uplink direction timing advance is assumed to be used, thus effectively
synchronising the signals received from the terminals inside one cell as
observed at the eNB. This allows to make use of a TDMA/FDMA component in
uplink for resource division (without excessive \"guard intervals\" between
different transmissions).The exact requirements for this synchronisation would
be related to the physical layer parameterisation, mainly the duration of the
cyclic prefix in the uplink direction.
The synchronisation methods for consideration are external timing sources
like, e.g. satellite based timing source (GNSS) or then one could consider
various methods, especially with TDD, of \"self synchronisation\" similar to
the methods that have been discussed in 3GPP during UTRAN TDD development.
Synchronisation techniques could also use the observation of neighbour cell
signals by UEs. More studies are required for the assessment of
synchronisation techniques.
The handover in E-UTRAN is a hard handover and has not been identified to be
causing any additional requirements to the timing synchronisation between
sites. Frequency synchronisation is helpful though to avoid drifting of
relative timings and ease neighbour cell acquisition. This does however not
necessarily require any explicit synchronisation but is implicitly provided by
a good eNB frequency stability as already used e.g. in GSM or UMTS.
## 13.10 Co-existence and inter-working with 3GPP RAT
The U-plane interruption time is a part of the U-plane transient period, which
**is the time between the reception of the HO command in UE and the U-plane
route update. The HO preparation period does not contribute to the U-plane
interruption time.**
**Based on the analysis of the U-plane transient period, the total
interruption time is expected to be lower than** the requirement for inter-RAT
handover, even in the case of inter-RAT HO from LTE to 2G/3G. The data
forwarding time **is expected not to affect the total DL interruption tim**
e**.**
**Note : See clause 6.18.1 in [6] for detailed analysis.**
## 13.11 General requirements
### 13.11.1 Cost related requirements
Following cost-related requirements have been identified in clause 12.1 of
[4]. For each requirement it is shortly discussed how it is fulfilled by the
LTE architecture.
a) Backhaul communication protocols should be optimized.
The RNL communication was designed to get along with minimum number of
communication steps for call setup and mobility. S1 and X2 interface are
designed to operate and to be configured in a uniform way.
b) The E-UTRAN architecture should reduce the cost of future network
deployment whilst enabling the usage of existing site locations.
It is expected that the reduction of the number of nodes and interfaces
contributes to this overall goal.
c) All the interfaces specified shall be open for multi-vendor equipment
interoperability.
Two interfaces, S1 and X2 are identified and will be standardized. There are
no major problems regarding multi-vendor interoperability identified during
the study item phase.
d) UE complexity and power consumption shall be minimized/optimized.
Complicated UTRAN architecture and unnecessary interfaces should be avoided.
Regarding the UE complexity requirement, see chapter 12.3. Regarding UTRAN
architecture and interface, see chapter 9.8.
e) More efficient and easy to use OAM&P.
This specific aspect needs to be covered when specifying stage 3.
### 13.11.2 Service related requirements
Following service-related requirements have been identified in clause 12.2 of
[4]. It can be seen that many features related to these requirements are
captured as the system concepts.
The E-UTRA should efficiently support various types of service. These must
include currently available services like web-browsing, FTP, video-streaming
or VoIP, and more advanced services (e.g. real-time video or push-to-x) in the
PS- domain.
VoIP should be supported with at least as good radio, backhaul efficiency and
latency as voice traffic over the UMTS CS networks.
Lossless HO with the forwarding technique can be applied and this can be
useful for data communications. Header compression is supported as well as
Release 6 and this can be useful for efficient support of low rate services,
e.g. VoIP. U-plane latency is evaluated and evaluation results show that
Evolved UTRAN and UTRAN can support real-time services.
High-level QoS signalling concept is studied and concluded in clause 9.6.
Support of voice traffic over the UMTS CS networks is studying in the SAE Work
Item.
## 13.12 VoIP performance evaluation
According to evaluation metric and assumption in [10], multiple evaluations
that directly evaluate the uplink system performance of the LTE concept vs.
the baseline configuration have been carried out. Efforts have been made to
use realistic physical and link layer model. Further, fairness and coverage
aspects are controlled through not only measuring average performance, but
also cell-edge performance. The evaluations have been carried out by different
sources/companies and for different scenarios. For both the baseline UTRA and
E-UTRA results, the spectrum efficiency figures match well between companies.
Summaries of the results for simulation cases 1 - 3 are presented in Table
13.8. The figures for each system concept and metric have been obtained by
averaging the results presented in the individual input papers.
**Table 13.8: Summary of UL and DL VoIP Capacity**
* * *
Deployment Scenario Average VoIP Capacity (users/sector)  
DL UL Case1 **317** **241** Case2 293 - Case3 **289** **123**
* * *
# 14 Conclusions and Recommendations
## 14.1 Conclusions
During the study of Evolved UTRA and UTRAN, many proposals on physical and
higher layer radio protocols, NW architecture, RF related issues, complexity,
etc were treated and studied System concepts which can meet the requirements
in [1] were described based on agreed key solutions captured in this TR
comprising.:
\- OFDMA and SC-FDMA for downlink and uplink radio access schemes,
respectively
\- Support for time and frequency domain scheduling
\- Simple channel structure for point to point and point to multipoint
transmission
\- Simple RRC state model (idle and connected)
\- Reduced number of transport channels (no need for dedicated channels)
\- Simplified MAC solutions ( # of MAC entities, common solution for DRX and
DTX cases). Scheduling, ARQ and HARQ provided by RLC and MAC sublayers
terminated in UE and eNB
\- Header compression and ciphering provided by PDCP sublayer terminated in UE
and aGW
\- No compressed mode: transmission/reception gaps for measurement provided by
scheduling
\- A cell transmits one set of common channel information in a bandwidth equal
than or less than the UE minimum bandwidth capability
\- Simplified E-UTRAN architecture (only one type of nodes: eNB)
\- Hard handover with downlink data forwarding on SDU level
\- Distributed NW architecture, i.e. RRC and outer ARQ in the eNB
\- NAS, terminated in UE and aGW, provides idle mode mobility handling
\- NAS-related UE identities similar to 2G or 3G (IMSI/IMEI, TMSI for MME)
\- Resource aggregation is only considered for broadcast-type services.
The system concepts were evaluated against the targets or requirements defined
in [4]. The evaluation-results shown in this TR demonstrate that the system
concepts can meet most of the requirements as follows.
\- The LTE concept has the potential to fulfil both the system capacity and
user throughput targets
\- Evaluated uplink peak data rate is a bit smaller than the requirements,
however, it is expected that the peak data rate can be increased by some
optimisations, e.g. higher TTI values and/or by reducing the amount of control
signaling information.
\- It was confirmed that the requirements of C-plane and U-plane latency can
be satisfied.
\- Fulfilments without any issues are identified for requirements on
deployment scenarios, spectrum flexibility, interworking, mobility, E-UTRAN
architecture and RRM.
\- Regarding system and device cost and complexity work needs to continue in
the future. As evolved UTRA and UTRAN system will provide significantly higher
data rates than Release 6 WCDMA and, as a consequence hereof, the physical
layer complexity will increase accordingly compared to lower-rate systems.
This complexity is not seen as evolved UTRA and UTRAN specific, but is similar
to the complexity experienced in any high data rate system.
According to these evaluation results, it can be concluded that system
concepts captured in this TR are feasible for evolved UTRA and UTRAN.
## 14.2 Recommendations
It is recommended to create Work Items on evolved UTRA and UTRAN. The system
concept captured in this TR should be starting points for the Work Item.
#