# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Packet-oriented features like HSDPA and E-DCH in UMTS systems will promote the
subscribers\' desire for continuous connectivity, where the user stays
connected over a long time span with only occasional active periods of data
transmission, and avoiding frequent connection termination and re-
establishment with its inherent overhead and delay.
This is the perceived mode a subscriber is used to in fixed broadband networks
(e.g. DSL) and a precondition to attract users from fixed broadband networks.
For a high number of users in the cell it can be assumed that many users are
not transmitting any user data for some time (e.g. for reading during web
browsing or in between packets for periodic packet transmission such as
VoIP).The corresponding overhead control channels and dedicated channels will
significantly limit the number of users that can be efficiently supported.
As completely releasing dedicated channels during periods of temporary traffic
inactivity would cause considerable delays for reestablishing data
transmission and a corresponding bad user perception, this WI is intended to
reduce the impact of control channels while maintaining the DCH state and
allowing a much faster reactivation for temporarily inactive users.
# 1 Scope
The present document summarizes the work done under the WI \"Continuous
Connectivity for Packet Data Users for 1.28Mcps TDD\" defined in [1] by
listing technical concepts addressing the objectives of the work item (see
below), analysing these technical concepts and selecting the best solution
(which might be a combination of technical concepts).
The objective of this work item is to reduce the code consumption (e.g.
overhead of physical control channels or related signaling messages) of packet
data users for both real-time (e.g. VoIP) and non real-time services, e.g. for
users which have temporarily no data transmission in either uplink or
downlink. Packet data users as considered in this work item are using only HS-
DSCH/E-DCH channels without UL DPCH and DL DPCH.
The aim is to increase the number of packet data users in the UMTS 1.28Mcps
TDD system that can be kept efficiently in CELL_DCH state over a longer time
period and that can restart transmission after a period of temporary
inactivity with a much shorter delay (for example, \ \- 2 timeslots(2 SF2 OVSF codes | | | > per timeslot) | | | | | | - Up to 2 E-AGCH transmissions | | | allowed. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **VoIP traffic details** | - AMR 12.2 kbps. | | | | | | - SID transmitted every 160 ms | | | of silence. | | | | | | - Voice activity model: | | | | | | > \- 50% voice activity. | | | > | | | > \- ON and OFF periods of | | | > duration exponentially | | | > distributed, of average 2 | | | > seconds. | | | | | | - 100 ms maximum delay bound | | | with 100 ms SDU discarding at the | | | MAC-hs. | | | | | | - Call length: 120 seconds. | | | | | | - Call Outage: VoIP calls with | | | FER over call length greater than | | | 5% are considered in outage. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Signalling traffic** | - SRB, RTCP, and SIP not | | | modeled. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Parameters for transmission** | - TB sizes: | | | | | | > \- 2 TB sizes: 162 bits, 364 | | | > bits | | | | | | - 24-bit CRC overhead. | | | | | | - Every transport block occupies | | | one resource block which is 8 BRU | | | | | | - QPSK only | | | | | | - At most 2 retransmissions are | | | allowed. | | | | | | - No DRX or DTX. | | | | | | - Power control for E-PUCH | | | modeled. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Scheduler** | - [Voice traffic | | | scheduler:]{.underline} | | | | | | > \- HARQ re-transmissions have | | | > highest priority | | | > | | | > \- Oldest transmissions are | | | > re-transmitted first | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Feedback delays** | - HARQ delay: minimum 10ms from | | | end of a transmission to start of | | | a re-transmission. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | **Error modelling** | - No E-AGCH error modeled. | | | | | | - No E-HICH error modeled. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
### 4.3.3 Agreements
The Node B can assign/re-assign the semi-persistent physical resources via
E-AGCH.
## 4.4 Explicit state switch mechanism
### 4.4.1 Analysis of the scheme
Compare to the implicit state switch mechanism, the explicit state switch
mechanism use the fast reconfiguration procedure to change the physical
resource for different states. In explicit state switch mechanism, no timer
shall be maintained on UE side.
##### **Downlink** {#downlink .H6}
For Downlink, When NodeB detects the state switch according to the buffer
state. NodeB shall use the HS-SCCH order to reconfigure the physical resource
of the UE. The procedure is depicted as below:
1) When NodeB detect the state switch from active to silent according to the
buffer of UE, NodeB shall send reconfiguration command by HS-SCCH order to
reconfigure the physical resource of UE. The physical resource include the
channel code resource and Rx pattern
2) When NodeB detect the state switch from silent to active according to the
buffer of UE, NodeB shall also use the HS-SCCH order to reconfigure the
physical resource of UE.
##### **Uplink** {#uplink .H6}
Similar to the Downlink explicit state switch mechanism, a fast
reconfiguration procedure can also be used in uplink, the reconfiguration
command shall be carried by E-AGCH. The procedure is depicted as below:
1\. When NodeB detect the state switch from active to silent according to the
buffer state in SI information, NodeB shall send reconfiguration command by
E-AGCH to reconfigure the physical resource of UE. The physical resource
include the channel code resource and Tx pattern
2\. When NodeB detect the state switch from silent to active according to the
buffer state in SI information, NodeB shall also use the E-AGCH to reconfigure
the physical resource of UE.
### 4.4.2 Agreements
For both uplink and downlink, explicit commands will be used to reconfigure
resources to handle voice traffic patterns.
# 5 Technical solution
This section describes which technical concepts of section 4 are selected to
solve the problems in the 3GPP standard described by the work item
\"Continuous Connectivity for Packet Data Users for 1.28Mcps TDD\" defined in
[1].
## 5.1 Overview of the selected solution
Editor\'s note: A summary of which concepts are selected.
## 5.2 Impact on RAN1 specifications
Editor\'s note: Overview description of the modifications needed per affected
specification, if any.
## 5.3 Impact on RAN2 specifications
Editor\'s note: Overview description of the modifications needed per affected
specification, if any.
## 5.4 Impact on RAN3 specifications
Editor\'s note: Overview description of the modifications needed per affected
specification, if any.
## 5.5 Impact on RAN4 specifications
Editor\'s note: Overview description of the modifications needed per affected
specification, if any.
#