# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of the present document is to define a recommended set of
supplementary services to the Teleservices and Bearer services which will be
supported by a PLMN in connection with other networks as a basis for the
definition of the network capabilities required.
Supplementary services not covered in 3GPP TS 22.004 cannot be introduced
unilaterally in any PLMN if they require modification of the signalling
Specifications.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS 23.011
[19] and 24.010 [21].
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.001: \" Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.002: \"Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.003: \" Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man‑Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"Enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption service
(eMLPP) ‑ Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 02.081: \"Line identification supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services ‑ Stage
1\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services ‑ Stage 1\".
[14] 3GPP TS 22.072: \"Call Deflection (CD) - Stage 1\".
[15] 3GPP TS 22.087: \"User-to-user signalling (UUS) - Stage 1\".
[16] 3GPP TS 22.091: \"Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary services -
Stage 1\".
[17] 3GPP TS 22.093: \"Call Completion to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) - Stage 1\".
[18] 3GPP TS 22.096: \"Calling Name Presentation (CNAP) - Stage 1\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[20] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall (MC) - Stage 1\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary services
specification General aspects\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification Formats and coding\".
[23] ITU-T Recommendation I.210: \"Principles of telecommunication services
supported by an ISDN and the means to describe them\".
[24] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Principles\".
[25] 3GPP TS 22.105: \"Services and service capabilities\".
[26] 3GPP TS 42.068: \"Voice Group Call Service (VGCS) - Stage 1\".
[27] 3GPP TS 42.069: \"Voice Broadcast Service (VBS) - Stage 1\".
## 1.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document the abbreviations and acronyms listed
in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] apply.
# 2 General
## 2.1 Supplementary service
A supplementary service modifies or supplements a basic Telecommunication
service.
NOTE: Offered supplementary services may be used by subscribers/users at their
discretion.
## 2.2 Concepts associated with supplementary services
For the purpose of the present document the following terms are defined:
**Provision**
> An action to make a service available to a subscriber. The provision may be:
‑ general: where the service is made available to all subscribers (subject to
compatibility restrictions enforced) without prior arrangements being made
with the service provider;
‑ pre‑arranged: where the service is made available to an individual
subscriber only after the necessary arrangements have been made with the
service provider.
**Withdrawal**
> An action taken by the service provider to remove an available service from
> a subscriber\'s access. The withdrawal may be:
‑ general: where the service is removed from all subscribers provided with the
service;
‑ specific: where the service is removed on an individual basis from
subscribers provided with the service.
**Registration**
> The programming by the service provider or subscriber of information to
> enable subsequent operation of a service. The programming action involves
> input of specific supplementary information. For certain services the
> registration procedure may cause activation whilst for others the service
> may already be in the action phase.
**Erasure**
> The deletion by the service provider, the subscriber or the system of
> information stored against a particular service by a previous
> registration(s).
**Activation**
> An action taken by either the service provider, the subscriber or the system
> to enable a process to run as and when required by the service concerned,
> resulting in the active phase. Some services can be either \"operative\" or
> \"quiescent\" (not operative) during the active phase according to whether
> or not the system would be able to invoke or use the service.
**Deactivation**
> An action taken by either the service provider, the subscriber or the system
> to terminate the process started at the activation.
**Invocation**
> An action to invoke the service required, taken by the subscriber (e.g.
> pressing a specific button) or automatically by the network or terminal as a
> result of a particular condition (e.g. calling number identification for
> each incoming call).
**Normal operation with successful outcome**
> Description of the normal operation of the service, the normal served
> subscriber\'s actions and the system response. Decision points, timing and
> call progress signals would be some of the aspects defined for the service
> if they can be perceived by the subscriber.
**Interrogation**
> The request by the subscriber to the PLMN to provide information about a
> specific supplementary service. This information can be requested by a:
‑ status check;
The following values can be returned by the PLMN:
‑ not supported;
‑ active and operative;
‑ active and quiescent;
‑ not active.
Not all values are applicable to all supplementary services.
‑ data check;
This interrogation function compares the data input by the subscriber during
an interrogation procedure with the information stored in the PLMN. The PLMN
signals an appropriate indication (e.g. \"check is positive\" or \"check is
negative\").
‑ data request;
This interrogation function enables the subscriber to obtain confirmation of
her input data. The PLMN signals an appropriate indication (e.g. \"the
forwarded‑to number is etc.\"). The response to a data request may comprise
the status of the service (e.g. not active).
**Exceptional operation or unsuccessful outcome**
> Abnormal situations not described in \"normal operation with successful
> outcome\". Procedures on time‑out, unexpected signalling response and other
> such events would be defined.
**Interaction with other supplementary services**
> When more than one supplementary service is active, new logical situations,
> decisions, priorities, etc., may arise. This subclause would identify and
> define the resolution of such situations as they affect subscriber
> perception of the service. Special procedures may therefore be required,
> e.g. to allow, where possible, the simultaneous use of different
> supplementary services by one mobile subscriber.
**Interworking considerations**
> Identification of subscriber perceptions when a call exits from an ISDN/PLMN
> to another network or enters an ISDN/PLMN from another network (e.g. PSTN).
**Unstructured SS Operations**
These operations are characterized by:
‑ in the mobile to network direction the transparent transport of MMI strings
entered by the user to the network;
\- in the network to mobile direction the transparent transport of text
strings that are displayed by the mobile for user information;
\- transparent transfer of data between an application in the MS and a
corresponding application in the network.
> These operations provide capabilities that can either be used as part of
> operator specified services, or to facilitate the early introduction of
> specified services.
NOTE: This Specification does not distinguish between subscriber, user and
customer, since all three do not fully cover the textual needs. Generally the
term \"subscriber\" is used, even if this person is not having the
subscription.
# 3 Categories and framework of supplementary services
## 3.1 Framework for the description of supplementary services
3GPP TS 22.001 [2] and 3GPP TS 22.101 [24] describe the principles of the
Telecommunication services. They also defines the concepts of
Telecommunication services and describes their characterization by appropriate
attributes. Bearer services and Teleservices, which are offered by a PLMN in
connection with other networks, are defined in 3GPP TS 22.002 [3], 3GPP TS
22.105 [25] and 3GPP TS 22.003 [4]. Besides these basic Telecommunication
services, their enhancement or modification by supplementary services need
also to be offered.
A supplementary service modifies or enhances a basic Telecommunication service
and, hence, cannot be offered to a subscriber on a stand alone basis. It must
be offered together with or in association with a basic Telecommunication
service. The same supplementary service may be offered with a number of
different Telecommunication services. For applicability of a Supplementary
Service to a Telecommunication service refer to annex A.
Table 3.1/3GPP TS 22.004 (identical to table 1/3GPP TS 22.001 [2] and to table
1 of ITU-T Recommendation I.210 [23]) illustrates the description of
Telecommunication services.
Table 3.1/3GPP TS 22.004: Categorisation of Telecommunication services
* * *
TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE
BEARER SERVICE TELESERVICE
Basic Bearer\ Basic Bearer service + supplementary services Basic Teleservice
Basic Teleservice + supplementary service Service
* * *
Provision and withdrawal of a supplementary service, with the exception of
Closed User Group, shall apply to all basic services the subscriber subscribes
to.
Registration, erasure, activation and deactivation of a supplementary service
shall apply to one or more group of basic services. The groups of basic
services are defined to avoid handling of many basic service codes.
An operation is effective on the basic services, within the basic service
group, which have been provisioned and for which the supplementary service is
applicable. The fact that a basic service is provisioned but is not supplied
by the network shall not lead to reject the request. The request shall be
accepted since there is one basic service within the group(s) which is
provisioned and for which the supplementary service is applicable. For
applicability of a Supplementary Service to a basic service or service group
refer to annex A.
The basic service groups are define in table 3.2/3GPP TS 22.004.
Table 3.2/3GPP TS 22.004: List of basic service groups
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Basic service | Basic service | | | | group | (1) (2) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **number** | **name** | **Number (2)** | **name** | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 | > Speech | TS 11 | > Telephony | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | TS 12 | > Emergency | | | | | > call | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 | > Short | TS 21 | > Short | | | > message | | > message | | | > service | | > MT/PP | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | TS 22 | > Short | | | | | > message | | | | TS 23 | > MO/PP | | | | | > | | | | | > Short | | | | | > message CB | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 ‑ 5 | > Not | | | | | > allocated | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6 | > Facsimile | TS 61 | > Alternate | | | > | | > speech and | | | services^(3)^ | | > facsimile | | | | | > group 3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | TS 62 | > Automatic | | | | | > facsimile | | | | | > group 3 | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7 | > All Data | BS 20 | > General | | | > circuit | | > asynchronous | | | > asynchronous | | > bearer | | | | | > service | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8 | > All Data | BS 30 | > General | | | > circuit | | > synchronous | | | > synchronous | | > bearer | | | | | > service | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12 | > Voice group | TS 91 | > Voice Group | | | > | | > Call Service | | | services^(4)^ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | TS 92 | > Voice | | | | | > Broadcast | | | | | > Service | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: Basic | | | | | services are | | | | | defined in | | | | | 3GPP TS 22.002 | | | | | [3] and 3GPP | | | | | TS 22.003 | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: TS: | | | | | Teleservice | | | | | BS: Bearer | | | | | service. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The | | | | | transparent | | | | | facsimile | | | | | services apply | | | | | to A/Gb mode | | | | | of GERAN only. | | | | | The | | | | | n | | | | | on-transparent | | | | | facsimile | | | | | services apply | | | | | to UTRAN | | | | | only.NOTE 4: | | | | | The Voice | | | | | Group | | | | | Services, TS | | | | | 91 and TS 92 | | | | | apply to A/Gb | | | | | mode of GERAN | | | | | only. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 3.2 Categories of supplementary services
Below follows a list of the possible categories of supplementary services
related to provision, withdrawal, registration, erasure, activation,
deactivation, invocation and interrogation.
Provision of a supplementary service can be made on a subscription basis, i.e.
after pre‑arrangement with the service provider, or the supplementary service
can be made generally available to all mobile subscribers having access to
PLMNs.
Withdrawal of a supplementary service can be as a result of a subscriber\'s
request or for administrative reasons. Both withdrawal actions are performed
by the service provider.
Registration of a supplementary service is only applicable to those
supplementary services in which specific data is required to enable subsequent
operation of the service. This registration can be the result of provision or
it can be a subscriber controlled procedure. Registration of a supplementary
service may mean simultaneous activation of that service.
Erasure of a supplementary service is only applicable to those supplementary
services for which registration is necessary. It can be the result of
withdrawal, it can be the result of a new registration overruling, and thus
effectively erasing the previous registration, or it can be a subscriber
controlled procedure. Erasure of a Supplementary Service may mean simultaneous
deactivation of that service.
Activation of a supplementary service can be the result of provision. In some
cases the supplementary service is only activated if the conditions in the
subscription options are met. A supplementary service can also be activated by
means of a procedure controlled either by the mobile subscriber or the service
provider. Some supplementary services may also be activated as a result of
registration.
Deactivation of a supplementary service can be the result of withdrawal or
erasure of the service. In some cases the supplementary service is deactivated
if the conditions in the subscription options are not met. A supplementary
service can also be deactivated by means of a procedure controlled either by
the mobile subscriber or the service provider. A supplementary service can be
automatically deactivated at the end of a call if the supplementary service
was specifically activated for that call. Finally, a supplementary service may
be automatically deactivated by the network as a consequence of activation of
another supplementary service if it conflicts with the other activated
supplementary service.
Invocation of a supplementary service can take place by means of a subscriber
controlled procedure or automatically by the network as a result of a
particular condition.
Interrogation of a supplementary service is only applicable for a few
supplementary services for which it is useful to get information from the
network about the status or relevant data concerning the supplementary
service.
# 4 Supported supplementary services
Table 4.1/3GPP TS 22.004 gives a list of possible supplementary services
implemented in the PLMN, the definitions of which are given in the
specifications [6]-[18].
NOTE: All supplementary services in this table are implemented in the PLMN.
Subscribers can use these supplementary services for calls within the PLMN,
but also in interworking situations with the PSTN (if supported) and the ISDN.
In interworking situations with CSPDN and PSPDN these supplementary services
can only be used during call set up (e.g. call forwarding services). When a
call is established between an MS and a PDN, the MS acts as a data network
terminal and can consequently only use the supplementary services that are
supported by the relevant PDN. The PDN supplementary services are not
described in this Specification; they can be found in the relevant PDN
Specifications. However, the interworking situations with PDNs still require
further study.
It has been identified as a requirement that the man‑machine interface in
PLMNs regarding supplementary services should be compatible as much as
possible with the man‑machine interface in the fixed networks as defined in
CEPT groups, e.g. the same use of keypad information or function keys.
Table 4.1/ 3GPP TS 22.004 lists the categories for all supported supplementary
services. Below the abbreviations used are listed.
**Registration:**
p = as a result of provision
a = service provider controlled procedure
s = subscriber controlled procedure
‑ = not applicable
**Erasure:**
w = as a result of withdrawal
s = subscriber controlled procedure
r = due to new registration
‑ = not applicable
**Activation:**
p = as a result of provision
r = as a result of registration
s = subscriber controlled procedure
a = service provider controlled procedure
c = when the conditions in the subscription options are met
‑ = not applicable
**Deactivation:**
w = as a result of withdrawal
s = subscriber controlled procedure
a = service provider controlled procedure
e = as a result of erasure
n = when the conditions in the subscr. options are not met
c = at the end of a per call basis activation
‑ = not applicable
**Invocation:**
n = automatic invocation by the network as a result of a particular condition
u = user invocation, by means of a control procedure
‑ = not applicable
**Interrogation:**
s = status check
dr = data request
‑ = not applicable
Table 4.1/ 3GPP TS 22.004: Supported Supplementary Services
+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | Sup | | | | | | | | | pleme | | | | | | | | | ntary | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | Sp | Reg | Eras | Act | Deact | Inv | Int | | | ec/se | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 2 | a/s | w/r | - | - | n | dr | | | 2.067 | | | | | | | | | eMLPP | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .072, | | | | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | Defle | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CD | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | u | ‑ | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .081. | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | Ide | | | | | | | | | ntif. | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CLIP | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | n | s | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CLIR | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | n | dr | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CoLP | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | n | s | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CoLR | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | n | s | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .082. | | | | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | Off | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CFU | a/s | w/r/s | r/s | e/s | n | dr | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CFB | a/s | w/r/s | r/s | e/s | n | dr | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CFNRy | a/s | w/r/s | r/s | e/s | n | dr | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CFNRc | a/s | w/r/s | r/s | e/s | n | dr | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .083. | | | | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | Compl | | | | | | | | | etion | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CW | ‑ | ‑ | a/s | a/s | n | s | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | HOLD | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | u | ‑ | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .084. | | | | | | | | | Multi | | | | | | | | | Party | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | MPTY | ‑ | ‑ | ‑ | ‑ | u | ‑ | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .085. | | | | | | | | | Comm. | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Int | | | | | | | | | erest | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CUG | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | u/n | ‑ | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .087. | | | | | | | | | Us | | | | | | | | | er‑to | | | | | | | | | ‑User | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | UUS | ‑ | ‑ | s | c | u/n | ‑ | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .086. | | | | | | | | | Cha | | | | | | | | | rging | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | AoCI | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | n | ‑ | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | AoCC | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | n | ‑ | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .088. | | | | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | BAOC | a/s | w/r | a/s | s/a | n | dr | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | BOIC | a/s | w/r | a/s | s/a | n | dr | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | BOIC | a/s | w/r | a/s | s/a | n | dr | | | ‑exHC | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | BAIC | a/s | w/r | a/s | s/a | n | dr | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | BAIC | a/s | w/r | a/s | s/a | n | dr | | | ‑Roam | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | ACR | - | - | a/s | s/a | n | s | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 2 | eMLPP | a/s | w/r/s | ‑ | ‑ | u/n | s/dr | | 2.067 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .091. | | | | | | | | | Call | | | | | | | | | Tra | | | | | | | | | nsfer | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | ECT | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | u | ‑ | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 22 | | | | | | | | | .093. | | | | | | | | | Compl | | | | | | | | | etion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | Calls | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | Busy | | | | | | | | | S | | | | | | | | | ubscr | | | | | | | | | ibers | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CCBS | - | - | p | w | n | dr | | | SS | | | | | | | | | | | | s | s/a/w | | | | | CCBS | | | | | | | | | Req | | | | | | | | | uests | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 2 | | | | | | | | | 2.096 | | | | | | | | | Name | | | | | | | | | Iden | | | | | | | | | tific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | SS | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | CNAP | ‑ | ‑ | p | w | n | s | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | 2 | | | | | | | | | 2.135 | | | | | | | | | Mult | | | | | | | | | icall | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+ | | MC | a/s | w | p | w | U/n | dr | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-----+------+
Abbreviations used for the Supplementary Services:
CD Call Deflection
CLIP Calling Line Identification Presentation
CLIR Calling Line Identification Restriction
CoLP Connected Line Identification Presentation
CoLR Connected Line Identification Restriction
CFU Call Forwarding Unconditional
CFB Call Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Busy
CFNRy Call Forwarding on No Reply
CFNRc Call Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Not Reachable
CNAP Calling Name Presentation - (CNAP)
CW Call Waiting
HOLD Call Hold
MPTY Multi Party Service
MC Multicall
CUG Closed User Group
AoCI Advice of Charge (Information)
AoCC Advice of Charge (Charging)
UUS User‑to‑user signalling
BAOC Barring of All Outgoing Calls
BOIC Barring of Outgoing International Calls
BOIC‑exHC Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those directed to the
Home PLMN Country
BAIC Barring of All Incoming Calls
BIC‑Roam Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming Outside the Home PLMN Country
ECT Explicit Call Transfer
eMLPP enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption
SPNP Support of Private Numbering Plan - (SPNP)
CCBS Completion of calls to busy subscribers.- (CCBS)
## 4.1 Support of Line identity services
A PLMN which supports the CLIP service shall also support the CLIR service. A
PLMN which supports CoLP service shall also support the CoLR service.
A PLMN which does not support the CLIR service shall ensure that the line
identity of a subscriber shall not be displayed to the called party unless the
called party has CLIR override capability. A PLMN which does not support the
CoLR service shall ensure that the line identity of a subscriber shall not be
displayed to the calling party unless the calling party has CoLR override
capability.
## 4.2 Support of Name identity services
(CNAP): A PLMN which supports the CNAP service shall also support the CLIR
service.
A PLMN which does not support the CLIR service shall ensure that the name
identity of a subscriber shall not be displayed to the called party.
# 5 Use of a password option in relation to supplementary services
## 5.1 Definition
Some Supplementary Services (e.g. Call Barring) can be offered to a subscriber
with the subscription option of using a password to control the service. When
this option is selected every action (related to that Supplementary Service),
such as registration, erasure, activation or deactivation is performed by the
mobile subscriber with the concurrent entry of the password.
## 5.2 Description
When the subscription option \"Control of a Supplementary Service by the
subscriber using a password\" is provided, password handling is supported by
the network.
The password will consist of four digits in the range 0000 to 9999.
## 5.3 Management ‑ normal procedures and successful outcome
### 5.3.1 Provision of password option
Each Supplementary Service for which the control by the subscriber usage of a
password is relevant may be offered with the subscription option \"Control of
the Supplementary Service\". The values of this option will be:
‑ by the subscriber using a password;
‑ by the service provider.
NOTE: A service provider needs not to offer this option to its subscribers.
However, the support of the password facility is mandatory in the networks for
visiting subscribers.
### 5.3.2 Withdrawal of the password option
The password option may be withdrawn for administrative reasons or due to
subscription modification.
### 5.3.3 Registration of password
If a mobile subscriber selects at provision time the option of using a
password for any given Supplementary Service, the password have to be
registered at the same time.
Furthermore, the subscriber can change the password by an appropriate control
procedure at any time. The control procedure is described in 3GPP TS 22.030
[5].
### 5.3.4 Erasure of password
A password can be erased in two ways:
1) Registration of a new password erases the previous one; or
2) Withdrawal of the password option.
### 5.3.5 Password checking
If the mobile subscriber in an attempt to control a Supplementary Service
requiring a password enters a correct password, the corresponding request is
then considered by the network.
## 5.4 Management ‑ exceptional procedures or unsuccessful outcome
If the mobile subscriber in an attempt to control a Supplementary Service
requiring a password, or in an attempt to register a new password, enters an
incorrect password, the corresponding request will be rejected by the network
and the subscriber will be notified.
If the mobile subscriber enters incorrect password more than three consecutive
times, all control procedures related to the use of the password are made
impossible until the service provider instructs the network to again accept
password‑related requests from this subscriber.
# 6 Not used
# 7 Processing of supplementary service operations
## 7.1 Processing of operations containing basic service information
The network shall process a registration/erasure/activation/deactivation
request indicating basic service information independent of the previous
registration/activation status. As a result the network will process these
requests for the indicated basic service information only, whereas other
registration/activation status information remains unchanged.
Basic service information received by the network within the above
supplementary service operations is in the specifications [6]-[18]. According
to this definition the network may receive a combined basic service
indication, e.g. for all basic services. As a result the combined basic
service indication may be dissolved (note 1). This has to be taken into
account when an interrogation procedure is performed.
In case the operation contains a combined basic service indication (e.g. for
all bearer services) the interactions specified in the specifications [6]-[18]
have to be checked subsequently for each member of the combined service
indication. As a result a supplementary service request may be partly rejected
due to the interaction requirements (note 2). This has to be taken into
account in the acknowledgement to the supplementary service request from the
Mobile Station (MS), i.e. the network shall send a notification to the MS that
the SS operation request was only partially successful.
NOTE 1: Explanatory example
1\. **Operation:**
Registration of CFU for \"all basic services\" to number 1.
2\. **Operation** :
Registration of CFU for \"Speech\" to number 2.
**Result:**
Registration status for
\"Speech\": CFU active to number 2.
All other basic service groups: CFU active to number 1.
NOTE 2: Explanatory example
1\. **Operation:**
Registration of CFB for \"Speech\" to number 1.
2\. **Operation:**
Activation of BAOC for \"Facsimile services\".
3\. **Operation:**
Registration of CFU for \"all basic services\" to number 2.
**Result:**
Registration status for
\"Speech\": CFU active to number 2, CFB \"quiescent\" to number 1.
\"Facsimile services\": BAOC Active, CFU rejected.
All other basic service groups: CFU active to number 2.
## 7.2 Processing of operations involving multiple Supplementary Services
Normally, SS operations relate to one single Supplementary Service at a time.
The network reaction on such operations are described in the specifications
[6]-[18] subclauses x.3 (Normal Procedures), x.4 (Exceptional Procedures) and
x.6 (Interaction). Also subclause 7.1 contains information related to this
area.
In addition, some groups of Supplementary Services may be controlled
collectively, such as Call Forwarding and Barring services. The information
contained in such \"global\" operation (e.g. Forwarded‑to‑number, Password,
Basic Service group(s)) then applies generally to all SS concerned by the
operation.
The reaction of the network when receiving such control requests is generally
the same as when receiving a number of subsequent single operations to the
corresponding Supplementary Services. However, in some cases the action to be
taken by the network may be regarded as \"exceptional\", and therefore the
following clarifies the only allowed operations on groups of Supplementary
Services:
‑ If the group \"all Call Forwarding services\" is subject for a Registration
or an Activation request, CFU shall become Active and Operative whilst the
conditional CFs (CFC) will become Active and quiescent for the Basic Service
groups concerned by the operation. I.e the network behaviour is the same as if
the CFCs were Registered/Activated first, followed by Registration/Activation
of CFU.
The No Reply Timer may be a part of this general operation.
If the Basic Service information provided in the request is not relevant to
one or more of the SS involved, the principles in subclause 7.1 of apply, i.e.
the network ignores these parts of the request.
‑ If the group \"all Conditional Call Forwarding services\" is subject for a
Registration or an Activation request, all CFCs shall become Active and
Operative for the Basic Service groups concerned by the operation.
The No Reply Timer may be a part of this general operation.
If the Basic Service information provided in the request is not relevant to
one or more of the SS involved, the principles in subclause 7.1 of apply, i.e.
the network ignores these parts of the request.
‑ If the group \"all Call Forwarding services\" or the group \"all Conditional
Call Forwarding services\" is subject for a Deactivation or an Erasure
request, the network shall act as normal, i.e. as if a number of subsequent
Deactivations/Erasures were requested. If the Basic Service information
provided in the request is not relevant to one or more of the SS involved, the
principles in subclause 7.1 of this specification apply, i.e. the network
ignores these parts of the request.
‑ If any of the groups \"all Barring services\", \"all Outgoing Barring
Services\" or \"all Incoming Barring Services\" is subject to a Deactivation
request, the network shall act as normal, i.e. as if a number of subsequent
Deactivations were requested.
If the Basic Service information provided in the request is not relevant to
one or more of the SS involved, the principles in subclause 7.1 of this
specification apply, i.e. the network ignores these parts of the request.
‑ If the user requests Password Registration for any other single or group of
Barring Services than \"all Barring Services\" the request will be denied (as
only **one** (common) password for the Barring services per subscriber is
allowed).
‑ Interrogation of groups of Supplementary Services is not supported.
## 7.3 Compatibility Information and Supplementary Services
Within the Single Numbering Scheme it is possible that an incoming call (e.g.
PSTN call) do not have an allocated Bearer Capability Information Element. The
network cannot at this stage determine the Basic Service requirement and
shall, for Supplementary Service purposes, handle the call based on a
\"default basic service\" for the call. If the subscriber has a subscription
to telephony then the network shall use telephony as the \"default basic
service\". If the subscriber does not have a subscription to telephony the HLR
shall choose a Basic Service from the set provisioned to the subscriber as the
\"default basic service\".
When an incoming call is subject to Call Forwarding, no modifications or
additions to the original BC‑IE information, present or not, received by the
PLMN shall be sent with the forwarded call.
# 8 Format of description
The supplementary services are described according to the following format:
0\. GENERAL
x.1 DEFINITION
x.2 DESCRIPTION
x.2.1 Description
x.2.2 Applicability to telecommunication services
x.2.3 Terminology
x.3 NORMAL PROCEDURES WITH SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME
x.3.1 Provision
x.3.2 Withdrawal
x.3.3 Registration
x.3.4 Erasure
x.3.5 Activation
x.3.6 Deactivation
x.3.7 Invocation
x.3.8 Normal operation with successful outcome
x.3.9 Quality of service
x.3.10 Testing
x.3.11 Interrogation
x.3.12 Charging requirements
x.4 EXCEPTIONAL PROCEDURES OR UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME
x.4.1 Exceptional operation or unsuccessful outcome
x.4.2 Registration
x.4.3 Erasure
x.4.4 Activation
x.4.5 Deactivation
x.4.6 Invocation
x.4.7 Testing
x.4.8 Interrogation
x.4.9 Charging requirements
x.4.10 Roaming in non‑supporting networks
x.5 ALTERNATE PROCEDURES
x.6.y.z INTERACTIONS WITH OTHER SUPPLEMENTARY SERVICES
x.7 INTERWORKING CONSIDERATIONS
x.8 DYNAMIC DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE
x.9 OUTSTANDING ISSUES
The letter \"x\" denominates the supplementary service described in clause
\"x\"of the specifications [6]-[18]. The letter \"y\" denominates the
specification (e.g. 3GPP TS 22.0y or 42.0y) in which the supplementary service
denominated by the letter \"z\" is described and which interacts with the
supplementary service that is described in clause \"x\".
Every supplementary service is described according to this format. If a
subheading is not included in the text, it means:
‑ not applicable (e.g. in cases where \"registration\", \"erasure\",
\"activation\", etc., do not apply);
‑ none identified (e.g. no exceptional procedure for \"invocation\");
  * no interaction (in cases where no interaction appears between two supplementary services in clause 6).
###### ## Annex A (normative): Applicability of Supplementary Services to
Telecommunication Services
Table A.1 gives the applicability of Supplementary Services to
telecommunication services.
Table A.1/3GPP TS 22.004: Applicability of SSs to telecommunication services
SS | Telephony | Emergency Call | SMS PTP | SMS‑CB | Fax | cct Data | GPRS | Voice Group Services |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| TS11 | TS12 | TS21 | TS22 | TS 23 | TS 6x | BS2x, BS3x | BS 70 | TS 91 | TS 92  
eMLPP | Yes | Yes9 |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes  
CD | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CLIP | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CLIR | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
COLP | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
COLR | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CFU | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CFB | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CFNRy | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CFNRc | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CW1 | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
HOLD2 | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
MPTY | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CUG | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
AoCI | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
AoCC | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
UUS | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
BAOC | Yes |  | Yes3 | Yes |  | Yes | Yes |  | Yes11 | Yes11  
BOIC | Yes |  | Yes3 | Yes |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
BOIC‑exHC | Yes |  | Yes3 | Yes |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
BIC | Yes |  | Yes | Yes3 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
BIC‑Roam | Yes |  | Yes | Yes3 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
ACR | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
ECT | Yes |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
CCBS | Yes |  |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  | 10 | 10  
SPNP | Yes |  | Yes5 | Yes5 |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
CNAP | Yes |  | 8 | 8 |  |  |  |  | Yes3 | Yes3  
MSP | Yes |  | Yes | Yes |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
MC | Yes | Yes |  |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  |   
NOTE 1: The applicability of Call Waiting refers to the telecommunication
service of the active call and not of the waiting call. The incoming, waiting,
call may be of any kind. NOTE 2: If the served mobile subscriber has a call on
hold, she may set up another call using the same or a different
telecommunication service. NOTE 3: The SS is applicable, but generally will
not be invoked. NOTE 4: For the purposes of applicability of supplementary
services, the Alternate speech/unrestricted data (BS61) and speech followed by
data (BS81) belong to the BS‑group of the equivalent data service. NOTE 5:
Both the SMS service centre and the mobile destination can be reached by PNP
numbers. NOTE 6: Void NOTE 7: Void. NOTE 8: Applicability of SMS PTP to CNAP
is for further study. NOTE 9: The network shall apply a specific or the
default priority level to emergency calls. There is no possibility to change
this priority by the subscriber.  
Pre-emption of an on-going emergency call is not possible. NOTE 10: The CCBS supplementary service is only applicable for dispatchers. If a new terminating p-t-p call is set up to a dispatcher who is busy because of an active VGCS/VBS call, it should be possible to allow the calling subscriber to apply the CCBS service. If the dispatcher initiates a VGCS/VBS call and the called group/broadcast ID has been active, then the dispatcher should be connected to the ongoing VGCS/VBS call. For VGCS/VBS call to busy dispatcher, the CCBS is not applicable. For a detailed description see 3GPP TS 42.068 [26] and 3GPP TS 42.069 [27]. NOTE 11: BAOC is applicable with the exception of high priority voice group calls/voice broadcast calls. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#