# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the network feature Operator Determined Barring
(ODB).
This allows the network operator or service provider to regulate, by means of
an exceptional procedure, access by the subscribers to services (both Circuit
and Packet Oriented),, by the barring of certain categories of outgoing or
incoming calls/Packet Oriented Services or of roaming. ODB shall take effect
immediately and shall terminate ongoing calls and bar future calls/Packet
Oriented Services.
The purpose of this network feature is to be able to limit the service
provider\'s financial exposure to new subscribers, or to those who have not
promptly paid their bills. It may only be applied to the service provider\'s
own subscribers.
# 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] TS 22.088: \" Call Barring (CB) supplementary services -- Stage 1\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation E.164 : \"Numbering plan for the ISDN era\".
[4] TS 22.082: \" Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services -- Stage 1\".
[5] TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.234: \"Requirements for 3GPP system to wireless local area
network (WLAN) interworking\".
## 1.2 Definitions and abbreviations
In addition to the following definitions, abbreviations used in the present
document are listed in GSM 01.04 [1] and TR 21.905 [5].
**Premium rate call:** A telecommunications network, possibly but not
necessarily a PLMN, may make available certain services, for which the tariff
is comparable to, or may exceed, International Call rates. Examples of such
premium rate services might be information and entertainment services. The
exact definition of what constitutes a premium rate call is the responsibility
of the VPLMN operator, possibly subject to inter-operator agreements.
# 2 Description
Application of Operator Determined Barring is controlled by the Service
Provider, by administrative interaction with the HLR; this interface is not
standardized.
With the exception of the barring of roaming, the HLR affects Operator
Determined Barring in a similar manner to Service Provider -- activated use of
the Call Barring Supplementary service. Consequently, the VLR and MSC also
execute the relevant Barring Conditions in similar manners. It is noted that
there is no password usage. Roaming is barred by the HLR when the MS is in a
PLMN other than the Home PLMN or not in the Home PLMN Country as applicable.
In addition to ensuring the barring integrity for future calls, the HLR, and
consequently the MSC and VLR, shall provide means to terminate the calls of a
user that have been established prior to the application of the ODB service
and which are still ongoing.
# 3 Applicability to Basic Services (BS)
This network feature is applied to all Teleservices and Bearer Services except
as noted below. The Operator Determined Barring feature shall not be applied
to Teleservice-Emergency Call. It is not possible to apply Operator Determined
Barring independently to individual Basic Services.
# 4 Applicability to Supplementary Services (SS)
Operator Determined Barring is a network feature and hence applies to
Supplementary Service aspects of subscriptions.
Operator Determined Barring is applied independently from Supplementary
Services. Nevertheless the following interactions occur:
**Call Barring:**
Calls will be denied if either Operator Determined Barring or Subscriber
Controlled Barring determine that the call should be barred.
If a call is barred due to both Operator Determined Barring and Subscriber
Controlled Barring, then the message or notification returned towards the
caller will be the same as if the barring was due solely to Operator
Determined Barring (see Section 5).
There is no other interaction.
**Call Forwarding:**
If a call forwarding programme is in contravention of an Operator Determined
Barring Category, when the latter is activated, then the activation shall
result in making call forwarding quiescent. If the subscriber attempts to
activate a new call forwarding programme in contravention of an Operator
Determined Barring Category, then the activation shall be denied, and the
subscriber informed of the denial. There is no other interaction.
**Closed User Group:**
CUG restrictions must be met in addition to Operator Determined Barring
restrictions for a call to proceed.
If a call is barred due to both Operator Determined Barring and CUG
restrictions, then the message or notification returned towards the caller
will be the same as if the barring was due solely to Operator Determined
Barring (see Section 5).
There is no other interaction.
**Call Transfer:**
If the subscriber attempts to invoke a call transfer in contravention of an
Operator Determined Barring category, then the invocation shall be denied, and
the subscriber informed of the denial. There is no other interaction.
**Multi-Party, Advice of Charge, CLIP, CLIR, COLP, COLR, Call Wait, Call
Hold:**
There is no interaction.
**Call Completion to Busy Subscriber, User to User Signalling, Malicious Call
Identification, Mobile Access Hunting:**
For further study.
The application of a Barring of Roaming category (see subclauses 3.1 and 3.2
below) will, if the Mobile Station is roaming appropriately, prevent the
Mobile Subscriber from undertaking any form of Supplementary Service
management.
# 5 Normal procedure
## 5.1 Circuit Oriented Services
As described in the following categories, the Service Provider may at any time
activate this feature and this shall terminate any relevant calls in progress,
including forwarded calls, and bar future calls covered by the barring
category:
Independently, one of:
> 1.1 Barring outgoing calls;
or: 1.2 Barring outgoing international calls;
or: 1.3 Barring outgoing international calls except those directed to the home
PLMN country;
or: 1.4 Barring of outgoing calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country;
or: 1.5 Barring of outgoing inter-zonal calls;
or: 1.6 Barring of outgoing inter-zonal calls except those directed to the
home PLMN country;
or: 1.7 Barring of outgoing international calls except those directed to the
home PLMN country AND barring of outgoing inter-zonal calls.
And/or one of:
> 2.1 Barring incoming calls;
or: 2.2 Barring incoming calls when roaming outside the home PLMN country;
or: 2.3 Barring incoming calls when roaming outside the zone of the home PLMN
country.
And/or one of:
> 3.1 Barring of Roaming outside the home PLMN;
or: 3.2 Barring of Roaming outside the home PLMN country.
And/or one or more of:
4.1 Barring of outgoing Premium Rate Calls (Information);
4.2 Barring of outgoing Premium Rate Calls (Entertainment);
4.3 Barring of outgoing Premium Rate Calls (Information) when roaming outside
the home PLMN country;
4.4 Barring of outgoing Premium Rate Calls (Entertainment) when roaming
outside the home PLMN country.
And/or one or more of:
> 5.1 When registered in the HPLMN, Operator Specific Barring (Type 1);
or: 5.2 When registered in the HPLMN, Operator Specific Barring (Type 2);
or: 5.3 When registered in the HPLMN, Operator Specific Barring (Type 3);
or: 5.4 When registered in the HPLMN, Operator Specific Barring (Type 4).
And/or
6.1 Barring of Supplementary Services Management, which prevents user control
of any supplementary service (registration, erasure, activation, deactivation,
user invocation, interrogation, password registration and mobile initiated
USSD). However, this does not prevent invocation by other action -- e.g. an
existing call forwarding or barring state will remain.
And/or one of:
> 7.1 Barring of registration of any call forwarded-to number;
or: 7.2 Barring of registration of any international call forwarded-to number;
or: 7.3 Barring or registration of any international call forwarded-to number
except to a number within the HPLMN country;
or: 7.4 Barring of registration of any inter-zone call forwarded-to number.
Or: 7.5 Barring of registration of any inter-zone call forwarded-to number
except to a number within the HPLMN country;
Note: The definition of an international call is based on the equivalent
definition of an international call in TS 22.088 [2]. The principles for
deciding whether a forwarded-to number is international or inter-zonal are the
same as those given in TS 22.082 [4] to determine the interactions between
call forwarding and call barring.
And/or one of:
> 8.1 Barring of invocation of call transfer;
or: 8.2 Barring of invocation of call transfer where at least one of the two
calls is a call charged to the served subscriber; i.e. the call is either an
outgoing call or an incoming call when the served\ subscriber roams outside
the HPLMN;
or: 8.3 Barring of invocation of call transfer where at least one of the two
calls is a call charged to the served subscriber at international rates, i.e.
the call is either an outgoing international call or an incoming call when the
served subscriber roams outside the HPLMN country;
or: 8.4 Barring of invocation of call transfer where at least one of the two
calls is a call charged to the served subscriber at inter-zonal rates, i.e.
the call is either an outgoing inter-zonal call or an incoming call when the
served subscriber roams to a VPLMN in a different zone from the HPLMN.
And/or:
9 Barring of invocation of call transfer where both calls are calls charged to
the served subscriber, i.e. both calls are either outgoing calls or incoming
calls when the served subscriber roams outside the HPLMN;
and/or:
10 Barring of further invocation of call transfer if there is already one
ongoing transferred call for the served subscriber in the serving MSC/VLR.
\"User invocation\", as it relates to ODB, consists of the following action:
\- invocation of the call hold supplementary service.
\"Zone\" is as based on the first digit of their international dialing code as
defined in ITU-T Recommendation E.164 [3].
Note: For the purposes of this TS, zone 3 and zone 4 are treated as one zone.
Note: If control of Supplementary Services Management is barred, then the
control of call forward will be barred as a consequence, so explicit barring
of call forward activation is not necessary.
If a mobile subscriber attempts to use a mobile initiated service which is
barred as described above (categories 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10), an
appropriate message shall be returned to the Mobile Station or alternatively
(categories 1, 4, and 5), if located in the HPLMN, the mobile subscriber can
be automatically connected to a destination address determined by the HPLMN
operator. It is necessary for the message to indicate that the barring is due
to Operator Determined Barring. It is not necessary to indicate the categories
which are barred. For ongoing, or transferred calls, that are terminated due
to ODB, the network operator may give an appropriate indication to the barred
party.
A notification (announcement or ITU-T#7 cause value) may be returned to
callers attempting to call a mobile subscriber who is appropriately barred
incoming calls. It is not necessary to indicate to the called mobile station
that an incoming call has been barred.
Only the HPLMN Operator can activate, change or deactivate application of this
network feature.
In order to provide this feature securely when a subscriber roams to another
network, the visited network needs to support the feature to ensure that the
roaming subscriber cannot use a service which has been barred to him.
## 5.2 Packet Oriented Services
Packet Oriented Services, particularly data services, are different in nature
to Circuit Oriented Services, and therefore have different requirements for
Operator Determined Barring.
As described in the following categories, the Service Provider may at any time
activate this feature and this shall terminate any relevant services in
progress, and bar future requests for service covered by the barring category:
• It shall be possible to bar subscribers completely from the Packet Oriented
Services.
• Network shall be able to allow a subscriber to access some specific APNs
while barring the subscriber from the other Packet Oriented Services.
• It shall be possible to bar a subscriber from requesting Packet Oriented
Services from access points that are within the HPLMN whilst the subscriber is
roaming in a VPLMN.
• It shall be possible to bar a subscriber from requesting Packet Oriented
Services from access points that are within the roamed to VPLMN.
The term \'access point\' is used to indicate the GGSN or part of the GGSN
that is specified by a particular APN.
## 5.3 Interworking WLAN
Aspects of ODB related to interworking WLAN are addressed in TS 22.234 [6].
## 5.4 IMS Oriented Services
### 5.4.1 IMS Multimedia Telephony Services
As described in the following categories, the Service Provider may at any time
activate this feature and this shall terminate any relevant communications in
progress, including diverted communications, and bar future communications
covered by the barring category:
Independently, one of:
1.1 Barring outgoing communication;
or: 1.2 Barring outgoing international communications;
or: 1.3 Barring outgoing international communications except those directed to
the home PLMN country;
or: 1.4 Barring of outgoing communications when roaming outside the home PLMN
country;
and/or one of:
2.1 Barring incoming communications;
or: 2.2 Barring incoming communications when roaming outside the home PLMN
country;
and/or one of:
3.1 Barring of Roaming outside the home PLMN;
or: 3.2 Barring of Roaming outside the home PLMN country.
and/or one or more of:
4.1 Barring of outgoing Premium Rate Communications (Information) for E.164
international premium numbers and for premium numbers located within the home
PLMN;
4.2 Barring of outgoing Premium Rate Communications (Entertainment) for E.164
international premium numbers and for premium numbers located within the home
PLMN;
Note 1: outgoing communications to non E.164 international premium numbers
located outside the home PLMN are barred at interconnection between networks
based on bilateral agreements.
and/or one or more of:
5.1 When registered in the HPLMN, Operator Specific Barring (Type 1);
or: 5.2 When registered in the HPLMN, Operator Specific Barring (Type 2);
or: 5.3 When registered in the HPLMN, Operator Specific Barring (Type 3);
or: 5.4 When registered in the HPLMN, Operator Specific Barring (Type 4).
and/or
6 Barring of Supplementary Services Management, which prevents user control of
any supplementary service (registration, erasure, activation, deactivation,
user invocation, interrogation and password registration). However, this does
not prevent invocation by other action - e.g. an existing communication
diversion or barring state will remain.
and/or one of:
7.1 Barring of registration of any communication diverted-to address;
or: 7.2 Barring of registration of any international communication diverted-to
address;
or: 7.3 Barring of registration of any international communication diverted-to
address except to an address within the HPLMN country;
and/or one of:
8.1 Barring of invocation of communication transfer;
or: 8.2 Barring of invocation of communication transfer where at least one of
the two communications is a communication charged to the served subscriber;
i.e. the communication is either an outgoing communication or an incoming
communication when the served subscriber roams outside the HPLMN;
or: 8.3 Barring of invocation of communication transfer where at least one of
the two communications is a communication charged to the served subscriber at
international rates, i.e. the communication is either an outgoing
international communication or an incoming communication when the served
subscriber roams outside the HPLMN country;
and/or:
> 9 Barring of invocation of communication transfer where both communications
> are communications charged to the served subscriber, i.e. both
> communications are either outgoing communications or incoming communications
> when the served subscriber roams outside the HPLMN;
and/or:
10 Barring of further invocation of communication transfer if there is already
one ongoing transferred communication for the served subscriber.
If a mobile subscriber attempts to use a mobile initiated service which is
barred as described above (categories 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10), an
appropriate message shall be returned to the Mobile Station or alternatively
(categories 1,4 and 5), if located in the HPLMN, the mobile subscriber can be
automatically connected to a destination address determined by the HPLMN
operator. It is necessary for the message to indicate that the barring is due
to Operator Determined Barring. It is not necessary to indicate the categories
which are barred. For ongoing, or transferred communications, that are
terminated due to ODB, the network operator may give an appropriate indication
to the barred party.
A notification (announcement or appropriate SIP response) may be returned to
callers attempting to communicate with a mobile subscriber who is
appropriately barred for incoming communications. No indication is provided to
the called mobile station that an incoming communication has been barred.
Only the HPLMN Operator can activate, change or deactivate application of this
network feature.
# 6 Exceptional procedures
If a VPLMN does not support an operator determined barring category which an
HPLMN requests it to apply, the VPLMN shall notify the HPLMN. The HPLMN may
then request the VPLMN to apply a substitute operator determined barring
category, or take any other action required by the HPLMN operator.
# 7 Alternate procedures
None identified.
# 8 Interworking considerations
None identified.
#