# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
The scope of this document includes service requirements for handover
maintaining continuity of service to a wireless terminal as it moves between
the radio coverage area, or \"cells\", associated with different base station
sites. This functionality is called \"handover\". Handover can also occur due
to change of radio resource providing a service without necessarily any change
of the base stations involved. In particular, when the radio resources
providing a service change from one of the UTRA radio access modes to the
other (UTRA-FDD and UTRA-TDD), this is regarded as handover. Particular
emphasis has been placed on the description of requirements for service
continuity within UTRAN and between UTRAN and GERAN.
It is a key requirement to allow for dual or multi-mode terminals to handover
traffic from UTRAN to GERAN and vice versa. This document describes the
service requirements for intra- and inter- system handover.
The following subject areas are within the scope of these service
requirements:
\- User perceived performance that may be influenced by handover;
\- Operational requirements relating to handover;
\- Security requirements.
The requirements set forth in this document are service requirements, in that
they fulfil the following:
\- The requirements are independent of the implementation of the UTRAN;
\- The extent to which the requirements are met are in principle verifiable
using observables that are not internal to the UTRAN.
## 1.1 Situations in which Service Requirements apply
The service requirements in this document are as far as possible independent
of the implementation. They therefore apply to situations where handover would
occur regardless of how the radio access network is implemented. Situations
envisaged are:
\- Handover within UTRAN due to change of radio resource caused by UE movement
between areas covered by different transmitters;
\- Handover within UTRAN due to change of UTRA radio access mode;
\- Handover due to change of radio system.
It is possible that handover (i.e. change of radio resource) will occur in
other situations, for example the technical implementation of the UTRAN may
necessitate it or O&M procedures initiated by the operator may force it.
Requirements for these situations are not within the scope of this document,
with the exception of two remarks:
\- Where the technical implementation of the UTRAN necessitates handover as a
matter of normal operation (i.e. not related to the above situations), then
services shall in no way be degraded or adversely affected;
\- The service requirements for handover occurring in situations such as O&M
activity are outside the scope of this document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \"
[2] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\"
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
In addition to the following, abbreviations used in the present document are
listed in TR 21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply:
**Connection mode (for a bearer service):** characterises the type of
association between two endpoints as required by the bearer service for the
transfer of information. A bearer service is either connection-oriented or
connectionless. In a connection oriented mode, a logical association called
_connection_ needs to be established between the source and the destination
entities before information can be exchanged between them. Connection oriented
bearer services lifetime is the period of time between the establishment and
the release of the connection.
**Connectionless (for a bearer service):** In a connectionless bearer, no
connection is established beforehand between the source and the destination
entities; the source and destination network addresses need to be specified in
each message. Transferred information cannot be guaranteed of ordered
delivery. Connectionless bearer services lifetime is reduced to the transport
of one message.
**GERAN coverage** : an area where mobile cellular services are provided by a
GERAN in accordance with GERAN specifications.
**UTRAN coverage** : an area where mobile cellular services are provided by a
UTRAN in accordance with UTRAN specifications.
**Multi mode terminal** : UE that can obtain service from at least one UTRA
radio access mode, and one or more different systems such as GERAN bands or
possibly other radio systems such IMT-2000 family members.
**Handover** : The process in which the radio access network changes the radio
transmitters or radio access mode or radio system used to provide the bearer
services, while maintaining a defined bearer service QoS.
**Intra PLMN handover** : Handover within the same network, i.e. having the
same MCC-MNC regardless of radio access system. Note: this includes the case
of UTRAN \<>GERAN handover where MCC-MNC are the same in both cases.
**Inter PLMN handover** : Handover between different PLMNs, i.e. having
different MCC-MNC.
**Inter system handover:** Handover between networks using different radio
systems , e.g. UTRAN -- GERAN.
**UTRA Radio access mode** : the selected UTRA radio access mode i.e. UTRA-
FDD; UTRA-TDD.
**Radio system** : the selected 2^nd^ or 3^rd^ generation radio access
technology.
**Service Continuity** : The means for maintaining active services during
changes in the coverage areas or their characteristics without, as far as
possible, the user noticing. Note that Service Continuity can be achieved by
handover, cell re-selection or other mechanisms.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
**UE** User equipment
# 4 General Principles governing service continuity
## 4.0 General Principles for service continuity
The general principles for service continuity described in this specification
refer to service continuity within the UTRAN, within the GERAN and between the
UTRAN and GERAN. As a principle, the requirements on service continuity
characteristics should be according to the target network on which the service
is maintained.
Service requirements for seamless mobility between multiple heterogeneous
access systems beyond only UTRAN and GERAN are contained within TS 22.278 [2].
## 4.1 Service Continuity Scenarios
Service continuity shall support the following scenarios:
1\. Continuity of active CS services when moving within UTRAN, within GERAN
and between UTRAN and GERAN coverage areas.
> 2\. Continuity of active GPRS sessions when moving within UTRAN, within
> GERAN and between UTRAN and GERAN coverage areas.
3\. Continuity of active IM Services when moving within UTRAN, within GERAN
and between UTRAN and GERAN coverage areas (that support those IM services).
Service continuity is not applicable for any call or session using resources
specific to the source domain that cannot be maintained using resources in the
target domain.
## 4.2 Service Continuity requirements
For all scenarios, the specifications shall cover both service continuity
within the same PLMN (intra-PLMN) and between PLMNs (inter-PLMN), including
the case where the PLMNs involved are operated by different network operators.
It shall be possible for a user to roam between the different parts of a
shared network without requiring any user intervention. The user experience
while roaming in a shared network shall be comparable to the user experience
while roaming in a non-shared network.
### 4.2.1 Service continuity for CS
The scenario numbers in this table refer to the scenarios in section 4.1.
+----------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | To CS services | | | +----------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | UTRAN | GERAN | | +----------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | **From CS services** | **UTRAN** | Yes - | Yes - | | | | | | | | | Scenario 1 | Scenario 1 | +----------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | **GERAN** | Yes -- Scenario 1 | Yes -- Scenario 1 | +----------------------+----------------+-------------------+-------------------+
### 4.2.2 Service continuity for GPRS
Service continuity of GPRS sessions (conversation, streaming, interactive and
background) is required within the GERAN, within the UTRAN, and between the
UTRAN and GERAN (scenario 2 in section 4.1 above).
Note: Service continuity for conversational, streaming and interactive GPRS
sessions is not applicable to and from GERAN Release 4 or earlier, due to the
lack of support for the conversational, streaming and interactive GPRS within
GERAN Release 4 or earlier. In these cases, although the QoS required may not
be available in the target, the bearer shall be maintained as long as
possible. If the QoS supported by GERAN is not acceptable, the
user/application may terminate the session.
### 4.2.3 Service continuity for IM Services
Service continuity of IM services is required within the GERAN, within the
UTRAN, and between the UTRAN and GERAN (scenario 3 in section 4.1 above).
Note: Service continuity of IM Services is not applicable to and from GERAN
Release 4 or earlier as the IM Services service classes are not supported by
GERAN Release 4 or earlier. In these cases, although the QoS required may not
be available in the target, the bearer shall be maintained as long as
possible. If the QoS supported by GERAN is not acceptable, the
user/application may terminate the session.
## 4.3 General Operational Considerations
### 4.3.1 Coverage environment
Mechanisms defined to support service continuity between different radio
systems or radio access modes should effectively cope with a number of
coverage scenarios:
\- Limited coverage in a \'sea\' of coverage provided by another radio system
or radio access mode, or vice versa;
\- Selective operation at a geographical boundary, with extensive UTRAN
coverage on one side and extensive coverage from another radio system on the
other side;
\- Geographically co-located areas of UTRAN coverage and another radio system.
However the specifications should impose no restrictions or assumptions on how
an operator might deploy or operate the network in both GERAN and UTRAN.
### 4.3.2 Inter PLMN Handover Issues
Handovers to support service continuity between PLMNs should remain an
optional feature to implement. It is envisaged that handover would take place
due to changing radio conditions caused e.g. by movement of the terminal
causing it to leave the coverage area of a PLMN.
The following networks may be involved with an inter-PLMN handover procedure.
These concepts are illustrated in Annex A:
\- The user's _home network,_ i.e. the operator where the user's subscription
may be found;
\- The user's _visited network_ where the subscriber user is currently
registered, i.e. the network where the subscriber user has performed the last
successful update location procedure. As long as the subscriber user is
roaming within the home network, home and visited network are identical;
\- The user\'s _serving network_ covering the cell that serves the subscriber.
After successful completion of the update location update procedure, the
serving network is identical with the visited network. After an inter-PLMN
handover, the visited network is different from the serving network until a
location update procedure has been successfully completed (excepted the case
that the subscriber returns into the visited network);
\- The _target network_ covering candidate target cell(s) for inter-PLMN
handover. The target network has overlapping radio coverage with the serving
network but not necessarily with the visited network.
The minimum requirements for inter-PLMN HO are:
\- Continuity of an _active call_ across the handover procedure, where this
would be possible for intra-PLMN handover;
\- The decision whether the handover request is accepted must be taken by the
target network.
### 4.3.3 Charging and Network Management
Means shall be standardised which allow charging records to record the time of
handover in the case of inter-PLMN operator handover. Charging records must be
able to reflect the level of UTRA radio access, operation mode and network
type after handover.
A capability to provide network management information relating to frequency
of occurrence and type of handover should be defined.
### 4.3.4 Cost and efficiency
The UTRAN specifications shall facilitate the cost-effective implementation
both on the network and on the terminal side, of multi mode operation between
GERAN and UTRAN. Impacts on networks based on earlier releases shall be
minimised. Such handover shall not require user intervention.
### 4.3.5 Security
Security requirements should embody the principle that handover shall not
compromise the security of the network providing the new radio resources; the
(possibly different) network providing the original radio resources; and the
UE. The security mechanisms should also cater for appropriate authentication
processes and meet the requirements of national administrations in terms of
lawful interception.
## 4.4 Performance Requirements
### 4.4.1 Temporary degradation of service caused by handover
During intra UTRAN handover or handover from UTRAN to GERAN, degradation of
service shall be no greater than during intra GERAN handover.
The duration of the discontinuity experienced by PS and CS real time services
should be shorter than that in the handover of CS speech calls over GERAN.
# 5 Requirements for Handover
## 5.1 Handover due to UE Movement
It should be possible to provide a technical implementation of handover such
that there is no measurable impact on the quality of any service when handover
due to UE movement occurs. This does not imply that all handovers will achieve
this ideal. However, the specifications shall define at least one UTRA radio
access mode in which this is possible given the following:
\- UE speed stays within limits for given service;
\- UE stays constantly within UTRA coverage of a single UTRAN.
When there is handover to a new cell with different radio conditions and if a
PS sessions is unable to maintain the required quality of service, the QoS of
the sessions may be modified to lower quality to continue communication.
## 5.2 Handover due to negotiated service requirement
In order to allow the connection with the negotiated bearer- or teleservice to
be established, means shall be defined, which makes it possible for the core
network, to recommend to access network to handover the UE to another RAT
better suited to support the desired bearer- or teleservice.
## 5.3 Handover between Radio Access Modes
The specifications shall permit a technical implementation of handover between
radio access modes, although there may be a temporary degradation of QoS on
bearer services at the time of handover.
## 5.4 Cell capacity
Consideration must be given services such as multimedia, which may involve use
of multiple bearers. Due for example to cell loading, it may happen that a
target cell cannot support the combination of bearer services provided by the
current serving cell. Although all bearer services may not be handed over, the
handover to another cell should not be precluded.
## 5.5 Handover of a Multicall
The handover event can trigger changes to individual calls in any multicall
scenario.
It shall be possible to handover all the calls in a multicall configuration.
If the target system is UTRAN and the target cell is not able to accommodate
all the calls in a multicall configuration, then the calls that are handed
over are selected according to operator preferences. If the target system is
GERAN, then the call that is handed over shall be selected in following order:
i The call of teleservice emergency call ;
ii The call of teleservice telephony;
iii The call of any other type according to operator preferences.
Calls that cannot be handed over will be released.
A change in the availability of suitable radio resources may also occur for
other reasons in addition to handover.
## 5.6 Access Rights
It shall be possible to prevent handover to cells to which the UE does not
have access rights. In this case, a handover to allowed cells shall be
attempted. For this release this requirement only applies for UTRAN to UTRAN
and UTRAN to GERAN handover in both A/Gb and Iu mode.
## 5.7 Handover for shared networks
Handover shall be supported within a shared network and between a shared
network and a non-shared network.
The requirements that apply to inter PLMN handover between non-shared networks
shall equally apply to inter PLMN handover between shared networks as well as
between a shared and a non-shared network.
The network shall be able to make the decision on the most appropriate
candidate for handover based on any combination of the following information:
\- type of subscription (e.g. prepay / postpay)
\- home network of the subscriber
\- access rights
\- connected core network
NOTE: Access rights describe which of the candidates for handover a subscriber
is allowed to access. The access rights are granted by the home PLMN on a
subscriber by subscriber basis.
# 6 Requirements for Handover from UTRAN to GERAN
## 6.1 Operational Requirements
### 6.1.2 GERAN bands
The standard shall support handover to any combination of GERAN bands
supported by the specifications.
## 6.2 Performance Requirements
The following service principles apply to performance requirements:
\- When the UE performs handover to GERAN then the service requirements of
GERAN that relate to handover between different cells in different location
areas is taken as the benchmark. It is not the intention to set more stringent
service requirements for UTRAN to GERAN handover than are already commonly
accepted for handover within GERAN.
### 6.2.1 Detection Time of Potential GERAN Handover Candidates
Means shall be defined which allow the UE to achieve as good detection time
performance as the GERAN benchmark: i.e. to behave in such a way as to detect
potential handover candidates as quickly as a mobile performing an intra GERAN
handover is required to do so.
### 6.2.2 Number of GERAN handover candidates to detect
Means shall be available which allow UE to detect an equal number of GERAN
handover candidates relative to the GERAN benchmark, i.e. to behave in such a
way as to detect as many potential handover candidates as a mobile performing
an intra GERAN handover is required to do so.
### 6.2.3 Probability of Connection Loss
The service requirement is that it should be possible to hand over to GERAN
from UTRAN with a probability of connection loss that fulfils the
corresponding service requirement for intra GERAN handover.
## 6.3 Specific Requirements for Individual Services from UTRAN to GERAN
### 6.3.1 Speech
Handover of a CS Speech teleservice (TS11) from UTRAN to GERANis required.
This requirement also applies to emergency calls (TS12):
\- Any call based on the default UTRAN speech codec (AMR) shall be mapped to
the FR GSM speech codec. In the case the terminal and the GERAN network
support AMR and /or EFR and/or HR, it shall be the operators choice to define
the appropriate mapping.
Means shall be defined which make it possible to limit any temporary
degradation on handover so it meets the performance specified by GERAN service
requirements for speech handover.
### 6.3.2 Short Message Service
There are no requirements related to handover for short message service.
### 6.3.3 Cell Broadcast
There are no requirements related to handover for cell broadcast.
### 6.3.4 USSD
The technical specifications shall provide means to ensure that any handover
that occurs during a USSD interaction need no more affect the service than
intra-GERAN handover.
### 6.3.5 Facsimile
It is not required that a facsimile transmission that is active between UE and
network at the time of handover from UTRAN to GERAN completes successfully.
### 6.3.6 Data Bearer Services
#### 6.3.6.1 Circuit Switched Data
Specifications shall be defined to permit the possibility of handover of a
UTRAN data bearer service to GERAN
Means shall be defined which make it possible to limit any temporary
degradation on handover so it meets the performance specified by GERAN service
requirements for data bearer service handover.
#### 6.3.6.2 Packet Switched Data
It is required to handover a user PS context between GERAN and UTRAN.
Independently of the used air interface, the user shall stay connected to an
external network (internet, intranet).
### 6.3.7 Supplementary Services
Control and use of Supplementary Services should not be effected by a handover
to GERAN.
## 6.4 Requirements on multiple bearer services handover from UTRAN to GERAN
Consideration must be given to services that may involve multiple bearer
services. The mapping between UTRAN bearer services and GERAN bearer services
will depend upon many factors such as data rate, delay constraints, error rate
etc. In the event certain UTRAN bearer services cannot be handed over to
GERAN, the handover of some of the bearers to maintain the service should not
be precluded.
In the case where user equipped with a dual mode terminal is in UTRAN coverage
and has multiple PDP contexts activated (for instance to support multimedia)
then it is preferable to handover one PDP context, rather than dropping all of
them.
As a first priority only the PDP contexts which have an associated QoS that
can be supported by the GERAN should be candidates for handover.
If there are still multiple PDP contexts as \"handover candidates\" then it
shall be an operator choice which PDP context will be maintained. When roaming
this decision shall be taken by the serving network. The operator may choose
to either;
a) Drop all of the PDP contexts.
b) Choose one based upon criteria such as duration, amount of traffic
transferred, etc.
In case of UTRAN to GERAN handover of a **Multicall** only one call can be
handed over.
# 7 Requirements for Handover from GERAN to UTRAN
## 7.1 Operational Requirements
### 7.1.2 GERAN bands
The standard shall support handover from any combination of GERAN bands
supported by the GERAN specifications.
## 7.2 Performance Requirements
During handover from GERAN to UTRAN, temporary degradations shall be no
greater than for intra-GERAN handovers.
## 7.3 Specific Requirements for Individual Service Handover from GERAN to
UTRAN
### 7.3.1 Speech
AMR, EFR, FR and HR calls shall be mapped to the default UTRAN speech codec.
### 7.3.2 Short Message Service
There are no requirements related to handover for short message service.
### 7.3.3 Cell Broadcast
There are no requirements related to handover for cell broadcast.
### 7.3.4 USSD
The technical specifications shall provide means to ensure that any handover
that occurs during a USSD interaction need no more affect the service than
intra-GERAN handover.
### 7.3.5 Facsimile
It is not required that a facsimile transmission that is active between UE and
network at the time of handover from GERAN to UTRAN completes successfully.
### 7.3.6 Data Bearer Services
#### 7.3.6.1 Circuit Switched Data
Specifications shall be defined to permit the possibility of handover of a
data bearer from GERAN to UTRAN.
Means shall be defined which make it possible to limit any temporary
degradation on handover so it meets the performance specified by GERAN service
requirements for circuit switched data handover.
#### 7.3.6.2 Packet Switched Data
It is required to handover a user context between GERAN and UTRAN.
Independently of the used radio interface, the user shall stay connected to an
external network (internet, intranet). Any change in the QoS shall be seen at
the service access points as a network initiated renegotiation of QoS. If the
supported QoS is not acceptable, the UE/user may terminate the
connection/context.
Means shall be defined which make it possible to limit any temporary
degradation on handover so it meets the performance specified by GERAN service
requirements for packet switched data handover.
### 7.3.7 Supplementary services
Control and use of Supplementary Services should not be effected by a handover
to UTRAN.
## 7.4 Requirements on multiple bearer services handover from GERAN to UTRAN
Consideration must be given to services that may involve the use of multiple
bearer services. For example Class A GPRS terminals will be capable of
simultaneously supporting more than one data bearer services. Means shall be
defined to allow handover of several data bearer services from GERAN to UTRAN
# 8 Cross Phase Compatibility for this release
This section details the cross phase compatibility requirements relating to
the service requirements in this document.
Note: When a change is introduced which affects the 3GPP technical
specifications, it is said to be \'backward compatible\' if existing equipment
can continue to operate and perform correctly with equipment that conforms to
the new implementation.
## 8.1 Compatibility with Existing Specifications
Where the service and operational requirements in this document relate to a
GERAN, compatibility is required with systems conforming to the R99 or later
GERAN specifications.
## 8.2 Compatibility with Future 3GPP specifications
The specifications that define the technical implementation of this release
should be developed in such a way that it is practical to add the requirements
in this section in a backward compatible manner.
### 8.2.1 Requirements for Service Capabilities
3GPP standardises service capabilities, not services. As part of the service
capabilities it is envisaged that applications may wish to respond to events
related to handover that either has occurred, is about to occur or could
potentially occur. The service capabilities described in this section should
be available at least to UE hosted applications.
The following list of uses is provided as an example and is not intended to be
exhaustive:
\- An application may wish to accept or reject offered QoS;
\- An application may wish to cope to the effect that handover has on a
service, for example facsimile retransmission;
\- An application may wish to preferentially choose radio resources.
It is therefore required that the service capability set available to an
application be able to provide an indication that handover has occurred or
could occur with information about the type of handover and radio resources
involved. The service capabilities should support QoS negotiation.
### 8.2.2 Inter PLMN Handover Issues
The minimum requirements for inter-PLMN HO are:
\- The ability to check with the home network whether the user is permitted to
handover from the visited network to a target network.
\- Invocation of the handover procedure only occurs if the target network
provides the radio channel type required for the respective call;
\- The avoidance of \"network hopping\", i.e. successive handover procedures
between neighbouring networks for the same call;
\- The possibility of user notification of inter-PLMN HO (e.g. possible tariff
change) when it occurs.
### 8.2.3 Handover between Environments
UMTS is expected to provide coverage in a number of environments including
fixed and mobile as described in the table below. The technical specifications
should not preclude the possibility of implementing these requirements in a
backward compatible manner.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------+-----------+ | **To** | Terrestrial Cellular | Fixed/Cordless | Satellite | | | | | | | **From** | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------+-----------+ | Terrestrial Cellular | Yes (R99) | Yes | Yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------+-----------+ | Fixed/Cordless | Yes | Yes | Yes | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------+-----------+ | Satellite | Yes | Yes | No | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------+-----------+
## 8.3 Support of Multicall with Simultaneous Voice Calls
In the case where Multicall is used to support multiple voice calls a handover
must be attempted for each bearer that is in use. In the case where not all
bearers can be supported by the destination network the related voice calls
shall be automatically put on hold. After the handover is completed, the
subscriber shall be able to retrieve any held voice call by invoking the Call
Hold service.
This requirement is dependent on the user subscribing to Call Hold.
This is only required if there is more than one simultaneous speech call and
this is therefore not required for this release.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Illustration of elements in inter-PLMN
handover
Figure 1 illustrates the above definitions taking an example of European GSM
networks. The subscriber\'s home network is France. The visited network where
the subscriber is registered in a VLR is Germany. The signalling connection
between HLR and VLR is indicated by dotted lines. The calls for the subscriber
are controlled by the MSC collocated to the VLR where the subscriber is
registered. This MSC is called \"_anchor MSC_ \".
Handover to a different MSC may occur if the cell serving the subscriber after
handover is not controlled by the anchor MSC. This MSC is called the
\"_serving MSC_ \". Even after the call has been handed over to a different
MSC, the call control function remains in the anchor MSC. The signalling
connection and circuit switched connection established between anchor MSC and
serving MSC are indicated by a solid line.
When the French subscriber registered in a German network roams near the
border to the Netherlands, inter-PLMN handover may occur. In this case a Dutch
network is the _target network_. After handover, the anchor MSC located in a
German network continues to control the call. The German network remains the
_visited network_ where the subscriber is registered. The subscriber\'s
location information stored in the HLR remains unchanged. The signalling and
circuit switched connections between the anchor MSC and the previously serving
MSC in the German network will be released when the User Equipment (UE) is
served by a cell within a Dutch network. The Dutch network becomes the
_serving network_. From the Dutch network the subscriber may be handed over to
a Belgian network.
{width="3.547222222222222in" height="3.067361111111111in"}
Figure 1: Example for inter-PLMN handover
###### ## Annex B (informative): Open Points on Inter-Operator Handover
The requirements outlined below are likely to need further elaboration,
although these may be outside the scope of service requirements.
# B.2 Selection of Target Cells for Handover
A mechanism is envisaged to support the selection of the target cell for
handover. The target cell may be part of the serving network or part of
another network.
# B.3 Network Information Exchange
A mechanism is envisaged to support the exchange of network information
between different operators. Two categories of network information are
identified:
\- static information, for example, neighbour cell lists, interconnecting
traffic and signalling links, etc.;
\- dynamic information, for example real-time signalling information related
to target cell selection, etc.
# B.4 Service Requirements
FFS.
[There is a need to identify which services can be maintained during handover
and the interactions of services across network boundaries]
# B.5 Billing, Accounting and Charging Requirements
FFS.
#