# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document define the IMS Multimedia Telephony service and the
minimum set of capabilities required to secure multi-vendor and multi-operator
inter-operability for Multimedia Telephony and related Supplementary Services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void
[3] Void
[4] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"IP multimedia (IM) CN subsystem, stage 1\"
[5] ITU-T Recommendation I.210: \"Principles of telecommunication services
supported by an ISDN and the means to describe them\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.041: \"Operator Determined Barring (ODB)\"
[7] 3GPP TS 24.173: \" IMS Multimedia Telephony Communication Service and
Supplementary Services; Stage 3\"
[8] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.182: \"Customized Alerting Tones (CAT) Requirements; Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.183: \"Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) Requirements; Stage
1\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation F.703: \"Multimedia Conversational Services\".
[12] 3GPP TS 22.090 : \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD); Stage
1\".
[13] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Blacklist** List of identities or identity ranges that, for one reason or
another, are being denied a particular service.
**Whitelist** List of identities or identity ranges that are provided
particular services. Whitelist is also named VIP list.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
3PTY Three Party
ACR Anonymous Communication Rejection
AOC-C Advice Of Charge - Charging
AOC-D Advice Of Charge - During the communication
AOC-E Advice Of Charge - at the End of the communication
AOC-I Advice Of Charge - Information
AOC-S Advice Of Charge - charging information at communication Set-up time
CAT Customized Alerting Tone
CB Communication session Barring
CCBS Completion of Communication sessions to Busy Subscriber
CD Communication Deflection
CDIV Communication DIVersion
CFB Communication Forwarding Busy
CFNL Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in
CFNR Communication Forwarding No Reply
CFNRc Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable
CFU Communication Forwarding Unconditional
COLP Connected Line identification Presentation
COLR Connected Line identification Restriction
CONF CONFerence
CRS Customized Ringing Signal
CS Circuit Switched
CUG Closed User Group
CW Communication Waiting
ECT Explicit Communication Transfer
FA Flexible Alerting
HOLD Communication HOLD
ICB Incoming Communications Barring
MCID Malicious Communication Identification
MWI Message Waiting Indication
OCB Outgoing Communications Barring
OIP Originating Identification Presentation
OIR Originating Identification Restriction
PSAP Public Safety Answer Point
PUI Public User Identity
TIP Terminating Identification Presentation
TIR Terminating Identification Restriction
# 4 Service description
## 4.1 General Service characteristics
The IMS Multimedia Telephony Service should allow multimedia conversational
communications between two or more users. It provides real time bidirectional
conversational transfer of speech, video or optionally other types of data.
The IMS Multimedia Telephony communication is point to point between terminals
communicating, or a terminal and a network entity. This communication is
usually symmetrical, but in special cases the media components present in each
direction may be different, or they may be the same but with different bit
rates and Quality of Service.
An IMS Multimedia Telephony communication can start with only one type of
media and additional types of media may or may not be added by the users as
the communication progress. Therefore a particular IMS Multimedia Telephony
communication may consist of only one type of media, e.g. speech.
IMS Multimedia Telephony service is different from other IMS based services,
such as Push to Talk over Cellular (PoC).\ Its characteristics includes the
following:
\- IMS Multimedia Telephony is a service where speech, and speech combined
with other media components, is the typical usage but the service is not
limited to always include speech, it also caters for other media or
combinations of media (e.g. text and video).
\- The IMS multimedia telephony service includes supplementary services. The
behaviour of these services is almost identical to supplementary services for
CS voice (TS 11) and PSTN/ISDN.
Note: most supplementary services are active in the set-up phase. Mid session
supplementary services such as session transfer and session hold exist.
\- The anticipated usage model is that of traditional telephony: one user
connecting to any other user, regardless of operator and access technology.
\- When a supplementary service is invoked it applies to all media components
of an IMS Multimedia Telephony communication. A supplementary service can be
activated by the user for one or more types of media components. If one or
more of these media components are present in the IMS Multimedia Telephony
communication then the supplementary service is invoked.
## 4.2 Default media handling capabilities of IMS Multimedia Telephony service
IMS Multimedia Telephony can support many different types of media.
IMS Multimedia Telephony service includes the following standardized media
capabilities:
\- Full duplex speech;
\- Real time video (simplex, full duplex), synchronized with speech if
present;
\- Real-Time Text communication;
\- File transfer;
\- Video clip sharing, picture sharing, audio clip sharing. Transferred files
may be displayed/replayed on receiving terminal for specified file formats
\- Fax;
\- Data (CS).
The support of each of these media capabilities is optional for a UE.
At least one common standardized format (e.g. JPEG, AMR) shall be supported
per media type.
Note: IMS Multimedia Telephony service fulfils the service requirement for the
Total Conversation in ITU-T F 703 [11].
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the following handling of
media
\- Adding, removing and modifying individual media to/from an IMS Multimedia
Telephony communication
## 4.3 Association of Services to Time/Date
As a service option, the activation, deactivation and invocation of services
may be associated with a time and/or date setting. To support roaming, the
time zone may also be included.
## 4.4 Additional timing information
As a service option, additional timing information on current active services
may be made available by the network. The content of this information is
service dependant.
As a service option, the user may be allowed dynamically extend this timing
for the active communication.
## 4.5 White / blacklist
As service provider option, activation/deactivation/invocation services may be
associated with a white/black list. A list may be specific to a service or may
be used by several services.
# 5 Service Requirements
General service requirements as specified for IMS services in [4] apply.
# 6 Quality of Service
General QoS requirements as specified for IMS services in [4] apply.
# 7 Interworking requirements
## 7.1 Interworking with CS domain
Standardisation of interworking between the IMS domain and the CS domain for
multimedia telephony communications is provided as specified in [4].
## 7.2 Interworking with external networks
General interworking requirements with external networks as specified for IMS
services in [4] apply.
## 7.3 Media Aspects on Interworking
End to end codec negotiation shall be supported. When the codec negotiation
fails, transcoding should be provided as an operator option.
When transcoding applies, the quality degradation and additional latency due
to decoding/encoding operation shall be minimized.
When the media plane is locally broken-out and/or locally broken-in within a
visited network, the home network may instruct the visited network to perform
transcoding.
To optimize the end-user experience, during the codec negotiation and subject
to operator policy, a wideband codec should be preferred over a narrowband
codec, subject to the capabilities of both ends.
# 8 Supplementary Services
## 8.1 General
This clause provides the description of the supplementary services applicable
to IMS Multimedia Telephony service.
The behaviour of IMS supplementary services, as perceived by the user, shall
be consistent with the behaviour perceived when using the equivalent
supplementary services on PSTN/ ISDN and CS mobile networks.
For each supplementary service, the following is provided:
  * a short service definition;
  * a description of the normal operation with successful outcome.
And when applicable also:
  * a description of exceptional operation or unsuccessful outcome;
  * descriptions on interaction with other supplementary services applicable to IMS Multimedia Telephony service;
  * consideration for interworking with the CS mobile and fixed services.
In general if a service is not mentioned within the interaction clause then
there is no impact.
The support of some of these services may be mandatory or optional depending
on specific country/regional regulation.
For CEPT members see annex C.
Some services are not applicable to UE accessing IMS via 3GPP accesses. See
annex D.
## 8.2 Supplementary Services applicable to IMS Multimedia Telephony
### 8.2.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
#### 8.2.1.1 Definition
The OIP service provides the terminating party with the Identity of the
originating party.
The requirements for Presentation of session originating party identity shall
be handled as described in [4].
#### 8.2.1.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.1.2.1 Identification services
##### 8.2.1.2.1.1 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) {#originating-
identification-restriction-oir .H6}
The requirements for the interactions between presenting and withholding the
originating party\'s identity shall be as described in [4].
##### 8.2.1.2.2 Diversion services
##### 8.2.1.2.2.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
{#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu .H6}
When a communication has been forwarded and the forwarded-to party has been
provided with the OIP service, the forwarded-to party shall receive the
identity information of the original originating party, if this originating
party has not subscribed to or invoked the OIR service.
##### 8.2.1.2.2.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#communication-
forwarding-busy-cfb .H6}
When a communication has been forwarded and the forwarded-to party has been
provided with the OIP service, the forwarded-to party shall receive the
identity information of the original originating party, if this originating
party has not subscribed to or invoked the OIR service.
##### 8.2.1.2.2.3 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) {#communication-
forwarding-no-reply-cfnr .H6}
When a communication has been forwarded and the forwarded-to party has been
provided with the OIP service, the forwarded-to party shall receive the
identity information of the original originating party, if this originating
party has not subscribed to or invoked the OIR service.
##### 8.2.1.2.2.4 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL)
{#communication-forwarding-on-not-logged-in-cfnl .H6}
When a communication has been forwarded and the forwarded-to party has been
provided with the OIP service, the forwarded-to party shall receive the
identity information of the original originating party, if this originating
party has not subscribed to or invoked the OIR service.
##### 8.2.1.2.2.5 Communication Deflection (CD) {#communication-deflection-cd
.H6}
When a communication has been deflected and the deflected-to party has been
provided with the OIP service, the deflected-to party shall receive the
identity information of the original originating party, if this originating
party has not subscribed to or invoked the OIR service.
##### 8.2.1.2.2.6 Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
{#communication-forwarding-on-subscriber-not-reachable-cfnrc .H6}
When a communication has been forwarded and the forwarded-to party has been
provided with the OIP service, the forwarded-to party shall receive the
identity information of the original originating party, if this originating
party has not subscribed to or invoked the OIR service.
##### 8.2.1.2.2.7 Void {#void .H6}
##### 8.2.1.2.3 Communication Waiting (CW)
If a party has the OIP service active and is notified that an incoming
communication is waiting, then this party shall receive the identity
information of the originating party, if this originating party has not
subscribed to or invoked the OIR service.
#### 8.2.1.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and mobileCS Networks
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
OIP service with mobile CS and PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Service CLIP and
vice‑versa. The scope of this interworking may result in a limited service
capability (only E.164 numbers can be used in the PSTN/ISDN).
### 8.2.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
#### 8.2.2.1 Definition
The Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) service enables the
originating party to withhold the presentation of its asserted identity
information to the terminating party.
The requirements for withholding the originators identity shall be as
described in [4]. Those requirements also allow certain terminating party to
override the restriction (override capability).
#### 8.2.2.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.2.2.1 Identification services
8.2.2.2.1.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
The requirements for the interactions between presenting and withholding the
originating parties\' identity shall be as described in [4].
##### 8.2.2.2.2 Diversion services
##### 8.2.2.2.2.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
{#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu-1 .H6}
When the OIR service has been invoked, the originating party\'s identity
information shall not be presented to the forwarded-to party unless the
forwarded-to party has an override capability.
##### 8.2.2.2.2.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#communication-
forwarding-busy-cfb-1 .H6}
Same as for CFU.
##### 8.2.2.2.2.3 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) {#communication-
forwarding-no-reply-cfnr-1 .H6}
Same as for CFU.
##### 8.2.2.2.2.4 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL)
{#communication-forwarding-on-not-logged-in-cfnl-1 .H6}
Same as for CFU.
##### 8.2.2.2.2.5 Communication Deflection (CD) {#communication-deflection-
cd-1 .H6}
Same as for CFU.
##### 8.2.2.2.2.6 Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
{#communication-forwarding-on-subscriber-not-reachable-cfnrc-1 .H6}
Same as for CFU.
##### 8.2.2.2.2.7 Void {#void-1 .H6}
##### 8.2.2.2.3 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
An originating party\'s restriction requirements from the original
communication shall be used in order to restrict the presentation of that
party\'s identity to any party in a transferred communication.
#### 8.2.2.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and mobile CS Networks
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of OIR
service with the mobile CS and the PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Service CLIR and
vice‑versa. The scope of this interworking may result in a limited service
capability. The Originating Identity Restriction information shall be conveyed
from IMS to a mobile CS or a PSTN/ISDN and vice-versa. The network to which
the called/terminating party is connected to is responsible to handle this
service.
In case of limited interoperability the restriction, OIR/CLIR shall have
precedence.
### 8.2.3 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
#### 8.2.3.1 Definition
The TIP service provides the originating party with the asserted identity of
the terminating party. The requirements for the presentation of the
terminating identity shall be as described in [4].
NOTE: See also service definition in [E-17].
#### 8.2.3.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.3.2.1 Identification services
##### 8.2.3.2.1.1 Terminating identification presentation restriction
{#terminating-identification-presentation-restriction .H6}
The requirements for the interactions between presenting and withholding the
terminating party\'s identity shall be as described in [4].
##### 8.2.3.2.2 Diversion services
If forwarding party B chooses to restrict the presentation of the forwarded-to
party C\'s identity, the originating party A shall not receive the terminating
party C\'s identity irrespective of whether the terminating party C has TIR
activated or not.
#### 8.2.3.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and mobile CS Networks
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
TIP services with mobile CS and PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Service COLP and
vice‑versa. The scope of this interworking may result in a limited service
capability
### 8.2.4 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
#### 8.2.4.1 Definition
The Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR) enables the terminating party
to withhold presentation of its asserted identity information to the
originating party.
The requirements for withholding the terminating party\'s identity are
described in [4]. Those requirements also allow certain originating parties to
override the restriction (override capability).
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-20].
#### 8.2.4.2 Service interactions with other IMS Multimedia Telephony services
##### 8.2.4.2.1 Identification services
##### 8.2.4.2.1.1 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP) {#terminating-
identification-presentation-tip-1 .H6}
The requirements for the interactions between presenting and withholding the
terminating party\'s identity shall be as described in [4].
#### 8.2.4.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and mobile CS Networks
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
TIR services with mobile CS and PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Services and
vice‑versa. The scope of this interworking may result in a limited service
capability.
In the case the target network does not support TIR service, the TIP
information shall not be forwarded.
### 8.2.5 Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
#### 8.2.5.1 Definition
The MCID service enables an incoming communication to be identified as
malicious and registered.
This service may be available to a user only after subscription. Once the user
has indicated to the network that the communication is malicious, the IMS
shall register at least the following information:
  * Terminating Identity Information;
  * Originator Identity Information;
  * Local Time and Date of the invocation in the network serving the terminating entity;
The information shall not be available to the terminating entity nor the
originating entity. The information shall be under the control of the network
operator.
The user may identify the communication as malicious during the alerting
phase, during an ongoing communication, or for a limited period after the
communication has ceased.
#### 8.2.5.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.5.2.1 Diversion Services
The MCID service can be invoked for a diverted communication. In addition to
the normal operation of the MCID service, the identity of the first diverting
party shall be registered and, as a network option, the last diverting party
can be registered.
##### 8.2.5.2.1.1 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) {#communication-
forwarding-no-reply-cfnr-2 .H6}
If the terminating party has activated CFNR, once forwarding has taken place,
the forwarding party cannot invoke the MCID service.
##### 8.2.5.2.1.2 Communication Deflection (CD) {#communication-deflection-
cd-2 .H6}
If the terminating party has activated communication deflection, once
deflection has taken place, the deflecting party cannot invoke the MCID
service.
##### 8.2.5.2.2 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
The transferring party cannot invoke the malicious communication
identification service on a communication after transfer of that communication
has been successfully invoked.
If after a transfer has been completed, the transferred-to party successfully
invokes the malicious communication identification service, then the network
shall register the identities of all parties involved.
##### 8.2.5.2.3 CONFerence (CONF)
The conference controller cannot invoke the malicious call identification IMS
supplementary service for participants within the conference.
NOTE: To activate the malicious call identification IMS supplementary service,
the conference controller should first create a private communication with the
user to be identified using the malicious call identification IMS
supplementary service.
If a participant invokes the malicious call identification IMS supplementary
service, only information about the connection to the conference controller
shall be registered. No information about the other participants shall be
registered.
##### 8.2.5.2.4 Three-Party (3PTY)
See clause 8.2.5.2.3, noting that 3PTY is a special case of CONF.
#### 8.2.5.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN Networks
The MCID service shall interoperate for all communications from a PSTN/ISDN to
an IMS Network supporting IMS Multimedia Telephony service and vice-versa. The
registered information shall be stored in the invoking party\'s network and
may also be stored in the malicious party\'s network.
### 8.2.6 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR)
#### 8.2.6.1 Definition
The Anonymous Communications Rejection (ACR) service allows the terminating
party to reject incoming communications from originating parties that have
restricted their identity presentation.
Anonymous communications rejection provides the capability for network, on
behalf of the user, to reject incoming sessions from users who have restricted
the presentation of their originating identity, i.e. the asserted originating
identity is marked \"presentation restricted\".
#### This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-14].
**_Optional feature_**
> In case of ACR service,
  * a whitelist should contain certified public identities or identity ranges of users, from which incoming anonymous communications are allowed whatever ACR activation state,
  * a blacklist should contain certified public identities or identity ranges of users, from which incoming anonymous communications are not allowed whatever ACR activation state.
#### 8.2.6.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.6.2.1 Identification Services
##### 8.2.6.2.1.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) {#originating-
identification-presentation-oip-1 .H6}
No impact, i.e. neither IMS supplementary service shall affect the operation
of the other IMS supplementary service.
##### 8.2.6.2.1.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) {#originating-
identification-restriction-oir-2 .H6}
If the terminating party has activated the ACR service, then the OIR service
causes the execution of the ACR service in accordance with the procedures in
clause 8.2.6.1.
If the terminating party has the override capability according to the OIR
service, then the ACR service shall not apply.
##### 8.2.6.2.2 Diversion Services
NOTE: The precedence that ACR takes over the communication diversion services
does not exclude the use of forwarding functionality in the ACR functionality
itself. As an example: forwarding of anonymous communications (e.g. to a voice
mailbox), as part of the ACR functionality is possible.
If the diverted-to user has activated the ACR service, then the ACR service
shall take precedence over the communication diversion supplementary
**service** i.e. the communication shall be rejected according to the ACR
service.
##### 8.2.6.2.2.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
{#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu-2 .H6}
If the forwarding party has activated the ACR service, then the ACR service
shall take precedence over the communication forwarding unconditional service
i.e. the communication shall be rejected according to the ACR service.
##### 8.2.6.2.2.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#communication-
forwarding-busy-cfb-2 .H6}
If the forwarding party has activated the ACR service, then the ACR service
shall take precedence over the communication forwarding busy service i.e. the
communication shall be rejected according to the ACR service.
##### 8.2.6.2.2.3 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) {#communication-
forwarding-no-reply-cfnr-3 .H6}
If the forwarding party has activated the ACR service:
  * no impact, i.e. neither IMS supplementary service shall affect the operation of the other IMS supplementary service.
NOTE: If the **originating party** has restricted its identity due to the OIR
service the communication will not be presented.
##### 8.2.6.2.2.4 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL)
{#communication-forwarding-on-not-logged-in-cfnl-2 .H6}
If the forwarding party has activated the ACR service, then the ACR service
shall take precedence over the communication forwarding on not logged in
service i.e. the communication shall be rejected according to the ACR service.
##### 8.2.6.2.2.5 Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
{#communication-forwarding-on-subscriber-not-reachable-cfnrc-2 .H6}
If the forwarding party has activated the ACR service, then the ACR service
shall take precedence over the communication forwarding on subscriber not
reachable service i.e. the communication shall be rejected according to the
ACR service.
##### 8.2.6.2.3 Communication Waiting (CW)
If the terminating party has activated the ACR service, then the ACR service
shall take precedence over the Communication Waiting service. The ACR service
can be activated while a communication is waiting without changing the state
of the waiting communication session.
##### 8.2.6.2.4 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
NOTE: A CCBS recall (from the network to the originating party) resulting from
the completion of communications to busy subscribers shall not be rejected due
to the application of the ACR service.
Assuming the originating party connects to the terminating party and the
terminating party activates the ACR service (or has activated the ACR
service), two cases are possible:
  1. The ACR service was activated by the terminating party before the originating party originates a communication:
  2. No impact, i.e. no IMS supplementary service shall affect the operation of the other IMS supplementary service.
NOTE: If the originating party has restricted its identity due to the OIR
service and if the terminating party is busy, the originating party will
receive no busy indication, and the completion of communications to busy
subscriber service will not apply. Instead the communication session attempt
shall be rejected according to the normal procedures of the ACR service.
b) The ACR service is activated by the terminating party after the originating
party has activated the completion of communications to busy subscriber
service on the terminating party:
  * If the terminating party activates the ACR service after the originating party has activated the completion of communications to busy subscriber service on the terminating party, then the communication resulting from the completion of communications to busy subscriber service shall be rejected if the originating party has restricted its identity due to the OIR service.
#### 8.2.6.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
ACR services with PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Services and vice‑versa. The scope
of this interworking may result in a limited service capability.
### 8.2.7 Communication DIVersion (CDIV)
#### 8.2.7.1 Definition
The following Communication DIVersion services are defined:
  * Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU).
  * Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB).
  * Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR).
  * Communication Forwarding on Not Logged in (CFNL).
  * Communication Deflection (CD).
  * Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc).
For all communications diversion services, a service provider option of
notification of diversion may be provided to the originating party. This
service provider option may also include support for the invoking user to
suppress the notification.
As a service option, CDIV services may be associated with a time and/or date
setting. To support roaming, the time zone may also be included.
The use of any of the network determined diversion services on a call
identified as a callback to an emergency call, by a user that is not the PSAP,
shall be precluded.
##### Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) {#communication-forwarding-
unconditional-cfu-3 .H6}
The CFU service enables a user to have the network redirect all communications
to another user. The CFU service may operate on all communication, or just
those associated with specified services. The user\'s ability to originate
communications is unaffected by the CFU service. After the CFU service has
been activated, communications are forwarded independent of the status of the
user.
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the user to receive an indication that the CFU service has been activated.
This indication may be provided when the user originates a communication if
the CFU service has been activated for the user\'s identity and for the
service requested for the communication.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider shall define the upper limit of
diversions. When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are
included.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-1].
##### Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#communication-forwarding-busy-
cfb-3 .H6}
The CFB service enables a user to have the network redirect communications,
which would otherwise be regarded as busy, to another user. The CFB service
may operate on all communications, or just those associated with specified
services. The user\'s ability to originate communications is unaffected by the
CFB service.
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the user to receive an indication that the CFB service has been activated.
This indication may be provided when the user originates a communication if
the CFB service has been activated for the user and for the service requested
for the communication.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider shall define the upper limit of
diversions. When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are
included.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-2].
##### Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) {#communication-forwarding-no-
reply-cfnr-4 .H6}
The CFNR service enables a user to have the network redirect communications,
when the communication request is not responded to within a defined period of
time, to another user. The CFNR service may operate on all communications, or
just those associated with specified services. The user\'s ability to
originate communications is unaffected by the CFNR service.
The CFNR service can only be invoked by the network after the communication
has been offered to the user and an indication that the user has been informed
of the communication request.
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the user to receive an indication that the CFNR service has been activated.
This indication may be provided when the user originates a communication if
the CFNR service has been activated for the user and for the service requested
for the communication.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider shall define the upper limit of
diversions. When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are
included.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-3].
As a service option, CFNR activation confirmation may include information from
the network providing the public identity where the communication will be
forwarded to, and the expiry time before the communication is forwarded.
As a service option, the user may be allowed to dynamically extend this
timing.
##### Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL) {#communication-
forwarding-on-not-logged-in-cfnl-3 .H6}
The Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL) service enables a user to
redirect incoming communications, when the user is not currently registered
(logged-in), to another user. The CFNL service may operate on all
communications, or just those associated with specified services.
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the user to receive an indication that the CFNL service has been activated.
This indication may be provided when the user next registers (logs in). An
indication may also be provided as part of de-registration (log out).
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider shall define the upper limit of
diversions. When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are
included.
##### Communication Deflection (CD) {#communication-deflection-cd-3 .H6}
The CD service enables the user to respond to an incoming communication by
requesting redirection of that communication to another user. The CD service
can only be invoked before the communication is established by the user, i.e.
in response to the offered communication, or during the period that the user
is being informed of the communication. The user\'s ability to originate
communications is unaffected by the CD service.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider shall define the upper limit of
diversions. When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are
included.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-4].
##### Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
{#communication-forwarding-on-subscriber-not-reachable-cfnrc-3 .H6}
The CFNRc service enables a user to have the network redirect all incoming
communications, or just those associated with a specific service, when called
mobile subscriber's address is not reachable (e.g. there is no IP connectivity
to the user's terminal, or, in the case of a mobile device, it is not in radio
coverage), to another address. The CFNRc service may operate on all
communications, or just those associated with specified services. The user\'s
ability to originate communications is unaffected by the CFNRc service.
Note: It may be affected by the reason that have triggered the loss of
connectivity, e.g. in the mobile case if the mobile subscriber is de-
registered, if there is radio congestion or if the mobile subscriber for
example is being out of radio coverage,
As a service provider option, a subscription option can be provided to enable
the user to receive an indication that the CFNRc service has been activated.
This indication may be provided when the user originates a communication if
the CFNRc service has been activated for the user and for the service
requested for the communication.
The maximum number of diversions permitted for each communication is a service
provider option. The service provider shall define the upper limit of
diversions. When counting the number of diversions, all types of diversion are
included.
**_Optional feature_**
> Lists can be used also in association to Communication Diversions (CDIV).
  * a blacklist should contain public identities or identity ranges of users, from which incoming communications are not forwarded when CDIV is activated.
  * a whitelist should contain public identities or identity ranges of users, from which incoming communications are forwarded when CDIV is activated.
#### 8.2.7.2 Void
#### 8.2.7.3 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.7.3.1 Identification services
##### 8.2.7.3.1.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) {#originating-
identification-presentation-oip-2 .H6}
When a communication has been diverted and the diverted-to party has been
provided with the originating identification presentation service, the
diverted-to party shall receive the identity of the originating party, if this
originating party has not subscribed to or invoked the originating
identification restriction service.
##### 8.2.7.3.1.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) {#originating-
identification-restriction-oir-3 .H6}
When the originating identification restriction service has been invoked, the
originating party\'s identity shall not be presented to the diverted-to party
unless the diverted-to party has an override capability.
##### 8.2.7.3.1.3 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP) {#terminating-
identification-presentation-tip-2 .H6}
When a communication has been diverted and the originating party has been
provided with the terminating identification presentation service, the
originating party shall receive the identity of the diverted-to party, unless
the diverting user has selected the option to suppress the notification of
diversion.
##### 8.2.7.3.1.4 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR) {#terminating-
identification-restriction-tir-1 .H6}
If the diverting party or the diverted-to party has invoked the Terminating
Identification Restriction service, then the diverted-to party\'s identity
shall not be provided to the originating party unless the originating party
has override capability.
##### 8.2.7.3.2 Malicious Communication Identification **(MCID)**
This services does not apply to UE accessing from mobile 3GPP access networks.
See clause 8.2.5.2.1.
##### 8.2.7.3.3 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR)
This service does not apply to UE accessing from mobile 3GPP access networks.
See clause 8.2.6.2.2.
##### 8.2.7.3.4 Diversion services
##### 8.2.7.3.4.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
{#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu-4 .H6}
**Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU):** Not applicable.
**Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB):** Invocation of the communication
forwarding unconditional service shall take precedence over the CFB service.
**Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR):** Invocation of the communication
forwarding unconditional service shall take precedence over the CFNR service.
**Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL):** Invocation of the
communication forwarding unconditional service shall take precedence over the
CFNL service.
**Communication Deflection (CD):** Invocation of the communication forwarding
unconditional service shall take precedence over the CD service.
**Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc):** Invocation
of the communication forwarding unconditional service shall take precedence
over the CFNRc service.
##### 8.2.7.3.4.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#communication-
forwarding-busy-cfb-4 .H6}
**Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU):** Invocation of the CFU
service shall take precedence over the communication forwarding busy service.
**Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB):** Not applicable.
**Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Deflection (CD):** If the terminating party is not network
determined user busy, then the CD service or the communication forwarding busy
service can be invoked, depending on the response from the terminating party.
**Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc):** If the
terminating party is network determined busy, then CFB shall take precedence
over CFNRc. Otherwise, if the terminating party is not network determined user
busy, then there is no impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not
affect any other IMS supplementary service.
##### 8.2.7.3.4.3 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) {#communication-
forwarding-no-reply-cfnr-5 .H6}
**Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU):** Invocation of the CFU
service shall take precedence over the communication forwarding no reply
service.
**Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR):** Not applicable.
**Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Deflection (CD):** No impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary
service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
NOTE: If the network indicates the arrival of an incoming communication to the
terminating party, then the CD service, or the communication forwarding no
reply service can be invoked, depending on the response, or lack of response,
from the terminating party.
**Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc):** No impact,
i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not affect any other IMS
supplementary service.
##### 8.2.7.3.4.4 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL)
{#communication-forwarding-on-not-logged-in-cfnl-4 .H6}
**Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU):** Invocation of the
communication forwarding unconditional service shall take precedence over the
CFNL service.
**Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL):** Not applicable.
**Communication Deflection (CD):** No impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary
service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc):** No impact,
i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not affect any other IMS
supplementary service.
##### 8.2.7.3.4.5 Communication Deflection (CD) {#communication-deflection-
cd-4 .H6}
**Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU):** Invocation of the CFU
service shall take precedence over the communication deflection service.
**Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB):** If the terminating party is not
network determined user busy, then the communication deflection service or the
CFB service can be invoked, depending on the response from the terminating
party.
**Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
NOTE: If the network indicates the arrival of an incoming communication to the
terminating party, then the communication deflection service, or the CFNR
service can be invoked, depending on the response, or lack of response, from
the terminating party.
**Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Deflection (CD):** Not applicable**.**
**Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc):** No impact,
i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not affect any other IMS
supplementary service.
##### 8.2.7.3.4.6 Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc)
{#communication-forwarding-on-subscriber-not-reachable-cfnrc-4 .H6}
**Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU):** Invocation of the
communication forwarding unconditional service shall take precedence over the
CFNRc service.
**Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB):** If the terminating party is network
determined busy, then CFB shall take precedence over CFNRc. Otherwise, if the
terminating party is not network determined user busy, then there is no
impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not affect any other IMS
supplementary service.
**Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL):** No impact, i.e. this IMS
supplementary service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Deflection (CD):** No impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary
service should not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc):** Not
applicable.
**Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)**
No interaction, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not affect any
other IMS supplementary service.
**Other services:**
Communication Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc) shall
interact with the following IMS supplementary services in exactly the same way
as described for Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR):
Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)\ Originating Identification
Restriction (OIR)\ Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)\ Terminating
Identification Restriction (TIR)\ Communication Diversion (CDIV);
Communication Forward Unconditional\ Communication Diversion (CDIV);
Communication Deflection\ Communication Diversion (CDIV); Communication
Forward On not Logged-in\ Communication Hold (HOLD)\ Communication Barring
(CB)\ Message Waiting Indication (MWI)\ Conference (CONF)
##### 8.2.7.3.4.7 Void {#void-3 .H6}
##### 8.2.7.3.5 Communication Waiting (CW)
**Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU):** CW has no impact on CFU. The
communication will be forwarded without regard to the terminating party\'s
state. A forwarded-to party may have communication waiting service and this
will be activated if busy.
A forwarded communication can result in the communication waiting service.
**Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB):** No impact, i.e. neither service shall
affect the operation of other service. A forwarded communication can result in
the communication waiting service.
NOTE: If the terminating party is Network Determined User Busy, the
communication waiting service is not be invoked, and the CFB service is
invoked if it was activated.
**Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR):** If the terminating party has
activated the CFNR service, then a waiting communication shall still be
offered. If the CFNR timer expires before an answer is received then the CFNR
service shall be invoked and the communication shall be forwarded and
communication waiting ceased.
A forwarded communication can result in the communication waiting service.
**Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL):** No impact.
NOTE: If a party with an active communication waiting logs out, the all active
and offered communication would be released.
**Communication Deflection (CD):** When receiving the communication waiting
indication, terminating party can invoke the CD service. A deflected
communication can result in the communication waiting service.
**Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc):** No impact,
i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not affect any other IMS
supplementary service.
##### 8.2.7.3.6 Communication Barring (CB)
##### 8.2.7.3.6.1 Outgoing communication barring-fixed {#outgoing-
communication-barring-fixed .H6}
If the outgoing communication barring-fixed service has already been
activated, a request to activate any CDIV service shall be rejected if the
forwarding party\'s communication to the diverted-to party would be barred by
the outgoing communication barring-fixed service.
If the CDIV service was activated before the activation of the outgoing
communication barring-fixed service, the outgoing communication barring-fixed
service can still be activated. When the two services have already been
activated, a request to invoke the CDIV service shall be rejected if the
forwarding party\'s communication to the diverted-to party would be barred by
the outgoing communication barring-fixed service at the time of the invocation
attempt of the CDIV service.
##### 8.2.7.3.6.2 Outgoing communication barring-user controlled {#outgoing-
communication-barring-user-controlled .H6}
If the outgoing communication barring-user controlled service has already been
activated, a request to activate any CDIV service shall be rejected if the
forwarding party\'s communication to the diverted-to party would be barred by
the outgoing communication barring-user controlled service.
If the CDIV service was activated before the activation of the outgoing
communication barring-user controlled service, the outgoing communication
barring-user controlled service can still be activated. When the two services
have already been activated, a request to invoke the CDIV service shall be
rejected if the forwarding party\'s communication to the diverted-to party
would be barred by the outgoing communication barring-user controlled service
at the time of the invocation attempt of the CDIV service.
##### 8.2.7.3.7 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
CCBS recalls shall never be diverted. They shall be provided to the original
originating party.
##### 8.2.7.3.8 Advice Of Charge (AOC)
##### 8.2.7.3.8.1 Charging information at the End of the communication (AOC-E)
{#charging-information-at-the-end-of-the-communication-aoc-e .H6}
**Originating party:** No impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should
not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
**Forwarding party:** When a communication is forwarded and the forwarding
party is charged for the forwarded part of the communication, then as a
network option, the charging information can be transferred to the forwarding
user when the communication is terminated provided that the served user has
subscribed to the advice of charge: charging information at the end of the
communication service with the value of the subscription option set to \"for
all communications automatically\".
#### 8.2.7.4 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and CS mobile networks
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
CDIV service with mobile CS and PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Services and
vice‑versa. The scope of this interworking may result in a limited service
capability. The CLI information of the originating party as well as further
CLI information (first redirected address, last redirected address) may be
provided to the final called party, if the network allows this.
### 8.2.8 Communication Waiting (CW)
#### 8.2.8.1 Definition
The Communication Waiting (CW) service enables a terminating party to be
informed at the time that a new communication is requested, and that no
resources are available for that incoming communication.
The user has then the choice of accepting, rejecting or ignoring the incoming
communication.
The maximum number of communications that may be waiting is a service provider
option.
If the current number of communications waiting is equal to the maximum, then
any new attempted incoming communication request shall be rejected with a busy
cause.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-6] and [E-5].
As a service option, the communication waiting indication may also include the
expiry time. As a service option, the user may be allowed to dynamically
extend this timing.
In the presence of another call at the destination user where the incoming
call is identified as a callback to an emergency call, then either the
communication request shall be presented, or the CW service shall be used.
#### 8.2.8.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.8.2.1 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR)
If the terminating party has activated the ACR service, then the ACR service
shall take precedence over the Communication Waiting service. The ACR service
can be activated while a communication is waiting without changing the state
of the waiting communication session.
##### 8.2.8.2.2 Diversion services
The interactions between Communication Waiting and Communication Diversion
services are described in clause 8.2.7.3.5 of the present document.
##### 8.2.8.2.3 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber **(CCBS)**
If a subscriber to the completion of communications to busy subscriber service
places a communication to a terminating party who has subscribed to the CW
service, and the terminating party is provided the communication waiting
indication, then invocation of completion of communications to busy subscriber
service cannot occur.
#### 8.2.8.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN
No requirements.
### 8.2.9 Communication HOLD (HOLD)
#### 8.2.9.1 Definition
The communication HOLD service enables a user to suspend media within a
session, and resume that media at a later time.
Each party in a communication can hold and retrieve the communication
independently from the other party. This also applies when a communication
involves more than two parties (e.g. **CONF)**.
This service description is based on the service description described in [4],
dealing about the user ability to suspend and resume a session.
The use of HOLD on an emergency call, or a call identified as a callback to an
emergency call, by a user that is not the PSAP, shall be precluded.
#### 8.2.9.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.9.2.1 CONFerence (CONF)
A, B and C are in a conference that was created by B invoking the CONF
service. B can interrupt their own participation in the conference by using
the HOLD service. When B does this, A and C shall not receive the HOLD
notification and are not prevented from carrying on their conversation
##### 8.2.9.2.2 Three-Party (3PTY)
See clause 8.2.9.2.1, noting that 3PTY is a special case of CONF.
##### 8.2.9.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and CS mobile networks
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
HOLD service with mobile CS and PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Services and
vice‑versa. The scope of this interworking may result in a limited service
capability.
### 8.2.10 Communication Barring (CB)
#### 8.2.10.1 Definition
The group of Communication Restriction Services includes two services:
  * Outgoing Communications Barring (OCB).
This service allows a user to bar certain categories of outgoing
communications. The network shall provide the capability for a user to select
a set of categories (e.g. identities or range of identities) for barring. The
type of barring is chosen by the user at provision time, and shall be valid
for all outgoing communications. The network shall provide the capability for
the user to bar outgoing communications based on user defined identities or
identity ranges. Barring of an outgoing communication for a specific identity,
a number of specific identities, or a range of identities shall be dependent
on an entry in a OCB identity list held in the network. This list shall either
be a \"black list\" or \"white list\". A \"black list\" shall contain the
identities or identity ranges to be barred by the network for outgoing
communications. A \"white list\" shall contain the identities or identity
ranges that shall be allowed by the network for outgoing communications, i.e.
all identities not in the \"white list\" shall be barred.
The ability of the served user to receive communications and to originate
emergency communications shall be unaffected by OCB.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-15] and [E-16].
  * Incoming Communications Barring (ICB).
This service allows a user to bar certain categories of incoming
communications. The service also allows the user to have the barring of
incoming communications activated always or only during certain conditions.
The network shall provide the capability for a user to select from a set of
categories (e.g. identities or range of identities) for barring. Barring of an
incoming communication shall be dependent on an entry in an ICB identity list
held in the network. This list shall be a \"black list\" which contains the
identities or identity ranges to be barred by the network for incoming
communications. The type of barring is chosen by the user at provision time
and may be valid for all incoming communications, or be limited to a specific
service group or certain conditions (e.g. when the user is roaming).
The ability of the served user to set-up outgoing communications shall be
unaffected by ICB.
The ICB service includes a roaming condition. The roaming condition is set to
true when the served user is roaming.
The use of ICB on a call identified as a callback to an emergency call, by a
user that is not the PSAP, shall be precluded.
  * ICB enhancement of dynamic blocking of incoming communications
As a service option, the dynamic blocking of incoming communications service
facilitates a terminating users register of unwanted callers within the
network for barring future incoming communications from the unwanted callers
either permanently or for a temporary period or for a maximum lifetime which
is set by the network operator. As an option, an additional \"dynamic black
list\" may be provided, which is different compared to the standard ICB list.
If this additional \"dynamic black list\" is provided, the user shall have the
option to activate and deactivate that list independent of the already
existing standard ICB list.
The following information shall be stored by the network for dynamic blocking
of incoming calls:
> **Actual Identity of caller:** This is the network asserted identity of the
> caller.
>
> **Start and end date for barring** : This specifies the duration of block.
> If not provided, it implies the caller should be barred permanently or for a
> maximum lifetime which is set by the network operator.
Additionally, the following information may be provided by the user and to be
associated with the actual identity:
**\- Reason** : This specifies the reason for blocking or an alias, e.g.
\"Telemarketer\". This field may assist the subscriber to manage their block
list.
**\- Published Identity of caller:** This may be the actual identity of caller
or \'private\' or \'anonymous\' if the caller has opted for privacy.
NOTE: The unwanted caller may have requested privacy e.g. by subscribing to
OIR service which prevents the calling identity being shown to the called
user. In these cases the called user may just see \"Anonymous\" or
\"Unknown\". However the called party can still invoke caller ID blocking
since the network knows the true identity of the caller. To facilitate the
management of the list of blocked callers, the user may use the reason field
to identify the blocked caller.
The network shall never reveal an identity withheld using privacy, OIR, or
other mechanisms (i.e. list management must use the published identity).
As an option and subject to the network operator policy, the network shall
notify (e.g. announcement)the blocked originating user (unwanted user), that
the called user has set an incoming communication barring for his identity.
Subject to the network operator policy, the subscriber may request
notification of communication barrings within the network in addition to
subscribing to the dynamic blocking of incoming communications service.
NOTE 1: The contents of information received as part of notification for the
dynamic blocking of incoming communications, could be the same as the ones,
that are registered as part of communication barring.
NOTE 2: Off-line management of the barring list (e.g. via a web page) may be
provided as a service option.
NOTE 3: Where required by regulation, this enhanced service may be used to
block calls from a previously malicious caller.
#### 8.2.10.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.10.2.1 Diversion services
##### 8.2.10.2.1.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional **(CFU)**
{#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu-5 .H6}
If the OCB service has already been activated, a request to activate the
communication forwarding unconditional service shall be rejected if the
user\'s communication to the forwarded-to user would be barred by the OCB
service at the time of the activation attempt of the communication forwarding
service.
If the communication forwarding unconditional service was activated before the
activation of the OCB service, the OCB service can still be activated. When
the two services have already been activated, a request to invoke the
communication forwarding unconditional service shall be rejected if the
forwarding party\'s communication to the forwarded-to party would be barred by
the OCB service at the time of the invocation attempt of the communication
forwarding unconditional service..
##### 8.2.10.2.1.2 Communication Forwarding Busy **(CFB)** {#communication-
forwarding-busy-cfb-5 .H6}
If the OCB service has already been activated, a request to activate the
communication forwarding busy service shall be rejected if the forwarding
party\'s communication to the forwarded-to party would be barred by the OCB
service at the time of the activation attempt of the communication forwarding
service.
If the communication forwarding busy service was activated before the
activation of the OCB service, the OCB service can still be activated. When
the two services have already been activated, a request to invoke the
communication forwarding busy service shall be rejected if the forwarding
party\'s communication to the forwarded-to party would be barred by the OCB
service at the time of the invocation attempt of the communication forwarding
busy service.
##### 8.2.10.2.1.3 Communication Forwarding No Reply **(CFNR)**
{#communication-forwarding-no-reply-cfnr-6 .H6}
If the OCB service has already been activated, a request to activate the
communication forwarding no reply service shall be rejected if the forwarding
party\'s communication to the forwarded-to party would be barred by the OCB
service at the time of the activation attempt of the communication forwarding
service.
If the communication forwarding no reply service was activated before the
activation of the OCB service, the OCB service can still be activated. When
the two services have already been activated, a request to invoke the
communication forwarding no reply service shall be rejected if the forwarding
party\'s communication to the forwarded-to party would be barred by the OCB
service at the time of the invocation attempt of the communication forwarding
no reply service.
##### 8.2.10.2.1.4 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in **(CFNL)**
{#communication-forwarding-on-not-logged-in-cfnl-5 .H6}
If the OCB service has already been activated, a request to activate the
communication forwarding no registration service shall be rejected if the
forwarding party\'s communication to the forwarded-to party would be barred by
the OCB service at the time of the activation attempt of the communication
forwarding service.
If the communication forwarding on Not Logged-in service was activated before
the activation of the OCB service, the OCB service can still be activated.
When the two services have already been activated, a request to invoke the
communication forwarding on Not Logged-in service shall be rejected if the
forwarding party\'s communication to the forwarded-to party would be barred by
the OCB service at the time of the invocation attempt of the communication
forwarding on Not Logged-in service.
##### 8.2.10.2.1.5 Communication Deflection **(CD)** {#communication-
deflection-cd-5 .H6}
If the OCB service has been activated, a request to invoke the communication
deflection service shall be rejected if the deflecting party\'s communication
to the deflected-to party would be barred by the OCB service at the time of
the invocation attempt of the communication deflection service.
#### 8.2.10.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and CS mobile networks
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
CB service with mobile CS and PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Service CB and with ODB
[6], and vice‑versa. The scope of this interworking may result in a limited
service capability.
### 8.2.11 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
#### 8.2.11.1 Definition
The CCBS service enables originating party, encountering a busy terminating
party, to have the communication completed without having to make a new
communication attempt when the terminating party becomes free.
When originating party requests the CCBS service, the network will monitor for
terminating party becoming free.
When terminating party becomes free then the network will wait a short time in
order to allow the resources to be re-used for originating a communication. If
the resources are not re-used by terminating party within this time, then the
network will automatically inform originating party that terminating party has
become free. Originating party can generate the CCBS communication to
terminating party.
When originating party accepts the CCBS recall, then the network will
automatically generate a CCBS communication to terminating party.
NOTE: A service provided to terminating party which prevents the registration
of CCBS requests is outside the scope of the present document.
During CCBS recall, information shall be provided which indicates a CCBS
recall. The information provided in the original communication attempt shall
be included in the CCBS recall.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-9].
As a service option, the time to expiry of the CCBS and the terminating party
identity may be provided by the network, either at successful activation, or
as a result of an interrogation.
#### 8.2.11.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.11.2.1 Identification services
##### 8.2.11.2.2 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR)
A CCBS recall (from the network to the originating party) resulting from the
completion of communications to busy subscribers shall not be rejected due to
the application of the ACR service.
Assume the originating party connects to the terminating party and the
terminating party activates the ACR service or has activated the ACR service:
  * The ACR service is activated by the terminating party after the originating party has activated the completion of communications to busy subscriber service on the terminating party:
```{=html}
``` \- If the terminating party activates the ACR service after the
originating party has activated the completion of communications to busy
subscriber service on the terminating party, then the communication resulting
from the completion of communications to busy subscriber service shall be
rejected if the originating party has restricted its identity due to the OIR
service.
##### 8.2.11.2.3 Communication DIVersion **(CDIV)**
CCBS recalls shall never be diverted. They shall be provided to the original
originating party.
CCBS can not be activated on a diverted communication.
##### 8.2.11.2.4 Communication Waiting **(CW)**
NOTE: For a waiting communication, terminating party is not considered as
busy.
If the Communication Waiting indication cannot be provided at the terminating
party, originating party will receive busy indication and can invoke the CCBS
service to terminating party.
CCBS requests in the terminating party\'s CCBS queue shall only be processed
if there are no communications waiting.
##### 8.2.11.2.5 Communication HOLD (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not affect any other IMS
supplementary service.
NOTE 1: When receiving a CCBS communication indication, originating party may
invoke the communication hold service in order to make interface resources
available for the establishment of the CCBS communication.
NOTE 2: When originating party is busy or CCBS busy and is notified that
terminating party is free, invocation of the communication hold service will
not result in the CCBS communication being established.
##### 8.2.11.2.6 Communication Barring (CB)
The originating party calls the terminating party who is busy, and then the
originating party invokes CCBS. If the originating party then invokes OCB
before the terminating party becomes free, the CCBS communication may be
rejected due to the OCB invocation.
##### 8.2.11.2.7 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
A user can be both an \"originating party\" and a \"terminating party\"
simultaneously, i.e. that user can have activated the CCBS service and have
CCBS requests outstanding whilst at the same time that user can be the
destination of CCBS requests from other users.
If a user receives a CCBS recall while that terminating party\'s CCBS queue is
being processed, then the CCBS recall shall take priority over the handling of
the terminating party\'s CCBS queue. The handling of CCBS requests activated
by this user shall have priority over the handling of CCBS requests activated
by other users on this user.
If one of the user\'s CCBS requests matures as a result, then the user shall
be provided a CCBS recall or notification. The terminating party idle guard
timer, if running, shall be cancelled.
##### 8.2.11.2.8 Advice Of Charge services **(AOC)**
Charging information can be provided for the original communication, and for
the resulting CCBS communication.
#### 8.2.11.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
CCBS service with PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Service CCBS and vice‑versa. The
scope of this interworking may result in a limited service capability.
### 8.2.12 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
#### 8.2.12.1 Definition
The MWI service enables the network, upon the request of a controlling user to
indicate to the receiving user, that there is at least one message waiting.
The indication is sent to the receiving user when a message is deposited.
Optionally, the network may send an indication to the user that there are no
more unread message in the mail box. This indication may be send when the last
unread message is read.
NOTE: As an example, a voice message is stored by the network for a particular
user. The network then provides the MWI to the user to indicate there is a
message for retrieval. Having received this indication, the receiving user can
subsequently access the mail box, to listen to the message.
The means by which the receiving user accesses and manages the mail box voice
message service are outside the scope of the present document.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-13].
#### 8.2.12.2 Service interactions with other services
##### 8.2.12.2.1 Diversion services
##### 8.2.12.2.1.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional **(CFU)**
{#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu-6 .H6}
The MWI shall never be diverted.
##### 8.2.12.2.1.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#communication-
forwarding-busy-cfb-6 .H6}
Same as CFU.
##### 8.2.12.2.1.3 Communication Forwarding No Reply **(CFNR)**
{#communication-forwarding-no-reply-cfnr-7 .H6}
Same as CFU.
##### 8.2.12.2.1.4 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in **(CFNL)**
{#communication-forwarding-on-not-logged-in-cfnl-6 .H6}
The MWI shall never be diverted. The indication shall be provided to the
owning identity on re-registering.
#### 8.2.12.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and CS mobile networks
There is no interoperability with mobile CS and PSTN/ISDN because MWI is a
local service.
### 8.2.13 CONFerence (CONF)
#### 8.2.13.1 Definition
The CONF service enables a user to participate in and control a simultaneous
communication involving a number of users.
When the CONF service is invoked, conference resources are allocated to the
served user.
Once a conference is active, users can join and leave a conference, and remote
users can be added to or removed from the conference.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-7] and [E-8].
Conference participants can request to be informed of these actions. This
information can include details beyond that described in [E-7] and [E-8],
about other participants including their identity.
The use of CONF on an emergency call, or a call identified as a callback to an
emergency call, by a user that is not the PSAP, shall be precluded.
#### 8.2.13.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.13.2.1 Diversion services
No impact, i.e. neither IMS supplementary service shall affect the operation
of the other IMS supplementary service.
##### 8.2.13.2.2 CONFerence (CONF)
A user can be involved as the conference controller separately in more than
one conference. However, the user cannot add any conference to another
conference.
The CONFerence service shall provide a similar user experience as the circuit
switched Multiparty supplementary service but with multimedia capabilities.
##### 8.2.13.2.3 Advice Of Charge services (AOC)
No impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not affect any other IMS
supplementary service. Communication diversion.
NOTE: Every communication within the CONF service may be charged according to
the normal communication procedures. Special arrangements (e.g. conference
initiator may be charged for other parties\' communications in the conference)
are out of scope of the present specification.
##### 8.2.13.2.4 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
The OIR service shall take precedence as required in [4].
NOTE: A conference participant joining with an active OIR therefore has no
details that can be included in any conference notifications.
##### 8.2.13.2.5 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
The TIR service shall take precedence as required in [4].
NOTE: A conference participant added with an active TIR therefore has no
details that can be included in any conference notifications.
##### 8.2.13.2.6 Three-Party (3PTY)
See clause 8.2.13.2.2, noting that 3PTY is a special case of CONF.
#### 8.2.13.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and CS Mobile networks
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
CONF service with mobile CS and PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Services and
vice‑versa. The scope of this interworking may result in a limited service
capability.
### 8.2.14 Advice Of Charge (AOC)
#### 8.2.14.1 Definition
AOC is a group of services as follows:
  * Advice Of Charge: charging information at communication Set-up time (AOC-S);
The advice of charge at communication set-up service provides the user with
information about the charging rates at the time of communication
establishment or during the communication in the case of charging rates
changes. The charge information provided relates to the charges incurred on
the network to which the served user is attached.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-10] for AoC-S on a permanent mode.
  * Advice Of Charge: charging information During the communication (AOC-D);
The advice of charge during the communication service enables the user to
receive information on the recorded charges for a communication during the
active phase of the communication. The provided charging information may be
exchanged between different operator domain if those operators have
interconnect agreements to do so.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-11] for AoC-S on a permanent mode.
  * Advice Of Charge: charging information at the End of the communication (AOC-E)
The advice of charge at end of communication service provides the user with
charging information for a communication when the communication is terminated.
Dependent on the option chosen at the time of subscription, the information
can be sent for all communications, or on a per communication basis. The
charge information provided relates to the charges incurred on the network to
which the served user is attached.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-12] for AoC-S on a permanent mode.
#### 8.2.14.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.14.2.1 Diversion services
Originating party: No impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should not
affect any other IMS supplementary service.
Forwarding party: When a communication is forwarded and the forwarding party
is charged for the forwarded part of the communication, then as a network
option, the charging information can be transferred to the forwarding user
when the communication is terminated.
##### 8.2.14.2.2 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
Charging information shall be provided for the original communication, and for
the resulting CCBS communication.
##### 8.2.14.2.3 CONFerence (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither IMS supplementary service shall affect the operation
of the other IMS supplementary service.
#### 8.2.14.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN
The IMS shall support the interoperability of the AOC service with PSTN/ISDN
Supplementary Services and vice‑versa. The scope of this interworking may
result in a limited service capability.
### 8.2.15 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
#### 8.2.15.1 Definition
The Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT) service enables a party involved in
a communication to transfer that communication to a third party.
There are two situations in which transfer shall be possible:
\- The transferring party has no ongoing communication with the transfer
Target (ECT Blind/Assured) then either:
a) the transferring party wants to perform the transfer without any further
action on the transfer operation (ECT Blind),
b) the transferring party wants to have the possibility to act on the transfer
operation progress (ECT Assured).
\- The transferring party has a communication with the transfer Target (ECT
Consultative).
**[ECT Blind/Assured:]{.underline}**
The ECT Blind/Assured enables the transferring party A who has an active
communication with a party B, which can be an incoming or outgoing
communication, to transfer that communication into a new communication between
party B and a third party C with out having prior communication with the third
party C, and release it self from the communication.
Because of the blind call towards party C, it is not possible to know in
advance the result of the transfer. Therefore, party A should be informed of
the establishment state of the transfer before being released from the
communication.
For Assured transfer, the transferring party A can limit the duration of the
transfer attempt, release the transfer before it is completed or retrieve its
communication with the transferee in case of transfer failure.
**[ECT Consultative:]{.underline}**
The ECT Consulative enables a transferring party A to transform two of that
party\'s communications (e.g. an active communication and a communication on
hold, to parties B and C), each of which can be an incoming communication or
an outgoing communication, into a new communication between party B and party
C.
Prior to transfer, the media session shall have been established on the
communication between transferring party A and party B (transferee). On the
communication between transferring party A and party C (transfer target), the
media session shall have been established prior to transfer.
The service should be applicable independent of whether party B and party C
are IMS users or not.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-18].
The use of ECT on an emergency call, or a call identified as a callback to an
emergency call, by a user that is not the PSAP, shall be precluded.
#### 8.2.15.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.15.2.1 Identification services
##### 8.2.15.2.1.1 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR) {#terminating-
identification-restriction-tir-3 .H6}
A terminating party\'s restriction requirements from the original
communication shall be used in order to restrict the presentation of that
party\'s identity to the other user in a transferred communication.
NOTE: If the media flow(s) is established on the communication to party C
after transfer, the presentation of the identity of party C shall be
restricted according to party C\'s Terminating identification restriction
service (i.e. as for the normal operation of the Terminating identification
restriction service).
###### 8.2.15.2.1.2 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
For ECT Blind, the transferee identity shall be presented to the transfer
target subject to the transferee's originating identification restriction
service.
The transferring party identity may also be presented to the transfer target
based on operator policy and terminal capability and subject to the
transferring party's originating identification restriction service.
##### 8.2.15.2.2 Communication Barring (CB)
In case the transferring party A has outgoing communication barring active
towards party C, transferring party As request for communication transfer of
party B to party C shall also be barred, if it occurs in relation to the
establishment of the communication to C.
For ECT Blind, if the transfer target has incoming communication barring
active, the transferee identity shall be checked to apply the service
restriction. The transferring party identity may also be checked with
Communication Barring based on operator policy.
##### 8.2.15.2.3 CONFerence (CONF)
The conference controller cannot transfer the conference to another party.
NOTE: Conferees can invoke the ECT service in order to transfer their
connection to the conference to another party after that connection has been
established.
##### 8.2.15.2.4 Advice Of Charge (AOC)
##### 8.2.15.2.4.0 General {#general-1 .H6}
This services does not apply to UE accessing from mobile 3GPP access networks.
##### 8.2.15.2.4.1 Advice Of Charge at communication Set-up (AOC-S) {#advice-
of-charge-at-communication-set-up-aoc-s .H6}
When party A transfers a communication, AOC-S shall be considered as
completed.
For party B and party C, no impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should
not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
##### 8.2.15.2.4.2 Advice Of Charge During the communication (AOC-D) {#advice-
of-charge-during-the-communication-aoc-d .H6}
When party A transfers a communication and has activated AOC-D, the charge up
to that time shall be sent as a subtotal charge for that communication. The
AOC-D service shall then be considered as completed.
NOTE: If party A had activated the AOC-D, then party A will receive
information separately for both of the communications.
For party B and party C, no impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should
not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
##### 8.2.15.2.4.3 Advice Of Charge at the End of a communication (AOC-E)
{#advice-of-charge-at-the-end-of-a-communication-aoc-e .H6}
If a party A is charged for the transferred part of the communication and has
activated the AOC-E, then either:
a) the charging information shall be sent to party A when the transferred
communication is terminated; or
b) when the communications are transferred, party A shall be informed that
charging information is not available. The AOC-E shall then be considered as
completed.
For party B and party C, no impact, i.e. this IMS supplementary service should
not affect any other IMS supplementary service.
##### 8.2.15.2.5 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
The ECT service can be invoked simultaneously by any of the parties on an
active communication, but this is not regarded as a normal situation. The
network shall not explicitly prevent this occurring.
Therefore, both parties (party A and party B) in a normal communication, who
have each subscribed to the ECT service, can simultaneously transfer the
communication. That is, if party A and party B are involved in a communication
on which the connection has been established, party A can transfer the
communication to party C and party B can transfer the communication to another
party.
NOTE: Mechanisms which prevent the ECT service from resulting in a connection
which contains no parties able to terminate the communication may result in
rejection of simultaneous requests to invoke the ECT service by the parties
involved in the communication.
#### 8.2.15.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN and CS mobile networks
No restrictions.
### 8.2.16 Reverse charging
#### 8.2.16.1 Definition
The reverse charging at communication set up time service allows the
terminating party to be charged for the entire communication. Only usage based
charges can be applied to the terminating party. The service shall be
requested by the originating party at communication set up time. The
terminating party must receive an explicit indication of a reverse charge
communication request.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-19].
#### 8.2.16.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
None.
#### 8.2.16.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of
Reverse Charging with the PSTN/ISDN and vice‑versa.
### 8.2.17 Closed User Group (CUG)
#### 8.2.17.1 Definition
The CUG service enables users to form groups of members, whose communication
profile is restricted for incoming and outgoing communications. Members of a
specific CUG can communicate among themselves but not, in general, with users
outside the group.
Specific CUG members can have additional capabilities that allow them to
initiate outgoing communications to users outside the group, and/or to accept
incoming communications from users outside the group. Specific CUG members can
have additional restrictions that prevent outgoing communications to other
members of the CUG, or prevent incoming communications from other members of
the CUG.
A closed user group consists of a number of members from one or more public,
and/or private networks. Identification of each member shall be according to
the requirements in [8]. A specific user may be a member of one or more CUGs.
Subscription to a closed user group shall be defined for all communication
services, or in relation to one, or to a list of communication services.
This service description is based on the ISDN service description described in
[E-22].
#### 8.2.17.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.17.2.1 Diversion services
##### 8.2.17.2.1.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
CUG restrictions shall be checked and met for the communication between the
originating party and the forwarding party. The information of a CUG applied
by the IMS Multimedia Telephony service on the original communication shall be
used for the communication forwarding and by this means CUG restrictions shall
be checked and met for the communication between the originating party and the
forwarded-to party.\ In the case of multiple forwarding, CUG restrictions
between the originating party and the forwarding party have to be checked and
met at each intermediate forwarding point. In addition, CUG restrictions
between the originating party and forwarded-to party shall be met end-to-end.
The outgoing communication barring information of the forwarding party shall
not be used to determine whether the communication can be forwarded.
The CUG information sent to the \"forwarded-to\" destination shall the same
CUG information of the originating party that was sent from the originating
network.
##### 8.2.17.2.1.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB)
See interactions with CFU 8.2.17.2.1.1
##### 8.2.17.2.1.3 Call Forwarding No Reply (CFNR)
See interactions with CFU 8.2.17.2.1.1
NOTE: CUG restrictions were checked and met for the communication between the
originating party and the forwarding party when the communication was offered
to the forwarding party.
##### 8.2.17.2.1.4 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-in (CFNL)
See interactions with CFU 8.2.17.2.1.1
##### 8.2.17.2.1.5 Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable
(CFNRc).
See interactions with CFU 8.2.17.2.1.1
##### 8.2.17.2.1.6 Communication Deflection (CD)
The information of a CUG applied on the original communication shall be used
for the deflected part of the communication and by this means CUG restrictions
shall be checked and met for the communication between the originating party
and the deflected-to party.
In the case of multiple deflections, CUG restrictions between the originating
party and the deflecting party have to be checked and met at each intermediate
deflecting point. In addition, CUG restrictions between the originating party
and deflected-to party shall be met end-to-end.\ When a communication is
deflected, a new check of the CUG restrictions between the originating party
and the deflected-to party is made at the \"deflected-to\" destination. The
CUG information sent to the \"deflected-to\" destination is the same CUG
information of the originating party that was sent from the originating
network.
The outgoing communication barring information of the deflecting party shall
not be used to determine whether the communication can be deflected.
NOTE: CUG restrictions were checked and met for the communication between the
originating party and the deflecting party when the communication was offered
to the deflecting party.
##### 8.2.17.2.2 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
The two communications shall use the same CUG for the transfer to be
successful.
NOTE: CUG restrictions between users will have been checked when the first
communication is established. Similarly, CUG restrictions between users will
have been checked when establishing the second communication.
##### 8.2.17.2.3 Three-Party (3PTY)
For the successful invocation of the three party service any CUG restrictions
applied to one communication shall match with any CUG restrictions applied to
the other communication.
##### 8.2.17.2.4 CONFerence (CONF)
When the communication involving the first conferee is added to the
conference, then the conference shall assume the CUG of that communication.\
In order to add a subsequent communication to the conference, then the CUG of
that communication shall be checked against the CUG of the conference.
#### 8.2.17.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
CUG service with the PSTN/ISDN and vice versa.No restrictions.
### 8.2.18 Three-Party (3PTY)
#### 8.2.18.1 Definition
The 3PTY service enables a user to establish, participate in and control a
simultaneous communication involving a number of users.
The 3PTY service can be invoked by the served user who is involved in at least
two calls (one active communication and at least one held communication), each
of which may be an incoming or outgoing communication.
The connections shall be established on each of the two communications prior
to the invocation of the 3PTY service.
3PTY communication setup is equivalent to a three party conference created on
request of the served user from existing communication sessions, this is
equivalent to three party conference creation in CONF, For this reason 3PTY
can be seen as a special case of CONF and most of service interactions for
CONF apply also to 3PTY.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-21].
#### 8.2.18.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.18.2.1 Terminating Identification Presentation (OIR)
See clause 8.2.13.2.4, noting that 3PTY is a special case of CONF.
##### 8.2.18.2.2 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
See clause 8.2.13.2.5, noting that 3PTY is a special case of CONF.
##### 8.2.18.2.3 Three-Party (3PTY)
A, B and C are in a three-way conversation that was created by B invoking the
3PTY service. A can create a second three-way conversation involving the
original three-way conversation and D by invoking the 3PTY service.
##### 8.2.18.2.4 CONFerence (CONF)
A, B and C are involved in a conference that was created by B invoking the
CONF service. A can create a three-way conversation involving the original
conference call and D by invoking the 3PTY service.
NOTE: It is FFS whether there is a conflict with the requirement expressed by
8.2.13.2.2, considering that 3PTY is just a special case of CONF.
##### 8.2.18.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
3PTY service with PSTN/ISDN supplementary service 3PTY and vice-versa. The
scope of this interworking may result in a limited service capability.
### 8.2.19 Flexible Alerting (FA)
#### 8.2.19.1 Definition
Flexible Alerting (FA) causes a call to a Pilot Identity to branch the call
into several legs to alert several FA group members simultaneously or
sequentially. In the simultaneous case, the first leg to be answered is
connected to the calling party and the other call legs are abandoned. In the
sequential case the order in which legs are alerted depends on application-
specific criteria (including static preferences, last used device, last
registered device).
FA group members are alerted by 41ignall the public addressable identity (e.g.
Public User Identity) associated with the FA group (i.e., a E.164 number or a
SIP URI), which is referred to as the Pilot Identity. The Pilot Identity maps
to a set of public addressable identities (e.g. PUI or GRUU) where each
identity references a member of the FA group. The FA group consists of a list
of identities, and can be configured by the user or the operator.
In FA, there are two configuration options for busy indication: Single User
Busy, and Multiple User Busy. The configuration of the option for a particular
FA group shall be performed by the operator.
\- For Single User Busy, the FA Group returns a busy indication if any group
member indicates busy before the call is answered.
\- For Multiple User Busy, the FA Group returns a busy indication if all
accessible members indicate busy.
#### 8.2.19.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.19.2.1 Identification services
##### 8.2.19.2.1.1 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
{#terminating-identification-presentation-tip-3 .H6}
If an originating call from a user has TIP activated, the termination
identification is the FA Pilot Identity.
##### 8.2.19.2.1.2 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR) {#terminating-
identification-restriction-tir-5 .H6}
If the FA Pilot Identity has TIR activated, the termination identification is
not presented.
##### 8.2.19.2.1.3 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
{#originating-identification-presentation-oip-4 .H6}
If the FA Pilot Identity has OIP activated, incoming calls to the FA Pilot
Identity apply OIP to the members of the FA group.
##### 8.2.19.2.1.4 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) {#originating-
identification-restriction-oir-5 .H6}
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2.19.2.2 Diversion services
##### 8.2.19.2.2.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
{#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu-8 .H6}
CFU takes precedence over FA. CFU of the FA Pilot Identity shall apply to
calls to the Pilot Identity when CFU is active.
CFU for the FA pilot identity takes precedence over CFU of the individual FA
members. That is, if both the FA pilot identity and an FA member have CFU
active, CFU treatment is determined by the FA pilot identity.
##### 8.2.19.2.2.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#communication-
forwarding-busy-cfb-8 .H6}
CFB of the FA Pilot Identity shall apply to calls to the Pilot Identity when
CFB is active and the FA group is considered to be busy.
CFB for the FA pilot identity takes precedence over CFB of the individual FA
members. That is, if both the FA pilot identity and an FA member have CFB
active, CFB treatment is determined by the FA pilot identity.
### 8.2.20 Personal Network Management (PNM)
#### 8.2.20.1 Definition
Personal Network Management (PNM) as specified in TS22.259 allows a user to
manage her Ues in regard to terminating services according to preferences set
by the user, capabilities and availabilities of devices.
Note: Fixed network terminals could become subject of PNM
#### 8.2.20.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
Invocation of supplementary services for terminating services applicable to
the active UE take precedence over invocation of supplementary service
applicable to the called UE. There is no impact on specified interaction among
supplementary services once invoked.
There is no impact on the registration, erasure, activation, deactivation and
interrogation of supplementary services.
### 8.2.21 Customized Alerting Tone (CAT)
#### 8.2.21.1 Definition
The Customized Alerting Tone Service (CAT service) is an operator specific
service by which an operator enables the subscriber to customize the alerting
tone which is played to the calling party. The requirements for CAT within IMS
shall be as described in [9].
#### 8.2.21.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.21.2.1 Identification services
##### 8.2.21.2.1.1 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) {#originating-
identification-restriction-oir-6 .H6}
The interaction between CAT and the OIR supplementary services shall be as
described in [9].
##### 8.2.21.2.1.2 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR) {#terminating-
identification-restriction-tir-6 .H6}
The interaction between CAT and the TIR supplementary services shall be as
described in [9].
##### 8.2.21.2.2 Diversion services
##### 8.2.21.2.2.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
{#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu-9 .H6}
The interaction between CAT and the CFU supplementary services shall be as
described in [9].
##### 8.2.21.2.2.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#communication-
forwarding-busy-cfb-9 .H6}
The interaction between CAT and the CFU supplementary services shall be as
described in [9].
##### 8.2.21.2.2.3 Communication Forwarding on Not Reachable (CFNRc)
{#communication-forwarding-on-not-reachable-cfnrc .H6}
The interaction between CAT and the CFNRc supplementary services shall be as
described in [9]
##### 8.2.21.2.2.4 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) {#communication-
forwarding-no-reply-cfnr-8 .H6}
The interaction between CAT and the CFNR supplementary services shall be as
described in [9]
##### 8.2.21.2.3 Communication Waiting (CW)
The interaction between CAT and the CW supplementary services shall be as
described in [9].
##### 8.2.21.2.4 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
The interaction between CAT and the ECT supplementary services shall be as
described in [9].
### 8.2.22 Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
#### 8.2.22.1 Definition
The Customized Ringing Signal (CRS service) is an operator specific service by
which an operator enables the subscriber to customize the ringing signal which
is played to the called party. The requirements for CRS within IMS shall be as
described in [10].
#### 8.2.22.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.22.2.1 Identification services
##### 8.2.22.2.1.1 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) {#originating-
identification-restriction-oir-7 .H6}
The interaction between CRS and the OIR supplementary services shall be as
described in [10].
##### 8.2.22.2.1.2 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
{#originating-identification-presentation-oip-5 .H6}
The interaction between CRS and the OIP supplementary services shall be as
described in [10].
##### 8.2.22.2.2 Diversion services
##### 8.2.22.2.2.1 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
{#communication-forwarding-unconditional-cfu-10 .H6}
The interaction between CRS and the CFU supplementary services shall be as
described in [10].
##### 8.2.22.2.2.2 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) {#communication-
forwarding-busy-cfb-10 .H6}
The interaction between CRS and the CFU supplementary services shall be as
described in [10].
##### 8.2.22.2.2.3 Communication Forwarding on Not Reachable (CFNRc)
{#communication-forwarding-on-not-reachable-cfnrc-1 .H6}
The interaction between CRS and the CFNRc supplementary services shall be as
described in [10]
##### 8.2.22.2.2.4 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) {#communication-
forwarding-no-reply-cfnr-9 .H6}
The interaction between CRS and the CFNR supplementary services shall be as
described in [10]
##### 8.2.22.2.3 Communication Waiting (CW)
The interaction between CRS and the CW supplementary services shall be as
described in [10].
##### 8.2.22.2.4 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
The interaction between CRS and the ECT supplementary services shall be as
described in [10].
### 8.2.23 Completion of Communications on No Reply (CCNR)
#### 8.2.23.1 Definition
The CCNR service enables the originating party, encountering a terminating
party who does not answer the communication (No Reply), to have the
communication completed without having to make a new communication attempt
when the terminating party becomes not busy after having initiated an
activity.
When the originating party requests the CCNR service, the network will monitor
for the terminating party becoming not busy after having initiated an
activity.
When the terminating party becomes not busy after having initiated an
activity, then the network will wait a short time in order to allow the
resources to be re-used for originating a communication. If the resources are
not re-used by the terminating party within this time, then the network will
automatically recall the originating party.
When the originating party accepts the CCNR recall, then the network will
automatically generate a CCNR call to the terminating party.
NOTE: A service provided to the terminating party which prevents the
registration of CCNR requests is outside the scope of the present document.
During CCNR recall, information shall be provided which indicates a CCNR
recall. The information provided in the original communication attempt shall
be included in the CCNR recall.
This service description is based on the service description described in
[E-23].
#### 8.2.23.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2.23.2.1 Identification services
###### 8.2.23.2.1.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
NOTE: If the originating party accepts a CCNR recall, the resulting CCNR call
is a basic communication and the terminating party can receive originating
identification presentation.
###### 8.2.23.2.1.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
NOTE: If the originating party has invoked originating identification
restriction and the terminating party accepts a CCNR recall, then the
resulting CCNR call is a basic communication and the terminating party will
not receive the originating identification of the originating party.
###### 8.2.23.2.1.3 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
###### 8.2.23.2.1.4 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2.23.2.2 Advice Of Charge services (AOC)
Charging information can be given for the original communication, and for the
resulting CCNR communication.
##### 8.2.23.2.3 Communication Waiting (CW)
CCNR requests in the CCNR queue of the terminating party shall only be
processed if there are no communications waiting. In other situations there is
no impact between the CW and the CCNR service.
##### 8.2.23.2.4 Communication HOLD (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither supplementary service shall affect the operation of
the other supplementary service.
NOTE 1: When receiving a CCNR recall indication, the originating party may
invoke the communication hold service in order to make interface resources
available for the establishment of the CCNR communication.
NOTE 2: When the originating party is busy or CCNR busy and is notified that
the terminating party is not busy, invocation of the communication hold
service will not result in the CCNR communication being established.
##### 8.2.23.2.5 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2.23.2.6 Closed User Group (CUG)
Closed user group information from the original communication shall also be
included in the CCNR communication.
NOTE: Closed user group information is not included in the check for a
compatible terminal. If a terminal performs an internal closed user group
check and uses the closed user group information provided on a communication
to determine whether, or not, to inform the user of the incoming
communication, then such a terminal may react positively to the check for a
compatible terminal due to the absence of closed user group information, but
due to the internal closed user group check such a terminal may then not
inform the user of the arrival of the resulting CCNR call.
##### 8.2.23.2.7 Completion of communications services
###### 8.2.23.2.7.1 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
A user can be both an originating party and a terminating party
simultaneously, i.e. that user can have activated the CCNR service or the
completion of communications to busy subscriber (CCBS) service and have CCNR
requests or CCBS requests outstanding whilst at the same time that user can be
the destination of CCNR requests or CCBS requests from other users.
CCBS requests and CCNR requests against the same terminating party shall be
queued in the same queue.
If a user receives a CCNR recall or CCBS recall (i.e. as originating party)
while that user\'s queue as terminating party is being processed, then the
CCNR recall or CCBS recall shall take priority over the handling of that
user\'s queue. The handling of CCNR requests and CCBS requests activated by
this user (i.e. as originating party) shall have priority over the handling of
CCNR requests and CCBS requests activated by other users on this user (i.e. as
terminating party).
If one of the user\'s CCNR requests can be processed, then this user (see
first paragraph) shall be given a CCNR recall or notification as described in
[E-23] clause 5. The served user\'s terminating party idle guard timer, if
running, shall be cancelled. The processing of CCBS requests shall be
according to the requirements of the CCBS supplementary service.
If a network supports the option to retain CCNR requests (see [E-23] clause
5.3.3.1 b)), then CCBS requests shall be retained when a CCBS call encounters
a busy destination.
If the network checks for identical requests in the user's queue, the check
shall include both CCNR requests and CCBS requests.
If an originating party has a CCBS recall pending on arrival of a CCNR recall,
this should be treated in the same way as in the case where the originating
party is CCNR busy (see [E-23] clause 5.2.3 and clause 5.3.3.2 b)).
###### 8.2.23.2.7.2 Completion of Communications on No Reply (CCNR)
A user can be both a originating party and a terminating party simultaneously,
i.e. that user can have activated the CCNR service and have CCNR requests
outstanding whilst at the same time that user can be the destination of CCNR
requests from other users.
If a user receives a CCNR recall while that user\'s CCNR queue as terminating
party is being processed, then the CCNR recall shall take priority over the
handling of the CCNR queue. The handling of CCNR requests activated by this
user shall have priority over the handling of CCNR requests activated by other
users on this user.
If one of the user\'s CCNR requests can be processed as a result, then this
user (see first paragraph) shall be given a CCNR recall or notification as
described in [E-23] clause 5. The served user\'s terminating party idle guard
timer, if running, shall be cancelled.
##### 8.2.23.2.8 CONFerence (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither supplementary service shall affect the operation of
the other supplementary service.
##### 8.2.23.2.9 Communication DIVersion (CDIV)
###### 8.2.23.2.9.1 General
CCNR recalls shall not be diverted. They shall be given to the originating
party at the originating party\'s original location.
###### 8.2.23.2.9.2 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
For CFU activated by user B before user A requests CCNR:
\- If user B has activated CFU, and the forwarded communication results in a
communication completion on no reply condition at user C, user A shall be
informed that CCNR is possible at user C. If user A activates CCNR and
subsequently activates CFU, the CCNR recall shall be given to user A at his
original location.\ As a network option, in case of a diversion at user B,
user A shall not be informed that CCNR is possible.
For CFU activated by user B after user A requests CCNR on user B:
\- If user B activates CFU after user A has activated CCNR on user B, then the
CCNR request shall be cancelled and a notification \"CCNR cancelled\" shall be
sent to the user A.\ As a network option, the CCNR request shall be suspended
until user B deactivates CFU. If the service duration timer expires before
user B deactivates CFU, the CCNR request shall be cancelled.
###### 8.2.23.2.9.3 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB)
For CFB activated by user B before user A requests CCNR:
\- If user B has activated the 46ignalling46on forwarding busy service and is
busy, and the forwarded communication results in a call-completion on no reply
condition at user C, user A shall be informed that CCNR is possible at user C.
For CFB activated by user B after user A requests CCNR on user B:
\- If user B activates the communication forwarding busy service after user A
has activated the CCNR service on user B, the communication forwarding busy
service shall not be invoked for the CCNR communication.
###### 8.2.23.2.9.4 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR)
For CFNR activated by user B before user A requests CCNR:
\- If user B has activated the communication forwarding on no reply service
and does not answer the communication, and the forwarded communication results
in a communication-completion on no reply condition at user C, user A shall be
informed that CCNR is possible at user C.\ As a network option, user A shall
be informed that CCNR at user B is possible.
For CFNR activated by user B after user A requests CCNR on user B:
\- If user B activates the communication forwarding on no reply service after
user A has activated the communication forwarding on no reply service on user
B, a CCNR communication from user A which encounters a no reply condition at
user B shall be treated as follows:
\- the procedures of CCNR shall be applied; or
\- the communication shall be forwarded as a normal communication.
###### 8.2.23.2.9.5 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged in (CFNL)
For CFNL activated by user B before user A requests CCNR:
\- If user B has activated the communication forwarding not registered service
and is not logged in, and the forwarded communication results in a
communication completion on no reply condition at user C, user A shall be
informed that CCNR is possible at user C.\ As a network option, user A shall
be informed that CCNR at user B is possible.
For CFNL activated by user B after user A requests CCNR on user B:
  * If user B activates the communication forwarding not registered service after user A has activated CCNR on user B, then the CC request shall be cancelled and a notification \"CCNR cancelled\" shall be sent to the user A.\ As a network option, the CCNR request shall be suspended until user B deactivates CFNL. If the service duration timer expires before user B deactivates CFNL, the CCNR request shall be cancelled.
###### 8.2.23.2.9.6 Communication Deflection (CD)
**For the originating user A:**
\- If a communication to the called user B is deflected to user C by the CD
service and results in a communication completion on no reply condition at
user C, user A shall be informed that CCNR is possible at user C. A CCNR
recall shall not be deflected.
**For the called user B:**
> \- A CCNR call shall not be deflected.
##### 8.2.23.2.10 Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2.23.2.11 Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring
(ACR/CB)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2.23.2.12 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2.23.2.13 Flexible Alerting (FA)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2.23.2.14 Customized Alerting Tones (CAT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
#### 8.2.23.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN
The IMS Multimedia Telephony service shall support the interoperability of the
CCNR service with PSTN/ISDN Supplementary Service CCNR and vice‑versa. The
scope of this interworking may result in a limited service capability.
## 8.2A Supplementary Services applicable to IMS Multimedia Telephony without
equivalent in non-IMS networks
### 8.2A.1 Completion of Communications on Not Logged-in (CCNL)
#### 8.2A.1.1 Definition
The CCNL service enables the originating party, encountering a terminating
party who is not registered, to have the communication completed without
having to make a new communication attempt when the terminating party
registers again.
When the originating party requests the CCNL service, the network will monitor
for the terminating party registering again.
As a service provider option only originating parties who are listed in the
terminating party's whitelist are allowed to request the CCNL service.
NOTE: The administration of the terminating party's whitelist is out of scope
of this document.
When the terminating party registers again, then the network will wait a short
time in order to allow the terminating party to originate a communication. If
no communication is originated by the terminating party within this time, then
the network will automatically recall the originating party. As a service
provider option the terminating user's acceptance of the CCNL request shall be
required before the originating party will be recalled. When the originating
party accepts the CCNL recall, then the network will automatically generate a
CCNL call to the terminating party.
When the terminating party is busy or not logged-in upon arrival of the CCNL
call, the original CCNL request shall retain its position in the queue, and
the remaining period in which the CCNL request remains valid shall not be
changed by this event.
During CCNL recall, information shall be provided which indicates a CCNL
recall. The information provided in the original communication attempt shall
be included in the CCNL recall.
#### 8.2A.1.2 Service interactions with other IMS supplementary services
##### 8.2A.1.2.1 Identification services
###### 8.2A.1.2.1.1 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
NOTE: If the originating party accepts a CCNL recall, the resulting CCNL call
is a basic communication and the terminating party can receive originating
identification presentation.
###### 8.2A.1.2.1.2 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
NOTE: If the originating party has invoked originating identification
restriction and the terminating party accepts a CCNL recall, then the
resulting CCNL call is a basic communication and the terminating party will
not receive the originating identification of the originating party.
###### 8.2A.1.2.1.3 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
###### 8.2A.1.2.1.4 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2A.1.2.2 Advice Of Charge services (AOC)
Charging information can be given for the original communication, and for the
resulting CCNL communication.
##### 8.2A.1.2.3 Communication Waiting (CW)
CCNL requests in the CCNL queue of the terminating party shall only be
processed if there are no communications waiting. In other situations there is
no impact between the CW and the CCNL service.
##### 8.2A.1.2.4 Communication HOLD (HOLD)
No impact, i.e. neither supplementary service shall affect the operation of
the other supplementary service.
NOTE 1: When receiving a CCNL recall indication, the originating party may
invoke the communication hold service in order to make interface resources
available for the establishment of the CCNL communication.
NOTE 2: When the originating party is busy or CCNL busy and is notified that
the terminating party is available, invocation of the communication hold
service will not result in the CCNL communication being established.
##### 8.2A.1.2.5 E2Aplicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2A.1.2.6 Closed User Group (CUG)
Closed user group information from the original communication shall also be
included in the CCNL communication.
NOTE: Closed user group information is not included in the check for a
compatible terminal. If a terminal performs an internal closed user group
check and uses the closed user group information provided on a communication
to determine whether, or not, to inform the user of the incoming
communication, then such a terminal may react positively to the check for a
compatible terminal due to the absence of closed user group information, but
due to the internal closed user group check such a terminal may then not
inform the user of the arrival of the resulting CCNL call.
##### 8.2A.1.2.7 Completion of communications services (CC)
The following Completion of Communications services are defined: Completion of
Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS), Completion of Communications on No
Reply (CCNR) and Completion of Communications on Not Logged-in (CCNL)
A user can be both an originating party and a terminating party
simultaneously, i.e. that user can have activated CC services and have CC
requests outstanding whilst at the same time that user can be the destination
of CC requests from other users.
CC requests against the same terminating party shall be queued in the same
queue.
If a user receives a CCNL recall (i.e. as originating party) while that
user\'s queue as terminating party is being processed, then the CCNL recall
shall take priority over the handling of that user\'s queue. The handling of
CCNL requests activated by this user (i.e. as originating party) shall have
priority over the handling of CC requests activated by other users on this
user (i.e. as terminating party).
If one of the user\'s CCNL requests can be processed, then this user shall be
given a CCNL recall or a notification. The served user\'s terminating party
idle guard timer, if running, shall be cancelled. The processing of CCBS or
CCNR requests shall be according to the requirements of the CCBS or CCNR
supplementary services.
If the network checks for identical requests in the user's queue, the check
shall include CCNL, CCNR and CCBS requests.
If an originating party has a CCBS or CCNR recall pending on arrival of a CCNL
recall, this should be treated in the same way as in the case where the
originating party is CCNL busy. In this case, the CCNL request shall be
suspended until user A becomes neither busy nor CCNL busy.
##### 8.2A.1.2.8 CONFerence (CONF)
No impact, i.e. neither supplementary service shall affect the operation of
the other supplementary service.
##### 8.2A.1.2.9 Communication DIVersion (CDIV)
###### 8.2A.1.2.9.1 General
CCNL recalls shall not be diverted.
###### 8.2A.1.2.9.2 Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU)
For CFU activated by user B before user A requests CCNL:
\- If user B has activated CFU, and the forwarded communication results in a
communication completion on not logged-in condition at user C, user A shall be
informed that CCNL is possible at user C. If user A activates CCNL and
subsequently activates CFU, the CCNL recall shall be given to user A.\ As a
network option, in case of a diversion at user B, user A shall not be informed
that CCNL is possible.
For CFU activated by user B after user A requests CCNL on user B:
\- If user B activates CFU after user A has activated CCNL on user B, then the
CCNL request shall be cancelled and a notification \"CCNL cancelled\" shall be
sent to the user A.\ As a network option, the CCNL request shall be suspended
until user B deactivates CFU. If the service duration timer e2Apires before
user B deactivates CFU, the CCNL request shall be cancelled.
###### 8.2A.1.2.9.3 Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB)
For CFB activated by user B before user A requests CCNL:
\- If user B has activated the communication forwarding busy service and is
busy, and the forwarded communication results in a call-completion on not
logged-in condition at user C, user A shall be informed that CCNL is possible
at user C.\ As a network option, in case of a diversion at user B, user A
shall not be informed that CCNL is possible.
For CFB activated by user B after user A requests CCNL on user B:
\- If user B activates the communication forwarding busy service after user A
has activated the CCNL service on user B, the communication forwarding busy
service shall not be invoked for the CCNL communication.
###### 8.2A.1.2.9.4 Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR)
For CFNR activated by user B before user A requests CCNL:
\- If user B has activated the communication forwarding on no reply service
and does not answer the communication, and the forwarded communication results
in a communication-completion on not logged-incondition at user C, user A
shall be informed that CCNL is possible at user C.\ As a network option, in
case of a diversion at user B, user A shall not be informed that CCNL is
possible.
For CFNR activated by user B after user A requests CCNL on user B:
  * If user B activates the communication forwarding on no reply service after user A has activated CCNL on user B, then the CCNL request shall be cancelled and a notification \"CCNL cancelled\" shall be sent to the user A.\ As a network option, the CCNL request shall be suspended until user B deactivates CFNR. If the service duration timer e2Apires before user B deactivates CFNR, the CCNL request shall be cancelled.
###### 8.2A.1.2.9.5 Communication Forwarding on Not Logged in (CFNL)
For CFNL activated by user B before user A requests CCNL:
\- If user B has activated the communication forwarding not registered service
and is not logged in, and the forwarded communication results in a
communication completion on not logged-in condition at user C, user A shall be
informed that CCNL is possible at user C.\ As a network option, user A shall
be informed that CCNL at user B is possible.
For CFNL activated by user B after user A requests CCNL on user B:
\- If user B activates the communication forwarding not registered service
after user A has activated the communication forwarding on not logged-in
service on user B, a CCNL communication from user A which encounters a not
logged in condition at user B shall be treated as follows:
\- the procedures of CCNL shall be applied; or
\- the communication shall be forwarded as a normal communication.
###### 8.2A.1.2.9.6 Communication Deflection (CD)
**For the originating user A:**
\- If a communication to the called user B is deflected to user C by the CD
service and results in a communication completion on not logged-in condition
at user C, user A shall be informed that CCNL is possible at user C. A CCNL
recall shall not be deflected.
**For the called user B:**
\- A CCNL call shall not be deflected.
##### 8.2A.1.2.10 Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2A.1.2.11 Anonymous Communication Rejection and Communication Barring
(ACR/CB)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2A.1.2.12 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2A.1.2.13 Fle2Aible Alerting (FA)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
##### 8.2A.1.2.14 Customized Alerting Tones (CAT)
No impact, i.e. neither service shall affect the operation of the other
service.
#### 8.2A.1.3 Interoperability with PSTN/ISDN
Not applicable.
## 8.3 Concepts associated with IMS supplementary services
### 8.3.1 Administration of supplementary services
Provision, Withdrawal, Registration, Erasure, Activation, Deactivation and
Invocation shall be as defined in ITU-T Recommendation I.210 [5].
Users shall be able to register, activate, deactivate, withdraw, interrogate
and reconfigure IMS supplementary services via the UE, or web portals.
### Unstructured SS data operations
The Multimedia Telephony Service shall provide a consistent service experience
to the user for mobile initiated USSD operations in MMI mode and reserved for
HPLMN use, according to TS 22.090 [12].
### Network Announcement and Tones Insertion
The Multimedia Telephony Service shall be able to play network announcements
or tones to the subscriber at any time during a session.
If there is an appropriate bilateral agreement, the home network shall be able
to instruct the visited network to play a network announcement or tone to the
subscriber at any time during a session.
## 8.4 Use of authorization option in relation to IMS supplementary services
### 8.4.1 Definition
Some IMS supplementary services (e.g. communication session barring) can be
offered to a user with the subscription option of authorization to control the
service. When this option is selected, every action (related to that IMS
supplementary service), such as registration, erasure, activation or
deactivation is performed by the user with concurrent authentication.
### 8.4.2 Description
When the subscription option authorized control of a IMS supplementary service
is provided, authentication handling is supported by the network.
### 8.4.3 Management - normal procedures and successful outcome
#### 8.4.3.1 Provision of authorization
Each IMS supplementary service which requires authorization to control this
service may be offered with the subscription option authorized control of the
IMS supplementary service. The values of this option may be:
  * user authentication;
  * by the service provider.
#### 8.4.3.2 Withdrawal of authorization
Authorization may be withdrawn for administrative reasons or due to
subscription modification.
#### 8.4.3.3 Authentication requirements
The network shall provide, and allow the user to maintain, the authentication
credentials.
# IMS Multimedia Telephony with Enhanced Voice
The IMS Multimedia Telephony with Enhanced Voice should fulfill the following
requirements:.
\- IMS Multimedia Telephony with Enhanced Voice should allow for significantly
improved quality of user experience compared to IMS Multimedia Telephony with
pre-Rel-12 voice services.
\- It should be possible to achieve significantly better service quality than
is possible with both Rel-11 3GPP narrowband and wideband voice services.
\- IMS Multimedia Telephony with Enhanced Voice should be deployable in an
efficient manner.
\- IMS Multimedia Telephony with Enhanced Voice should efficiently use the
transmission resource access and transport networks. It should also allow
possibility to implement the new services on low-cost devices and network
equipment with limited computational resource. With regard to transmission
efficiency, it should exceed that of the pre-Rel-12 3GPP wideband voice
service.
\- Transcoding should be avoided as much as possible. If transcoding cannot be
avoided, voice conversational quality degradation should be as limited as
possible.
\- The best possible quality should be delivered to all participants in
conference calls.
###### ## Annex A (informative): General terminal guidelines
# A.1 Service state indication
It is considered useful to indicate to the user the current state, notably the
activated state of those services which can lead to communications not being
offered. For example, an active CFU results in no communication being
presented.
Generally speaking any \"not usual\" state of a service should be indicated on
the terminal: CFU activated, CW deactivated, OIR in permanent mode activated,
etc.
In the case of services which can be remotely controlled from another terminal
or a server, the terminal should receive this information from the network.
# A.2 Supervisory tones
TS 22.001 [13] Annex F provides details of supervisory tones generated by the
ME.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Service interactions table
Table B.1 summarizes the service interactions between pairs of IMS
supplementary services, as identified in section 8 of this document.
Each case of the table represents the scenario where services on the
horizontal row heading are invoked when services on the vertical column
heading are already active.
The case is filled with one of three possible options: character \"Y \"
indicates interaction has been identified between the corresponding service
pair and described in the present document, character \"N\" indicates no
interaction has been identified and no information is provided in the present
document, '-' is for scenarios which are not applicable.
Table B.1: Identified service interactions between pairs of IMS supplementary
services
|
> OI P
|
> OI R
|
> TI P
|
> TI R
|
> MI D
|
> AC
|
> CFU
|
> CFB
|
> CFNR
|
> CFNL
|
> CD
|
> CFNRc
|
> CW
|
> HOLD
|
> CB
|
> CCBS
|
> MWI
|
> CONF
|
> AOC
|
> ECT
|
> RC
|
> CUG
|
> 3PTY  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Originating Identification Presentation (OIP) | - | Y | N | N | N | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N  
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR) | Y | - | N | N | N | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N  
Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP) | N | N | - | Y | N | N | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N  
Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR) | N | N | Y | - | N | N | Y | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y | N | N | N  
Malicious Communication Identification (MCID) | N | N | N | N | - | N | Y | N | Y | N | Y | Y | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N  
Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR) | N | N | N | N | N | - | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | Y | N | N | Y | N | N | N | N | N | N | N  
Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) | Y | Y | Y | N | N | Y | - | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | N | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | N | N | Y | N  
Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) | Y | Y | Y | N | N | Y | Y | - | N | N | Y | Y | see note | N | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | N | N | Y | N  
Communication Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | Y | Y | N | - | N | N | N | Y | N | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | N | N | Y | N  
Communication Forwarding on Not Logged-In (CFNL) | Y | Y | Y | N | N | Y | Y | N | N | - | N | N | N | N | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | N | N | Y | N  
Communication Deflection (CD) | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | N | - | N | Y | N | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | N | N | Y | N  
Communication Forwarding on Subscriber Not Reachable (CFNRc) | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | Y | **Y** | **Y** | **N** | **N** | **N** | - | Y | N | Y | Y | Y | N | N | N | N | Y | N  
Communication Waiting (CW) | Y | N | N | N | N | Y | **N** | see note | **Y** | **N** | **Y** | Y | - | N | N | Y | N | N | N | N | N | N | N  
Communication Hold (HOLD) | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | - | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y  
Communication Barring (CB) | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | N | - | Y | N | N | N | Y | N | N | N  
Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) | N | N | N | N | N | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | N | Y | N | N | N | N  
Message Waiting Indication (MWI) | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | N | N | N | N | - | N | N | N | N | N | N  
Conference (CONF) | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | N  
Advice of Charge (AOC) | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | N | N | N | Y | N | Y | - | N | N | N | N  
Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT) | N | Y | N | N | Y | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y | N | N | Y | Y | Y | N | Y | N  
Reverse Charging (RC) | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | - | N | N  
Closed User Group (CUG) | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | Y | N | N | N | N | N | Y | N | Y | N | - | N  
Three-Party (3PTY) | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y | N | N | N | N | N | N | N | Y | Y  
NOTE: It is not permitted to have both CW and CFB active at the same time for
a particular user.
###### ## Annex C (normative): IMS Multimedia Telephony supplementary services
applicable to the fixed access
The following services have been split into 3 categories applicable to CEPT
members:
  * Mandatory services: selected services that must form the basis of any set of services considered applicable to IMS Multimedia Telephony service. These are considered to meet the requirements of regulation concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector.
  * Recommended services: selected services that offer service providers with a transition from CS mobile and fixed services.to IMS Multimedia Telephony service.
  * Optional services: other services.
**Mandatory services**
Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR)
**Recommended services**
Communication DIVersion (CDIV)
Communication Waiting (CW)
Communication HOLD (HOLD)
Communication Barring (CB)
Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
Completion of Communications on No Reply (CCNR)
Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
**Optional services**
CONFerence (CONF)
Advice Of Charge (AOC)
Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
Reverse charging
Closed User Group (CUG)
Three-Party (3PTY)
Flexible Alerting (FA)
Customized Alerting Tone (CAT)
Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
Completion of Communications on Not Logged in (CCNL)
###### ## Annex D (normative): IMS Multimedia Telephony supplementary services
applicable to the mobile 3GPP access
Only these services apply to Ues using a mobile 3GPP access:
Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
> Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
>
> Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
>
> Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
>
> Communication Diversion (CDIV)
>
> Communication Hold (HOLD)
>
> Communication Barring (CB)
>
> Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
>
> Conference (CONF)
>
> Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
>
> Completion of Communications on Not Logged in (CCNL)
>
> Communication Waiting (CW)
NOTE: Communication Waiting service may be provided entirely by means of an
equivalent feature in the UE. In this case this service does not need to be
supported by the network.
Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS)
Completion of Communications on No Reply (CCNR)
Personal Network Management (PNM)
Customized Alerting Tone (CAT)
Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
Additionally, EN 301 082 (OCB-fixed) does not apply to 2G and 3G Mobile
terminals, for which the functionality is specified by means of Operator
Determined Barring [6] and not through supplementary services.
###### ## Annex Da (normative): Network determined user busy.
The capability of network determined user busy is a network option.
The network may determine busy conditions at the time an incoming IMS
Multimedia Telephony session is about to be offered.
The conditions for network determined user busy are identified, on a per
subscription basis, based on the availability of limited resources assigned to
the terminating user, or due to other information such as presence.
The conditions for network determined \"user busy\" include:
\- the maximum number of total communications permitted has been reached;
\- the maximum number of simultaneous media streams supported at the given
subscriber\'s interface(s) has been reached;
\- the maximum bandwidth supported at the given subscriber\'s interface(s) has
been reached.
\- subscriber making himself \"busy\" in a subscriber profile, involved in the
incoming multimedia telephony session.
The network determined user busy condition may be used to trigger certain
services (e.g. Call Forwarding on Busy, Call Waiting on Busy), or reject the
session, or both. If the session rejection is propagated back to the
originator, a \"user busy\" indication must be provided as the cause of the
rejection.
In addition, a further condition, \"approaching network determined user busy\"
that is related to the Network determined user busy condition, may be
provided. This condition may be used to trigger certain services (e.g. Call
Waiting). However, this condition is not a busy condition and shall not cause
a \"user busy\" indication being sent towards the session originator.
The conditions for approaching network determined user busy are identified, on
a per subscription basis, based on the availability of limited resources
assigned to the terminating user.
The conditions for approaching network determined user busy include:
\- a pre-determined number, or less, of communications are available (i.e. the
maximum number of communications minus the current number); or
\- a pre-determined number, or less, of simultaneous media streams available
(i.e. the maximum number of simultaneous media streams minus the current
number); or
\- a certain limit in the bandwidth used at the given subscriber\'s
interface(s) has been reached.
###### ## Annex Db (informative): services classification applicable to Inter
IMS Network-to-Network Interface (II-NNI).
The goal of this informative annex is to improve the service interconnection
at II-NNI. The classification of services may simplify the cooperation between
interconnecting networks but remains optional.
## Db.1 High Priority Category
List of services with high priority to be supported at II-NNI (it is
recommended to be able to deliver these services at II-NNI). These services
have technical impact the II-NNI:
  * Basic Voice,
  * Originating Identification Presentation (OIP),
  * Originating Identification Restriction (OIR),
  * Incoming Communication Barring (ICB) -- including Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR),
  * Advice Of Charge (AOC),
  * Communication DIVersion (CDIV) -- Call DIV 63ignalling information saying that this call has been already diverted.
  * Malicious Communication Identification (MCID),
  * Communication HOLD (HOLD),
  * Communication Waiting (CW).
## Db.2 Medium Priority Category
List of services with medium priority to be supported at II-NNI (it is
recommended that interconnecting parties agree on using these services before
planning to open them at II-NNI). These services have technical impact the II-
NNI:
  * Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP),
```{=html}
``` \- Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR),
  * Message Waiting Indication (MWI),
  * Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber (CCBS),
  * Completion of Communications on Non Reply (CCNR),
  * Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT),
  * Closed User Group (CUG),
  * Personal Network Management (PNM),
  * Three-ParTY (3PTY),
  * CONFerence (CONF),
  * User to User service.
## Db.3 Low Priority Category
List of services with low priority that have no identified impact on II-NNI
(the delivery of these services is inside of originating network):
> \- Flexible Alerting (FA),
\- Outgoing Communication Barring (OCB),
> \- Customized Alerting Tone (CAT),
>
> \- Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
>
> \- Call Completion Not Logged In (CCNL).
###### ## Annex Dc (normative): Enterprise IP-PBX Supplementary Services to
support 3GPP Voice Interworking
## Dc.1 General
The services in this annex are the services that could be supported in an
enterprise IP-PBX environment. These are provided in order to support
implementation of interworking between an Enterprise IP-PBX and IMS. 3GPP Ues
that are designed to work in an Enterprise environment could support these
types of supplementary services.
## Dc.2 Individual Line Services
### Dc.2.1 Introduction
IP-PBX features are generally classified as either Individual Line or Group
Line Services. Individual Line services are applicable to individual
Enterprise users (aka \"lines\" or \"extensions\"). Group Services, in
contrast, are applicable to groups of users.
### Dc.2.2 Call Transfer (Unattended, Attended & Early Attended)
This is based on Explicit Communications Transfer (ECT) as described in
Section 8.2.15.
In a Unattended Call Transfer, an ongoing call is transferred to a 3^rd^ party
by one of the parties (called the transferring party) without checking the
status of the 3^rd^ party. This is supported as a service provider option of
ECT in Section 8.2.15.
In an attended call transfer (sometimes called Supervised Call Transfer) the
ongoing call is placed on hold by the transferring party, another call is
established between the transferring party and the party to whom the call is
proposed to be transferred, and then the call is (or may be, depending on the
result of that discussion) transferred to that party. This is effectively a
combination of the Communication HOLD service defined in section 8.2.9 and ECT
defined in Section 8.2.15.
In an Early Attended Call Transfer the ongoing call is placed on hold and the
transferring party waits to hear the 3^rd^ party's phone ring. Once the
transferring party hears ring tone, he transfers the call. This is supported
as a service provider option of ECT in Section 8.2.15.
### Dc.2.3 Multi-party Ad-hoc Conference with Rosters
Multi-party and Conference Calls provide communications between multiple
users. Such calls may or may not be arranged in advance. Multi-party calls not
arranged in advance are termed \"ad hoc\".
Conference calls generally involve multiple parties, so the terms _multi-party
call_ and _conference call_ are in some senses synonymous. Conventionally, the
term _conference call_ refers to a call that is arranged in advance by a
moderator or host who has special privileges (e.g., can mute and un-mute other
participants), with logistics communicated e.g., through email or a calendar
system. To participate in a conference call one typically calls a number
associated with a conferencing server.
An Ad Hoc Multi-party call is usually not pre-arranged and participants are
generally all \"equal\" (they can mute and un-mute themselves). There may or
may not be a conferencing server involved.
The list of participants in a multi-party / conference call is known as the
roster. The IP-PBX may have the ability to supply the roster to the device of
any participant.
### Dc.2.4 Call Forwarding
Call Forwarding, or Communications Diversion (CDIV), is defined in Section
8.2.7. Call Forwarding Activation is an action on the part of the user to
change the call forwarding behaviour of his device; e.g., by activating or
deactivating forwarding to a pre-designated number, or changing the forwarded
to number.
Call forwarding (aka Communications Diversion or CDIV) is provided to incoming
calls based on the called party\'s status and service configuration. It may be
invoked for the reasons summarized below. Call forwarding for other reasons is
not precluded, as a network option.
  1. Call Forward on Busy - Call Forwarding is invoked because the called party\'s line is not able to accept the incoming call (e.g., it is in use, or off hook).\ \ This is known as Communication Forwarding Busy (CFB) in Section 8.2.7.1.
```{=html}
``` 1\. Call Forward on No Answer - Call Forwarding is invoked after the
called party is alerted a configured number of times without response.\ \ This
is known as Communication Forward on No Reply (CFNR) in Section 8.2.7.1.
  1. Call Forward Unconditional - Call Forwarding is enabled by the user (e.g., prior to leaving the office) so that all subsequent calls will be immediately forwarded to the specified destination. This configuration typically remains in effect until manually cancelled. The forwarded line may indicate that it is in this state by issuing a special dial tone (e.g., \"stutter dial tone\") when the receiver is taken off hook. Call Forward Unconditional may be invoked using special key sequences (Vertical Service Codes), e.g., *72 in North America or *21* in Europe, followed by the forward-to number; or via a special button or soft key on the device.\ \ This is known as Communication Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) in Section 8.2.7.1.
  2. Call Forward on Do Not Disturb - similar to call forward unconditional, but invoked by pressing the Do Not Disturb button or soft key. Most devices will visually display that they are in the Do Not Disturb state. Pressing the Do Not Disturb button or soft key while in the Do Not Disturb state, causes the line to exit this state.\ \ This is known as Communication Deflection (CD) in Section 8.2.7.1.
### Dc.2.5 Single Number Reach (SNR)
The Single Number Reach (SNR) capability allows calls to a IP-PBX extension to
be picked up on or transferred to, alternate devices such as a home phone or
mobile phone.
In the case of a call incoming to the number associated with the IP-PBX
extension, the IP-PBX will normally ring that line first. If it is unanswered,
the IP-PBX will ring one or more alternate numbers.
An in-progress call may be \"pushed to\" a pre-configured alternate device by
pressing a special button or key sequence on the device with which the IP-PBX
extension number is associated. Similarly it can be \"pulled back\" to that
device.
### Dc.2.6 Do Not Disturb (DND)
The Do Not Disturb (DND) function prevents calls from being terminated to an
extension for which DND is activated.
Calls to an extension for which DND is activated may be directed to a pre-
assigned extension (e.g., a secretary), receive a busy signal, or receive an
indication that the called party is busy. In some IP-PBXs the call may be
allowed through to the extension but displayed differently (e.g., with a
visual indication, but without ringing). It may be possible to circumvent the
called party's DND status by policy (e.g., the called party's boss can \"get
through\") or by entering a circumvention code.
### Dc.2.7 Immediate Divert (to messaging system)
The Immediate Divert function allows a call to be connected to a messaging
system (typically a voice mail system). The call may be active, on hold or in
the process of being established. The messaging system may be associated with
the party invoking the Immediate Divert function or (if they differ) with the
original called party. When the call is in the process of being established
this is known as Communication Diversion (CDIV) as defined in Section 8.2.7.
When the call is active or on hold, this is known as Explicit Communication
Transfer (ECT) as defined in Section 8.2.15.
Immediate Divert is invoked by a special key, softkey or key sequence
depending on the capability of the device. The IP-PBX typically informs the
diverted party that the call has been diverted, and to whose messaging system
the diverted party is now speaking.
### Dc.2.8 Shared-line Features (remote-in-use, call-Barge)
A shared line is a telephone number associated with multiple devices at the
same time. A set of devices sharing the same number is called a Shared Line
Group. This is a variant of the Closed User Group defined in Section 8.2.17.
The Call Barge function allows a user to join an in-progress call in which it
and one of the currently participating devices are members of the same Shared
Line Group.
Call Barge is only possible from device 'A' if at least one device in the same
Shared Line Group as 'A' has a call in progress. This status may be indicated
to the user of device 'A' by the IP-PBX.
### Dc.2.9 Callback
The Callback function notifies a user when the party to whom a call was
previously attempted, becomes available. It is effectively the combination of
Communication Completion on Busy (CCBS) and Communication Completion on No
Reply (CCNR) defined in Sections 8.2.11 and 8.2.23.
If IP-PBX user 'A' attempts to call IP-PBX user 'B' but the call fails, e.g.,
because user B's line was busy or the call was unanswered, user 'A' may invoke
the Callback function. Doing so causes the IP-PBX to monitor B's status, and
notify user A when user B becomes available. For example if B's line was
previously off hook, he will be deemed available when he next goes on hook.
### Dc.2.10 Connected Name and Number Display
This feature allows the device to display the name and/or telephone number of
both current parties on a 2-party call.
This feature uses the Connected Line ID Presentation (COLP/COLR) and Connected
Name Presentation (CONP/CONR) services to allow or restrict presentation of
this information on a call by call basis.
This feature requires that the IMS or the IP-PBX maintains the name associated
with Enterprise specific identities (short numbers).
### Dc.2.11 Call Whisper
Call Whisper identifies to the called party, information about the caller
(e.g., the caller ID, and the telephone number the caller dialled) while the
caller continues to hear ringing. This information allows the called party to
know how to greet the caller, and/or whether to accept the call. This is an
optional service described in section 7.5.1 of TS 22.228 [4].
This capability is often used when multiple non-geographic numbers (e.g., toll
free numbers) are used to route calls to the same directory number. For
example a call center may take calls for many companies, and the receptionists
need to greet the caller differently based on the company to which the call is
related. It can also be used in a FMC scenario where e.g., a call to either
the fixed or the mobile device will cause both to ring. The implementation
will typically translate the called number into a pre-defined phrase (e.g.,
\"this call is for Acme Rockets\" or \"this call is for your mobile\"). The
format of the \"whisper\" may vary (e.g., audio vs. visual presentation)
depending on the capabilities of the device.
## Dc.3 Group Line Services
### Dc.3.1 Introduction
A IP-PBX often provides a set of advanced services to groups of users within
the Enterprise. The groups generally correspond to job functions (e.g., help
desk attendants) or organizations (e.g., marketing, sales). Group Services may
for example allow enhanced collaboration among group members, or allow the
distribution of work across them.
### Dc.3.2 Enterprise Music On Hold
Music on Hold (MOH) is played to the party whose line has been placed on hold.
The Music on Hold (MOH) feature allows users to place on-net and off-net users
on hold with music that is streamed from a streaming source. In an Enterprise
MOH is often used to provide information rather than music. The caller may
interact with the MOH capability using simple key sequences, e.g., \"enter *0
to hear about our sales, or *1 to disable this announcement\". The
announcement may be customized based e.g., on the number dialled. The media is
typically streamed from a Music on Hold Server, which may or may not be
considered part of the IP-PBX.
This is an add-on to the Communication HOLD service defined in Section 8.2.9.
The network should be capable of suppressing MOH when the held party is part
of a multi-party call.
### Dc.3.3 Call Park
The Call Park feature allows a party involved in a call to place that call on
hold on one device and resume it from another.
Traditionally Call Park has been activated using a special button (the \"call
park\" button) or key sequence. The call is at that point transferred to an
idle extension, and is said to be \"parked on\" that extension. The IP-PBX may
provide some means of \"paging\" the desired party, e.g., through a public
address system or via some form of messaging. The call can be resumed from any
IP-PBX line, by providing the extension number on which it is \"parked\".
This is a variation of the Communication HOLD service defined in Section
8.2.9, where the call can be picked up from a different terminal than placed
on hold.
### Dc.3.4 Call Pickup/Group Pickup
Call Pickup allows a user to answer on one line or device, an incoming call
directed to another line or device. Lines or devices may be assigned to
groups, in which case call pickup is restricted to lines or devices in the
same group. That is known as Group Pickup.
Imagine a large room with many phones and few people. One of the phones, on
the far side of the room, starts to ring. Rather than walking across the room,
a user can press a special button or key sequence on his own phone to transfer
that call to his phone. That is Call Pickup.
In a distributed environment it may not be possible for the user to hear the
other phone ringing, so an alternative alerting mechanism may be used. For
example a text message could alert a user on his mobile that his office or
home phone was ringing.
###### ## Annex E (informative): Bibliography references
In chapter 8 several informative references are given to provide a more
complete understanding of the stage 1 definition of the IMS supplementary
services developed in this TS.
These references shall be intended as general guidelines given to integrate
the service descriptions of this document and are exclusively intended to be
applicable in relation to stage 1 aspects. Stage 3 of Multimedia Telephony
service is defined exclusively in [7].
[E-1] ETSI ETS 300 200: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Call
Forwarding Unconditional (CFU) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-2] ETSI EN 300 199 (V1.2.1): \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN);
Call Forwarding Busy (CFB) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-3] ETSI EN 300 201 (V1.2.1): \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN);
Call Forwarding No Reply (CFNR) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-4] ETSI ETS 300 202: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Call
Deflection (CD) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-5] ETSI ETS 300 056: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Call
Waiting (CW) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-6] ETSI ETS 300 139: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Call
Hold (HOLD) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-7] ETSI ETS 300 183: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN);
Conference call, add-on (CONF) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-8] ETSI ETS 300 164: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Meet-Me
Conference (MMC) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-9] ETSI EN 300 357 (V1.2.1): \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN);
Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) supplementary service; Service
description\".
[E-10] ETSI ETS 300 178: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Advice
of Charge: charging information at call set-up time (AOC-S) supplementary
service; Service description\".
[E-11] ETSI ETS 300 179: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Advice
of Charge: charging information during the call (AOC-D) supplementary service;
Service description\".
[E-12] ETSI ETS 300 180: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); Advice
of Charge: charging information at the end of the call (AOC-E) supplementary
service; Service description\".
[E-13] ETSI EN 300 650 (V1.2.1): \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN);
Message Waiting Indication (MWI) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-14] ETSI EN 301 798 (V1.1.1): \"Services and Protocols for Advanced
Networks (SPAN);Anonymous Call Rejection (ACR) Supplementary Service; Service
description\".
[E-15] ETSI EN 301 082 (V2.1.1): \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN);
Outgoing Call Barring‑Fixed (OCB-F) supplementary service; Service
description\".
[E-16] ETSI EN 301 084 (V2.1.1): \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN);
Outgoing Call Barring‑User Controlled (OCB-UC) supplementary service; Service
description\".
[E-17] ETSI ETS 300 094 V2.1.1 (2000-06): \"Integrated Services Digital
Network (ISDN); Connected Line Identification Presentation (COLP);
supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-18] ETSI EN 300 367 V1.2.1 (1998-10): \"Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN); Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) supplementary service; Service
description\".
[E-19] ITU-T Recommendation I.256.3 (08/92): \"Integrated Services Digital
Network (ISDN); general structure and service capabilities; Reverse
Charging\".
[E-20] ETSI ETS 300 095 ed.1 (1992-01): \"Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN);Connected Line Identification Restriction (COLR) supplementary service;
Service description\".
[E-21] ETSI ETS 300 186 ed.1 (1993-07): \"Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN);Three-Party (3PTY) supplementary service; Service description \".
[E-22] ETSI ETS 300 136 (March 1992): \"Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN); Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary service; Service description\".
[E-23] ETSI EN 301 134 (October 1998): \"Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN); Completion of Calls on No Reply (CCNR) supplementary service; Service
description\".
#