# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
  * presented to TSG for information;
```{=html}
``` \- presented to TSG for approval;
```{=html}
``` \- or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This TS defines the service requirements from users' and operators'
perspective for the support of IP multimedia applications through the IMS.
IP multimedia applications are supported by IP multimedia sessions in the IM
CN Subsystem. IP multimedia sessions use IP connectivity bearers (e.g. GPRS as
a bearer). Examples of IP multimedia applications include speech
communication, real time multimedia applications, shared online whiteboards
etc.
This TS, in general, does not standardise usage of IP multimedia applications,
but instead identifies the requirements to enable their support.
In order to align IP multimedia applications wherever possible with non-3GPP
IP applications, the general approach is to adopt non-3GPP IP based solutions.
The existing legacy tele- and supplementary services shall not be re-
standardised as IP multimedia applications, and multimedia equivalent
applications may be created with toolkits.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"CS Teleservices supported by a PLMN\".
[2] Void
[3] Void
[4] Void
[5] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".
[6] Void
[7] 3GPP TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service; Stage 1\"
[8] Void
[9] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\"
[10] 3GPP TS 22.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL); Service definition -- Stage 1\"
[11] 3GPP TS 22.057: \"Mobile Execution Environment (MexE); Service
description, Stage 1\"
[12] 3GPP TS 22.038: \"USIM/SIM Application Toolkit (USAT/SAT); Service
description; Stage 1\"
[13] Open Mobile Alliance (OMA): OMA-RD-Parlay_Service_Access-V1_0-20100427-A
[14] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP specifications\"
[15] IETF RFC 3966: \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\"
[16] 3GPP TS 22.240: \"Stage 1 Service Requirement for the 3GPP Generic User
Profile (GUP)\"
[17] ETSI ETS 300 284: \"Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN); User-to-
User Signalling (UUS) supplementary service; Service description\"
[19] ETSI TS 102 424: \"Telecommunications and Internet converged Services and
Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Requirements of the NGN network to
support Emergency Communication from Citizen to Authority\"
[20] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary
services\"
[21] 3GPP TS 31.103: \"Characteristics of the IP Multimedia Services Identity
Module (ISIM) application\".
> [22] IETF RFC 5039: \"The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Spam\"\
> http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5039.txt?number=5039
[23] IETF RFC 5631: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Session Mobility\"\
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5631.txt?number=5631
[24] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[25] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line Identification supplementary services; Stage 1\"
[26] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[27] Void
[28] Open Mobile Alliance (OMA): OMA-AD-Push-V2.3-20111122-A.pdf
[29] IANA language (http://www.iana.org/assignments/language-subtag-registry/)
[30] Void
[31] Void
[32] IETF RFC 7478: \"Web Real-Time Communication Use-cases and Requirements\"
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7478
[33] 3GPP TS 22.519: \"Business Communication Requirements\"
## 2.2 Informative references
[18] GSMA PRD IR.34: \"Inter-Service Provider IP Backbone Guidelines\"
[33] ETSI TR 180 003: \"TISPAN; Technical Report on NGN National IP
Interconnection\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [14] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[14].
**Access independence:** the ability for the subscribers to access their IP
Multimedia services over any access network capable of providing IP-
connectivity, e.g. via:
\- 3GPP accesses (e.g. E-UTRAN, UTRAN, GERAN)
\- Non 3GPP accesses with specified interworking (e.g. WLAN with 3GPP
interworking, DOCSIS^®^, WiMAX**^™^** and cdma2000^®^ access)
\- Other non 3GPP accesses that are not within the current scope of 3GPP (e.g.
xDSL, PSTN, satellite, WLAN without 3GPP interworking)
**Conference:** An IP multimedia session with two or more participants. Each
conference has a \"conference focus\". A conference can be uniquely identified
by a user. Examples for a conference could be a Telepresence or a multimedia
game, in which the conference focus is located in a game server.
_**Telepresence:** A conference with interactive audio-visual communications
experience between remote locations, where the users enjoy a strong sense of
realism and presence between all participants by optimizing a variety of
attributes such as audio and video quality, eye contact, body language,
spatial audio, coordinated environments and natural image size._
**Telepresence System:** A set of functions, devices and network elements
which are able to capture, deliver, manage and render multiple high quality
interactive audio and video signals in a Telepresence conference. An
appropriate number of devices (e.g. cameras, screens, loudspeakers,
microphones, codecs) and environmental characteristics are used to establish
Telepresence.
**Conference Focus:** The conference focus is an entity which has abilities to
host conferences including their creation, maintenance, and manipulation of
the media. A conference focus implements the conference policy (e.g. rules for
talk burst control, assign priorities and participant's rights).
**Domain Name Owner** : The entity that is noted in the Internet (i.e. ICANN
or one of its subsidiaries) as owning the Domain Name.
**IM CN subsystem:** (IP Multimedia CN subsystem) comprises of all CN elements
for the provision of IP multimedia applications over IP multimedia sessions
**IMS Inter UE Transfer: Transfer at the IMS-level of all or some of the media
components of an IMS session between UEs under the control of the same end-
user while maintaining service continuity.**
**IMS Network‑Independent Public User Identity (INIPUI)** : A Public User
Identity in the form of a SIP URI where the Domain Name part is a Shared
Domain Name.
**IMS Network‑Independent Public User Identity (INIPUI) User:** An entity that
is identified by an IMS Network-Independent Public User Identity.
**IMS Network-Independent Public User Identity** **(INIPUI) Host** : The
entity that hosts and manages the INIPUIs.
**IMS Network-Independent Public User Identity (INIPUI) Registry** : An entity
that provides mapping of IMS Network-Independent Public User Identities and
IMS NNI-Routable Identifiers.
**IMS Network‑Independent Public User Identity (INIPUI) Operator:** An IMS
operator who provides IMS-based Services for a Shared Domain Name.
**IP multimedia application:** an application that handles one or more media
types simultaneously such as speech, audio, video and data (e.g. chat text,
shared whiteboard) in a synchronised way from the user's point of view. A
multimedia application may involve multiple media streams of the same or
different types multiple parties, multiple connections, and the addition or
deletion of resources within a single IP multimedia session. A user may invoke
concurrent IP multimedia applications in an IP multimedia session.
**IP multimedia service:** an IP multimedia service is the user experience
provided by one or more IP multimedia applications.
**IP multimedia session:** an IP multimedia session is a set of multimedia
senders and receivers and the data streams flowing from senders to receivers.
IP multimedia sessions are supported by the IP multimedia CN Subsystem and are
enabled by IP connectivity bearers (e.g. GPRS as a bearer). A user may invoke
concurrent IP multimedia sessions.
**Personal mobility:** This is the mobility for those scenarios where the user
changes the terminal used for network access at different locations. The
ability of a user to access telecommunication services at any terminal on the
basis of a personal identifier, and the capability of the network to provide
those services delineated in the user\'s service profile.
_Source: ITU‑T NGN Focus Group._
NOTE: Personal mobility is sometimes referred to as User mobility. User
mobility is defined as the user having the capability to be able to move to
different physical locations and use a terminal. In today\'s world there are
examples of this already implemented. For example a user can travel around the
world and use the public fixed line telephone network to be able to receive
either all of the services that they would receive from their home fixed line
telephone, or a limited number of services. Primarily the minimum service is
the ability to make a voice call. Likewise a user can connect to their email
by making use of internet cafes etc. The similarity of both cases is that the
user is being provided with a terminal/device to gain access to there service.
As for identification, the user has no unique identity in terms of the access
network.
**Shared Domain Name:** The domain name in the IMS Network-Independent Public
User Identity, and which is served by multiple IMS Operators.
**Terminal Mobility:** This is mobility for those scenarios where the same
terminal equipment is moving or is used at different locations. The ability of
a terminal to access telecommunication services from different locations or
while in motion, and the capability of the network to identify and locate that
terminal.
_Source: ITU‑T NGN Focus Group._
NOTE: Terminal Mobility is an extension of User Mobility, although it is
possible to have Terminal Mobility without User Mobility. Terminal Mobility is
defined as the terminal having the ability to be moved to different physical
locations and provide the user access to their services by one or more
different access methods.
**Unsolicited Communication:** Unsolicited Communication (UC) denotes bulk
communication in IMS where the benefit is weighted in favour of the sender. In
general the receiver(s) of UC do not wish to receive such communication. UC
may comprise of, e.g., \"SPam over IP Telephony (SPIT)\" [22] or \"SPam over
IP Messaging (SPIM)\".
**Web Real-Time Communications (WebRTC):** A set of browser extensions
enabling web applications to define real-time services.
**WebRTC IMS client:** A WebRTC client that allows a user to access IMS
services from a device that supports a WebRTC-capable browser.
Further definitions are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [14].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[14] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [14].
DOCSIS^®^ Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications
INIPUI IMS Network Independent Public User Identity
> WebRTC Web Real-Time Communications
>
> WiMAX**^™^** Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access
Note: WiMAX**^™^** is a trademark of the WiMAX Forum\ DOCSIS^®^ is registered
trademark of Cable Television Laboratories, Inc.\ cdma2000^®^ is a registered
trademark of the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA-USA)
# 4 Introduction
IP has opened up a whole range of communication applications, which may allow
operators to develop totally new value added applications as well as to
enhance their existing solutions. The open architecture and platforms
supported by IP and operating systems may lead to applications and new
opportunities that are more difficult to replicate using a standard switched
centralised solution.
A complete solution for the support of IP multimedia applications (including
voice communications) shall be available. The solution consists of UEs, GERAN
or UTRAN radio access networks and GPRS evolved core network. One of the main
objectives for 3GPP specifications is to ensure that the availability and
behaviour of these IP applications when used via the 3GPP mobile access is at
least as good as when used via other mobile access types.
# 5 High level requirements
Support for IP multimedia sessions shall be provided in a flexible manner to
allow operators to differentiate their services in the market place as well
customise them to meet specific user needs. This shall be provided by the use
of service capabilities in both networks and terminals, including both
Personal Mobility and Terminal Mobility, for the creation and support of IP
multimedia applications.
The following high level requirements shall be supported for IP multimedia
applications:
\- Negotiable QoS for IP multimedia sessions both at the time of a session
establishment as well as during the session by the operator and the user
\- Negotiable QoS for individual media components in an IP multimedia session
both at the time of establishing a media component as well as when the media
component is active by the operator and the user
\- End to end QoS for voice at least as good as that achieved by the circuit-
switched wireless systems shall be enabled
\- Support of roaming, negotiation between operators for QoS and for Service
Capabilities is required. Such negotiation should be automated rather than
manual, e.g., when another operator adds new service capabilities.
\- Support of roaming and interconnection shall include the capability for
media to be routed optimally between IMS operators, i.e. according to criteria
set by the operators.
\- Possibility for a network operator to implement IP Policy Control for IP
multimedia applications.
\- IP multimedia sessions shall be able to support a variety of different
media types. A set of media types shall be identified to ensure
interoperability (e.g. default codec selection and header compression).
\- Within each IP multimedia session, one or more IP multimedia applications
shall be supported. It shall be possible to support multiple IP multimedia
applications to efficiently provide a coherent and consistent IP multimedia
service experience. Such support involves identifying which applications are
invoked per subscriber, understanding the appropriate order of the set of
applications, and resolving application interactions during the session.
\- The possibility for IP multimedia applications to be provided without a
reduction in privacy, security, or authentication compared to corresponding
packet switched and circuit switched services.
\- IMS shall be capable to provide transcoding (at least for voice sessions)
where needed when two UEs do not support a common codec.
\- Interconnection between two IMS domains shall be supported.
Note: see also Section 10
\- Roaming shall be supported enabling users to access IP multimedia services
provisioned by the:
\- Home Environment
\- Serving Network
\- The principle of access independence shall be supported. It is desirable
that an operator should be able to offer services to their subscribers
regardless of how they obtain an IP connection (e.g. E-UTRAN, UTRAN, GERAN,
fixed lines, LAN, DOCSIS^®^, WiMAX**^™^** and cdma2000^®^ access).
Note: Access independence principle can only be ensured by 3GPP for the access
technologies 3GPP has defined or has defined specific interworking.
\- It shall be possible for the users to access IM CN via an IP connection
(e.g. GPRS, fixed lines, LAN) with Network Address Translation (NAT) deployed.
\- IM CN should provide support for the users to access IM CN through a
Firewall (FW) with configuration restrictions (e.g. only HTTP allowed, port
range limitation) deployed outside operators' domain.
\- It shall be possible to support session-related internet applications that
have been developed outside the 3GPP community.
\- It shall be possible to limit the view of an operator's network topology to
authorised entities.
\- It shall be possible to support the multiple UEs associated with a single
IMS service subscription. It shall be possible to share one Public User
Identity between multiple UEs. It shall also be possible to identify the
individual UEs with separate Public User Identities. IMS shall be able to
route sessions towards the identified UE(s), e.g. based on UE capability, User
preference and/or Network preferences.
\- It shall be possible for a service to identify and interact with a specific
UE even when multiple UEs share the same single Public User Identity. A UE
shall be capable to identify and interact with a specific UE even when
multiple UEs share the same single Public User Identity, except when the UE
supports only limited capabilities and thus is unable to become engaged in a
service that requires such functionality. Examples include a telemetry-only
capable UE that only supports the capabilities for point-to-point
communication.
\- The IMS shall support a mechanism to provide configuration parameters and
obtain operational status of the UE. This includes the ability to provide
software upgrade, service configuration, and collect operational status.
According to operator policies this information may be provided to
applications.
\- The IMS shall be capable to access user location information, whether the
user is roaming or not. According to operator policies this information may be
provided to applications.
\- Where required (e.g. by regulation) the IMS shall provide the capability
for the user to indicate to the network that a communication is malicious.
Note: see also MCID in [20].
\- Where required (e.g. by regulation) the IMS shall provide the capability
for the network, on behalf of the user, to reject incoming communications from
users who have restricted the presentation of their originating identity.
Note: see also ACR in [20].
\- The IMS shall support the capability of enabling early media for an IMS
multimedia session. The capability for such early media shall be applied
towards both calling and called user.
Note: Early media refers to media (e.g., audio and video) that is exchanged
before a particular session is accepted by the called user.
\- The IMS shall have mechanisms available to control overload that:
1) automatically maximize effective throughput (i.e. admitted service
requests/sec) at an overloaded resource.
2) achieve this throughout the duration of an overload event, and irrespective
of the overloaded resource\'s capacity or of the number of sources of
overload;
3) are configurable by the service provider so that, under processing
overload, a high proportion of response times at overloaded resources are low
enough so as not to cause customers to prematurely abandon service requests;
4) should be possible to be applied within a service provider\'s IMS, and
between different service providers\' IMSs;
5) should be possible to be applied within an IMS subsystem and between
different IMS subsystems.
NOTE: As a general rule, an IMS\'s call, session and command processing
resources can experience prolonged processing overload under the appropriate
circumstances (e.g. partial, or full, server failure, high rates of incoming
service requests). Consequently, it needs to be equipped with some form of
overload detection and control (including expansive controls such as load
balancing and resource replication), in order to keep response times just low
enough under such processing overload to preclude customers abandoning their
service requests prematurely.
# 6 Standardised service capability approach
IP multimedia applications shall, as a principle, not be standardised,
allowing operator specific variations. It shall be possible to enable rapid
service creation and deployment using service capabilities.
It is important that commercially available IP multimedia applications are
supported. In general compatibility shall be with these IP multimedia
applications instead of building 3GPP-specific solutions.
The following options shall be available in the 3GPP standards to enable
service delivery:
\- an architectural framework shall be created that enables maximum
flexibility in the end user device and network servers, similar in concept to
that used in the Internet.
> This framework shall enable an operator to efficiently deploy IP multimedia
> applications in a network-agnostic manner without having to wait for these
> applications or additional enabling technology, to be standardised in 3GPP.
\- service capabilities (enhanced to control IP multimedia applications),
which will allow IP multimedia applications to be deployed in a vendor
independent manner
> CAMEL [10], MExE [11], SAT [12] and OSA [13], should be improved to support
> IP multimedia applications, e.g. additions to APIs, service capability
> features, service capability servers, user profile etc.
\- the IM CN Subsystem user related data to be stored in a standardised format
and to be managed and accessed using standardised mechanisms of the 3GPP
Generic User Profile (GUP) [16].
\- mechanisms which allow the network or the application to understand the
limitations of the mobile and thereby take appropriate actions.
Note: There is a concern that with a large variety of toolkits to create
applications, service interworking between terminals and networks may be
compromised and needs to be addressed.
# 7 User service requirements
IP multimedia sessions provide the ability for users to invoke IP multimedia
applications to send and receive (where applicable) voice and data
communications, even when roaming. This includes interworking with existing
voice and data networks for both fixed (e.g. PSTN, ISDN, internet etc.) and
mobile users.
The IM CN subsystem shall support interworking with existing fixed and mobile
voice and IP data networks, including PSTN, ISDN, Mobile and Internet.
It shall be possible to have basic voice calls between IMS users and users in
CS domain/PSTN-style networks. When an IM session originates or terminates in
a CS telephony call, the experience of the CS telephony network user should
not substantially differ from that of a call between two CS telephony network
users in terms of aspects such as the delay to set-up communications and the
total permissible delay in transporting speech between the end users. The IM
CN subsystem does not necessarily have to support all services offered by the
CS telephony network.
## 7.1 Identifying IP multimedia application subscriptions
There is no requirement to support standardised subscription mechanisms for IP
multimedia applications.
IP multimedia applications may require to be provisioned and configured by
users and operators. Since the source and variety of IP multimedia
applications may not be standardised, the specific feature codes to provision,
enable and configure IP multimedia applications may not be standardised
either. .
Note: The standardised service capabilities, personalised Internet web pages
and evolving IP mechanisms may be used to allow user (self) provisioning,
configuration and enabling of IP multimedia applications.
## 7.2 Access to the IM CN subsystem
### 7.2.0 General
IMS, complying with the principle of access independence, supports IP
multimedia applications via IP multimedia sessions **over a multitude of** IP
Connectivity Access Networks. These include e.g. E-UTRAN, UTRAN, GERAN, fixed
line, I-WLAN, DOCSIS^®^, WiMAX**^™^** , cdma2000^®^, and DVB-RCS2 access.
### 7.2.1 Access control
The IM CN subsystem shall be able to verify at any time that the user is
entitled to use the resources of the IM CN subsystem.
### 7.2.2 IMS Registration and De-registration
In order to be able to access services from the IM CN Subsystem a UE shall
register on the IM CN Subsystem.
\- A UE that supports IMS shall be able to register on the IM CN Subsystem.
\- A UE may support automated IMS registration, e.g. when gaining access to
the PS domain.
\- For fixed line, the IM CN subsystem shall support control of UE
registration based on network information which is related to UE location
(e.g. IP address, DSLAM information, etc). The registration control shall be
based on subscription information which indicates whether registration control
applies and to which location registrations are to be restricted.
\- A UE that supports IMS shall be able to de-register from the IM CN
Subsystem.
\- The network operator shall be able to de-register a UE from the IM CN
Subsystem.
## 7.3 Capability negotiation
The IMS shall provide the capability for IP multimedia applications (whether
it is an application of a user or the network) to negotiate their capabilities
to identify and select the available media components, QoS etc. of IP
multimedia sessions. It shall be possible for the capability negotiation to
take place on invocation, acceptance and during an IP multimedia session (e.g.
following a change in UE capabilities, change in media types etc.). Capability
negotiation may be initiated by the user, operator or an application on behalf
of them.
In order to support the user\'s preferences for IP multimedia applications,
the capability negotiation shall take into account the information in the user
profile whenever applicable. This includes the capability to route the IP
multimedia session to a specific UE, when multiple UEs share the same IMS
service subscription. In the Telepresence case, this may also include the UE
capability for handling media, e.g. UE profile (screen size, number of screens
and cameras, etc.). The IMS shall provide the capability for IP multimedia
applications to exchange information about negotiated media components so that
a sending system, receiving system, or intermediate system can make decisions
about transmitting, selecting, and rendering media streams (e.g., decide which
video stream is to be displayed on the left screen or how audio stream is to
be rendered on the loudspeaker to maintain the spatial effect if multiple
media streams are exchanged).
## 7.4 Redirecting of IP Multimedia sessions
The IMS shall support the capability for the user, or the network on behalf of
the user, to identify an alternative destination for an IP multimedia session
or individual media of an IP multimedia session. Redirection to alternative
destinations may be initiated by the sending party, receiving party or the
network on their behalf. It shall be possible for redirection to be initiated
at various stages of an IP Multimedia session. For example:
  * Prior to the set up of an IP Multimedia session
  * During the initial request for an IP Multimedia session
  * During the establishment of an IP Multimedia session
  * While the IP Multimedia session is ongoing
Redirection can be applied for all Multimedia sessions unconditionally or it
can be caused by any of a set list of events or conditions. Typical causes
could be:
  * Identity of the caller
  * Location or presence of the calling or called party
  * If the called party is already in a session
  * If the called party is unreachable or unavailable in some other way
  * If the called party does not respond
```{=html}
``` \- After a specified alerting interval
  * User's preference on routing for specific IP Multimedia session based on the capabilities of multiple UEs sharing the same IMS service subscription.
```{=html}
``` \- Time of day.
There are other causes that could be applied that do not require
standardisation.
## 7.5 Invoking an IP multimedia session
### 7.5.0 General
The user shall be able to invoke one or more IP multimedia sessions. The user
shall also be able to activate concurrent IP multimedia applications within
each IP multimedia session.
### 7.5.1 Identification and addressing
Subscribers within the IMS shall be identifiable in originating and
terminating sessions by means of one or multiple Public User Identities. The
Public User Identity shall:
\- be able to be assigned to more than one Private User Identity;
\- be administered by the network operator and not be changeable by the user;
and
\- be globally reachable.
The Private User Identity shall be able to be assigned to more than one Public
User Identity.
Both telecommunication numbering and Internet addressing schemes shall be
supported as Public User Identities.
The Public User Identity shall utilise either the SIP URI scheme (as defined
in IETF RFC 3261 [9]) or the Tel URI scheme (as defined in IETF RFC 3966
[15]).
Both SIP URIs and Tel URIs can be used to convey E.164 [26] numbers;
\- The network operator shall be able to use in the Public User Identity
either the same E.164 [26] number used for CS speech telephony (TS11 [1]) or a
different E.164 number.
Both telecom and internet numbering and addressing schemes shall be supported
as public identities. IP multimedia communication establishment (both
originating and terminating) depending on originator shall be able to be based
on E.164/TELURI (e.g. tel:+4412345678) [15]or SIP URI
(sip:my.name\@company.org) [9]. It shall be possible to assign several public
identities for one subscription.
Whilst not required for routing between terminals within the IMS, it should be
possible for the IMS network to:
> \- recognise and treat URIs, containing \'IM\' or \'Pres\' prefixes,
> received from other networks supporting such prefixes; and
>
> \- insert an \'IM\', \'Pres\' or \'mailto\' prefix to an outgoing URI to
> enable routing to the correct addressee in external networks supporting such
> prefixes.
It shall be possible for the network operator to guarantee the authenticity of
a Public User Identity presented for an incoming session to a user where the
communication is wholly across trusted networks.
Note 4: This is equivalent to the calling line presentation services CLIP [25]
in the telephony networks.
A terminating IMS entity may receive the original destination identity
provided by the originating entity.
Note 5: This enables the address originally input by the subscriber to be
available at the destination even when it has been translated e.g. from a free
phone or premium rate service identifier.
### 7.5.2 Negotiation at IM session invocation
It shall be possible for the capability negotiation to take place at the time
of the IP multimedia session invocation. Refer to clause 7.3 for further
details on capability negotiation on IP multimedia session invocation.
A UE should support negotiation of the user\'s desired language(s) (as defined
in IANA [29]) and modalities for spoken, signed and written languages.
The system should be able to negotiate the user\'s desired language(s) and
modalities, per media stream and/or session, in order of preference.
A service provider shall be able to pass language and modality information
between the endpoints. With respect to the language and modality information,
there are no other service provider actions required.
### 7.5.3 Emergency communications
The requirements for Emergency communications are contained in [5] for PLMN
specified by 3GPP and in [19] for NGN broadband accesses.
### 7.5.4 Information of a Called Party
A calling party (A) shall be able to request information regarding
\- whether the called party (B) is a premium rate number or international
number,
\- the HPLMN of the called party (B).
Based on the information, the calling party (A) could exercise the option of
either continuing or terminating the call.
The HPLMN of the calling party (A) shall be able to provide information to a
calling party (A) regarding
\- whether the called party (B) is a premium rate number or international
number,
\- the HPLMN of the called party (B). In case of INIPUI, the HPLMN of the
calling party (A) shall be able to retrieve the information about the HPLMN of
the called party (B).
Based on the information provided, the calling party (A) could exercise the
option of either continuing or terminating the call.
### 7.5.5 IMS Network-Independent Public User Identities (INIPUI)
The following requirements apply for IMS Network-Independent Public User
Identities:
\- Multiple INIPUI Operators shall be able to associate SIP URIs of type
\"sip:user\@domain\" (also known as \"alphanumeric SIP URIs\") that share a
single domain name.
\- An INIPUI Operator shall be able to associate a SIP URI scheme for a domain
name that has other URI schemes from different service providers.
Note 1: This allows customers who use an INIPUI Operator in one geographic
region to use another INIPUI Operator in another region without affecting the
domain name used (which may be part of a corporate branding), as well as
choose a different service provider for different service offerings e.g.
different IMS operator compared to their email provider.
Note 2: Provisioning of the INIPUI Registry for a particular Shared Domain
Name is done by a single entity, the INIPUI Host. This ensures the uniqueness
of the username, when assigned by different INIPUI operators, within a Shared
Domain Name. The INIPUI Host also needs to ensure each INIPUI provisioned in
the INIPUI Registry is authorised by the Domain Name Owner.
\- The IMS shall support a mechanism for an INIPUI User to be globally
reachable by any subscriber, regardless of whether the originating operator
supports INIPUI. In addition, an IMS operator that is serving inbound roaming
INIPUI Users shall not be required to support any additional configuration on
top of what already exists.
\- The IMS shall support the use of INIPUI as an IMS identity between the
calling User and their INIPUI Operator.
\- The use of INIPUI shall be transparent to the UE and therefore INIPUIs
shall be usable by pre-Release 11 UEs, subject to the UE support of
alphanumeric SIP URI.
\- When the user enters the INIPUI of the called party, the UE shall display
the INIPUI that was entered, subject to the UE display capability. In case of
Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP), the INIPUI of the terminating
party shall be displayed according to the requirements in TS 22.173 [20].
> \- The IMS shall support passing of an INIPUI of the originating user and
> the INIPUI shall be displayed as CLI to the called party, subject to the UE
> display capability.
\- An originating operator shall be able to request an INIPUI address
resolution to be performed by an intermediate network and to receive the
result of the INIPUI address resolution from that intermediate network prior
to routing the session.
\- An intermediate network shall be able to service INIPUI address resolutions
received from an originating operator by querying the INIPUI Registry. The
intermediate network shall then be able to provide the resolved INIPUI address
to the originating operator.
Note: The above two requirements allow the originating operator to decide how
to route the session (e.g. itself or via an intermediate network).
\- An entity accessing an INIPUI Registry to resolve an INIPUI shall provide
the INIPUI Registry with the identity of the operator that is the source of
the query in addition to its own identity. An entity accessing an INIPUI
Registry for provisioning purposes shall provide the INIPUI Registry with its
own identity.
The above may be subject to regulatory requirements.
## 7.6 Handling of an incoming session (by the terminating entity)
### 7.6.1 Automatic re-routing
IMS shall provide the capability to handle communications rejected (e.g. due
to unavailability of PSTN/ISDN resources) using re-routing.
### 7.6.2 Presentation of session originator identity
The IMS shall present the identity of the session originator (see 7.5.1).The
network shall suppress the presentation of the identity when requested by the
session originator.
Operator policies (e.g. requirements for support of emergency communications)
may over-ride the user request for suppression.
### 7.6.3 Negotiation of an incoming session
Interaction with the user profile shall be supported, and additionally direct
interaction with the user may be required. Refer to clause 7.3 for further
details on capability negotiation on an incoming IP multimedia session.
### 7.6.4 Accepting or rejecting an incoming session
It shall be possible for the user to either accept, reject, ignore or re-
direct an incoming IP multimedia session. Further, it shall also be possible
for the user to accept only a subset of the offered media, not have any of the
media offered to him at all etc.
### 7.6.5 Handling of an incoming session addressed to an unallocated identity
In case of an incoming session addressed to an identity administered by the
operator but not allocated to a user or a service, the IMS shall be able to
reject, re-route or trigger service logic to that incoming session.
### 7.6.6 Differentiated paging for voice over E-UTRAN termination attempts
More efficient radio resource usage can be achieved by using a more aggressive
paging profile for voice over E-UTRAN services than for other services using
the IMS signaling bearer, requiring a distinction to be made between voice
over E-UTRAN and non-voice over E-UTRAN traffic.
As a network option, the IMS shall support a mechanism to enable a different
paging policy for voice over E-UTRAN vs non-voice over E-UTRAN services in EPC
access.
## 7.7 Handling of an ongoing session
### 7.7.1 User modification of media in an ongoing session
The user shall be able to negotiate the addition or deletion of media
components of IP multimedia applications during an IP multimedia session.
Refer to clause 7.3 for further details on capability negotiation during an IP
multimedia session.
### 7.7.2 Suspending and resuming of an ongoing session
It shall be possible for the user to suspend an IP multimedia session, and
resume that IP multimedia session at a later time.
### 7.7.3 Presentation of identity of connected-to party of a session
It shall be possible to present to the originator of a session the identity of
the party to which she is connected (see 7.5.1).
However, the connected-to party shall be able to request that her identity is
not revealed to the originator of the session.
Operator policies (e.g. requirements for support of emergency communications)
may over-ride the user request for suppression.
## 7.8 Ending a session
The user shall be able to end an IP multimedia session at any time during the
session. The network may end an IP multimedia session at any time during the
session (e.g. in failure conditions).
## 7.9 Void
## 7.10 Handling of conferences
### 7.10.1 General
Conferences allow users participating in the conference to communicate with
all other participants simultaneously. A conference has a \"conference focus\"
that controls the conference.
Note: A user participating in the conference, depending on the conference
policy, might be allowed to communicate with the focus e.g. to request
invitation of another user into the conference.
### 7.10.2 User requirements
#### 7.10.2.1 General
The following minimum user requirements for conferences exist:
\- A user shall be able to request the creation of a conference.
\- A user shall be able to request to join an existing conference.
\- A user participating in the conference shall be able to request
modification of the conference (e.g. add/remove media, manipulation of data
streams, add/remove participants) depending on the conference policy.
\- A user participating in the conference shall be able to request termination
of the conference, depending on the conference policy.
\- A user participating in the conference shall be able to receive information
from the conference focus (e.g. participants in conference, participants
joining or leaving the conference)
\- A user participating in the conference shall be able to transfer the
invited participants to other focus aware conference user(s) prior to leaving
the conference if that user has invited participants to the conference.
\- When a user attempts to join a conference the system shall be able to check
that the user is authorized to attend.
#### 7.10.2.2 Telepresence
In addition to the requirements in clause 7.10.2.1, the following apply for
Telepresence:
\- A user participating in a Telepresence session shall be able to indicate
which source to receive from a list of sources (e.g. a user may want the media
from camera x, or might want the source chosen by a Voice Activity Detection
system). This may occur during session establishment, or at anytime during the
session.
\- A user participating in a Telepresence session shall be able to choose the
way received media is composed (e.g. a user may choose a specific camera from
the far end, or may want the media to be shown as Picture in Picture).
\- A user participating in a Telepresence session shall be able to communicate
with others using different types of UEs in the same Telepresence session
(e.g. mobile phone, laptop/pc, conference room with a different number of
cameras and displays).
\- A designated user participating in a Telepresence session shall be able to
manage the Telepresence session (e.g. launch a session, manage floor control,
etc).
\- A user participating in a Telepresence session shall be able to engage in
presenting (e.g. slide or media sharing) in real-time.
\- A user shall be able to participate in a Telepresence session from a voice
only device.
\- A user participating in a Telepresence session shall be able to have the
same experience whether the Telepresence session is in the same operator
network or across networks belonging to different operators.
\- A user on network operator A shall be able to participate in the
Telepresence session initiated by a user on an enterprise network or a user on
network operator B.
\- A user on network operator A shall be able to initiate a Telepresence
session with other participants from an enterprise network or network operator
B.
### 7.10.3 Network-based Conference Focus
For the case where the \"conference focus\" is based in the network, the
following requirements apply:
\- The home network shall be able to provide the \"conference focus\".
\- The visited network shall be able to provide the \"conference focus\",
controlled by the home network, and subject to roaming agreements.
## 7.11 Handling of multicast services
Multicast services allow IMS users and service providers to send multimedia to
a group of IMS users simultaneously in an unidirectional way of communication.
The underlying network may be able to support mechanisms that optimize the
delivery of multimedia to the individual members of that group (e.g. MBMS [7])
Note: an example for applicability of multicast services could be the IMS
based \"Push to talk over Cellular\" service, that is being standardised by
OMA.
\- An IMS application located on an application server in the network shall be
able to request that multimedia is sent to a group of IMS users, which are
specified by this request.
\- Depending on the capabilities of the underlying network IMS shall be able
to use optimized mechanisms of the network (e.g. multicast capabilities such
as MBMS [7]) for the delivery of multimedia to the group of IMS users.
## 7.12 Support for Local Numbers in the IMS
A number or short code originating from a UE may correspond to a local number
based on HPLMN/VPLMN\'s numbering plan, a service number in the HPLMN/VPLMN,
or a private numbering plan.
A number or short code may have a local context indicator (LCI) added to it.
The value of an LCI helps the HPLMN to route the call and, if necessary, route
the call to the country/VPLMN/private network of origin. The LCI may include:
\- access specific information consist of e.g. country code plus network code,
country code plus area code, or an identification of a private numbering plan;
\- the home domain;
\- an indication that UE does not support processing of the dialled string; or
\- any other value entered by the user.
If the HPLMN cannot interpret the number or short code based on the included
LCI, the HPLMN may apply policies to translate local numbers to globally
routable identity and to route the call.
The HPLMN shall analyse the received number and route the call as follows:
\- If the number or short code has an LCI, the HPLMN should interpret the
short code to a globally routable URI or E.164 [26] number according to the
value of the LCI, and then correctly route the call. If the HPLMN is unable to
resolve or route the received number then an error message shall be returned
to the originating UE.
## 7.13 User determined user busy
The network shall support the capability of a user to reject an incoming IMS
session with an indication of \"user busy\". This indication may be used by
the network as a trigger for certain services e.g. Call Forwarding on Busy. If
the session rejection is propagated back to the originator, the \"user busy\"
indication must be provided as the cause of the rejection.
The conditions for user determined \"user busy\" include:
  * the session is offered to a single contact that rejects with a \"user busy\" indication; or
  * the session is offered to multiple contacts with a single public identity, and one contact rejects with a \"user busy\" indication on behalf of the set of contacts; or
  * the session is offered to multiple contacts; and
```{=html}
``` \- none of the contacts progress the session; and
  * one or more of the contacts rejects with a \"user busy\" indication.
Note: A contact is e.g. a terminal, a UE, or some other kind of equipment in
the user premises.
## 7.14 IMS Inter-UE Transfer
The IMS shall be able to provide IMS Inter-UE Transfer between:
\- different UEs connected via the same IP-CAN,
\- different UEs connected via different 3GPP IP-CANs,
\- different UEs connected via a 3GPP IP-CAN and a non-3GPP IP-CAN (e.g. fixed
line connectivity),
\- different UEs connected via different non-3GPP IP-CANs.
In addition the IMS shall be able to provide IMS Inter-UE Transfer from UEs
connected via an IP-CAN to ICS entities that provide interworking with UEs in
the CS Domain.
Note 1: In this case it might not be possible to retrieve the session after it
has been transferred.
Note 2: When interworking with the UEs in the CS domain, the available IUT
features are limited by the UE's capabilities.
The following requirements are applicable for IMS Inter-UE Transfer.
\- The IMS shall support the capability to transfer/retrieve some or all of
the media components to/from different IMS UEs belonging to the same or
different user(s) while providing continuous service experience to these
users. In order to provide continuous service experience to the user, the
receiving IMS UE capabilities (e.g. display resolutions, codecs capabilities,
and access network data rate, etc.) shall be taken into consideration and the
transferred sessions adapted accordingly.
\- It shall be possible to provide continuous service experience when the
session is transferred between IMS UEs of different capabilities.
\- It shall be possible to transfer some or all media components to the target
IMS UE(s) belonging to the same or different user(s) that are subscribed to
the same operator. This can be initiated either directly from the controlling
IMS UE or on request from the IMS UE where the media will be transferred.
\- It shall be possible to replicate some or all media components to the
target IMS UE(s) belonging to the same or different user(s) that are
subscribed to the same operator. This can be initiated either directly from
the controlling IMS UE or on request from the IMS UE where the media will be
replicated.
\- Replication / transfer of some or all media components to target IMS UE(s),
belonging to the same or to different user(s) that are subscribed to the same
operator, shall not be performed when the remote end (e.g. the source of the
media) of the session restricts such operation.
\- It shall be possible to transfer service control related to all media
components to the target IMS UE that belongs to the same user and has
subscription with the same operator. This can be initiated either directly
from the controlling IMS UE or on request from the IMS UE where the control
will be transferred.
Note 3: Transfer of service control and transfer / replication of media
components are independent of each other. This means the above requirements
include the case where certain media components are transferred / replicated
to the target IMS UE(s) whilst the related service control remains in the
source IMS UE or is transferred to the target IMS UE, and the case where
service control is transferred to the target IMS UE whilst the controlled
media components remain in the source IMS UE.
\- Inter-UE Transfer shall be subject to operator policy.
\- It shall be possible to discover information on ongoing IMS sessions on
different IMS UEs belonging to the IUT e.g. available IMS sessions, media
components, controller/controllee capability.
IMS shall support the capability to add /delete media components across
different UEs belonging to the same or different user(s) that are subscribed
to the same operator, while providing continuous service experience to these
users.
An IMS user shall be able to control media components of an IMS session
between different UEs as following:
\- Add new media components to different UEs at session setup and session
modification.
\- Remove media components of an ongoing multimedia session from different
UEs.
IMS shall support the capability to share control of media components among
multiple UEs belonging to one or more users that are subscribed to the same
operator. Shared control of media components may be exclusive (i.e. only one
UE has the control at a time) or simultaneous (i.e. more than one UE has the
control at the same time).
It shall be possible for the network to authorise shared control of media
components among multiple IMS users.
It shall be possible for the IMS user controlling the session to allow one or
more IMS users in the session to share control of media components.
Note 4: Inter-UE transfer use case as defined by IETF can be found in [23].
## 7.15 Prevention of Unsolicited Communication in IMS (PUCI)
### 7.15.1 High level requirements
IMS should provide means to identify and act on unsolicited communication.
Solutions for prevention against unsolicited communication shall not have
negative impact on the services provided by IMS.
PUCI should provide means for cooperation between operator's networks.
IMS should provide means for a user to inform the network of an unsolicited
communication.
### 7.15.2 Detection of Unsolicited Communication
Depending on Operator policies IMS should support capabilities that enable IMS
to detect that an IMS session is unsolicited and classify as UC. These
capabilities should apply to all IMS based services and apply to realtime
(e.g. voice, video ...) and to non-realtime (e.g. messaging ...) IMS traffic.
IMS should support capabilities that enable a terminating party to report IMS
sessions as UC.
The method of reporting UC may be dependent on the IMS service.
Reporting should be possible irrespective of whether an originiating party has
withheld its identity (e.g. by referring to the last call).
### 7.15.3 Prevention of Unsolicited Communication to the terminating party
Depending on Operator policies IMS should support capabilities to indicate to
a terminating party that an IMS session has been classified UC.
Depending on Operator policies IMS should support capabilities to protect a
terminating party from IMS sessions that have been classified UC.
### 7.15.4 Notification of UC to the originating party
Depending on Operator policies IMS should support capabilities that allow
notifying an originiating party that a performed or attempted communication to
the terminating party has been classified as UC.
### 7.15.5 Conveying information on UC to other networks
Depending on Operator policies IMS should support capabilities that enable the
IMS of a network to convey information on detected UC in an IMS session to an
other IMS on the path of that IMS session
## 7.16 Support for Push Notification Service in IMS
The IMS shall be able to support SIP based Push Notification Service as
defined in [28].
# 8 Interworking requirements
## 8.1 General
The IMS shall support the capability for interoperability with the following:
\- PLMN CS domain,
\- PSTN/ISDN networks,
\- Packet Cable network,
\- Internet.
\- Other non 3GPP networks providing IP Multimedia sessions.
The scope of this interoperability may result in a limited service capability.
## 8.2 Interworking with PLMN CS Domain
The IMS shall support conveyance of voice calls and multimedia services
between IMS users and users in CS domain (within the limits set by the CS
domain).
If more than one IMS party is involved in a communication with a PSTN
party/parties, the communication between the IMS parties shall not be
adversely impacted by the presence of a PSTN party.
Note: That this boundary may still be subject to regulatory requirements
associated with communications with the PSTN including, but not limited to,
lawful interception of voice calls and multimedia services, and number
portability.
The boundary interworking shall be able to convey the information associated
with the services listed below:
> CLIP/CLIR;
>
> Call Forwarding.
>
> Also due to regulatory reasons the subscriber identity may be required to be
> conveyed via the IMS-CS/PSTN boundary to enable calling line identification
> services on both sides.\ \ Support of:
>
> Call barring,
>
> Call waiting/hold,
>
> MPTY,
>
> on the boundary interface is for further study.
## 8.3 Interworking with PSTN/ISDN networks
### 8.3.0 General
Interworking between IMS and PSTN/ISDN networks shall be supported. PSTN/ISDN
networks in this context refer to legacy PSTN/ISDN and TISPAN NGNs supporting
PSTN/ISDN Emulation.
Note: TISPAN NGN supporting PSTN/ISDN Emulation provide to the end-user the
same experience as a legacy PSTN/ISDN and from a interconnection perspective
the TISPAN NGN behaves like an IMS network.
As a network option and depending on inter-operator policies, the IMS shall
support transit of traffic between PSTN/ISDN networks.
### 8.3.1 Overlap Signalling
Support for overlap signalling in the IMS is an option limited to the
interworking with PSTN/ISDN networks that use overlap signalling. Support of
this option shall be based on inter-operator policies at the interconnection
point. The IMS of operators not supporting overlap signalling shall not be
affected.
In the absence of such inter-operator policies, networks interworking with IMS
shall select appropriate signalling mechanisms to complete the call without
any impact on IMS networks not supporting overlap signalling..
Note 1: PSTN/ISDN networks that convert overlap signalling to en-bloc, are
considered to be networks that do not use overlap signalling.
In the cases where a PSTN/ISDN network, based on inter-operator policies,
provides overlap signalling into the IMS, the following requirements shall be
taken into account:
\- For calls terminating in the IMS, conversion of overlap signalling to en-
bloc shall take place within the IMS domain.
\- Impact on the IMS shall be minimized.
\- The service experience for the end-user shall be similar to the PSTN/ISDN.
\- When the IMS network supports transit of traffic, transit of overlap
signalling may be supported towards destination networks, if the policy
permits overlap signalling towards those.
Note 2: Overlap signalling support should not be linked to E.164 [26]
numbering schemes.
Note 3: Overlap signalling is not generated or terminated by an IMS UE it is
only generated or terminated by devices within the PSTN/ISDN networks.
### 8.3.2 Subaddressing (SUB)
Where public telecommunication numbers are used, the IMS may support the
Subaddress (SUB) service that allows the called (served) user to expand his
addressing capacity beyond the one given by the public telecommunication
number.
Note: Subaddressing is required for interoperability with existing users.
Subaddressing is required when at least one of the users services are provided
from an ISDN.
The IMS may support the interoperability of Subaddressing with the PSTN/ISDN
networks and vice versa.
### 8.3.3 User-to-User Signalling (UUS)
The IMS may support the User-to-User Signalling (UUS) service that enables a
calling party to send and/or receive a limited amount of User-to-User-
Information (UUI) to/from a called party in association with a communication.
Note: UUS is required for interoperability with existing users.
UUS is required when at least one of the users services are provided from an
ISDN.
The IMS may support the interoperability of User-to-User Signalling services
with the PSTN/ISDN networks and vice versa.
Only UUS service 1 with an implicit request is supported [17].
## 8.4 Void
## 8.5 Interworking with Packet Cable
The IMS shall support the capability for interoperability with Packet Cable
networks. The scope of this interoperability may result in a limited service
capability.
## 8.6 Interworking with Internet
The IMS shall support interworking with the Internet.
## 8.7 Voice Interworking with Enterprise IP-PBX
Voice interworking with Enterprise IP-PBX shall be handled as specified in TS
22.519 [33].
## 8.8 Interworking of Telepresence
Interworking between IMS-based Telepresence and other non-3GPP network
provided Telepresence shall be supported (e.g. enterprise Telepresence).
A UE using CS voice shall be able to participate in a Telepresence session.
The interconnection between an operator and Enterprise should be via a QoS-
enabled IP connection.
## 8.9 Void
# 9 IP Addressing
## 9.1 General
The Operator of an IMS infrastructure may base the implementation on IPv4
only, IPv6 only or both. The choice is an operator option.
The IMS may support UEs using IPv4 only, IPv6 only or both at an IP-based
User-Network Interface. The choice is an operator option.
## 9.2 IP addressing for cdma2000 access to IMS
The IMS may support UEs using simultaneous multiple IP addresses.
# 10 Interconnection requirements
## 10.1 Introduction
IMS interconnect represents the interconnection of IMS functionality between 2
IMS networks over an underlying IP infrastructure.
A distinction can be made between:
\- Direct IMS interconnect, and
\- Indirect IMS interconnect.
Direct IMS interconnect is interconnection of IMS functionality between 2 IMS
networks using a common IP interconnect network that is not SIP aware. In this
case there is only one IMS-NNI (see Figure 10.1).
Figure 10.1 Basic IMS interconnect with single IMS-NNI
Indirect IMS interconnect is interconnection of IMS functionality between 2
IMS networks using a common IP interconnect network that is SIP aware. In this
case there are two or more IMS-NNIs (see Figure 10.2). One or more of the
intermediate networks may also be IMS networks providing \"transit\"
functionality.
Figure 10.2 Indirect IMS interconnect with multiple IMS-NNIs
Note: An IMS NNI could also be applied between an IMS network and another SIP
based network if that SIP based network conforms to IMS specifications on the
interconnect interface.
An IMS network B delivers originating IMS services (e.g. least cost routing,
service dependant routing, call barring, number translation, break-out) to a
network A if the services are delivered for a session that arrives in the IMS
network B over an IMS NNI from network A (Figure 10.3).
Figure 10.3: delivery of originating IMS application services across an IMS-
NNI
An IMS network C delivers terminating IMS services (e.g. bulk rerouting,
redundancy, profile based reachability, number translation) to a network D in
case the services are delivered for a session that shall continue from the IMS
network C over an IMS NNI to network D (Figure 10.4).
Figure 10.4: delivery of terminating IMS application services across an IMS-
NNI
## 10.2 IP interconnect
The IP connection used for IMS IP interconnect shall be generic such that it
can support all combinations of core network interconnection. E.g. the IP
interconnection shall be shared between the IMS interconnection and the CS IP
interconnection.
It shall be possible to handle the inter-connection of all services over this
generic IP interface. The handling of security and charging shall also be
generic for all IP inter-connect scenarios.
## 10.3 IMS network interconnect
The following requirements apply at the interconnection point (IMS NNI)
between two different IMS networks or between an IMS network and a SIP based
network that conforms to the IMS specification at the interconnect interface.
The IMS network and intermediate networks shall support the capability for
service identification, when such information is available.
The IMS intermediate networks shall be able to apply operator defined policy
at the interconnection point.
The IMS intermediate networks shall support the capability for control of the
session resources when two different IMS networks are connected which have
different IP addressing schemes.
The IMS network shall support both bilateral interconnection between two
networks and multilateral interconnection (e.g. GSMA IPX [18]) provided by
intermediate network(s).
The IMS network shall support both international interconnect and national
interconnect (e.g. as specified in [33]).
The IMS network and intermediate networks shall support service aware
interconnection.
Note 1: service awareness could be based on service identification, media
parameters etc.
The IMS network and intermediate networks shall be able to support multiple
peering points for the interconnection to another IMS network or intermediate
network.
Note 2: selection of a peering point could be based on location, load
balancing, or called party PUI, etc.
An IMS network shall be able to deliver IMS originating application services
and terminating application services to other networks interconnected over the
IMS NNI .
An IMS network shall be able to deliver IMS originating application services
and/or terminating application services to users that are registered to
another network.
The IMS network and intermediate networks shall support codec negotiation
across one or multiple interconnects to minimise transcoding (and preferably
eliminate it) to provide the highest quality service to the user.
If two UEs, belonging to two IMS networks, do not support a common codec for
voice service session, the network and/or intermediate networks shall be
capable to provide transcoding functionality at the interconnection point.
In case of interconnect between an IMS network and a SIP based network (e.g.
SIP-I) the following requirements apply.
The IMS network and intermediate networks shall support the capability for
service interoperability by means of service interworking requirements defined
in clause 8.
In case of interconnection between two networks using the same non-IMS SIP
Profile (e.g. SIP-I), the intermediate network shall transparently transport
the non-IMS signalling information.
# 11 Support of WebRTC IMS Client access to IMS
## 11.1 Service description (informative)
Use cases and requirements for Web Real-Time Communication (WebRTC) are
defined in [32]. The support of WebRTC IMS client access to IMS significantly
expands the pool of clients able to access IMS.
The WebRTC IMS client access to IMS feature provides a means by which an IMS
operator can offer IMS services to a user running a compatible WebRTC-enabled
web application in their WebRTC-enabled browser. The user will access the
application from a web page offered either directly by the IMS operator or by
a third party.
The WebRTC IMS clients can access capabilities that may not be available in
IMS, including use of WebRTC media capabilities without the need to convert
to/from IMS protocols and end to end WebRTC security, subject to regulatory
constraints. For example, in situations where datacommunications do not
traverse the operator network, WebRTC media travels end to end between two
WebRTC IMS clients without any protocol conversion. The media may then not be
subject to the same regulatory constraints as communications that do traverse
the operator network. In such cases, end to end security may be provided on
the data stream as an optional service enhancement.
## 11.2 Requirements
When accessing IMS services via WebRTC IMS client the IMS shall allow a user
to access IMS services from an application offered either directly by the IMS
operator or by a third party.
The IMS shall be able to support access to the following IMS services and
capabilities for WebRTC IMS client access:
\- multimedia telephony[20], excluding fax and CS data,
\- early media, and
\- network tones and announcements.
Note: IMS Multimedia Emergency Sessions [5] are not supported for WebRTC IMS
Client access.
The IMS shall support online and offline charging for WebRTC IMS client access
(including clients provided by the operator or a third party).
The available services and capabilities for WebRTC IMS clients accessing IMS
shall be determined according to operator policy and user subscription
settings in IMS.
Note: The available services and capabilities can be further limited by the
provider of the WebRTC IMS client (e.g. operator or a third party), by the
capabilities of the WebRTC IMS client (e.g. no video support), and/or by the
IP access used to access the IMS network (e.g. IP access networks without QoS
support).
The IMS shall support service origination and service termination with a
WebRTC IMS Client. The IMS shall support media and protocol interworking
and/or transcoding, when necessary.
3GPP system shall provide the appropriate QoS (based on operator policy and
user subscription) for WebRTC IMS client traffic originating from an access
network supporting QoS.
When accessing IMS services via a WebRTC IMS client, the IMS shall provide the
equivalent levels of security and integrity as it provides when accessing IMS
services in other ways.
**The 3GPP UE shall make available for use by the WebRTC IMS client the codecs
whose support is mandatory for the access technology being used to access IMS
services.**
The IMS shall authenticate the user that accesses IMS services using
credentials provided by the operator or credentials provided by authorized
third party (for web-identity based authentication) via a WebRTC IMS client
and associate the user to one or more public identities (e.g. IMS Public User
Identity or MSISDN).
Note: The authentication of the subscriber can be performed via the WebRTC IMS
client or by a WebRTC server on behalf of a user.
When supporting WebRTC IMS client access, the IMS shall maintain compliance
with regulatory requirements for IMS services.
When accessing IMS services via WebRTC IMS client, the IMS shall allow a
subscriber to access call management.
For WebRTC IMS client to WebRTC IMS client communication, the IMS shall
support traversal of media across NAT devices.
## 11.3 Protocol Conversion Minimization Requirements
The IMS shall provide a mechanism to support data communication between WebRTC
IMS clients without requiring bearer level protocol conversions between WebRTC
and IMS protocols.
The IMS shall be able to support data communication between WebRTC IMS clients
using WebRTC end to end security mechanisms.
Note: Implementation of this capability is subject to operator policy and
regulatory constraints.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Example IP multimedia application scenarios
The following example scenarios describe the personalised handling of
individual media in multimedia applications (note that this list is neither
complete nor exhaustive):-
1) The user is in a voice communication, and receives an incoming IP video
communication. The user decides not to accept the communication, but diverts
the incoming video to a messaging system. Further, the user is given an
indication that there is a video message in his mail box
2) The user is in a voice communication, and receives an incoming video
communication. The user decides to accept the communication but wishes to
switch between the two communications.
3) The user is idle in a network and not involved in a communication. The user
modifies his user profile to divert all voice communications other than those
from high priority, pre-identified callers (e.g. his boss). In this scenario
all emails and text messages continue to be received regardless of the sender.
4) On receiving a communication, the calling party\'s identity is displayed
(if not restricted) and user shall be able to decide whether to accept the
communication, or divert to a messaging system. The user shall be able to
request media handling of the communication (e.g. media splitting to different
destinations, media conversion).
5) The user is busy in a communication when receiving an incoming
communication, but responds to the originating party that he will respond
later. The user may request that the originating party\'s details (if not
restricted) are stored with a reminder in user\'s profile.
6) Hi-fi sound (nuances, character of voice)\ [Person(s)]{.underline}:
Marketing Manager, Rita\ [Situation]{.underline}: She is at a launch party for
some customers in London. In the break she listens to her messages and one
from another customer in Tokyo gets her attention. He just wants her to call,
but doesn't say if it is urgent or not.\ [Solution]{.underline}: Due to the
excellent sound quality of the terminals involved and the messaging system,
she picks up the faint irritation in his voice and decides to call him
immediately. It was urgent and she could remedy the situation easily by
emailing the information from her built in PDA storage. The customer was
relieved as he was just going in to a very important meeting.\
[Benefit(s)]{.underline}: Good sound quality gives more information to base
judgements on, i.e. emulates real life meetings better.
7) Stereo sound (nuances, character of voice plus positions, sound-scapes)\
[Person(s)]{.underline}: Purchase Officer, Gustavo\ [Situation]{.underline}:
Participates in a conference to discuss purchase of a new kind of steel for
the factory in Rio. As he is on the road he calls from his hotel room in
Sydney. The conference is in the head office in Rio. The local department has
invited the two final contenders to have them argue their cases. The two
companies are positioned at the different ends of the table. One of the groups
is presenting and mentions something about deliveries. A side remark is barely
audible, \"we can't deliver that quality and that quantity this year !\" Who
gave this remark?\ [Solution]{.underline}: The excellent sound quality
together with the stereoscopic sound gives Gustavo the information he needed.
It was the other group that gave the remark. The decision was made for him at
that point. He gave the order to the presenting group right after they
finished a very good presentation that told him everything he wanted to hear.
The setup at the head office was done with two synchronized UEs at each end of
the table.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: Stereoscopic sound gives even more
information than just hi-fi sound to base judgements on, i.e. emulates real
life meetings better.
8) Conference/chat with \"private rooms\"\ [Person(s)]{.underline}: A project
team at an IT company: Rick, Diana, Ted, Sven and Liu\ They are based in
different cities.\ [Situation]{.underline}: The project team has one of their
weekly reporting meetings using their mobile communicators. In the middle of
the meeting, Rick and Diana get lost in a lengthy arguing on some detailed
design matters that bores the rest of the team. Ted, the moderator, finds that
it is nevertheless necessary to give Rick and Diana some minutes to finish
their discussion, so he decides to not interrupt them. At the same time Sven
remembers that he need to remind Liu to send a report to him on the latest
findings from her research work.\ [Solution]{.underline}: The team use a
conference/chat service with the new facility \"private rooms\". This allows
Sven to direct a few words in privacy to Liu. Sven activates easily this
feature by the GUI of his communicator. Liu is immediately notified by the GUI
of her communicator that Sven is now talking privately with her (this is
necessary to avoid embarrassing misunderstandings that could occur if Liu
would answer Sven in the \"common room\" instead of in the new \"private
room\" that Sven has created).\ Since the voices of all conference members are
synthetically mapped in a stereophonic projection, Liu is able to hear what
Sven is saying, even though he speaks simultaneously with the other team
members (the communicator will not automatically adjust the sound volume of
the \"common room\", since it cannot know if Liu is more interested in Sven\'s
comments or in continuing to listen to the other team members).\
[Benefit(s)]{.underline}: This service emulates virtual presence in a
conference room in the best possible way without adding more visionary
technologies like holographic projections, etc. The synthetic stereophonic
sound projection provides good possibilities for a conference member to
discriminate unwanted voices even if the meeting situation is informal and
spontaneous and everyone are talking at the same time. The flexible
possibilities to create one or more \"private rooms\" make it easy to make
private comments to selected colleagues. The easy-to-use and fast responding
GUI makes the needed end-user effort to create a new \"room\" so low, that it
feels natural to use the function even for exchanging just a few quick words.\
[Alternative use]{.underline}: Exchange the IT project team with a gang of
teenagers that are planning what to do in the weekend. The service works
perfectly well also in that scenario and provides the same benefits.\
[Additional features]{.underline}: Easy GUI controlled addition of new
participants (can be initiated by any of the participants), including
addressing, notification/invitation, etc. (cf. \"outgoing call\" in PSTN). GUI
notification of new incoming session invitations (cf. \"incoming call\" in
PSTN) and possibility to choose action as desired (incorporate the \"calling
party\" in the existing conference session, creating a new separate session,
rejecting the invitation, diverting it to a messaging system, etc.)
Whiteboarding and/or application sharing.
9) Multiplayer mobile gaming with voice channel\ [Person(s)]{.underline}: Joe
(age 15), Blenda (age 14), Fredric (age 15) and all their \"cyber friends\" in
the Shoot-n-Shout v.14.0 community\ [Situation]{.underline}: In the legendary
multiplayer game Shoot-n-Shout v.14.0 the most popular game mode is a team
competition. The idea is simply to shoot down the members of the concurring
teams. There are always a lot of active game sessions in CyberSpace. At a
web/WAP service operated by the game application provider, interested
potential players can choose a game session and also find other gamers to form
a team with. There is a text chat service where potential team-mates can learn
to know each other.\ Joe, Blenda and Fredric meet on the web/WAP chat and
decide to form a team to take up the fight in one of the Shoot-n-Shout
sessions. They are preparing a game strategy in advance through the text chat
service, but when they have started the battle it takes too long time to type
text, so they the will need another way to communicate with each other.\
[Solution]{.underline}: The game application provider makes use of a
conference/chat service with \"private rooms\" in order to provide a multi-
player voice service to the players of Shoot-n-Shout. When a game starts there
is one \"common room\" where all players can talk (or rather shout) to each
other and one \"private room\" for each team. Players in a team can also
dynamically create more \"private rooms\" if they only like to talk to one (or
a few) of their friends. (See the conference/chat scenario for details.)\ The
volume (and stereophonic position) of the players voices when they are using
the \"common room\" is controlled so that it matches the virtual surroundings
in the game environment. As an example, players that are behind a wall will
only be heard as a vague whisper in the distance.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: A
voice channel will enhance the gaming experience for several popular network
games.
10) Application sharing with voice commentary\ [Person(s)]{.underline}:
Marketing Manager, Rita and Media expert, Jones\ [Situation]{.underline}: The
launch of a new campaign for some customers in London. Last minute feedback is
that one of the customers is expecting the latest gadget to be included, even
if its only a prototype. Rita knows it's not included in the presentation and
she has no information with her.\ [Solution]{.underline}: Rita calls Jones,
the media guru they employed for design of their important presentations. He
has the information and some pictorials. He sends them over into Rita's
PowerPoint application and they edit the new slide together as they discuss
the textual information to be included.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: The process
is extremely interactive and the session takes only 5 minutes thanks to the
broadband connection and the fact that they don't need to Ping-Pong the
pictures and the text back and forth. (Emphasize mobile or fixed access as
required). The customer is happy and a Letter of Intent is signed.\
[Comments]{.underline}: By adding voice and pictures in an interactive session
we achieve both effectiveness and interaction, two desired components.
11) Emergency location with voice conversation, navigation and picture
transfer\ [Person(s)]{.underline}: Ma Beth, her children and the pet dog
Bobby\ [Situation]{.underline}: The family is out driving in the country side
and they take a turn on the slippery country road a bit too fast. They slide
down into the ditch. Bobby the dog in the back of the van gets a heavy box of
books on top of his left paw. It may be broken, and you can tell it certainly
hurts from the loud yelps that come out in a rushed stream. The rest of the
family is ok. They were all buckled up.\ [Solution]{.underline}: Ma Beth
reaches for her communicator as soon as she has recovered from the initial
shock. She calls 112 (911 or similar). The answer comes after 23 seconds and
the operator immediately confirms the identity and the location of the van. Ma
Beth is a bit taken aback by this quick information and has to think for
awhile, then confirms the location as possibly correct. She then states the
problem and she gets connected to a vet that asks a few pertinent questions.
She can show a close up picture of the dog's left paw and the vet confirms a
possible (95%) broken leg just above the paw. He gives a few quick
instructions and sends her a map of the closest emergency animal hospital. The
map shows her current position and soon displays the quickest way to get to
the hospital. Well there, Bobby is taken care of and things are looking up.
Even the kids are smiling now that the dog is calm and free from pains, and he
looks so funny with his little cast.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: The initial
call transfers emergency information to the operator automatically. This
ensures minimum delay to correct action. The Communicator transfers the
picture that gives enough information to make a very accurate and fast
assessment of the situation. Then the map transfer and display on the terminal
together with the current position gives clear information and directions for
Ma Beth to drive and make the right turns at every corner. In her still half-
shocked state she can drive to the hospital without hesitation about where to
go. Very reassuring for all parties including the dog that gets fastest
possible help.\ [Comments]{.underline}: The call is initially just a voice
call but evolves with the best of positioning in emergency situations and
navigational aid together with picture and graphics transfer.
12) The Real Virtual Theatre and Foyer Chat room -- Fixed Network example\
[Person(s)]{.underline}: Theatre going \"cultural\" group with one member
(Bob) in a hospital bed.\ [Situation]{.underline}: The group is watching the
play and are utterly fascinated by the first act. When they come out into the
foyer in the break they remember Bob. They really want to share this first act
with him since they know Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's Dream is his
favorite.\ [Solution]{.underline}: Bob uses the theatre's online streaming
service via the hospital network. (At only half the price of a theatre
ticket!). The play displays in color and stereo surround sound on his bedside
TV set. In the break his friends call him up from the theatre chat room. The
chat room is equipped with 3D sound pick up and local display screens with
streaming facilities. They set up the streaming from one of the screens to be
synchronized with Bob's bedside equipment. Their voices are also mixed into
the sound streams as they talk. Bob now gets both the playbacks from the first
act and his friends' voices in 3D surround sound. Bob's voice is projected
close to the screen as if he was standing leaning on the bench right there.
His voice is very clear and full of emotions as he speaks to the various
playbacks. Both parties can control the playbacks and watch their own
selection in a second window on the screen.\ [Benefit(s)]{.underline}: Bob can
pick up every nuance in the lively discussion, including the whispered
comments from Greta in the back. The group is almost feeling Bob's presence
because of the emotional clarity and distinct position of his voice. As both
parties have control and visibility of the streaming sessions, it is very
effective and very interactive.\ [Comments]{.underline}: Experiential services
are sought after. This one can be a bit exclusive because of the equipment
requirements, but the uses are many.
13) Mobile synchronized MM container\ [Person(s)]{.underline}: The married
couple Bill and Christine and their daughter Linda\ [Situation]{.underline}:
Bill is on a business travel to Spain. He calls his wife Christine every night
using his MMM terminal. Often Christine is answering at home using her
Screenphone, but this particular evening Christine has arranged a baby-sitter
for their children so she could go to a restaurant with some friend. When Bill
is calling, she is sitting on the commuter train on her way home. Bill often
show some pictures during his calls (both live pictures showing the
environment where he is at the moment and pictures that he has been taking
during the day with his separate digital camera).\ Today, their talk starts
off as a common voice conversation. After a while Bill likes to show Christine
the lovely sunset view that he can see from his hotel room, so he make some
snapshots with the built-in camera of his terminal and sends them in real-time
mode to Christine. Christine likes to show one of them to their little
daughter Linda when she comes home.\ [Solution:]{.underline} With a quick
gesture on the touchscreen of Christine's MMM terminal, she instantly moves
the selected picture from the real-time session window to the \"multimedia
container\" icon. All the contents of the \"container\" is automatically
mirrored between the MMM terminal and her home server. In this way, Christine
can easily pick up the picture from her Screenphone at home. If Linda is at
sleep when Christine comes home, she can wait until tomorrow.\
[Benefit(s)]{.underline}: The \"multimedia container\" can be used for every
type of MM content that one likes to have available both at home and at
another location. This \"container paradigm\" is very intuitive and stimulates
the use of images, video clips etc. for a multitude of purposes. The
\"container\" can be used both for transferring content from the MMM terminal
to the home server (as in this scenario) and in the opposite direction.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Business models use cases
The IMS supports agreements between the access network operator and the
network operator providing IMS services (IMS operator).
The IMS shall be able to offer services to users that are attached to access
networks owned by another operator.
The service offering may be restricted by the capabilities of the access
network and the agreement between the access network operator and the IMS
operator.
The IMS shall support at least the following operator\'s domain relationships:
a) Access network to IMS relationships
a.1) Access network and the IMS it connects to, belong to the same operator as
shown in figure B.1.
Figure B.1
a.2) Access network and the IMS it connects to, belong to different operators
having an interconnection as shown in figure B.2.
Figure B.2
b) IMS level relationships
b.1) The IMS (e.g. 3GPP or NGN) to which the access network connects and the
Home IMS (e.g. NGN or 3GPP) which provides the IMS services belong to
different operators as shown in figure B.3.
Figure B.3
b.2) The IMS (e.g. 3GPP or NGN) to which the access network connects and the
Home IMS (e.g. NGN or 3GPP) which provides the IMS services are the same as
shown in figure B.4.
Figure B.4
b.3) The IMS (e.g. 3GPP or NGN) to which the access network connects and the
Home IMS (e.g. NGN or 3GPP) which provides the IMS services belong to the same
operator as shown in figure B.5.
Figure B.5
An IMS operator shall be capable of connecting to other network operators via:
\- an interconnect model where agreements are established between two
operators;
\- an interconnect model where intermediate network(s) can provide
interconnect on behalf of multiple operators (and may be based on an agreement
between the operators and their intermediate network provider).
A single IMS operator shall be able to choose to support either of the
interconnect models, or both of the interconnect models simultaneously.
###### ## Annex C (Informative): Basic communication cases for IMS networks
A basic communication case can be described on a per IMS basis by stating the
IMS entry point and an exit point for the communication as shown in figure
C.1.
The following general types of entry/exit point can be identified:
\- Access (for communication to from terminals);
\- Interconnect to non-IMS network;
\- Interconnect to other IMS;
\- Internal network resource (e.g. a conference bridge for conferencing
services).
As a general rule a network based on IMS shall support the following basic
communication cases on a per network basis, as shown in Table C.1.
Table C.1
* * *
From\ To (exit point)  
(entry point)
                              Access Network    Interconnect to other IMS   Interconnect to\   Internal Network Resource
                                                                            non-IMS network
Access Network Required Required Required Required
Interconnect to other IMS Required Required
Interconnect to\ Required Required Required non-IMS network
Internal Network Resource Required
* * *
It is not precluded that other, more complex communication cases may be
provided by service level concatenation of basic communication cases, e.g. by
means of call diversion services.
Figure C.1: Graphical representation of supported basic communication cases
###### ## Annex D (normative): Access to IMS via non-3GPP access
This annex defines additional specific requirements for access to IMS via
non-3GPP access.
These requirements shall not apply to terminals having a 3GPP access.
For non-3GPP-only terminals with neither ISIM nor USIM, the IMC may be used to
access the IMS via a non-3GPP access technology. However, if ISIM [21] is
present it shall be used to access IMS or if ISIM is not present but USIM [24]
is present, USIM shall be used to access IMS.
###### ##
###### ## Annex E (informative): Example use cases for IMS Inter UE Transfer
(i.e. transfer/replication/sharing)
Users of communication services will increasingly use different devices with
different communication capabilities to meet their communication needs. Users
may wish to initiate, transfer, manipulate, or otherwise maintain the
simultaneous real time streaming of multimedia components (e.g. video, speech,
audio) between multiple devices for a variety of reasons. For example, users
may wish to control:
\- the coordinated delivery of simultaneous multimedia streams to multiple
devices owned by the same user (e.g. to take advantage of the different video
and audio capabilities of the different devices: high definition television,
surround sound stereo, home speaker phone, etc)
\- shared multimedia content in real time across multiple devices owned by
others (who may be in different locations)
This annex defines some of the use cases for IMS Inter UE Transfer (i.e.
transfer/replication/sharing), examples of which are given below (note that
this list is neither complete nor exhaustive):
1) Shared control of session across multiple IMS users
Jill calls Jane to share and discuss a video.
\- Jane and Jill's controls are synchronized so they share the seamless video
experience. Both UEs are capable of shared control.
Either Jill or Jane can pause the shared video to provide comments. Either of
them can resume the video when they are ready to do so.
\- Jane and Jill need to be authorized by network after Jill allows Jane to
share control.
2) Transfer of service control
Jane is having a multi-media call (audio/video stream) on her mobile with Jill
while coming home. After arriving at home, Jane transfers the video stream and
service control to another device that belongs to her (e.g. a PC that is IMS
capable and on which she is logged in), but keeps the audio on her mobile to
keep the conversation private from the other people in the room.
3) Media Replication
Jane is watching a video clip on her cell phone, which another family member
(Jane's Dad) starts to watch, so they are watching together and talking about
it. Jane's Dad wants to continue watching the video clip on another device
(e.g. Jane\'s PC that is IMS capable and on which she is logged in), so he
requests replication of the video component to Jane\'s PC.
4) Video replication
Steve, president of a wine-tasting club schedules a video documentary to start
at an agreed time for all club members, so that they can watch it from their
home and chat together about it while watching. In this case, all sessions are
synchronized, and Steve is able to control the video playing: he can put the
video on pause for all members in the same time.
###### ## Annex F (Informative): Void
###### ## Annex G (Informative): Example use cases for IMS-Based Telepresence
This annex provides a use case for IMS-Based Telepresence.
In the scenario below, a project team has one of their weekly reporting
meetings using a Telepresence conference. Steven, John and Marc are in a
meeting room in San Francisco. Fred and Liu are in another room in Paris. Ted
is on the road and joins using his mobile phone. Bill is at home and joins
using his PC. Both meeting rooms are equipped with multiple cameras and large
display monitors. Three cameras and screens are arranged to provide a
panoramic view of the room. Additional cameras and screens are used to share
presentations among the participants.
Multiple video streams are shared along with additional information (e.g.
spatial information, video resolution, and environmental), so that the user
experience is as if they are in same location. Audio information (e.g. spatial
information) is exchanged to facilitate the rendering of the audio in
accordance with the rendering of the video. Users in the meeting enjoy a
strong sense of realism and presence between all participants.
{width="6.002083333333333in" height="2.6104166666666666in"}
Figure G.1 -- Telepresence
In the above scenario participants may be from different operator's networks,
or from enterprise networks. In such cases, IMS-based Telepresence has
interconnection with Telepresence in other networks.
{width="352.33125in" height="1.6701388888888888in"}
Figure G.2 -- Interconnection of Telepresence
###### ## Annex H (Informative): Support of WebRTC client access to IMS
# H.1 General
The following use cases have been provided to describe WebRTC client access to
IMS.
1\. WebRTC-based application supports broad IMS client capabilities
2\. User gets his/her IMS service via third-party WebRTC-based application
3\. User gets third-party IMS service via WebRTC-based application
4\. Anonymous user gets IMS service via third-party WebRTC-based application
5\. End to end WebRTC bearer support over IMS
# H.2 WebRTC-based application supports broad IMS client capabilities
## H.2.1 Description
Mary provides her credentials when accessing a WebRTC-based application
provided by her IMS operator to access a broad range of IMS services (these
credentials are provided by the operator). The application provides a user
interface to the IMS user, Mary, to allow her to invoke her IMS services.
Using the application, Mary is able to access the same broad range of
capabilities available to a native IMS client, as appropriate to the available
access technologies. In particular, Mary is able to originate and terminate
calls using any of her IMS public user identities, and may access other rich
communication services such as presence and instant messaging sessions. The
instant messaging sessions may be integrated with other WebRTC media.
## H.2.2 Pre-conditions
Mary has an IMS subscription and a WebRTC-capable browser on a device that
supports an access technology with acceptable QoS (e.g., LTE).
Mary might have multiple credentials provided by the operator linked to her
IMS subscription (e.g., user name and password).
Mary\'s IMS operator hosts a web site that provides a WebRTC-based portal to
Mary\'s IMS services.
## H.2.3 Service flows
Mary accesses her IMS operator's web site from her browser, which executes an
instance of the IMS portal client.
The IMS portal arranges to authenticate (based on the offered credentials) and
register the IMS/WebRTC client with IMS and provides a user interface to Mary
via the browser to access IMS services.
Mary can initiate or receive multimedia sessions, access presence information,
participate in instant messaging sessions, and initiate any other service
expected by a native IMS client.
## H.2.4 Post-conditions
After invoking IMS services, the browser window remains available for Mary to
initiate other services or to accept incoming sessions.
# H.3 User gets their IMS service via third-party WebRTC-based application
## H.3.1 Description
John clicks on a link to a third-party WebRTC-based application that offers
access to his IMS services from his IMS operator. The third-party application
provides a specialized application to John such as gaming, conferencing, or
business services, where the application can benefit if the user has access to
IMS services. John provides his IMS credentials in a secure manner to the IMS
operator during the scenario before he is able to access his IMS services.
## H.3.2 Pre-conditions
John has an IMS subscription and a WebRTC capable browser on a device that
supports an access technology with acceptable QoS (e.g., LTE).
A third-party WebRTC-based application provides access to a WebRTC-based
portal to the user\'s IMS.
The third party has a business relationship with the IMS operator that allows
the third party to incorporate access to IMS services into the experience
provided by the third-party application.
## H.3.3 Service flows
John accesses the third-party web site from his browser, which executes the
third-party WebRTC-based application along with the WebRTC IMS client
functions needed for access to an IMS portal.
The IMS portal arranges to authenticate and register the IMS/WebRTC client
with IMS and cooperates with the third-party server to provide a user
interface to John via the browser to access his IMS services.
John has access to IMS services via the third-party WebRTC-based application.
## H.3.4 Post-conditions
After invoking IMS services, the browser window remains available for John to
initiate other services or to accept incoming sessions, if supported.
# H.4 User gets third-party IMS service via WebRTC-based application
## H.4.1 Description
Mary clicks on a link to a third-party WebRTC-based application that offers
access to real time communications services facilitated by an IMS operator.
The third-party WebRTC-based application provides enterprise-specific
communication services to employee Mary. The third-party WebRTC-based
application configures a block of IMS public user identities for use with an
IMS operator on behalf of all the users of the web site (e.g., this block may
be a domain or sub-domain). An individual user, Mary, logs into the third-
party WebRTC-based application but does not have user specific credentials
with the IMS operator. Mary receives some communications services directly
from the third-party WebRTC-based application and other communications
services directly from the IMS operator. For example, the third-party WebRTC-
based application may facilitate RTC sessions directly between WebRTC clients,
while IMS facilitates sessions with non-WebRTC endpoints.
## H.4.2 Pre-conditions
Mary has a WebRTC capable browser on a device that supports an acceptable
access technology.
A third-party WebRTC-based application provides access to a WebRTC-based
portal to the IMS that has a block of IMS public user identities and
subscriptions configured for use with an IMS operator. The WebRTC-based portal
maintains the association between the users\' credentials and its IMS public
user identities.
The third party has a business relationship with the IMS operator that allows
the third-party WebRTC-based application to incorporate access to IMS services
into the experience provided by the third-party WebRTC-based application.
The third-party server supports all interworking with the IMS and assigns
individual public user identities to the users of its web site so that they
can receive IMS services.
## H.4.3 Service flows
Mary accesses the third-party web site from her browser, which executes the
third-party WebRTC-based application along with the WebRTC-based client
functions needed for access to an IMS portal.
The third-party WebRTC-based application registers and authenticates Mary for
access to the IMS services associated with an assigned public user identity
from the public user identity block used by the third-party WebRTC-based
portal to IMS.
The IMS portal cooperates with the third-party WebRTC-based application to
provide a user interface to Mary via her browser to access IMS services.
Mary has access to IMS services via the WebRTC-based application.
## H.4.4 Post-conditions
After invoking IMS services, the browser window remains available to initiate
other services or to accept incoming sessions, if supported.
# H.5 Anonymous user gets IMS service via third-party WebRTC-based application
## H.5.1 Description
John clicks on a link to a third-party WebRTC-based application that offers
access to real time communications services facilitated by an IMS operator.
The third-party WebRTC-based application provides a specialized application to
the user such as a customer services portal for a retail establishment. The
third-party WebRTC-based application registers a public user identity with an
IMS operator on behalf of all its users of. John does not log into the third-
party WebRTC-based application and does not have user specific credentials
with IMS. John is unknown (anonymous) to both the third-party WebRTC-based
application and IMS. John receives very limited origination services from IMS,
as allowed by the third-party WebRTC-based application. In particular, John is
not reachable via any public user identity via this third-party WebRTC-based
application. This capability might be used to allow a user to initiate a call
to a customer representative but to no one else, or to join a conference, for
example.
## H.5.2 Pre-conditions
John has a WebRTC capable browser on a device that supports an acceptable
access technology.
A third-party has a subscription with an IMS operator and provides a web site
that provides access to a WebRTC-based portal to the IMS.
The third-party has a business relationship with the IMS operator that allows
the third-party to incorporate access to IMS services into the features
provided by the third-party WebRTC-based application.
The third-party WebRTC-based portal to the IMS maintains its registration with
IMS and allows (potentially anonymous) users of its web site (e.g., John) to
access IMS services using its (the third-party WebRTC-based portal to the IMS)
identity so that they can receive IMS services.
## H.5.3 Service flows
John accesses the third-party web site from his browser, which executes the
third-party WebRTC-based application along with the WebRTC-based client
functions needed for access to an IMS portal.
The third-party WebRTC-based application may not register or authenticate
John, but instead treats him as an anonymous guest with limited privileges to
access IMS services using the portal's IMS identity.
The IMS portal cooperates with the third-party WebRTC-based application to
provide a user interface to John via his browser to access IMS services.
John has access to limited IMS services via his browser user interface, e.g.,
John may not be reachable since no unique IMS public user identity is assigned
to him, and there may be limitations on which other parties he can contact.
## H.5.4 Post-conditions
After invoking IMS services, the browser window remains available for John to
initiate other available IMS services.
# H.6 End to end WebRTC bearer support over IMS
## H.6.1 Description
Jane is doing her taxes using an online tool and encounters a complexity with
which she would like some help. Her tax tool website includes a big red HELP
button which connects her to a tax advisor associated with the tool.
Associated with the HELP button is a link to a third-party WebRTC-based
application that offers access to communications services facilitated by an
IMS operator. The third-party WebRTC-based application provides a specialized
application to the user such as a customer services portal for a tax advisor.
In addition to being able to utilize IMS capabilities, the tax advisor has an
agreement with their IMS operator to use a WebRTC based codec as its preferred
audio codec and, as an enterprise service, to provide secure chat to
communicate with WebRTC IMS client users. The IMS operator is able to convey
the audio and chat session without bearer level protocol conversion which
might interfere with quality and maintains the end to end security between
Jane's device and third party WebRTC-based application. Figure H.1 illustrates
the configuration allowing end to end communication between WebRTC IMS
clients.
{width="6.186111111111111in" height="3.0743055555555556in"}
Figure H.6-1 End to end WebRTC IMS communication
## H.6.2 Pre-conditions
Jane has a WebRTC capable browser on a device that supports a WebRTC codec and
an end to end WebRTC security protocol.
Her tax advisor has a subscription with an IMS operator and provides a web
site that provides access to a WebRTC-based portal to the IMS; the IMS does
not support the WebRTC codec.
The tax advisor has a business relationship with the IMS operator that allows
the tax advisor to incorporate access to specialized non-IMS capabilities
(e.g., use of WebRTC codec, secure chat) into the features provided by the tax
advisor's WebRTC-based application.
The tax advisor's web site provides customers the ability to select from
various options (e.g., voice, chat, video, secure/unsecure channels) when they
request online HELP.
The tax advisor has their WebRTC browser up and is registered with IMS and is
able initiate services or to accept incoming sessions.
## H.6.3 Service flows
Jane accesses the tax advisor web site from her browser by clicking on the
HELP button, which executes the WebRTC-based application along with the WebRTC
IMS client functions needed for access to IMS.
Jane engages in an unsecured chat session with her tax advisor to resolve a
question on completing her tax forms. This chat session is hosted by IMS and
does not provide end to end security.
While continuing the chat session, Jane opens an audio connection with her tax
advisor as the discussion becomes more complex. Since both endpoints are
WebRTC IMS clients supporting the same WebRTC codec, and the tax advisor's
subscription allows it, the bearer path is conveyed without protocol
conversion, allowing Jane and the tax advisor to experience very high quality
audio.
While discussing the tax issue, Jane and her tax advisor decide it would be
helpful to share figures, calculations, and personal tax information. To do
this securely, they select a secure chat line that utilizes the WebRTC end to
end security.
## H.6.4 Post-conditions
Jane is satisfied with the quality and security of her exchange with her tax
advisor.
#