# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
More and more devices are becoming connected. These connected devices can be
MTC devices such as smart meters, but increasingly all kinds of consumer
electronic devices (e.g. photo cameras, navigation devices, e-books, hifi
equipment, TVs) are connected. Where Machine-Type Communication is generally
client server based, many consumer electronic devices also communicate with
other consumer electronic devices. For example a photo camera can communicate
with a printer, or a media server can communicate with hi-fi equipment. It may
be of interest for the cellular industry to support infrastructure based
discovery and communications between connected devices, i.e. without the need
for intermediate network servers.
In this context, the objective of the present document is to study:
• Potential enhancements to support secure discovery of Ues of interest
• Potential enhancements to support secure optimized end-to-end data
communication between Ues via the 3GPP infrastructure
• Potential enhancements derived from user requirements for identification in
communication between Ues
• Potential interactions of data communication between devices with LIPA and
SIPTO
Ues may represent functions/capabilities provided by non-3GPP devices in order
to support interworking. However, discovery of, or end-to-end data
communication with, non-3GPP devices themselves is out of scope.
Potential enhancements will be studied through the definition of use cases.
From these use cases, potential requirements are identified. For potential
requirements identified, if any, it will be determined what is the best way to
approach normative specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
eICBD enhanced Infrastructure based Communication Between Devices
# 4 Scenarios and Use Cases
## 4.1 UE requests a Globally Routable IP Address from its MNO
### 4.1.1 Description
Bill and Dave are students at USC. USC maintains a P2P server that manages a
database of media content that students want to share with each other.
Dave took videos of the Homecoming football game using his UE and wants to
share them. However, Dave\'s UE does not have globally routable IP address, so
he has his UE request one from his MNO and indicate his desired access
permissions (i.e. which UE(s) and/or IP address(es) have permission to access
it via IP). Once Dave\'s UE gets a globally routable IP address, Dave logs
into USC\'s P2P server and updates his profile to advertise his Homecoming
game videos and publish his globally routable IP address along with them.
Note: A \"globally routable IP address\" can be a personally assigned public
IP address, an IP address to the UE\'s firewall and a port number to the UE,
etc.
Later, Bill logs into the server, finds Dave\'s videos, chooses one to watch,
and clicks to download it.
At a later date, Dave\'s MNO informs him that his globally routable IP address
is no longer available, so he logs onto USC\'s P2P server and suspends his
content offerings.
### 4.1.2 Pre-conditions
\- Bill and Dave are subscribers of LTE services deployed by different MNOs
and are associated with different LTE base stations.
\- Bill and Dave are registered with USC\'s P2P server.
\- Dave has Homecoming football game videos on his UE that he wants to
advertise on USC\'s P2P server.
\- Dave\'s MNO enables his UE to request and receive a globally routable IP
address and indicate his desired access permissions.
### 4.1.3 Service Flows
\- Dave requests a globally routable IP address with certain access
permissions from his MNO.
\- Dave\'s MNO provides his UE with a globally routable IP address that has
desired access permissions.
\- Dave logs into USC\'s P2P server, updates his profile to include
information about the Homecoming football game videos he wants to share along
with his UE\'s newly acquired globally routable IP address, and then logs out.
\- Later, Bill logs into USC\'s P2P server, finds Dave\'s video, and clicks to
download it.
\- Bill\'s UE establishes a P2P session with Dave\'s UE using the globally
routable IP address provided in Dave\'s profile and downloads the video from
Dave\'s UE.
\- At a later date, Dave\'s MNO informs him that his assigned globally
routable IP address is no longer available, so he logs onto USC\'s P2P server
and suspends his content offerings.
### 4.1.4 Post-conditions
\- Dave\'s UE has a private IP address.
### 4.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
\- This may interact with ProSe service continuity features.
### 4.1.6 Potential Requirements
\- A UE shallbe able to request a globally routable IP address from its HPLMN
and indicate which UE(s) and/or IP address(es) have permission to send data to
it.
\- A UE may on a per UE basis revoke permission to send it data using the
previously provided globally routable IP address.
\- An HPLMN shall be able to provide a globally routable IP address to a UE
and limit access to it per the UE\'s indicated permissions.
\- An HPLMN shall be able to withdraw a UE\'s globally routable IP address and
inform the UE that it no longer has a globally routable IP address.
## 4.2 UE requests its MNO to help create IP connection to another UE
### 4.2.1 Description
Bill wants to compete in a P2P video game on his UE against his friend, Dave.
However, since neither Bill nor Dave has a public IP address, Bill\'s UE
requests his MNO to help it create an IP connection with Dave\'s UE.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
\- Bill and Dave are subscribers of LTE services deployed by different MNOs,
and their Ues are associated with LTE eNBs.
\- Neither Bill\'s nor Dave\'s Ues have public IP addresses, but their Ues are
equipped with a service that allows them to request/receive assistance from
their MNOs to help create IP connections to other Ues.
\- Bill\'s and Dave\'s MNOs are equipped to assist Ues with establishing IP
connections between Ues belonging to the same or different MNOs.
\- Bill and Dave have the same P2P gaming application on their Ues.
### 4.2.3 Service Flows
\- Bill starts the P2P gaming application on his UE and enters the game
\"lobby\" to look for other users currently interested in playing the game.
\- Bill sees that his friend Dave is in the game \"lobby\" and invites him to
compete.
\- Dave receives an invitation via the game \"lobby\" on his UE and accepts
it.
\- Bill and Dave negotiate game rules and P2P session parameters via the game
\"lobby\".
\- Bill\'s UE is chosen to be the game\'s P2P session server, prompting
Dave\'s UE to forward its UE and MNO identifiers to Bill\'s UE.
\- Bill\'s UE requests his MNO to help establish an IP connection to Dave\'s
UE using the identifiers provided by Dave\'s UE.
\- Bill\'s MNO contacts Dave\'s MNO and together they help establish an IP
connection between the Ues.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
\- Bill and Dave are competing with each other in a P2P session over an IP
connection created with help from their MNOs.
### 4.2.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
FFS
### 4.2.6 Potential Requirements
\- A UE shall be able to request help from its HPLMN in establishing an IP
connection to another UE that does not have a globally routable IP address.
The Ues may be in the same or different HPLMNs.
\- A HPLMN shall be able to inquire of a UE whether a specific UE has
permission to connect to it over IP.
\- A HPLMN shall be able to terminate IP connections for one of its Ues and
inform the Ues of this pending termination.
Editor\'s Note: How a UE indicates access permission is FFS.
## 4.3 Automated IP Connectivity Establishment as a fallback to a ProSe direct
connection
### 4.3.1 Description
Bill and Dave have Ues that are engaged in a P2P session over a direct radio
link. Both Ues are signed up for ProSe. The MNOs are equipped to
collaboratively facilitate the establishment of IP connectivity between Ues
with private addresses. ProSe takes advantage of this MNO capability to
provide Bill\'s and Dave\'s Ues with IP connectivity over the infrastructure
path before they lose their direct radio link, thereby guaranteeing service
continuity.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
\- Bill and Dave are subscribers of LTE services deployed by _different_ MNOs,
and their Ues are associated with LTE eNBs.
\- Bill\'s and Dave\'s Ues may have private IP addresses.
\- Bill\'s and Dave\'s MNOs are equipped to facilitate the establishment of IP
connectivity between Ues with private IP addresses.
\- Bill\'s and Dave\'s Ues are engaged in a P2P session over a direct radio
link.
\- Bill\'s and Dave\'s Ues are subscribed to their MNOs\' ProSe.
### 4.3.3 Service Flows
\- Bill\'s MNO\'s ProSe detects that Bill\'s and Dave\'s direct radio link may
fail in the very near future, which triggers the MNO to contact Dave\'s MNO to
facilitate the establishment of IP connectivity over the infrastructure path
to ensure service continuity before the direct radio link fails.
\- Bill\'s and Dave\'s MNOs facilitate the establishment of IP connectivity
between the Ues over the infrastructure path.
\- Bill\'s and Dave\'s direct radio link begins to fail prompting a move of
their P2P session to the established IP connection on the infrastructure path.
Bill and Dave are unaware of the change in data path.
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
\- Bill and Dave are engaged in their P2P session over the IP connection on
the infrastructure path.
### 4.3.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
\- This may interact with ProSe service continuity features.
### 4.3.6 Potential Requirements
\- A UE and its serving PLMN shall be able to agree upon triggers that will
cause the serving PLMN to automatically assist the UE in establishing IP
connectivity to another UE. The Ues may belong to the same or different MNOs.
\- The system shall provide service continuity when communication is moved
from a ProSe direct path to an eICBD path.
\- All ProSe permissions and authorizations shall be inherited when moving
from a ProSe direct path to an eICBD path.
## 4.4 eICBD Communication Path Optimization
### 4.4.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario where two devices may be in an environment
where Ues are under coverage of H(E)NBs and are able to communicate through a
local gateway (LGW) to offload user traffic (e.g. within a University Campus).
### 4.4.2 Pre-conditions
An operator offers a service which makes use of the eICBD feature, in which:
\- An eICBD-enabled UE of a given user is under coverage of a H(E)NB and is
able to communicate through a local gateway.
John and Peter have a gaming application installed on their smartphones. It is
a P2P gaming application which requires both users to play simultaneously
against each other.
In the context of this application, the following assumptions are made:
\- John and Peter use eICBD-enabled devices.
\- John and Peter are subscribed to an operator service that allows them to
use eICBD through a LGW.
\- The gaming application used by Peter and John is aware that the Ues are
eICBD capable.
\- John and Peter have interacted with an application and have included each
other in a list of persons with whom they would like to play this game.
### 4.4.3 Service Flows
John and Peter activate the P2P game application. Thus (e.g. following
interaction with her application), the user experience is such that, without
any further user interaction with the device:
\- The application may verify that Peter and John are interested in playing at
this time.
\- The application interacts with the EPS to determine that both John and
Peter\'s devices are available within the 3GPP system.
\- The EPS sets up an optimized path for data communication between John and
Peter devices. The path may take into account the devices connectivity
options.
\- The EPS may determine whether John and Peter are able to communicate
through a LGW.
\- If so, the 3GPP system sets up an optimized data path for the gaming
application such that the application data packets are routed locally.
\- John and Peter start playing the game.
### 4.4.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 4.4.5 Potential Requirements
Based on operator policy and user permission the system shall be able to set
up an optimized communication path with discovered devices.
The EPS shall be able to take into account local gateway connectivity of both
Ues in setting up an optimized data path.
The system shall be able to move the communication path between non-optimized
and optimized paths and between different optimized paths.
## 4.5 Service discovery
### 4.5.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario for service discovery that can be used for
any application. A D2D application for connecting to a car is used as an
example to illustrate this use case.
### 4.5.2 Pre-conditions
\- Mary and John together own two cars -- one is Mary\'s primary car and the
other is John\'s primary car.
\- Mary and John subscribe to D2D service discovery provided by Operator X.
\- Mary and John have registered their cars, phones and possibly other devices
in a common ownership group as part of the D2D discovery service.
\- The phones and cars from Mary and John may use subscriptions with different
operators.
\- The phones and cars all have default data connections established.
### 4.5.3 Service Flows
\- Mary decides to take her primary car. The car is parked in the parking
garage belonging to their apartment. The car is an electric car and is
charging at a charging point in the parking garage. Before leaving Mary wants
to check the charging status of her car.
\- Mary takes her phone and starts an application for the remote
control/management of electric cars.
\- The application on the phone and other devices belonging to John and Mary
communicate between each other and use a service discovery protocol (e.g.
UpnP) to discover which devices provide related services -- i.e. that are
electric cars.
\- The applications on the phones or the application server or both
communicate with the EPS to set up the service discovery.
\- Mary sees on her phone that there are two cars that she can control/manage.
The cars are identified by make and an identification that is useful for Mary
(e.g. Mary\'s primary car and John\'s primary car).
\- Mary selects her primary car on the application.
\- Mary now sees the services that her primary car provides. She is looking
for the application that provides charging status. However, she sees that the
car manufacturer has updated the car software and the car now also has an
application that allows her to remotely pre-heat the car or switch on the air-
conditioning. As it has been freezing, she switches on the pre-heating so that
the windows of the car will be defrosted when she arrives.
\- Mary remembers that she has recently downloaded a new album from her
favourite band on her MP3 device. She wants to listen to the album on the car
stereo and checks whether the music is already available on the car\'s media
server. Mary uses her phone to control the media synchronization from her MP3
device to the car\'s media server. The file should be transferred by the time
she gets to the car. Mary is notices that uploading media to the media server
in the car works exactly the same as when she uploads media to the media
server at home.
\- Finally Mary checks that the alarm system of the car is still enabled. Good
thing nobody but herself and John can access the car control system and
remotely disable the car alarm.
### 4.5.4 Potential Requirements
\- The 3GPP system shall provide support for service discovery frameworks (as
are commonly used for consumer devices in home environments) for Ues connected
to the mobile network. The service discovery frameworks themselves are outside
3GPP.
\- The 3GPP system shall support the definition of groups of 2 or more Ues
(e.g. based on common ownership). The 3GPP system shall support the
distribution of service discovery information from one UE in a group to all
other Ues in the group. The 3GPP system shall not distribute service discovery
information to Ues that are not part of the group.
## 4.6 eICBD Security Use Case
### 4.6.1 Description
This use case describes user permissions required to set up eICBD operation.
### 4.6.2 Pre-conditions
An operator offers a service which makes use of the eICBD feature, in which:
\- Mary has a video camera. The camera uses a management and video sharing
application which is enabled to use this eICBD feature. The camera has an
eICBD enabled UE. An instance of the application is also installed Mary\'s and
Peter\'s Ues.
\- John is Mary and Peter\'s less than friendly 12eighbour and has installed
the same application on his UE.
\- In the context of this application, the following relationships are
established:
\- Mary and Peter have the right to control the camera and access its video
stream.
\- John does not.
### 4.6.3 Service Flows
\- Following some exchange between the application instances on the camera and
/ or Ues and between them and the 3GPP system, the 3GPP system sets up an end
to end link between the camera UE and Mary\'s UE using an optimized path.
\- John\'s application does not know of the existence of the camera (although
he may have access to other cameras).
\- Other applications installed on Mary\'s UE do not have access to the
camera.
### 4.6.4 Post-conditions
None.
### 4.6.5 Potential Requirements
\- The 3GPP system shall not disclose identity and service information of a UE
to other Ues unless specifically permitted by its user.
\- The 3GPP system shall not forward user data to and from other users without
both sides specific permission.
\- User\'s permission may be revoked at any time.
NOTE: Some of the requirements in this clause may duplicate requirements in
other clauses.
## 4.7 Offload of IP connection between Devices to ProSe Direct Communication
### 4.7.1 Description
Oliver, Mattias, Marc and Rian are friends at school. In the school bus on the
way to school they are playing computer games together to pass time. Marc and
Rian are playing a game together which is hosted on a game server. Oliver and
Mattias are playing a game that uses an IP connection set up with eICBD.
The MNO of Oliver and Mattias knows that they have set up an IP connection
between their devices and notices that they are in proximity. The MNO offloads
that IP connection to a ProSe direct connection. Oliver and Matthias notice
the improvement in latency and the longer battery time. Connections for the
other boys cannot be offloaded as their MNO has no awareness of the connection
between their devices.
### 4.7.2 Pre-conditions
Oliver and Mattias have established an IP connection between their devices
using the eICBD service provided by their MNO. The game they are playing uses
this connection between their devices.
Marc and Rian are both logged in on a common game server. They are playing a
game together via this game server.
### 4.7.3 Service Flows
The MNO of Oliver and Mattias is aware that their devices have established an
IP connection between them. When the MNO detects that Oliver and Mattias are
in proximity, the IP connection between them is offloaded to ProSe direct
communication.
Marc and Rian are also in proximity. But as their game is based on a common
game server, there is no possibility to offload.
### 4.7.4 Post-conditions
Oliver and Mattias are playing their game using a ProSe direct connection.
They notice this in improved battery time and latency.
No change occurs in Rian and Marc\'s connection.
### 4.7.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
In order to offload IP communication to a ProSe direct connection, there needs
to be an awareness that the two devices are involved in a common IP
connection. If the IP connection between two devices is established using
eICBD, the EPC is aware of the connection between the devices.
In order for an IP connection to be offloaded to ProSe direct communication,
it needs to have similar characteristics. Furthermore, there may be a
subsequent fall back to an infrastructure based IP connection again if direct
path conditions deteriorate.
### 4.7.6 Potential Requirements
\- The 3GPP System shall have awareness of IP connections between devices
established using eICBD.
\- The 3GPP System shall be able to offload IP connections established using
eICBD to ProSe direct communication.
\- Users of an offloaded connection should not notice that the connection is
offloaded.
\- There should not be an inherent difference between the eICBD connection
before offload to ProSe direct communication and the connection after fall
back to it.
## 4.8 Charging for eICBD
### 4.8.1 Description
This use case describes a scenario exemplifying the ability of an MNO to
collect information leading to charging for use of the eICBD feature.
### 4.8.2 Pre-conditions
\- Mary and John own a security surveillance camera installed in their home.
The camera is subscribed to Operator Y via an LTE UE.
\- Mary subscribes to the eICBD service provided by Operator Y while John
subscribes to the eICBD service provided by Operator X.
\- Both operators have authorized eICBD service to their subscribers including
the case where the Ues connect to other Ues which are subscribed to different
operators.
### 4.8.3 Service Flows
Mary and John define a group for service discovery and add the security camera
and their own Ues to the group.
\- The applications on Mary and John\'s Ues notify them about the existence of
and services provided by the security camera
\- Mary or John or both choose to set up the camera and receive video feed.
### 4.8.4 Post-conditions
Mary\'s and John\'s accounts are charged for the establishment and maintenance
of the service discovery group.
The HPLMN records the establishment of IP connections.
All accounts are charged for data received or transmitted through eICBD.
### 4.8.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Text to be provided
### 4.8.6 Potential Requirements
\- An HPLMN shall be able to charge for the establishment and modification of
service discovery groups.
\- An HPLMN shall be able to charge for service discovery events.
\- eICBD shall not affect the operator\'s ability to charge for data traffic.
# 5 Data paths in eICBD communications
## 5.1 Data Default data path scenario
The typical data path in common usage is:
Figure 5.1-1: Default data path for communication between two Ues
All UE-UE traffic is carried through the EPC and the internet (and may include
a media server). IMS, if used, replaces the internet media server with an IMS
server.
## 5.2 eICBD Communication scenario
In eICBD the EPC uses an optimized path between the Ues which minimizes the
number of hops. Several configurations are possible which depend, among other
factors, on the availability of local network connections.
The general case is depicted in Figure 5.2-1. UE-UE traffic passes through an
SGW, a PGW and another SGW, eliminating a minimum of 2 hops to and from a
media server. Additionally it could eliminate extra buffering in the media
server.
Figure 5.2-1: An optimized data path for communication between two Ues
NOTE: Data path for neighbouring UE\'s served by different eNB\'s
Figure 5.2-2: An Optimized data path for low backhaul bandwidth case with a
standalone LGW
Figure 5.2-2 depicts the case where both Ues and their eNBs are for example on
a corporate campus which typically offers a much higher bandwidth locally then
to the EPC. A single standalone LGW can span several eNB and provide high data
rate connectivity between Ues associated with them.
Note also that WI ProSe is required to support local traffic between two Ues
that are attached to the same eNB or to different eNB without use of gateways.
This case is out of scope for eICBD.
{width="3.6347222222222224in" height="1.832638888888889in"}
NOTE: Data path for neighbouring UE\'s served by the same eNB with/without a
standalone LGW.
Figure 5.2-3: eICBD Communication path via local eNB (with/without a
standalone LGW)
Figure 5.2-3 depicts the case where both Ues served by the same eNB, which are
very common for indoor environment, including multi-story building
environment. The examples may include, but not limited to, home environment
and enterprise environment in which some applications require a high level of
traffic demand, such as home entertainment.
NOTE: An optimized data path via a local eNB is one of possible data paths for
two eICBD-enabled UE\'s. This is independent of the ProSe Communication path
with routing via a local eNB.
# 6 Potential requirements
The following potential requirements are consolidated on the basis of the
requirements identified in the use cases. See Annex A for a tabular overview
of all the requirements and from which use case they originate. The indication
t.xx refers to a numbering of requirements in that table.
{c.1} [t.1, t.3] A UE shall be able to request a globally routable IP address
from its HPLMN and indicate which UE(s) and/or IP address(es) have permission
to send data to it. The HPLMN shall be able to provide a globally routable IP
address to a UE and limit access to it per the UE\'s indicated permissions.
{c.2} [t.2] A UE may revoke permission for all or specific Ues and/or IP
addresses to send data to its assigned globally routable IP address.
{c.3} [t.4] An HPLMN shall be able to withdraw a UE\'s globally routable IP
address and inform the UE that it no longer has a globally routable IP
address.
{c.4} [t.5] A UE shall be able to request help from its HPLMN in establishing
an IP connection to another UE that does not have a globally routable IP
address. The Ues may be in the same or different HPLMNs or may be roaming.
{c.5} [t.6, t.17] An HPLMN shall be able to inquire of a UE whether a specific
other UE has permission to connect to it over IP. The 3GPP system shall not
forward user data from one UE to another UE without each UE\'s permission.
{c.6} [t.18] Permissions may be revoked by a user at any time.
{c.7} [t.19] The 3GPP system shall have awareness of IP connections between
Ues established using eICBD.
{c.8} [t.7] A HPLMN shall be able to terminate IP connections for one of its
Ues and inform the Ues of this pending termination.
{c.9} [t.25] eICBD shall not affect the operator\'s ability to charge for data
traffic.
{c.10} [t.9, t.8] The 3GPP system shall provide service continuity when
communication is moved from a ProSe direct communication path to an eICBD
path. A UE and its serving PLMN shall be able to agree upon triggers that will
cause the serving PLMN to automatically assist the UE in establishing IP
connectivity to another UE. The Ues may belong to the same or different PLMNs.
{c.11} [t.10] All ProSe permissions and authorizations shall be inherited when
moving from a ProSe direct communication path to an eICBD path.
{c.12} [t20, t.21, t.22] The 3GPP system shall be able to offload an IP
connection from an eICBD path to a ProSe direct communication path. Users
should not notice when an IP connection is offloaded. There should not be an
inherent difference between the IP connection before it is offloaded from the
eICBD path to a ProSe direct communication path and the IP connection after it
falls back to the eICBD path.
{c.13} [t.11, t.13, t.12] Based on operator policy and user permission the
3GPP system shall be able to set up an optimized eICBD path. The 3GPP system
shall be able to move the IP connection between different optimized eICBD
paths and between non-optimized and optimized eICBD paths. The 3GPP system
shall be able to take into account local gateway connectivity of both Ues when
setting up an optimized eICBD path between them.
{c.14} [t.14] The 3GPP system shall provide support for service discovery
frameworks (as are commonly used for consumer devices in home environments)
for Ues connected to the mobile network. The service discovery frameworks
themselves are outside the scope of 3GPP.
{c.15} [t.15] The 3GPP system shall support the definition of groups of two or
more Ues (e.g. based on common ownership). The 3GPP system shall support the
distribution of service discovery information from one UE in a group to all
other Ues in the group. The 3GPP system shall not distribute service discovery
information to Ues that are not part of the group.
{c.16} [t.16] The 3GPP system shall not disclose identity and service
information of a UE to other Ues unless specifically permitted by the UE.
{c.17} [t.23, t.24] An HPLMN shall be able to charge for the establishment and
modifications of service discovery groups. An HPLMN shall be able to charge
for service discovery events within previously established service discovery
groups.
# 7 Conclusions
Enhancements for infrastructure based data communication between devices are
targeted at communication between consumer devices (e.g. camera\'s, media
players), M2M devices (e.g. home control) and the control of or interaction
with such devices from mobile phones. The intention is to facilitate using
such devices via a cellular network with a similar user experience as
communication between devices via local area networks.
In the study on enhancements for infrastructure based data communication
between devices requirements four new service components were identified:
\- Dynamic assignment/revocation of global IP addresses along with access
permissions; By enabling a UE to request/receive a global IP address, any
other UE or other IP address can send data to that UE. The UE can indicate
which other Ues and IP addresses have permission to send data to it. (Use case
in clause 4.1).
NOTE: A \"globally routable IP address\" can be a personally assigned public
IP address, an IP address to the UE\'s firewall and a port number to the UE,
etc.
\- Setting up IP connections via the infrastructure between two Ues (with or
without Global IP addresses); The intention is to enable infrastructure based
IP connectivity between devices. IP connections via an eICBD path can be
offloaded to a ProSe Communication path, or they can be initiated as a
fallback for a ProSe Communication Path. (Use cases in clauses 4.2, 4.3, and
4.7).
\- Distribution of service discovery information within a group of Ues; The
intention is to provide support in the mobile network for service discovery
frameworks as defined outside 3GPP. (Use case in clause 4.5).
\- Path optimization of a IP connection between two Ues; Two Ues connection
via an eICBD path may be connected to the same part of the network (e.g. via a
common L-GW). Optimization of the user data path can save resources and reduce
latency. (Use case in clause 4.4 and data paths in clause 5).
The study also identified requirements related to security (Use case in clause
4.6) and charging (Use case in clause 4.8).
It is recommended that the requirements in this TR are considered for the
development of normative requirements.
###### ### Annex A: Overview of requirements
The following material has been used in consolidating the requirements.
t.xx is just a temporary designation for easy reference.
G.xx is the topic with which the requirement has been associated. Topic names
have not been retained in the consolidated requirements.
Overview of requirements
* * *
Orig. Temp Requirement Used in 4.1.6-a t.1 A UE shall be able to request a
globally routable IP address from its HPLMN and indicate which UE(s) and/or IP
address(es) have permission to send data to it G.1 4.1.6-b t.2 A UE may on a
per UE basis revoke permission to send it data using the previously provided
globally routable IP address. G.1 4.1.6-c t.3 An HPLMN shall be able to
provide a globally routable IP address to a UE and limit access to it per the
UE\'s indicated permissions. G.1 4.1.6-d t.4 An HPLMN shall be able to
withdraw a UE\'s globally routable IP address and inform the UE that it no
longer has a globally routable IP address. G.1 4.2.6-a t.5 A UE shall be able
to request help from its HPLMN in establishing an IP connection to another UE
that does not have a globally routable IP address. The Ues may be in the same
or different HPLMNs G.2 4.2.6-b t.6 A HPLMN shall be able to inquire of a UE
whether a specific UE has permission to connect to it over IP G.2 4.2.6-c t.7
A HPLMN shall be able to terminate IP connections for one of its Ues and
inform the Ues of this pending termination G.2 4.3.6-a t.8 A UE and its
serving PLMN shall be able to agree upon triggers that will cause the serving
PLMN to automatically assist the UE in establishing IP connectivity to another
UE. The Ues may belong to the same or different MNOs. G.2 4.3.6-b t.9 The
system shall provide service continuity when communication is moved from a
ProSe direct path to an eICBD path G.2 4.3.6-c t.10 All ProSe permissions and
authorizations shall be inherited when moving from a ProSe direct path to an
eICBD path. G.2 4.4.5-a t.11 Based on operator policy and user permission the
system shall be able to set up an optimized communication path with discovered
devices. G.3 4.4.5-b t.12 The EPS shall be able to take into account local
gateway connectivity of both Ues in setting up an optimized data path. G.3
4.4.5-c t.13 The system shall be able to move the communication path between
non-optimized and optimized paths and between different optimized paths. G.3
4.5.5-a t.14 The 3GPP system shall provide support for service discovery
frameworks (as are commonly used for consumer devices in home environments)
for Ues connected to the mobile network. The service discovery frameworks
themselves are outside 3GPP. G.4 4.5.5-b t.15 The 3GPP system shall support
the definition of groups of 2 or more Ues (e.g. based on common ownership).
The 3GPP system shall support the distribution of service discovery
information from one UE in a group to all other Ues in the group. The 3GPP
system shall not distribute service discovery information to Ues that are not
part of the group. G.4 4.6.5-a t.16 The 3GPP system shall not disclose
identity and service information of a UE to other Ues unless specifically
permitted by its user G.4 4.6.5-b t.17 The 3GPP system shall not forward user
data to and from other users without both sides specific permission G.2
4.6.5-c t.18 User\'s permission may be revoked at any time G.2 4.7.6-a t.19
The 3GPP System shall have awareness of IP connections between devices
established using eICBD G.2 4.7.6-b t.20 The 3GPP System shall be able to
offload IP connections established using eICBD to ProSe direct communication
G.2 4.7.6-c t.21 Users of an offloaded connection should not notice that the
connection is offloaded G.2 4.7.6-d t.22 There should not be an inherent
difference between the eICBD connection before offload to ProSe direct
communication and the connection after fall back to it G.2 4.8.6-a t.23 An
HPLMN shall be able to charge for the establishment and modification of
service discovery groups G.4 4.8.6-b t.24 An HPLMN shall be able to charge for
service discovery events G.4 4.8.6-c t.25 eICBD shall not affect the
operator\'s ability to charge for data traffic G1, G.2
* * *
**{G.1} Global IP Routable Address:**
[t.1] A UE shall be able to request a globally routable IP address from its
HPLMN and indicate which UE(s) and/or IP address(es) have permission to send
data to it.
[t.2] A UE may on a per UE basis revoke permission to send it data using the
previously provided globally routable IP address.
[t.3] An HPLMN shall be able to provide a globally routable IP address to a UE
and limit access to it per the UE\'s indicated permissions.
[t.4] An HPLMN shall be able to withdraw a UE\'s globally routable IP address
and inform the UE that it no longer has a globally routable IP address.
[t.25] eICBD shall not affect the operator\'s ability to charge for data
traffic.
**{G.2} IP Connection Set up:**
[t5] A UE shall be able to request help from its HPLMN in establishing an IP
connection to another UE that does not have a globally routable IP address.
The Ues may be in the same or different HPLMNs.
[t.6] A HPLMN shall be able to inquire of a UE whether a specific UE has
permission to connect to it over IP.
[t.7] A HPLMN shall be able to terminate IP connections for one of its Ues and
inform the Ues of this pending termination.
[t.8] A UE and its serving PLMN shall be able to agree upon triggers that will
cause the serving PLMN to automatically assist the UE in establishing IP
connectivity to another UE. The Ues may belong to the same or different MNOs.
[t.9] The system shall provide service continuity when communication is moved
from a ProSe direct path to an eICBD path.
[t.10] All ProSe permissions and authorizations shall be inherited when moving
from a ProSe direct path to an eICBD path.
[t.19] The 3GPP System shall have awareness of IP connections between devices
established using eICBD.
[t.20] The 3GPP System shall be able to offload IP connections established
using eICBD to ProSe direct communication.
[t.21] Users of an offloaded connection should not notice that the connection
is offloaded.
[t.22] There should not be an inherent difference between the eICBD connection
before offload to ProSe direct communication and the connection after fall
back to it.
[t.17] The 3GPP system shall not forward user data to and from other users
without both sides specific permission.
[t.18] User\'s permission may be revoked at any time.
[t.25] eICBD shall not affect the operator\'s ability to charge for data
traffic.
**{G.3} Path Optimization:**
[t.11] Based on operator policy and user permission the system shall be able
to set up an optimized communication path with discovered devices.
[t.12] The EPS shall be able to take into account local gateway connectivity
of both Ues in setting up an optimized data path.
[t.13] The system shall be able to move the communication path between non-
optimized and optimized paths and between different optimized paths.
**{G.4} Service Discovery:**
[t.14] The 3GPP system shall provide support for service discovery frameworks
(as are commonly used for consumer devices in home environments) for Ues
connected to the mobile network. The service discovery frameworks themselves
are outside 3GPP.
[t.15] The 3GPP system shall support the definition of groups of 2 or more Ues
(e.g. based on common ownership). The 3GPP system shall support the
distribution of service discovery information from one UE in a group to all
other Ues in the group. The 3GPP system shall not distribute service discovery
information to Ues that are not part of the group.
[t.16] The 3GPP system shall not disclose identity and service information of
a UE to other Ues unless specifically permitted by its user.
[t.23] An HPLMN shall be able to charge for the establishment and
modifications of service discovery groups.
[t.24] An HPLMN shall be able to charge for service discovery events.
#