# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective is to study use cases and propose potential requirements for
supporting traffic classification and service chain selection capabilities per
operator\'s policy (e.g. based on user\'s profile, application type, RAN type,
RAN status and flow direction) in order to realize efficient and flexible
mobile service steering in the (S)Gi-LAN network.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
FMSS Flexible Mobile Service Steering
# 4 Overview
In order to realize efficient and flexible mobile service steering in the
(S)Gi-LAN, the MNO uses some information (e.g. user profile, RAT type,
application characteristics, etc.) to define traffic steering policies. These
policies are used to steer the MNO\'s subscriber\'s traffic data to
appropriate enablers (e.g. NAT, FW) in (S)Gi-LAN.
The term (S)Gi-LAN used in the present document represents a system which is
out of 3GPP scope.
{width="6.5in" height="1.7604166666666667in"}
Figure 1: Overview of Flexible Mobile Service Steering
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Traffic Classification and Steering based on Application
Characteristics
### 5.1.1 Description
Faced with quick development of data traffic, MNO can deploy many service
enablers (e.g. URL filter, video optimization, protocol optimization, etc.)
behind Gi/Sgi interface to improve the user\'s QoE, reduce the bandwidth
pressure and provide valued added service.
This use case describes that data traffic can be steered through several
service enablers based on its application characteristics. Firstly, mobile
network can analyze and identify traffic\'s application characteristics, such
as application\'s type, application protocol and so on. Secondly, mobile
network can steer the traffic through several specific service enablers. For
example, if data traffic is generated from Web browsing, the traffic will go
through protocol optimization service enabler to improve users\' experience
according to operators\' policy.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
MNO deploys three independent service enablers:
\- video optimization, for example, to adapt video resolution and bitrate
according to user\'s terminal.
\- URL filter, for example, to block some unsafe web URLs that user should not
access.
\- protocol optimization, for example, to use multipart or pipeline mechanism
to optimize the HTTP protocol.
Bob initiates a Web browsing request to visit a website.
MNO adds a traffic steering policy into mobile network: if data traffic is for
a web browsing service, traffic should be steered to protocol optimization
enabler.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
Mobile network analyses all the traffic, and differentiates the Web browsing
traffic out. According to operator\'s policies, the traffic, including
upstream and downstream traffic, will be steered through protocol optimization
enablers deployed behind Gi/Sgi interface.
Figure 2: Service Flows for Traffic Classification and Steering based on
Application Characteristics
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The protocol optimization enabler accelerated HTTP web browsing service. Bob
got a faster Internet experience.
### 5.1.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing Services/Features
TBD and maybe none.
### 5.1.6 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP network should be able to recognize the application characteristics,
such as application type (video, web browsing, IM, etc.) and application
protocol (HTTP, P2P, etc.), target address name (URL) and application provider
(e.g. Youtube^TM^).
The 3GPP network should be able to steer traffic (upstream, downstream or
both) per these application characteristics in order to provide value-added
service to third-party application.
## 5.2 Traffic steering based on MNO\'s policies or user\'s subscription
### 5.2.1 Anti-advertisement services
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
This use case illustrates the traffic steering policy based on the user\'s
subscription. The MNO distinguishes the user\'s priority (e.g. gold, silver
and bronze priority) and the user\'s status with respect to optional
subscriber services (e.g. web filtering for children, employees and virus
detection) based on the user\'s subscription data and implements traffic
steering based on the user\'s information.
#### 5.2.1.2 Pre-conditions
A high priority user and a normal user can use a popular mobile network
application that pushes advertisements to the users. The users have to close
the regular pop-up advertisements when using this application.
#### 5.2.1.3 Service flows
When the user\'s downlink advertisements sent from certain mobile network
application arrive at the MNO, the MNO steers the user\'s traffic through
different traffic path:
\- For the high priority (gold) user, traffic is steered through an Anti-
Advertisement enabler.
\- For the medium priority (silver) user, traffic is steered through an Anti-
Advertisement enabler for a period of time after which pop-up advertisements
are allowed again by no longer steered traffic through an Anti-Advertisement
enabler.
\- For the normal (bronze) user, traffic is not steered through an Anti-
Advertisement enabler.
\- For users with filtering for children enabled, traffic is steered through
an enabler that allows or blocks traffic based on algorithms tailored to this.
\- For users with filtering for employees enabled, traffic is steered through
an enabler that restricts traffic according to rules set by the subscriber.
\- For users with filtering for viruses enabled, traffic is steered through an
enabler that checks for viruses, malware, etc., and allows, blocks or
decontaminates traffic as appropriate.
#### 5.2.1.4 Post-conditions
For the high priority user, advertisements pushed by the application would be
filtered by the Anti-Advertisements enabler, while the advertisement pushed by
the application would not be filtered for normal users.
#### 5.2.1.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing Services/Features
None.
#### 5.2.1.6 Potential requirements
Based on end-user\'s priority and the status of optional subscriber services
from the subscription data, the 3GPP network should allow the MNO to define
different traffic steering policies. The MNO can then steer all/some parts of
the user\'s traffic through different traffic paths based on the end-user\'s
subscription data in order to offer differentiated services for different end-
users, e.g. some high priority end-users could get service with no
advertisements.
### 5.2.2 Security services
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
This use case addresses traffic steering to security elements based on user\'s
subscription or MNO\'s policies. MNOs deploy various types of security
features -- include but not limited to DdoS protection, antimalware, anti-
virus, and parental control. These security features are enabled on the (S)Gi-
LAN for value-added services.
#### 5.2.2.2 Pre-conditions
The following are preconditions for this use case:
\- Users are classified to receive various types of services from MNOs using
various criteria.
\- MNOs provide a wide variety of security features, such as DdoS protection,
antimalware, and parental control to their subscribers.
\- Service steering of security features is based on user\'s subscription,
type of service, location of subscriber, or other MNO\'s policies.
#### 5.2.2.3 Service Flows
Users are subscribed to one or more security services. Mobile network
classifies each user or user\'s traffic. As user\'s traffic reaches (S)Gi
interface, its type is identified and it is steered appropriately to one or
more security elements, as depicted in Figure 3
User\'s traffic traversing the core network is aiming to access IP addresses
or URLs, which the MNO blacklists, as per its policies. As a result, the
traffic is steered to antimalware services.
{width="6.745138888888889in" height="2.140277777777778in"}
Figure 3: Security Service Flows
User A is accessing a URL, which is blacklisted as per MNO\'s policy. As a
result, the MNO steers User A\'s traffic to Antimalware services. User B is
subscribed to DdoS protection service. As such, User B\'s traffic is steered
to DdoS protection service. User C is subscribed to two services -- Parental
Control and DdoS protection, resulting in User C\'s traffic to be steered to
both, Parental Control and DdoS protection services.
#### 5.2.2.4 Post-conditions
Users receive the appropriate value-added security services from MNOs.
#### 5.2.2.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
N/A
#### 5.2.2.6 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP core network shall provide different traffic steering rules according
to MNO\'s policies and user\'s subscription. The MNO can then steer all or
some parts of user\'s traffic through different traffic paths involving
security services in order to offer differentiated security services for
different end-users or to comply with their policies.
## 5.3 Traffic steering based on Network status
### 5.3.1 Description
This use case illustrates the traffic steering policy based on the user\'s
current RATs and network (RAN and CN) congestion status.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
When a user watches the video in 2G or the network is congested, the video
streaming would not be played fluently, as not much bandwidth for transferring
the video stream can be assigned to the user. In this case, the user sees a
discontinuous video.
While when a user watches the video in 3G, LTE or the network is in a normal
load status, the video streaming would be played fluently as enough bandwidth
can be assigned to the user.
### 5.3.3 Service flows
When a user watches the video service in 2G or when the network is congested,
the MNO steers the user\'s HTTP request to a HTTP cache proxy to allow UE
request for small bit rates video segments.
When a user watches the video service in 3G, LTE or when the network is in a
normal load status, the user can watch the video fluently and user\'s HTTP
request is sent to the HTTP server directly without steering to the HTTP cache
proxy.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
The MNO only steers the HTTP requests to the HTTP cache proxy when the users
are in 2G or in a congested network. Other user\'s HTTP requests are sent
directly to the HTTP server. In this case, the video is played fluently, even
if the user is watching the video service in 2G or is served by a congested
network and at the same time, the burden of HTTP cache proxy can be controlled
by the MNO to improve the network reliability.
### 5.3.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing Services/Features
As a DASH client, the UE requests suitable bits rate video segments based on
the radio network conditions.
### 5.3.6 Potential requirements
Based on the user\'s current RAT and the load status of the network, the 3GPP
network should allow the MNO to define the traffic steering policy. The MNO
can then steer the user\'s traffic through different traffic path.
The operator should be able to change the user\'s traffic steering policy
based on the network (RAN and CN) load change and/or RAT status change.
## 5.4 Traffic steering in MVNO scenario
### 5.4.1 Description
This use case illustrates the traffic steering policy generation in MVNO
scenario.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
MVNO1 is a mobile virtual network operator of an Operator MNO-A.
Simon is a user of MNO-A.
Bob is a user of MVNO-1.
Both Simon and Bob access video content.
MVNO-1 has an Service Level Agreement with MNO-A.
MVNO-1 decides to provide a gold service for video to guarantee the experience
to its users in certain period. Within this plan, its users can access more
advanced feature (e.g. advertisement blocking).
### 5.4.3 Service flows
There is no specific traffic steering policy for MNO-A user Simon.
But MNO-A applies a specific traffic steering policy (e.g. video optimization
with advertisement blocking, ...) for Bob based on MVNO-1 needs.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Bob experience video service as expected by MVNO-1. Several advertisements are
delivered to Simon during the video watching period, and Bob watches the video
program without any advertisements.
### 5.4.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 5.4.6 Potential requirements
An Operator shall be able to define specific traffic steering policies to
apply to users of an MVNO, based on MVNO\'s preferences.
The MNO may apply different traffic steering policies for MVNO users than for
MNO users.
## 5.5 Traffic Steering based on Time and/or Location
### 5.5.1 Description
There might be high traffic volume during busy hours or at some specific
locations where an important event happens (e.g. football stadium, shopping
center). It is useful to apply some mechanisms, e.g. traffic compression and
transcoding, to reduce traffic volume. This contribution describes a use case
where the MNO implements traffic steering based on time and/or location.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
An operator gets the network load from its historical network data. There is
high traffic volume at 14:00\~17:00 in ABC shopping center.
In addition, there is a football game in a stadium and it causes a high
traffic volume.
The operator decides to reduce the traffic volume by traffic compression and
transcoding.
Alice is in ABC shopping center at 15:00 and sends her new clothes photos to
her Mom from her mobile phone.
Bob goes to the stadium and shares the game video with his friends from his
mobile phone.
### 5.5.3 Service flows
Bob\'s video streaming is steered to traffic transcoding enabler to reduce the
bandwidth.
The traffic of Alice\'s photos is steered to traffic compression enabler.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
Mobile network traffic is reduced.
### 5.5.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing Services/Features
None.
### 5.5.6 Potential requirements
A 3GPP network should be able to take time and/or location into account when
defining traffic steering policies.
## 5.6 Traffic steering based on QoS information
### 5.6.1 Description
This use case illustrates the traffic steering policy to be used for the
traffic based on the QoS information of the bearer.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
Tom watches a video program over a non-GBR bearer. Due to frequent radio
condition variation, there is no guaranteed bandwidth for video stream
delivery to Tom. As a consequence, Tom experiences several discontinuances as
the video streaming is not fluent.
Paul watches the same video program over a GBR bearer. The bandwidth for video
stream delivery to Paul is guaranteed even if the radio condition varies
frequently. As a consequence, the video streaming is fluent.
### 5.6.3 Service flows
According to operator\'s policy, the 3GPP network steers Tom\'s video service
request to a HTTP cache/proxy with trans-coding support to allow lower
resolution content of video program to be delivered to Tom.
As Paul\'s video streaming QoE is guaranteed, the MNO steers Paul\'s video
service request to the HTTP server directly without HTTP cache/proxy
processing.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
As Tom is using a non GBR bearer, the HTTP cache/proxy optimizes the video
streaming experienced by Tom. The video is played fluently.
Paul\'s video streaming experience remains the same as it\'s over a GBR
bearer.
### 5.6.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing Services/Features
None.
### 5.6.6 Potential requirements
Based on the bearer QoS information, the 3GPP network shall be able to
determine the traffic steering policy.
## 5.7 Traffic Steering in Roaming Cases
### 5.7.1 Description
This use case illustrates the traffic steering in roaming cases.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
Operator A and B deploy service chain in (S)Gi-LAN network, which includes
video optimization service enabler.
For APN1 in operator A, roaming case is local breakout; For APN2 in operator
A, roaming case is home routed.
Operator A provides value added service of video optimization for its gold
subscribers in non-roaming cases and roaming cases in some specific areas
(e.g. in operator B\'s network).
John and Tom are gold subscribers of operator A.
John and Tom are roaming in operator B\'s network.
John accesses \"Youku\" video through APN1; Tom accesses his company\'s video
through APN2.
### 5.7.3 Service flows
When John accesses \"Youku\" video through APN1, the video traffic passes
through the (S)Gi-LAN network of operator B, operator B takes the home
operator\'s policy into account and decides to apply optimization on the video
traffic and the video traffic is steered to the video optimization enabler in
operator B.
When Tom accesses his company\'s video through APN2, the video traffic passes
through the (S)Gi-LAN network of operator A, and operator A decides that the
video traffic should be optimized and the video traffic is steered to the
video optimization enabler in operator A.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
John and Tom enjoy the optimized video traffic.
### 5.7.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing Services/Features
TBD and maybe none.
### 5.7.6 Potential requirements
The home PLMN should be able to apply traffic steering policies for home
routed traffic or, subject to home PLMN operator\'s policy transfer traffic
steering policies to the visited PLMN in the case of local breakout for
roaming users.
For the local breakout traffic, the visited PLMN should be able to take the
traffic steering policies from the home PLMN into account when passing traffic
through (S)Gi-LAN in the visited network.
## 5.8 Dynamic modification of the traffic steering policy during the
connection
### 5.8.1 Description
A connection is set up under certain conditions, leading to the use of a
traffic steering policy, but these conditions may change during the connection
(for example, time of the day and RAT change). If any of those conditions
change during an ongoing connection, the 3GPP network shall be able to change
the traffic steering policy accordingly.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
The user (a minor) sets up an Internet connection, and freely browses the
Internet. Traffic steering policy responsible for NAT is set up for the user.
The user\'s parents have configured her subscription in such a way that after
18:00 o\'clock only whitelisted Internet sites are accessible.
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
Before 18:00 o\'clock, the user browses the Internet freely.
At 18:00 o\'clock, the 3GPP Network detects that parental controls are needed,
and dynamically modifies the traffic steering policy so that also parental
control is applied, in addition to NAT, limiting the user\'s Internet access
to whitelisted Internet sites.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
After 18:00 o\'clock, the user is able to access only whitelisted Internet
sites.
### 5.8.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None.
### 5.8.6 Potential Requirements
The 3GPP Network shall be able to modify traffic steering policy dynamically
during an ongoing connection.
## 5.9 Traffic Steering based on destination network
### 5.9.1 Description
This contribution describes a use case where the MNO implements traffic
steering based on information of the destination of traffic flow (i.e. a PDN
or an internal IP network).
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
An operator provides video optimization enabler for an enterprise access, and
not for internet access.
John accesses the enterprise video through the enterprise access.
Tom accesses Youku video through internet access.
### 5.9.3 Service flows
John\'s video streaming is steered to video optimization enabler.
Tom\'s video streaming is not steered to video optimization enabler.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
John enjoys a better video experience than Tom.
### 5.9.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing Services/Features
None.
### 5.9.6 Potential requirements
An MNO should be able to take information (e.g. APN) of the destination
network (i.e. a PDN or an internal IP network) of traffic flow into account
when defining traffic steering policies.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Requirements covered by other existing features
None identified.
## 6.2 Potential additional requirements
### 6.2.1 Generic potential requirements
[CPR-6.2.1-001]The 3GPP Core Network shall be able to define and modify
traffic steering policies that are used to steer traffic in (S)Gi-LAN e.g. to
improve e.g. the user\'s QoE, apply the bandwidth limitation and provide
valued added services.
[CPR-6.2.1-002] Traffic steering policy shall be able to distinguish between
upstream and downstream traffic.
[CPR-6.2.1-003] the 3GPP Core Network shall be able to define different
traffic steering policies for a user\'s traffic on a per session basis (e.g.
for applying parental control, anti-malware, DdoS protection, video
optimization).
### 6.2.2 Additional consolidated requirements
[CPR-6.2.2-001] The 3GPP Core Network defines traffic steering policies based
on one or more of the following information:
\- network operator\'s policies
\- user subscription (e.g. user\'s priority, the status of optional subscriber
services from the subscription data, based on service provider used,
subscribed QoS)
\- user\'s current RAT
\- the network (RAN and CN) load status
\- application characteristics such as: application type (video, web browsing,
IM, etc.), application protocol (HTTP, P2P, etc.), target address name (URL)
and application provider (e.g. myTube^TM^, etc.)
\- time
\- UE location
\- information (e.g. APN) of the destination network (i.e. a PDN or an
internal IP network) of traffic flow
[CPR-6.2.2-002] The HPLMN shall be able to apply traffic steering policies for
home routed traffic.
[CPR-6.2.2-003] Subject to HPLMN operator\'s policy, the HPLMN shall be able
to transfer traffic steering policies to the VPLMN and the VPLMN shall be able
to take these traffic steering policies into account and/or use its own
policies in the case of local breakout for roaming users.
# 7 Conclusions
A number of use cases have been identified where the **network operator** can
use 3GPP network information (user subscription, network status, ...) to
generate and adapt traffic steering policies to enable (S)Gi-LAN routing of
user\'s traffic to the desired service.
The study has resulted in a set of different types of network information and
a set of potential requirements as captured in the previous section.
Mechanisms to address these requirements need to be specified. Mechanism how
traffic flow is routed to different services is out of 3GPP scope.
It is recommended that the requirements identified in this TR are considered
for the development of normative requirements.
###### ### Annex A: Mapping of potential requirements
This annex maps potential requirements derived from the use cases to the
requirement numbering of consolidated requirements of clause 6.
Table A-1: Mapping of potential requirements
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | Potential additional | Consolidated | | | Requirements | requirement in clause | | | | 6 | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Clause 5.1** | 1. The 3GPP network | [CPR-6.2.2-001] | | | should be able to | | | **Traffic | recognize the | [CPR-6.2.1-002] | | Classification and | application | | | Steering based on | characteristics, | | | Application | such as | | | Characteristics** | application type | | | | (video, web | | | | browsing, IM, | | | | etc.), | | | | application | | | | protocol ( HTTP, | | | | P2P, etc.), | | | | target address | | | | name (URL) and | | | | application | | | | provider(My tube, | | | | etc.). | | | | | | | | 2. The 3GPP network | | | | should be able to | | | | steer traffic | | | | (upstream, | | | | downstream or | | | | both) per these | | | | application | | | | characteristics | | | | in order to | | | | provide | | | | value-added | | | | service to | | | | third-party | | | | application | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Clause 5.2** | 3. Based on | [CPR-6.2.2-001] | | | end-user\'s | | | **Traffic steering | priority and the | [CPR-6.2.1-003] | | based on MNO\'s | status of | | | policies or user\'s | optional | | | subscription** | subscriber | | | | services from the | | | | subscription | | | | data, the 3GPP | | | | network should | | | | allow the MNO to | | | | define different | | | | traffic steering | | | | policies. The MNO | | | | can then steer | | | | all/some parts of | | | | the user\'s | | | | traffic through | | | | different traffic | | | | paths based on | | | | the end- user\'s | | | | subscription data | | | | in order to offer | | | | differentiated | | | | services for | | | | different | | | | end-users, e.g. | | | | some high | | | | priority | | | | end-users could | | | | get service with | | | | no | | | | advertisements. | | | | | | | | 4. The 3GPP core | | | | network shall | | | | provide different | | | | traffic steering | | | | rules according | | | | to MNO\'s | | | | policies and | | | | user\'s | | | | subscription. The | | | | MNO can then | | | | steer all or some | | | | parts of user\'s | | | | traffic through | | | | different traffic | | | | paths involving | | | | security services | | | | in order to offer | | | | differentiated | | | | security services | | | | for different | | | | end-users or to | | | | comply with their | | | | policies. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Clause 5.3** | 5. Based on the | [CPR-6.2.2-001] | | | user\'s current | | | **Traffic steering | RAT and/or the | | | based on Network | load status of | | | status** | the network, the | | | | 3GPP network | | | | should allow the | | | | MNO to define the | | | | traffic steering | | | | policy. The MNO | | | | can then steer | | | | the user\'s | | | | traffic through | | | | different traffic | | | | routing. The | | | | operator should | | | | be able to change | | | | the user\'s | | | | traffic steering | | | | policy based on | | | | the network (RAN | | | | and CN) load | | | | change and/or RAT | | | | status change. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Clause 5.4** | 6. An Operator shall | [CPR-6.2.2-001] | | | be able to define | | | **Traffic steering in | specific traffic | | | MVNO scenario** | steering policies | | | | to apply to users | | | | of an MVNO, based | | | | on MVNO\'s | | | | preferences. The | | | | MNO may apply | | | | different traffic | | | | steering policies | | | | for MVNO users | | | | than for MNO | | | | users. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Clause 5.5** | 7. A 3GPP network | [CPR-6.2.2-001] | | | should be able to | | | **Traffic Steering | take time and/or | | | based on Time and/or | location into | | | Location** | account when | | | | defining traffic | | | | steering | | | | policies. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Clause 5.6** | 8. Based on the | [CPR-6.2.2-001] | | | bearer QoS | | | **Traffic steering | information, the | | | based on QoS | 3GPP network | | | information** | shall be able to | | | | determine the | | | | traffic steering | | | | policy. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Clause 5.7** | 9. The home PLMN | [CPR-6.2.2-002] | | | should be able to | | | **Traffic Steering in | apply traffic | [CPR-6.2.2-003] | | Roaming Cases** | steering policies | | | | for home routed | [CPR-6.2.2-003] | | | traffic or, | | | | subject to home | | | | PLMN operator\'s | | | | policy transfer | | | | traffic steering | | | | policies to the | | | | visited PLMN in | | | | the case of local | | | | breakout for | | | | roaming users. | | | | | | | | 10. For the local | | | | breakout traffic, | | | | the visited PLMN | | | | should be able to | | | | take the traffic | | | | steering policies | | | | from the home | | | | PLMN into account | | | | when passing | | | | traffic through | | | | (S)Gi-LAN in the | | | | visited network. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Clause 5.8** | 11. The 3GPP Network | [CPR-6.2.1-001] | | | shall be able to | | | **Dynamic | modify traffic | | | modification of the | steering policy | | | traffic steering | dynamically | | | policy during the | during an ongoing | | | connection** | connection. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+ | **Clause 5.9** | 12. An MNO should be | [CPR-6.2.2-001] | | | able to take | | | **Traffic Steering | information (e.g. | | | based on destination | APN) of the | | | network** | destination | | | | network (i.e. a | | | | PDN or an | | | | internal IP | | | | network) of | | | | traffic flow into | | | | account when | | | | defining traffic | | | | steering | | | | policies. | | +-----------------------+-----------------------+-------------------+
#