# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
UEs on which user can easily download applications from web sites are rapidly
increasing in the world and a wide variety of applications are constantly
created and installed on the UEs. Specific applications can (intentionally or
unintentionally) cause congestion over RAN/CN. While network is congested, it
is not desirable to allow these applications to access the network in order to
protect the network resources. Several SDOs identified key issues related to
network inefficiencies caused by such UEs and by the variety of applications.
On the other hand, for example in Japan, after the severe earthquake on March
11th, 2011, the packet based communication applications that users can invoke
to confirm the safety of their relatives are recognized as important
applications (e.g. Disaster Message Board (DMB) service, Disaster voice
messaging service) when disaster occurs. Therefore, Japanese government
strongly expects Japanese operators to provide the connectivity at least for
such services even when the network is highly congested, while other services
are barred to free up the resources for important services.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a study on Application specific Congestion
control for Data Communication (ACDC). This Study investigates the following
aspects:
> \- Identify the use cases and potential requirements to allow/restrict the
> communication initiation of particular applications defined by operator,
> subject to regional regulations;
>
> \- Gap analysis with existing access control mechanisms.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.848: \"Study on smart congestion mitigation in E-UTRAN\".
[4] S1-135073: \"ACDC (for information): \"Disaster Message Services\",
observed in the web site of Japan\'s Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communication\", NTT DOCOMO.
[5] 3GPP TR 22.805: \"Feasibility study on user plane congestion management\".
[6] 3GPP TR 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[7] 3GPP TR 22.801: \"Study on non-MTC Mobile Data Applications impacts\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply.\ A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACB Access Class Barring
ACDC Application specific Congestion control for Data Communication
DSAC Domain Specific Access Control
EAB Extended Access Barring
MMTEL Multimedia Telephony Service for IMS
SSAC Service Specific Access Control
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Brief description of existing access control mechanisms
Access Control is described in TS 22.011 [2] clause 4. The various existing
mechanisms can be briefly summarized as follows:
**ACB: Access Class Barring**
> ACB classes can be grouped into three categories:
>
> • Ordinary: Classes 0 \~ 9 are randomly spread amongst UEs;
>
> • Emergency Calling: Class 10 is to be used for Emergency Calling (e.g. 911
> in North America and 112 in Europe);
>
> • Special Classes: Classes 11 \~ 15 require subscription and are for special
> purposes such as MPS. They are generally higher priority classes.
>
> Each UE is allocated one Ordinary Class. A UE with special subscription may
> be additionally allocated at least one Special Class. Emergency Class is not
> permanently allocated to a UE, but access may be separately controlled if a
> UE is attempting an emergency call.
>
> Access for each of these classes can be independently controlled via
> broadcast control messages, which may indicate:
>
> • barring (no access allowed for a class), or
>
> • deferring (access allowed, but only upon a randomly determined delay for
> each UE of that class that wants to attempt access; the average delay varies
> depending on severity of network congestion, which is indicated in broadcast
> control messages)
>
> The latter method of stochastic access control is used in EUTRAN (see bottom
> of clause 4.3.1 of TS 22.011 [2]), and is considered superior to the older
> open/close access of 10 ordinary classes. The 10 access classes are
> controlled with the common SIB broadcast by the network, but it has much
> finer granularity and range of control due to exponential control function
> rule.
**SSAC: Service Specific Access Control**
> SSAC provides an additional independent access control applicable when UE is
> attempting MMTEL service origination from idle mode. The control method is
> stochastic algorithm, identical to the aforementioned paragraph of clause
> 4.3.1, though a separate control SIB is used.
>
> The purpose of SSAC is to provide a balance of available network resources
> between MMTEL vs. other types of services, without having to disallow MMTEL
> services on an individual attempt basis, which could potentially
> unproductively consume network resources in situations when MMTEL service
> attempt arrive in overwhelmingly large numbers.
**CSFB Access Control**
> Access for multi-mode UEs may be controlled by EUTRAN when UE performs CSFB
> to a network supporting circuit-switched services. Here too, the control
> method is stochastic algorithm, identical to the aforementioned paragraph of
> clause 4.3.1, though a separate control SIB is used.
>
> The purpose of CSFB access control is to prevent dual-mode UEs from
> effectively being exempt from associated CS network access control. Though
> the specification does not go into operational details, CSFB access control
> on EUTRAN should reflect access control restrictions currently imposed on
> the associated CS network.
**EAB: Extended Access Barring**
> EAB was designed for UEs more tolerant to access restrictions, such as
> limited functionality UEs for MTC (e.g. utility meters). EAB access controls
> have the following features:
>
> • Black-and-white (open/closed access) controls are applicable for each of
> 10 ordinary ACB classes
>
> • Separate controls are specified for three roaming-driven categories
>
> • When EAB access is open, the UE is still subject to ACB controls (i.e.,
> EAB can only restrict access)
**PMOC: Prevention of Mobile Originated Communication**
> The intent of PMOC is to extend access controls normally applicable when UE
> is in idle mode to situations when UE is about to initiate an application,
> but it is in connected mode. The need for this extension arose as a result
> of connected mode timer extensions implemented to combat excessive UE state
> control signalling, causing much undesirable traffic, which reduces radio
> access usable capacity (see MODAI Feasibility Study TR 22.801 [7]).
## 4.2 Envisioned role of ACDC
**ACDC: Application specific Congestion control for Data Communication**
> The intent of ACDC is to apply access controls in a less indiscriminate way
> compared to ACB.
>
> Whereas ACB applies equally on all ordinary UEs, regardless of the purpose
> of an access attempt from a UE, ACDC groups applications in categories of
> importance, and applies access controls to lesser categories first, sparing
> more important applications from denial or deferral of access until and
> unless level of congestion is severe enough that they must also be affected.
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Use Case 1 - ACDC activation for UE-initiated applications
### 5.1.1 Description
Besides traditional emergency services, some additional services like
\"Disaster Message Board\" (DMB) might also be activated when a disaster
occurs. This is to allow people to upload their safety status, and also allow
their relatives to get the status by browsing the DMB. In addition, within the
disaster area, people might use their phones/cameras to record videos and
upload to the Internet.
When network becomes congested, these disaster-related services, like DMB,
should be allowed for UEs to initiate, while other services should be delayed
until congestion is alleviated.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Alice and Bob are not roaming.
A disaster occurs in a university area and a DMB service is activated.
Alice is the student who stays at the university while her parents live away
at their own home.\ Alice tries to inform her parents by uploading her status
via the DMB service, while her parents are eager to know her status via
browsing the DMB.
Bob is a student who stays at the university while his parents live away at
their own home.\ Bob tries to inform his parents by uploading his status via
the DMB service, while his parents are eager to know his status via browsing
the DMB. In addition, Bob takes videos of the disaster situation and tries to
upload those videos to his blog.
  * pre-condition:
    * Both Alice\'s and Bob\'s UEs support ACDC function.
    * Both Alice and Bob\'s UEs obtain an ACDC list, which consists of an allowed list of applications to be triggered by the UE. The ACDC list can either be pre-configured statically or sent from the network dynamically.
    * The DMB service is included in the above ACDC list, while the video service is not.
    * When the network is not congested, such ACDC list will not be activated for use, i.e. the ACDC function is deactivated in default cases.
    * Alice\'s UE is trying to update her safety status via DMB service.
    * Bob\'s UE is trying to upload a video to the Internet in addition to updating his safety status via DMB service.
### 5.1.3 Service flows
The network indicates to UEs in the disaster area that the ACDC function is
currently activated.
Alice\'s UE receives this message and applies the ACDC function. Since the DMB
service is within the ACDC whitelist, the UE can initiate the service
normally.
Bob\'s UE also receives this message and applies the ACDC function. Since the
DMB service is within the ACDC whitelist, the UE can initiate the service
normally. On the other hand, the UE determines that the video application is
not included in this ACDC list and cannot initiate the video upload
application.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
Both Alice and Bob successfully contact their families via DMB service to
indicate their safety.
The network indicates to UEs in the disaster area that the ACDC function is
deactivated.
The ACDC function is deactivated in both Alice\'s and Bob\'s UEs. Bob can
initiate video uploading as usual.
### 5.1.5 Potential requirements
The potential requirements derived from this use case are:
> \- The UE shall be able to be pre-configured with ACDC allowed application
> list based on operator\'s policy, subject to regional regulations.
>
> \- The network shall be able to configure ACDC allowed application list
> dynamically in the UE based on operator\'s policy, subject to regional
> regulations.
>
> \- The network shall be able to activate/deactivate ACDC control for UE-
> initiated applications in a specific area dynamically based on operator\'s
> policy, subject to regional regulations
>
> \- When the ACDC control is activated, the UEs, irrespective of in idle mode
> or in connected mode, shall allow/restrict UE-initiated applications based
> on ACDC allowed application lists.
NOTE: It needs to be understood in the above that (1) ACDC allowed
applications are grouped into ACDC categories and represented by those, and
that (2) (pre-) configuration and (de) activation related to those
applications are done by the network by the category.
## 5.2 Use Case 2 - preferred handling of DMB
### 5.2.1 Description
In disaster case, relative priorities are given conceptually in the order of
(1) priority calls, (2) emergency calls, (3) Disaster Message Board (DMB), (4)
voice, (5) the others, under the assumption that the network breakdown is
prevented and that each user is fairly treated. In heavy congestion, (3) is
not the case. Specific access barring mechanism(s) is used for each specific
event.
There have been workable, sufficient measures for 3G network operation, as
shown below.
Table 5.2.1-1:
* * *
      Events                                Necessary barring measures for 3G           Measures in 3G
1 New Year\'s Eve PS only barring DSAC 2 Massive earthquake CS only barring
DSAC 3 Local event, e.g. fireworks display CS/PS barring, the same barring
rate ACB 4 Equipment fault RNC: CS/PS barring, the same barring rate ACB
GGSN/SGSN: PS only barring DSAC MSC: CS only barring DSAC
* * *
For LTE network operation, that is not the case. (In the context of LTE below,
CS refers to MMTEL and PS refers to the other PS communications.). As a note,
the characteristic of event 2 is changing to that for event 5, as a result of
penetration of Smartphone.
Table 5.2.1-2:
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Events | Necessary | Measures in | | | | barring | LTE | | | | measures for | | | | | LTE | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 | New Year\'s | PS only | MMTEL skipping | | | Eve | barring | ACB (note 1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 | Massive | CS only | SSAC (note 2) | | | earthquake | barring | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 | Local event, | CS/PS barring, | ACB | | | e.g. fireworks | the same | | | | display | barring rate | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4 | Equipment | EPC: CS/PS | ACB | | | fault | barring, the | | | | | same barring | | | | | rate | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | IMS: CS only | SSAC (note 2) | | | | barring | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5 | Future massive | CS barring + | No measures | | | earthquake | PS barring, | available. | | | | different | | | | | barring rates. | Expected to be | | | | | solved by | | | | Preferred | ACDC. | | | | handling of | | | | | DMB. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE1: | | | | | Applicable | | | | | from Rel-12. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE2: | | | | | Applicable to | | | | | the connected | | | | | mode as well | | | | | from Rel-12. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
**Preferred handling of DMB is needed for disaster case.**
> See the event 5. In the near future, PS barring is needed to avoid network
> outage in disaster case, too. Smartphone increases signalling caused by
> frequent preservation return and by usage of applications that might not be
> suitable in disaster case. If only CS barring was used, there would be no
> need to take care of DMB. But once PS barring is used, preferred handling of
> DMB is needed.
NOTE: PS only barring and preferred handling of DMB can be alternatively
understood CS and DMB are allowed while a terminal-wise access barring is
applying.
> In addition, attention is to be paid to the following aspect.
**Avoid new UEs being affected by mechanisms intended to apply to old UEs.**
> The principle is \"each user is fairly treated\", while UEs with and without
> ACDC capability coexist in the network.\ It is observed in the below table
> that ACB and possibly SSAC are used for old UEs in the event 5.\ That does
> not necessarily lead to ACB/SSAC to be ignored by new UEs, but leads to
> roles of ACB/SSAC to be properly positioned in the whole picture of ACDC.
Table 5.2.1-3:
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | Nece | Mea | | | | | | | | vents | ssary | sures | | | | | | | | | ba | in | | | | | | | | | rring | LTE | | | | | | | | | mea | for | | | | | | | | | sures | each | | | | | | | | | for | ter | | | | | | | | | LTE | minal | | | | | | | | | | type | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | Data | CSFB | VoTLE | VoLTE | VoLTE | VoLTE | | | | | only | ter | w/o | with | with | with | | | | | | minal | SSAC | SSAC | SSAC | ACDC | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | | | | MMTEL | | | | | | | | | | ski | | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | | ACB\" | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | New | PS | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB+" | ACB+" | | | Ye | only | | | +CSFB | +CSFB | MMTEL | MMTEL | | | ar\'s | ba | | | | | ski | ski | | | Eve | rring | | | | | pping | pping | | | | | | | | | ACB" | ACB" | | | | | | | | | (note | (note | | | | | | | | | 1) | 1) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | Ma | CS | N/A | DSAC | DSAC | SSAC | SSAC | SSAC | | | ssive | only | | | | | | | | | earth | ba | | | | | (note | (note | | | quake | rring | | | | | 2) | 2) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | Local | CS/PS | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | | | e | bar | | +DSAC | | | | | | | vent, | ring, | | | | | | | | | e.g. | the | | | | | | | | | fire | same | | | | | | | | | works | ba | | | | | | | | | di | rring | | | | | | | | | splay | rate | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | Equi | EPC: | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | | | pment | CS/PS | | | | | | | | | fault | barr | | | | | | | | | | ing,\ | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | | rring | | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | IMS: | N/A | N/A | N/A | SSAC | SSAC | SSAC | | | | CS | | | | | (note | (note | | | | only | | | | | 2) | 2) | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | | rring | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | F | CS | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB+" | No | | | uture | ba | | +DSAC | +DSAC | +DSAC | MMTEL | mea | | | ma | rring | (note | | | or | ski | sures | | | ssive | + PS | 3) | (note | (note | ACB | pping | avail | | | earth | bar | | 3) | 3) | +SSAC | ACB" | able. | | | quake | ring, | | | | | +SSAC | | | | | diff | | | | (note | | Exp | | | | erent | | | | 3) | (note | ected | | | | ba | | | | | 4) | to be | | | | rring | | | | | | s | | | | r | | | | | | olved | | | | ates. | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | ACDC. | | | | Pref | | | | | | | | | | erred | | | | | | | | | | han | | | | | | | | | | dling | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | DMB. | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | | l-12. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | conn | | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | well | | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | | l-12. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | DMB | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | prefe | | | | | | | | | | rred. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | DMB | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | prefe | | | | | | | | | | rred. | | | | | | | | | | In | | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | | MO | | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | consi | | | | | | | | | | dered | | | | | | | | | | us | | | | | | | | | | eful, | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | fe | | | | | | | | | | ature | | | | | | | | | | of MO | | | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | | | ski | | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | | ACB | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | | | ditio | | | | | | | | | | nally | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | able. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
###
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is a student who stays at the university while her parents live away at
their own home. Alice\'s UE is with ACDC capability.
Bob is a student who stays at the university while his parents live away at
their own home. Bob\'s UE is without ACDC capability.
### 5.2.3 Service flows
A disaster occurs in a university area and the Disaster Message Board (DMB)
service is activated.
The network indicates to ACDC-compliant UEs in the disaster area that the ACDC
function is currently activated and that DMB is allowed.
Alice\'s UE receives this message and applies the ACDC function. Alice tries
to inform her parents by uploading her status via the DMB service, while her
parents are eager to know her status via browsing the DMB. Since the DMB
service is allowed, the UE can initiate the service normally.
The network indicates for old UEs in the disaster area that ACB is currently
activated.
Bob\'s UE receives this message. Bob tries to inform his parents by uploading
his status via the DMB service, while his parents are eager to know his status
via browsing the DMB. Since ACB happens to be in effect on the UE, the UE
cannot initiate DMB.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
Alice successfully contacts her family members via DMB service to indicate her
safety.
Bob fails to contact his family via DMB service to indicate his safety.
Bob repeatedly tries to access to DMB.
### 5.2.5 Potential requirements
The potential requirements derived from this use case are:
> \- The UE shall be able to be configured with an ACDC category to which
> particular, operator-identified applications, e.g. DMB, are associated in
> terms of disaster case usage, subject to regional regulations.
>
> \- The network shall be able to activate ACDC control for the UEs for
> preferred handling of applications in the ACDC category, in a specific area
> dynamically, subject to regional regulations.
## 5.3 Use Case 3 -- relationship to Access Class 11-15
### 5.3.1 Description
Access Classes 11-15 are allocated to specific high priority users, e.g.
individuals who are supposed to maintain the network infrastructure, as
specified in 3GPP TS 22.011 [2]. The UE with one of those Access Classes is
treated independently from ACDC, typically in a prioritized way.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is a staff of a public utility. Alice\'s UE is with ACDC capability.
Access Class 13 is allocated to her.
Bob is a student who stays at the university while his parents live away at
their own home. Bob\'s UE is with ACDC capability.
### 5.3.3 Service flows
A disaster occurs in a university area and the Disaster Message Board (DMB)
service is activated
The network indicates to ACDC-compliant UEs in the disaster area that the ACDC
function is activated.
Alice\'s UE receives this message. Alice tries to inform the office of the
situation of water pipeline being broken down by uploading video data. Since
Access Class 13 is allocated, the UE disregards the ACDC message and uploads
the video data normally.
Bob\'s UE receives this message and applies the ACDC function. Bob tries to
inform his parents by uploading his status via the DMB service and by
uploading a video data. Since only DMB is allowed, the UE cannot upload the
video data, but to initiate the DMB.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
Alice successfully informs the office of the status of the site with a video.
Bob successfully contacts his families via DMB service to indicate his safety,
while he fails to upload a video.
### 5.3.5 Potential requirements
The potential requirement derived from this use case is:
> \- ACDC shall not apply to Access Classes 11-15.
## 5.4 Use Case 4 -- Non-roaming regional (local) difference in ACDC
### 5.4.1 Description
In this use case, a scenario is described where a subscriber of an operator is
moving between 2 states with different allowed ACDC applications. The
subscriber is not roaming because the operator\'s network covers both states
and the UE is staying within the same network.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
Bob is a subscriber to Operator A in a country where nation-wide ACDC is
mandated. In addition, discretion is given to the local authorities on what
applications are included. Bob lives in State X; his UE is configured to
comply with State X\'s ACDC rules.
The national regulation in that country requires that all domestic subscriber
UEs of operator A adhere to the ACDC rules of the local jurisdiction i.e. the
locality that the UE is in.
State X and State Y have many similar allowed ACDC applications; they also
have different allowed applications e.g. State X\'s ACDC rules allow video
transmission of 15 seconds or shorter while State Y\'s ACDC rules does not
include video transmission regardless of duration.
Bob is visiting State Y, when an earthquake occurs in State Y.
Bob tries to upload a short 15 seconds video to a 3^rd^ Party video
application server.
### 5.4.3 Service flows
As Bob moves into State Y, the network notifies Bob\'s UE of State Y\'s ACDC
rules.
When the earthquake happens, the network indicates to UEs in the disaster area
(State Y) that the ACDC function is activated.
Bob\'s UE receives this message and activates its ACDC function. Since video
applications are not allowed under State Y\'s ACDC rules, Bob\'s UE will not
initiate the video upload.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Bob is unable to upload his video during the period when ACDC is activated
thus alleviating RAN congestion.
When the ACDC status is deactivated in State Y or when Bob moves back into
State X (or away from State Y), the video upload will be initiated.
### 5.4.5 Potential requirements
  * The system shall support regional differences in allowed ACDC applications within the same network
  * The network shall be able to indicate changes of the applicable ACDC rules if any, as the UE moves between different regional jurisdictions
NOTE: It needs to be understood in the above that allowed ACDC applications
are grouped into ACDC categories and represented by those.
## 5.5 Use Case 5 -- Roaming regional (local) difference in ACDC
### 5.5.1 Description
The roaming scenario describes how ACDC controls affect the a roaming UE.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
Operator X operates its network exclusively in Country A; Operator Y operates
its network exclusively in Country B.
Operators X and Y have roaming agreements that allow their respective
subscribers to access each other\'s network when roaming away from their
respective HPLMN.
Although Countries A and B have many similar applications on their ACDC
controls; they also have some differences on applications that may or may not
be initiated by the UE.
Table 5.5.2: illustrating the international differences in ACDC controls
+------------------------------+------------+------------+ | Allowed ACDC Applications | Country A | Country B | | | | | | | Operator X | Operator Y | +------------------------------+------------+------------+ | Disaster Message Board (DMB) | Yes | Yes | +------------------------------+------------+------------+ | Instant Messaging | Yes | No | +------------------------------+------------+------------+
Bob, who lives in Country A, is a subscriber of Operator X.\ His UE is
configured to comply with Operator X\'s ACDC controls, subject to Country A\'s
regulations.
### 5.5.3 Service flows
Bob is visiting his cousin in Country B. When Bob roams into Operator Y\'s
network, the VPLMN notifies Bob\'s UE of its ACDC controls.
An earthquake occurred in County B and Operator Y activated ACDC.
Bob sends a message to the DMB to inform his family that he is safe. In
addition, he also attempts to initiate an instant message to his friend, John.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
Bob\'s UE is able to successfully send his status update to the DMB. He is
however, unable to initiate sending the instant message because of Operator
Y\'s ACDC controls
### 5.5.5 Potential requirements
  * The network shall be able to notify all UEs in the affected service area about the ACDC controls that currently apply
  * The network shall be able to indicate changes of ACDC controls to the UE
  * When ACDC is activated by the network, the UE shall allow network communication, by applications, based on the available and applicable ACDC controls.
## 5.6 Use Case 6 -- Categories in ACDC
### 5.6.1 Description
In this use case, the initiations of different ACDC applications by the UE are
allowed according to the activated ACDC categories as determined by regulatory
and operators during emergency or RAN congestion situations.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
Bob is a subscriber of Operator X.
Bob\'s UE is pre-configured with Operator X\'s allowed and prioritized
categories of applications that may be triggered by the UEs**.** For example,
the allowed ACDC applications on Bob\'s UE may be categorised as follows:
Table 5.6.2:
* * *
Allowed ACDC Applications ACDC Category 1 ACDC Category 2 ACDC Category 3
Emergency Services Yes Yes Yes Instant Messaging Services No Yes Yes Video
Services No No Yes
* * *
If ACDC Category 1 is activated - only emergency service applications are
allowed.
If ACDC Category 2 is activated - both emergency and messaging applications
are allowed.
If ACDC Category 3 is activated -- emergency, messaging and videos services)
are allowed.
An earthquake occurs. As a precaution and prudent measure, Operator X decides
to activates ACDC category 2 initially to ensure that the network is able to
handle the traffic load.
### 5.6.3 Service flows
Bob initiates a status update to the DMB to inform his family that he is safe.
After he has completed his DMB status update, he attempts to initiate an
instant message with his friend, John and also attempts to upload a video to
3^rd^ Party Video Application Server.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
Bob\'s UE is also able to send his DMB status update because it is also an
emergency service (allowed under ACDC category 2 activation). He is also able
to send the instant message to John because messaging service is a category 2
application.
Bob\'s UE is however unable to initiate the transmission of the video to the
3rd Party Video Application Server because video service applications that are
not allowed under the present time.
NOTE: When network congestion condition improves and Operator X activates ACDC
Condition 3 Bob\'s UE will be able to initiate the video upload. In addition,
all condition 1 and 2 applications i.e. DMB and Instant Messaging are also
allowed.
### 5.6.5 Potential requirements
  * The System shall be able to support different categories of ACDC applications. The selection and activation of categories can be according to the level of urgency and needs and can be subject to national and regional regulations and operator\'s policy.
## 5.7 Use Case 7 -- interaction with other forms of access control - ACB
### 5.7.1 Description
The use case addresses the operational condition of some percentage of UEs
being ACDC capable, while remaining UEs are only capable of legacy forms of
access control, such as ACB, i.e. they are pre-3GPP Release 13.\ ACDC controls
can co-exist with ACB and other legacy forms of access control. ACDC controls
can be gradually adjusted as a function of penetration of ACDC capable UEs, to
obtain the overall desired effect of controlling access from the ensemble of
all UEs in the system.
When considering an access barring mechanism that bars certain flows and
allows certain flows, people tend to think about the barring side. But we need
to be reminded that ACDC is a feature focusing on the \"allowing\" side.
Use cases are as shown in Clauses 4.2 and 4.3. One essential example is found
in Japan. As S1-135073 [4] shows, Japan\'s Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communication (MIC) expresses that _\'We would like to ask once again for the
cooperation of all in times of large-scale disaster by making practical use of
\"disaster message services,\"\'_ encouraging Japanese general public to use
services and operators to treat them in parallel in the same importance as
priority calls and emergency calls for use in times of disaster.
MIC also expresses that _\'will coordinate with telecommunications businesses
to promote easier-to-use and easier-to-connect \"disaster message
services\"\'._ Operators need to offer and promote such services. In doing so,
they need to understand (1) the relative degree of preferred handling of such
services: priority calls first, emergency calls second, disaster message
services third, the rest fourth. And they need to pay attention as much as
possible to (2) fairness among users who have either UE with ACDC or UE
without ACDC.
Consider a situation when a big disaster occurs. Not applying ACB in the area
where many UEs are still not ACDC-capable would cause network to break down
and priority calls and emergency calls to stop. From a standpoint of (1), in
order to secure priority calls and emergency calls, ACB is invoked. From a
standpoint of (1) again, in an attempt to give DMB relative preference for UE
with ACDC, ACDC is invoked, too. If both ACDC and ACB affected initiation of
DMB from a UE that support ACDC, that initiation would end up being treated in
the same or lesser preference compared to video uploading from a UE without
ACDC. From a standpoint of (1) and (2), that is not desirable; hence ACB needs
to be bypassed.
> NOTE: Per MNO preference the system can choose not to give exemption of ACB,
> too.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
The system is populated with a sufficient percentage of UEs capable of ACDC
(Release 13 or later), to make ACDC controls worthwhile.
NOTE: What is considered as sufficient percentage of ACDC penetration is
largely an operator defined threshold.
Alice is a student who stays at the university. Alice\'s UE is with ACDC
capability, which is set that DMB belongs to the disaster category and the UE
does not apply ACB to access attempts which ACDC has allowed.
Bob is a student who stays at the university. Bob\'s UE is without ACDC
capability.
### 5.7.3 Service flows
A disaster occurs in the university area. This causes mobile communication
traffic in the local RAN nodes to drastically increase. This is partially due
to increased human activity (e.g., residents, workers, and passers-by calling
their friends and family, police and fire brigades), but also some network
capacity is lost (e.g. micro- and femto-cells, and backhaul links are
destroyed).
To counter this increase in traffic volumes and to combat congestion and large
number of access attempt threatening to overwhelm the system, ACDC is imposed
in affected cells.
The network indicates in the disaster area that ACDC is currently activated to
the disaster category. At the same time, the network indicates that ACB is
currently activated.
Alice\'s UE receives both ACDC and ACB control messages. Alice tries to inform
her parents by uploading her status via DMB. Since DMB is allowed in ACDC and
ACB is exempted, the UE can initiate DMB normally.
Bob\'s UE receives control messages of ACB. Bob tries to inform his parents by
uploading his status via DMB. Since ACB is in effect, the UE does not initiate
DMB. Bob tries again to initiate DMB and, after several attempts, successfully
contacts his families via DMB to indicate his safety.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
Alice successfully contacts her families via DMB to indicate her safety.
Bob successfully contacts his families via DMB to indicate his safety,
although he may be forced to wait for a while, or to repeatedly retry.
### 5.7.5 Potential requirements
The potential requirements derived from this use case are:
> \- The system shall be able to simultaneously apply ACDC with other forms of
> access control, such as ACB.
>
> \- The system, based on operator\'s policy of the serving network, shall be
> able to control whether or not ACDC overrides ACB.
## 5.8 Use Case 8 -- control range and proportionality
### 5.8.1 Description
When recovering from an incident and dealing with pent-up demand, it would
make sense for an operator to have a range of controls from open access to
blocking of access.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is a student who lives at the university.
Bob is a student who lives at the university. Bob\'s UE is with ACDC
capability, with DMB set in the disaster category (highest ACDC category).
### 5.8.3 Service flows
A disaster occurs in the university area. As a result, the initial traffic
spike cause people in charge of network operation to take action. To soothe
the situation, they invoke ACDC together with other relevant access barring
mechanisms at high barring rates; even applications that are supposed to be
allowed on ACDC, e.g. DMB, are not necessarily allowed.
Alice finds one of her colleagues severely injured and makes an emergency call
to PSAP, which is connected.
Bob tries to inform his parents by uploading his status via DMB, but in vain.
People in charge of operation, observing the traffic is getting lower, raise
the rate for getting such applications, e.g. DMB, through.
Bob tries again to inform his parents by uploading his status via DMB, and the
UE initiates DMB normally.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
Alice successfully makes an emergency call even in the tensest situation.
Bob successfully contacts his family via DMB to indicate his safety, although
he needs to wait slightly.
### 5.8.5 Potential requirements
The potential requirement derived from this use case is:
> \- The network shall be able to apply different ACDC barring rates to
> control UE access to the RAN in proportion to the level of congestion.
## 5.9 Use Case 9 -- Secure ACDC list provisioning
### 5.9.1 Description
A scenario is described where a UE is provisioned with an ACDC list in a
secure way.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
Bob is a subscriber of Operator X in Country A.
Bob\'s UE is pre-configured with Operator X\'s ACDC list.
### 5.9.3 Service flows
Bob is at home. Operator X notifies Bob\'s UE whenever there is a new version
of the ACDC list.
Before updating the ACDC list, Bob\'s UE verifies that the notification is
originated by a trusted source.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
Bob\'s UE is successfully provisioned with an ACDC list from the serving PLMN.
Bob\'s UE has verified that the ACDC list originates from a trusted source
before allowing the list to be updated.
### 5.9.5 Potential requirements
> \- A mechanism shall be provided that enables the UE to verify that the
> provisioning notification originates from a trusted source, whenever an
> update of the ACDC list is provided.
## 5.10 Use Case 10 -- Control of ACDC
### 5.10.1 Description
This Use Case is meant to illustrate several control aspects of ACDC, such as
effects of ACDC on on-going communication, localization of impact, etc.
### 5.10.2 Pre-conditions
UE-A and UE-B are ACDC capable. The network is configured for automatic
imposition of ACDC controls using an algorithm that takes into consideration a
variety of factors of RAN node load and performance, e.g.: Access channel rate
of occupancy, uplink and downlink scheduling delays, and radio receiver
performance (e.g., noise rise).
### 5.10.3 Service flows
Initially, the network is operating at a manageable level of traffic load, not
requiring imposition of ACDC.
An industrial accident involving a large gas explosion causes a massive fire
erupting in a city suburb.\ This causes mobile communication traffic in the
local RAN nodes to drastically increase.\ This is partially due to increased
human activity (e.g., residents, workers, and passers-by calling their friends
and family, police and fire brigades), but also a surge in M2M applications
(e.g., alarm messaging, remote surveillance, etc.).\ Also, some network
capacity is lost (e.g. micro- and femto-cells, and backhaul links are
destroyed).
At the instance of explosion, UE-B begins uploading a photo from the scene of
the explosion.
To counter this increase in traffic volumes and to combat congestion and large
number of access attempts threatening to overwhelm the system, ACDC controls
are imposed in affected cells. At first, lowest ranked categories of
applications are affected with mildly restrictive levels of access blocking
and/or backoff.
UE-A attempts to launch an application from a low ACDC category (photo upload
from the scene to a social networking web-site), however, the attempt must be
deferred per ACDC instructions received from the network by UE-A.
UE-B photo upload application, which was initiated prior to imposition of ACDC
access restrictions, continues.
Due to significant volume of access attempts still threatening to overwhelm
the network, ACDC controls are automatically increased.
UE-B attempts an additional application, however, due to imposition of ACB,
the application stands a chance of being blocked or deferred, though it may be
a high-ranked application, such as voice call. As it moves away from the scene
of the incident, UE-B reaches the coverage of a cell that is sufficiently
distant and less affected by the event, and where access control restrictions
are non-existent. Hence, UE-B is permitted to initiate the voice call at that
point.
Thereafter, as traffic demand falls off over time, access restrictions are
gradually decreased and removed from the higher to the lower categories of
ACDC.
### 5.10.4 Post-conditions
**Applicability:** When ACDC controls are imposed, network impact is minimized
by suppressing less important applications at the source, namely in the UEs.
This is in contrast to having to deny service requests explicitly by the
network and thus generating signalling traffic.
**Automatic control and localisation of impact:** Access control is conducted
locally in each RAN node in an automatic fashion, so that: (1) ACDC controls
are imposed quickly, responding to a possible surge of access attempts; and
(2) RAN nodes not affected by congestion do not restrict access unnecessarily.
**Effect on on-going communication:** Communication already in progress is not
adversely affected, no matter how quickly and severely ACDC controls are
imposed. For example, an existing voice call is not torn down, even though the
relevant ACDC category bars initiation of additional voice calls.
### 5.10.5 Potential requirements
The potential requirements derived from this use case are:
> \- ACDC shall apply at the initiation of access to UTRAN and E-UTRAN by a
> subjected application.
NOTE: Communication already in progress is exempted from ACDC.
> \- ACDC controls shall be conducted on a per cell basis, and shall be able
> to respond effectively to a possible local surge of access attempts.
>
> \- ACDC controls shall be applied based on the settings configured by the
> operator.
## 5.11 Use Case 11 - Roaming compatibility when ACDC categorization is
honoured in roaming UEs
### 5.11.1 Description
In ACDC it is necessary to group mobile originated applications into access
categories (hereafter called \"ACDC categories\"), so that each category is
independently controlled in terms of ability to permit network access as the
application is started in the UE (usually, but not always, by user action to
launch an application). Grouping into categories is necessitated because there
are too many mobile applications to be each individually controlled.
Each operator should have flexibility to independently create ACDC categories
by provisioning them into UEs it activates on its system. This brings into
question ACDC roaming compatibility. This use case addresses the question on
how ACDC network controls implemented by VPLMN may apply to a roaming UE, if
so permitted by the VPLMN, even though ACDC categorization in the roaming UE
may be different than such categorization in non-roaming UEs.
### 5.11.2 Pre-conditions
Operator Z UEs have been provisioned by operator Z by creating N ACDC
categories in the following fashion.
Table 5.11-1:
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Operator Z | Applications | Notes | | | | | | ACDC Category | | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 1 | DMB | DMB (Disaster Message | | | | Board) is high priority | | | | point-to-point | | | | messaging service | | | | enabled by the operator | | | | in situations of | | | | natural or other kind | | | | of disaster, allowing | | | | friends and family to | | | | exchange messages even | | | | when network is highly | | | | congested. | | | | | | | | A high level DMB | | | | description can be | | | | found in TR 22.805 | | | | (UPCON Technical | | | | Report) [5]. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 2 | Voice Services | E.g., IMS with audio | | | | component only | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 3 | Non-GBR TCP-based data | | | | services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 4 | Point-to-point video | | | | services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | ... | ... | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | N | All remaining services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
Analogously, operator A UEs have been provisioned by operator A also for N
ACDC categories as follows.
Table 5.11-2:
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Operator A | Applications | Notes | | | | | | ACDC Category | | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 1 | Text-based human | Includes SMS and all | | | generated messaging | forms of IP-based | | | services | Instant Messaging | | | | services entailing | | | | contact lists, whether | | | | they are user-defined | | | | or downloadable from | | | | server. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 2 | Human-generated | | | | Multimedia Messaging | | | | Services; Certain vital | | | | M2M services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 3 | Highly delay tolerant | | | | TCP-based data | | | | services; Remaining M2M | | | | services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 4 | Adaptive video | | | | streaming services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | ... | ... | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | N | All remaining services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
Operators A and Z both support ACDC . Operator A's policy is to honour ACDC
categorization provisioned in roaming UEs.
Zbigniew is subscribed to operator Z.
### 5.11.3 Service flows
Zbigniew is roaming on Operator A network with roaming data services enabled.
A powerful earthquake takes place causing severe damage and other adverse
effects in the city and surrounding area. Communication links are severely
degraded, but there is still coverage in the area in the aftermath of the
earthquake, though carrying capacity of the wireless network A is reduced.
As another consequence of the earthquake, intensity of both human and M2M
communication rapidly increases, causing severe congestion in the wireless
network A. In response to this situation, local radio access network A ACDC
controls take effect, so that previously completely open access for all ACDC
categories quickly turns into completely barred access for all but the highest
ACDC category (1 in the tables above).
### 5.11.4 Post-conditions
Thanks to the ACDC controls taking effect, network A congestion subsides,
though only most critical ACDC category applications are allowed to access the
network.
Zbigniew is unable to place a voice call to his family, due to classification
to ACDC category 2, which is barred. However, Zbigniew is able to use DMB
application classified in his UE as ACDC category 1, which is kept open by
ACDC controls in this locality of network A.
Analogously, network A home users cannot use voice services or multimedia
messages to reach their loved ones, as those services are in ACDC category 2,
which is barred. However, they can use text messaging and IM, since those are
category 1 services.
In summary, even though there is no direct compatibility of classification of
applications into ACDC categories between networks A and Z, Zbigniew as a
roaming user experiences network behaviour related to access controls of
applications similar to what he would have experienced if he was not roaming.
Hence, a sufficient degree of roaming compatibility is achieved, while
allowing each operator A and Z to independently configure ACDC categories.
### 5.11.5 Potential requirements
The potential requirements derived from this use case are:
> \- There shall be a limited number of ACDC categories defined, which shall
> be ranked from highest (least likely to be barred) to lowest (most likely to
> be barred).
NOTE 1: Provisioning of ACDC categories in the UEs is the responsibility of
HPLMN operator, and does not require strict adherence to a globally prescribed
ACDC categorization.
NOTE 2: When ACDC controls are imposed, normally, the level of access
restrictions (probability of denied or deferred access) for each higher ranked
ACDC category is lower than for any lower ranked ACDC category. This is
schematically illustrated in the following figure. Note however that this is
only nominal behaviour (occurs in large majority of scenarios), from which the
network operator is free to deviate if circumstances occasionally require.
{width="5.0in" height="3.75in"}
Figure 5.11.5:
## 5.12 Use Case 12 - ACDC Categorization Not Honoured by VPLMN
### 5.12.1 Description
Each operator should have flexibility to independently create ACDC categories
and provisioned them into UEs it activates. To avoid the question of roaming
compatibility of ACDC categories, a visited PLMN may indicate that it does not
honour ACDC categorization in roaming UEs, i.e., it does not permit them to be
used by the roaming UEs when accessing the network. As a result, those UEs
then behave as if they don't support ACDC, and fall back on other forms of
access control.
### 5.12.2 Pre-conditions
Operator Z UEs have been provisioned by operator Z by creating N ACDC
categories in the following fashion.
Table 5.12-1:
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Operator Z | Applications | Notes | | | | | | ACDC Category | | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 1 | DMB | DMB (Disaster Message | | | | Board) is high priority | | | | point-to-point | | | | messaging service | | | | enabled by the operator | | | | in situations of | | | | natural or other kind | | | | of disaster, allowing | | | | friends and family to | | | | exchange messages even | | | | when network is highly | | | | congested. A high level | | | | DMB description can be | | | | found in TR22.805 | | | | (UPCON Technical | | | | Report). | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 2 | Voice Services | E.g., IMS with audio | | | | component only | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 3 | Non-GBR TCP-based data | | | | services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 4 | Point-to-point video | | | | services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | ... | ... | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | N | All remaining services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
Analogously, operator A UEs have been provisioned by operator A also for N
ACDC categories as follows
Table 5.12-2:
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Operator A | Applications | Notes | | | | | | ACDC Category | | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 1 | Text-based human | Includes SMS and all | | | generated messaging | forms of IP-based | | | services | Instant Messaging | | | | services entailing | | | | contact lists, whether | | | | they are user-defined | | | | or downloadable from | | | | server. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 2 | Human-generated | | | | Multimedia Messaging | | | | Services; Certain vital | | | | M2M services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 3 | Highly delay tolerant | | | | TCP-based data | | | | services; Remaining M2M | | | | services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | 4 | Adaptive video | | | | streaming services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | ... | ... | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | N | All remaining services | | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
Operators A and Z both support ACDC. However, operator A has the policy of not
honouring ACDC categorization in roaming UEs.
Zbigniew is subscribed to operator Z.
### 5.12.3 Service flows
Zbigniew is roaming on Operator A network with roaming data services enabled.
A powerful earthquake takes place causing severe damage and other adverse
effects in the city and surrounding area. Communication links are severely
degraded, but there is still coverage in the area in the aftermath of the
earthquake, though carrying capacity of the wireless network A is reduced.
As another consequence of the earthquake, intensity of both human and M2M
communication rapidly increases, causing severe congestion in the wireless
network A. In response of this situation, local radio access network A ACDC
controls take effect, so that previously completely open access for all ACDC
categories quickly turns into completely barred access for all but the highest
ACDC category (1 in the tables above).
As it begins applying ACDC controls, the network A also signals to roaming UEs
that it does not honour their ACDC categorization, implying that those UEs
must disregard ACDC, and must fall back on ACB controls.
For the purpose of controlling access by legacy devices and roamers, the
network A also imposes ACB controls, indiscriminately reducing rate of success
of access for those UEs.
### 5.12.4 Post-conditions
Thanks to the ACDC controls taking effect, network A congestion subsides, with
only most critical ACDC category applications on non-roaming UEs being allowed
to access the network.
Zbigniew (and other roamers) experiences congestion as he attempts to use
mobile applications on his UE. Being accustomed to unimpeded access when using
text-based messages, such as IM in his home network, even during most severe
congestion, he attempts to reach his family and report that he is safe.
However, he encounters much difficulty, as those usually reliable applications
are being adversely affected by congestion.
### 5.12.4 Potential requirements
The potential requirements derived from this use case are:
\- The network shall indicate to all inbound roaming UEs whether or not it
applies their ACDC categorization.
\- If VPLMN does not apply ACDC categorization for roaming UEs, then they
shall disregard ACDC controls, and shall comply with other forms of access
control (e.g. ACB) in the VPLMN.
## 5.13 Use Case 13 -- Network sharing in ACDC
### 5.13.1 Description
In the case of network sharing and under effects of natural disaster, it might
be desirable for relevant operators to collaborate each other as much as
possible. However still, from standpoints of operator\'s autonomy and of
consistency to the existing schemes, the following should apply: _\"the access
network shall be able to apply ACDC for the different core networks
individually.\"_
### 5.13.2 Pre-conditions
Alice is a student who stays at the university. Her UE is with ACDC
capability, attached to PLMN A.
Bob is a student who stays at the university. His UE is with ACDC capability,
attached to PLMN B.
A disaster occurs in the university area.
### 5.13.3 Service flows
The disaster and the first traffic spike trigger people in charge of operation
both in Operator A and Operator B to take action. To soothe the situation,
they invoke ACDC together with other relevant access barring mechanisms at
higher barring rates; even applications that are supposed to be allowed on
ACDC, e.g. DMB, are not necessarily allowed.
People in charge of operation in Operator A, observing the traffic is getting
lower, raise the rate for getting such applications, e.g. DMB, through.
People in charge of operation in Operator B, observing the traffic is getting
lower, but still having concern on capacity of MME, hesitate to raise the rate
for getting such applications, e.g. DMB, through.
Alice tries to inform her parents by uploading her status via DMB.
Bob tries to inform his parents by uploading his status via DMB.
### 5.13.4 Post-conditions
Alice successfully contacts her family via DMB to indicate her safety.
Bob fails to contact his family via DMB. He needs to wait for a moment.
### 5.13.5 Potential requirements
The potential requirement derived from this use case is:
> \- In the case of multiple core networks sharing the same access network,
> the access network shall be able to apply ACDC for the different core
> networks individually. For the mitigation of congestion in a shared RAN,
> barring rates should be set equal for all Participating Operators.
## 5.14 Use Case 14 -- interaction with other forms of access control - EAB
### 5.14.1 Description
The motivation for EAB (Extended Access Barring) is in Machine-Type
Communication (MTC, or M2M) in Release 11. By \"UE configured with EAB\" in TS
22.011 [2], it is not explicitly meant a MTC-only UE which does not have any
other PDN connection capability. In other words, a \"UE configured with EAB\"
can be a machine-only UE or an ordinary human-operated UE with an additional
use for delay tolerant access. They can be access attempts from human-operated
UE's, in which case a terminal may have both ordinary communications (i.e.,
human-type communications) and delay tolerant access (i.e., machine-type
communication). However, there was a discussion in the Release 11 timeframe
that UE configured with EAB is supposed to be used for MTC only. Even if there
is no further extension of the Release 11 scope, the following use case is
proposed to define the interaction.
According to Clause 4.3.17.4 of 3GPP TS 23.401 [6], UE that is subjected to
EAB is UE with low access priority, and vice versa. That is, EAB is used to
bar access attempts for UEs of low priority. Therefore it is logical not to
offer the preferred handling of a certain ACDC category that overrides EAB.
The requirement _\"ACDC does not override EAB\"_ appears logical.
Using this requirement and the agreed requirement \"ACDC overrides ACB\", the
table below shows which access barring mechanisms affect which UEs, with
regards to each broadcast message combination and each UE capability. It is
found UEs with EAB are always treated equally or at a lower priority compared
to UEs without EAB. That behaviour is desirable.
Table 5.14.1 :
|  |  |  |  | **Broadcast combination** | **I** | **ii** | **iii** | **iv** | **v** | **vi** | **vii**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  |  |  |  | **Event, see Clause 5.2.1** | **(iii+EAB)** | **(v+EAB)** | **Future massive earthquake** | **(vi+EAB)** | **New Year’s Eve** | **Local event, e.g. fireworks display, Equipment fault** | **Massive earthquake, Equipment fault**  
|  |  |  |  |  | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB |   
|  |  |  |  |  | EAB | EAB |  | EAB |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  | SSAC |  | SSAC |  |  |  | SSAC  
**Capability combination** | **Terminal type, see Clause 5.2.1 (note 1)** |  |  |  |  | ACDC | ACDC | ACDC |  | ACDC |  |   
**a** | **(c+EAB)** | ACB | EAB | SSAC | ACDC | [SSAC]+(ACDC+ACB)+EAB (note 2) | (ACDC+ACB)+EAB | [SSAC]+(ACDC+ACB) | ACB+EAB | (ACDC+ACB) | ACB | [SSAC]  
**b** | **(e+EAB)** | ACB | EAB | SSAC |  | [SSAC]+ACB+EAB | ACB+EAB | [SSAC]+ACB | ACB+EAB | ACB | ACB | [SSAC]  
**c** | **VoLTE with ACDC** | ACB |  | SSAC | ACDC | [SSAC]+(ACDC+ACB) | (ACDC+ACB) | [SSAC]+(ACDC+ACB) | ACB | (ACDC+ACB) | ACB | [SSAC]  
**d** | **(f+EAB)** | ACB | EAB |  |  | ACB+EAB | ACB+EAB | ACB | ACB+EAB | ACB | ACB | N/A  
**e** | **VoLTE with SSAC** | ACB |  | SSAC |  | [SSAC]+ACB | ACB | [SSAC]+ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | [SSAC]  
**f** | **Data only, CSFB terminal, VoLTE w/o SSAC** | ACB |  |  |  | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | ACB | N/A  
NOTE1: A terminal type of VoLTE with SSAC and "MMTEL skipping ACB" is not shown. ACB and "MMTEL skipping ACB" are considered in a combined manner; the latter is represented as a part of ACB. NOTE2: SSAC affects only MMTEL; in order to show that aspect, [] is used. ACDC overrides ACB; ACDC and ACB are considered in a combined manner. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 5.14.2 Pre-conditions
In the athletic field of the university, there are several tablets for common
use that have the ACDC capability and that are configured for EAB based on the
reason of reduced tariff. Students are encouraged not to rely on these tablets
for emergency situation.
Alice\'s UE is with the ACDC capability, which is set that DMB belongs to the
disaster category.
Alice is a student who stays at the university and is checking today\'s
training menu with one of the tablets.
A disaster occurs in the university area.
### 5.14.3 Service flows
The network indicates in the disaster area that ACDC is currently activated to
the disaster category. At the same time, the network indicates that EAB is
currently activated.
The tablet receives both these messages. Using the tablet, Alice tries to
inform her parents by uploading her status via DMB. DMB is allowed in ACDC but
EAB is effective; the tablet cannot initiate DMB.
Alice\'s UE receives messages of ACDC. Alice goes back to the locker room,
searches in her big bag, finds the UE, and tries to inform her parents by
uploading her status via DMB. The UE can initiate DMB normally.
### 5.14.4 Post-conditions
Alice fails to contact her family with the tablet for common use.
Alice successfully contacts her family members via DMB to indicate her safety,
using her UE.
### 5.14.5 Potential requirements
The potential requirement derived from this use case is:
> \- If the network indicates both the ACDC control and the EAB control, UE
> configured with EAB shall be subject to both those controls, as long as the
> UE is not overriding EAB.
# 6 Analysis
## 6.1 Considerations
### 6.1.1 Relationship with PMOC
The intent of PMOC specified in 3GPP TS 22.011 [2] is to extend access
controls normally applicable when UE is in idle mode to situations when UE is
about to initiate an application, but it is in connected mode.
FS_ACDC itself does not include the connected mode case. When needed, it is
treated under a separate work item.
### 6.1.2 Relationship with Smart Congestion Mitigation
Special attention is to be paid to concurrent effort of RAN2 Rel-12 on Smart
Congestion Mitigation [3], which focuses on the preferred handling of MMTEL.
### 6.1.3 Considerations on charging
No considerations have been identified that relate to charging.
### 6.1.4 Considerations on security
No additional security threats have been identified compared to the existing
forms of access control.
NOTE: The possibility to authenticate the identity of the applications
assigned to the different categories needs to be considered.
### 6.1.5 Considerations on network sharing
Network Sharing has been considered and in order to allow Participating
Operators the same opportunities as in non-shared networks, it has been
concluded that the potential requirement in use case 15 should be included in
any normative work. This does not in any way implicate that 3GPP should
develop mechanisms that allow operators to split RACH resources between them
(e.g. hard allocation of RACH resources). On the contrary, such partition is
seen as out of scope of any normative work related to ACDC and it is not
recommended."
### 6.1.6 Relationship with SSAC
It is considered potential conflicts between ACDC and SSAC are solved by an
appropriate network operation.
### 6.1.7 Considerations on the number of ACDC categories
At least four ACDC categories are required. An example of application
categories is shown below for illustrative purposes:
> 0: Reserved by operator for future use
>
> 1: Highest prioritized applications (E.g. special M2M services)
>
> 2: Second highest prioritized applications (E.g. Human induced communication
> of high importance)
>
> 3: Any other application that initiate requests to the network.
### 6.1.8 Considerations on assigning, structuring and restricting ACDC
categories
ACDC categories are ranked in the order of the probability of being
restricted. The operator assigns an application that needs minimal restriction
to a higher ranked ACDC category. This reduces the impact to access attempts
from such applications. Structuring controls in this way ensures that the same
principle holds for roaming UEs, if the visited operator chooses to make ACDC
applicable to roamers.
There may be many applications on a UE that are not assigned an ACDC category.
Such applications should be treated by the UE as part of the lowest ranked
ACDC category. If the operator requires differentiation with respect to these
uncategorized applications, the operator should avoid assigning applications
to the lowest ranked ACDC category.
# 7 Potential requirements
## 7.1 Consolidated requirements
The following requirements are consolidated from the requirements associated
with the use cases in section 5 of this TR.
> \- [CPR-7.1-001] This feature shall be applicable to UTRAN and E-UTRAN.
>
> \- [CPR-7.1-002] This feature shall be applicable to UEs that are not a
> member of one or more of Access Classes 11 to 15.
>
> \- [CPR-7.1-003] The home network shall be able to configure a UE with at
> least four ACDC categories to each of which particular, operator-identified
> applications are associated. The categories shall be ranked in order of the
> probability of being restricted.
NOTE: Provisioning of the ACDC categories in the UE is the responsibility of
the HPLMN operator, and the categorization is outside the scope of 3GPP.
NOTE: A mechanism needs to be provided that enables the UE to verify that the
provisioning of the configuration originates from a trusted source.
> \- [CPR-7.1-004] The serving network shall be able to broadcast, in one or
> more areas of the RAN, control information per each ACDC category,
> indicating e.g. barring rates, and whether a roaming UE shall be subject to
> ACDC control.
>
> \- [CPR-7.1-005] The UE shall be able to control whether or not access
> attempt for certain application is allowed, based on this broadcast control
> information and the configuration of categories in the UE.
NOTE: Communication already in progress is exempted from this control.
> \- [CPR-7.1-006] The serving network shall be able to simultaneously
> indicate ACDC with other forms of access control.
>
> \- [CPR-7.1-006.1] When both ACDC and ACB controls are indicated, ACDC shall
> override ACB.
>
> \- [CPR-7.1-007] In the case of multiple core networks sharing the same
> access network, the access network shall be able to apply ACDC for the
> different core networks individually. For the mitigation of congestion in a
> shared RAN, barring rates should be set equal for all Participating
> Operators.
# 8 Conclusion
A number of use cases have been identified where applications are to be
differentiated by importance (e.g., DMB, MMTEL are treated in a preferred
manner), in order to cope with effects of congestion by reducing traffic
ingress from applications deem to be of lesser importance or with higher
degree of delay tolerance. Congestion may be caused by natural disaster or
public events or triggered by any of a number of reasons. The analysis has
resulted in a set of unique requirements as captured in the previous section.
Mechanisms to address these requirements need to be specified, taking into
account mechanisms already available that may address some aspects of this
problem space.
It is therefore recommended that some of the potential requirements identified
in the present document be considered for the development of normative
requirements. Topics include:
\- Granularity of the control; ACDC category, barring rates.
\- Activation by the network and action in UE.
\- Related roaming scheme and network sharing scheme.
\- Interaction with other existing access control mechanisms
Special attention is to be paid to concurrent effort of RAN2 Rel-12 on Smart
Congestion Mitigation 3GPP TR 36.848 [3], which focuses on the preferred
handling of MMTEL.
###### ### Annex A: Mapping of potential requirements
Mapping requirement numbering of potential requirements derived from the use
cases in clause 5 to the requirement numbering of the consolidated potential
requirements in clause 7.
For the detailed 4-step consolidation process, see S1-141342.
NOTE: Consolidated potential requirements could have been re-worded from the
original potential requirements derived in clause 5.
Table A.1: Mapping of potential requirements
* * *
Potential requirements from use cases in clause 5 Consolidated potential
requirements in clause 7 n/a [CPR-7.1-001] [PR-5.3.5-001] [CPR-7.1-002]
[PR-5.1.5-001], [PR-5.6.5-001], [PR-5.11.5-001] [CPR-7.1-003] [PR-5.1.5-003],
[PR-5.5.5-003], [PR-5.6.5-001], [PR-5.8.5-001], [PR-5.10.5-003],
[PR-5.12.5-001], [PR-5.12.5-002] [CPR-7.1-004] [PR-5.10.5-001] [CPR-7.1-005]
[PR-5.7.5-001], [PR-5.12.5-002] [CPR-7.1-006] [PR-5.7.5-002] [CPR-7.1-006.1]
[PR-5.13.5-001] [CPR-7.1-007]
* * *
###### ### Annex B: Key issues for consideration
# B.1 Applicability
The scope of ACDC (Application specific Congestion control for Data
Communication) is to study ways to control initiation of data communication
(i.e., before any signalling or user data plane packets start flowing) at
times of heavy traffic load in the UTRAN and E-UTRAN.
# B.2 Control and triggering
A key issue in ACDC control and triggering in the network is whether ACDC
applies only in \"disaster\" situations, or in any situation where for
whatever reason, the network is congested to the point that other techniques
are not deemed sufficient? The scope of ACDC includes a broad range of causes
regardless of whether it is triggered by a disaster, declared or not, or other
causes.
# B.3 Effects on on-going communication
A key issue is whether ACDC affect on-going communication, e.g., an
application that has already been launched prior to \"activation\" of ACDC.
Per the FS_ACDC WID, only application initiation is in scope, not effects of
on-going communication.
# B.4 Control range and proportionality
A key issue to be studied is whether there should be a range of controls from
open access to blocking of access, which is a function of severity of load
condition and the need to gradually transition from open access to barred
access and vice versa.
# B.5 Interaction with other forms of access control
Interaction of ACDC with previously standardized other forms of access
control, including ACB, EAB, and SSAC, is to be studied in the present
document.
###### ### Annex C: ACDC Background Information
# C.1 Purpose and nature of access control
## C.1.1 Impact of modern applications on the network
Recent wireless data communication trends include presence of MTC devices and
applications in increasing numbers, and proliferation of web-based
applications such as social networking and cloud computing. One of the
consequences of these trends is increasing frequency of network access by UEs.
New MTC applications (e.g., health and wellness, smart highways), as well as
social networking and cloud computing trends are characterized with ever more
frequent network access, with the tendency toward small payload and large
signalling overhead.
As a consequence of all these trends, Random Access Channel (RACH) resources
in the RAN nodes will tend to be heavily utilized, and if not considerably
over-dimensioned, could create a bottleneck in a variety of operational
scenarios. Moreover, in situations of heavy traffic load, unfulfilled service
initiation attempts worsen congestion as service requests are repeatedly
denied by the network.
ACDC aims to prioritize services to lessen these impacts, preventing system
capacity loss and degraded performance.
## C.1.2 Controlling traffic ingress
Traditional usage of access control was for protecting the network in certain
failure or emergency situations, e.g. save Core Network from deluge of
registrations at network cold restart, or enable emergency communications to
selected users (e.g., police). With recent trends described above, excessive
access frequency can snowball and bring down radio network when there is
network congestion. As access channel occupancy and probe collision rate
increase, uplink receiver performance deteriorates, as colliding access probe
add to the receiver noise. In a properly dimensioned network access channel
overload or high level of congestion will be rare, but they could occur in
uncontrolled/unplanned circumstances. This calls for automatic controls
illustrated in Figure B-1 below.
{width="6.498611111111111in" height="4.063888888888889in"}
Fig. C-1: Access control
To account for unplanned circumstances in which congestion occurs, access
controls are running always-on, functioning as follows.
As shown in the figure, RAN node continuously computes performance statistics
(typically moving averages) for a variety of parameters, including:
> \- RACH occupancy: Percent of RACH resources occupied by access probes from
> UEs being served by the subject RAN node;
>
> \- Ratio of unserved/served access attempts: Percentage of access attempts
> that are rejected relative to those that are served;
\- Uplink receiver noise performance;
\- Packet queuing delay statistics;
\- Etc.
In principle, a combination of these parameters can be used to control access
attempts, but consider a simple case where RACH occupancy is the only RAN
performance statistic used for loop control. As access attempts from UEs
within a cell increase, RACH occupancy rises in that cell. RAN control
algorithm consists of computing the required access attempt rate decrease so
that RACH occupancy is maintained below a threshold value (to preclude
unacceptably high probe collision rate). This is translated into System
Information Block (SIB) parameters pertaining to ACDC, which would be required
to decrease access attempt rate. As these SIB parameter values are broadcast,
UEs receive them, and obey them by decreasing access attempts to the degree
indicated; thus reversing RACH occupancy trend.
SIB information elements for each ACDC category are computed, so that the
target of compound required access attempts reduction is kept. Effectively,
barring rate values are distributed among ACDC categories, with higher barring
rates for lower priority categories. The compound figure is needed since there
is a single RACH applicable to all ACDC categories. Broadcast SIB information
elements can convey a huge range of access deferrals for each ACDC category,
from open access to completely barred, providing much flexibility to deal with
a range of practical situations that can arise in network operations.
## C.1.3 OAM aspects of ACDC operation
It's important to emphasize that wireless network operator has full control of
ACDC operation, despite appearance of (e)NodeB autonomy. This is schematically
illustrated in Fig. B-2 below.
In a one-time or infrequent operation, the OAM Server sets up ACDC related
parameters in (e)NodeBs, e.g. list of performance statistics of influence in
the control algorithm, how they are to be combined, how sensitive are the
control parameters to the performance indicators, how rapidly the system
responds to changes in those performance indicators, etc. Operator can also
arm or disarm the ACDC system as a whole, by issuing the appropriate commands
to (e)NodeBs. This is also a one-time or in-frequent operation, not to be
confused with the control algorithm operation itself, which is automatic upon
arming it.
Monitoring and incident reporting is performed by (e)NodeBs in real-time.
{width="6.492361111111111in" height="3.053472222222222in"}
Fig. C-2: Simplified OAM view of ACDC
## C.1.4 ACDC categories and control range
In the UEs, applications are ranked by importance and classified into ACDC
categories. Such classification allows operator to suppress access of least
important categories first, and escalate into more important ones if severity
of congestion requires (see diagram in Fig. B-3below). This requires one-time
or infrequent provisioning of ACDC categories in the UE, which is accomplished
by the HPLMN.
{width="5.000694444444444in" height="3.7465277777777777in"}
Fig. C-3: ACDC Categories Control Hierarchy
The concept of stochastic access control introduced in EUTRAN several system
releases prior can be extended to ACDC. In that approach, rather than binary
control (barred/unbarred), ACB classes 0\~9 are collapsed into a single class,
with controls providing shades of gray by deferring access randomly , up to
access blocking. Random deferrals increase with severity of congestion, which
is communicated to UEs via control messages: barring rate and mean duration of
access control. This approach is most efficient, requiring few SIB bits with
large control range. Also, an existing UE algorithm can largely be reused for
ACDC.
Stochastic control is applied to each ACDC category independently, but with
hierarchy indicated in Fig. B-3. Prior to launching an app, UE applies the
matching category ACDC controls broadcast in the appropriate SIB.
# C.2 UE provisioning and operational impact of ACDC
## C.2.1 UE provisioning considerations
One of the more difficult aspects of ACDC is UE provisioning of ACDC
categories, which is considerably more complex than ACB Provisioning. For ACB,
provisioning of basic classes 0 -- 9 has been automatic: UEs are randomly
hashed, typically by assigning the last digit of IMSI as ACB Class.
Provisioning of classes ACB 11\~15 are specific to subscription. OTA
provisioning can be used for such purpose. If an operator has processes in
place for ACB 11\~15 provisioning OTA, they can be extended to ACDC, though
some adjustments would be needed.
Provisioning burden for single-function (e.g., MTC) devices can be
considerably reduced. Many types of such UEs can be provisioned at time of
manufacture, for example utility meter MTC modules when
manufactured/installed, or specialized medical devices when equipped with MTC
modules. Alternatively, those devices can be provisioned at the time of
activation. The single-function MTC UE is assigned appropriate ACDC category,
e.g., based on subscription profile. The network provisions the UE
accordingly, using OTA or other procedures.
Multi-function UE provisioning (e.g., smartphone) is considerably more
complex, because ACDC is applied by the UE on the basis on type of
application/service invoked. For example, when a smartphone is used for voice
service, it applies a relatively high ACDC Category 2. But when running a
Calendar application with update tolerance of several minutes, smartphone
applies ACDC category 5, which is relatively low.
In order to provision ACDC categories in smartphones, operator can implement
specific policies, including category assignment, e.g.: Initial set of apps
loaded in the smart-phone at time of activation are allocated specific
categories, while any application later downloaded by user is given lowest
category as a default. Operator can subsequently "promote" an app by re-
provisioning.
Multiple implementation options exist for run-time ACDC, i.e. matching the
app/service to its assigned category prior to app launch, and correctly acting
upon network imposed controls. This is an internal UE function and probably
not subject to standardization. As in other forms of access control, integrity
aspects are critical, and can be verified by qualification tests. Notably, no
new security threat has been identified compared to ACB integrity.
In conclusion, operator can have considerable control over ACDC degree and
complexity of provisioning. If ACB classes 11\~15 are deployed, operator can
expand that approach in provisioning single-function MTC UEs. Operator can
gradually expand to ever more sophisticated provisioning, introducing new ACDC
categories over time. ACDC categories for specialized (single-function)
devices, such as many types of MTC devices, can also be provisioned at the
point of manufacture, thus considerably lessening the provisioning burden.
Deployment of ACDC for multi-function UEs, such as smartphones or MTC devices
running different types of apps (e.g. automotive), is most complex, and
requires a mature ecosystem of UE Operating System and Application developers.
## C.2.2 Access control operating regimes
There are two basic modes of usage of access controls: static ("scripted" )and
dynamic (automatic). This is not discussed in the TS 22.011, since it's
largely an operational issue. This distinction could have some impact on
future SA5 specifications. Beyond some anticipated SA5 impact, the
implementation of control algorithms is largely internal to the RAN nodes, as
well as other nodes (e.g., an OAM application server), and not subject to
standardization.
The static operating regime (can be also called "scripted") is often used to
protect core network elements from deluge of registrations (location updates),
for example, at the time of network cold start upon shutdown for the purpose
of system upgrade. In this regime, a "script" is run by the OAM applications
server to allow access gradually, (E)NodeB by (E)NodeB, and access class by
access class (or by gradually relaxing stochastic control parameters from
blocked toward completely open access).
In the dynamic operating regime (automatic), access control SIB parameters are
derived by each (E)NodeB independently, based on the real-time performance
parameters in that (E)NodeB. These parameters react automatically to volume of
access attempts observed by the (E)NodeB, as well as other factors associated
with traffic volume and congestion in the (E)NodeB, to regulate access
attempts. The access is kept open if those parameters are within defined
operating limits. Operator can define such limits and set the parameters.
Operator can also specify other parameters, such as control time constants,
and aggressiveness of access controls, but the methodology does not involve a
centrally operated scripted set of controls executed in real time.
Various hybrid operating regimes are also feasible. For example, in a variant
of static regime, rather than adjusting access control parameters via a
prescribed script over a sequence of (E)NodeBs while dwelling on each (E)NodeB
for a pre-set amount of time, automatic control is enabled one (E)NodeB at
time, and the decision to move to a new (E)NodeB in a sequence is made
automatically when access channel occupancy in the current (E)NodeB falls
below a certain threshold.
## C.2.3 Control algorithm in the RAN
Implementation of closed loop ACDC control algorithm in the RAN is a complex
task (refer to Fig. B-1, which illustrates some algorithm components). One of
the critical questions is how does the RAN node combine various indications of
congestion level to come up with effective access barring rate algorithm which
protects the RAN/CN, while not overreaching (needlessly impeding access).
Additionally, rules of escalation to ever higher category need to be
implemented. Little, if anything, is subject to standardization, since this is
primarily an internal RAN function controlled with OAM parameters, as shown.
Complexity of this task is marginally increased with increasing number of ACDC
categories, hence a relatively ample number of categories can be planned in
the standard, even if they are not immediately consumed. Bulk of work in
implementing the control algorithm consists of fine tuning and operationally
testing it. The rest is primarily a policy question for the operator -- how to
treat ACDC classes relative to each other.
ACDC controls can be initially deployed with flexible parameters allowing
adjustments and fine tuning. Control algorithm can be adjusted and refined
based on operational experience. Same applies for other forms of access
control. For example, since legacy UEs don't support ACDC, operator will need
to rely on ACB being applied simultaneously with ACDC. As the penetration of
ACDC-capable UEs increase, the ACB and ACDC controls will have to be adjusted
to account for the proportion of ACDC capable UEs in the system.
#