# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Supplementary services such as CLIP, CNAP and OIP for CS and IMS network
provide the calling party\'s number/name to the called party, which is useful
especially when subscribers are receiving calls from strangers. However, with
the uptake of smart phones, a number of \"calling information presentation\"
OTTs have been introduced that can realize exchange of personal information
(including name, portrait, signature, etc.) between the calling and the called
party on call setup. These types of OTTs are becoming more and more popular,
which demonstrate that there are additional requirements from users for
supplementary services: They want more information to be shared in a call, and
want the calling information presentation to be supported in both directions.
Customized Alerting Tone (CAT) and Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) were
introduced to provide multimedia experience during the establishment of a call
for the calling and the called party, but they have limitations as for CAT
picture is not included in content type.
Hence, there is a need to improve and enhance the calling information
presentation, so that the value of network can be maximized.
# 1 Scope
The present document will consider use cases and identify potential
requirements for enhancing the calling information presentation. This will
include:
\- Type of contents shared in calling information presentation, e.g. number,
name, portrait, signature, etc.
\- Use cases for both calling party and called party.
\- Interaction with MMTel services, CAT, and CRS service.
\- Interoperability with other network.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.182: \"Customized Alerting Tones (CAT) Requirements; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.183: \"Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) Requirements; Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Enhanced Call Information** : Additional information, such as, a text,
audio, picture or video, provided by the calling or called party, or an
authorised third party that is to be presented to the calling or called party.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ECI Enhanced Call Information
CAT Customized Alerting Tones
CRS Customized Ringing Signal
MMTel Multi Media Telephony
# 4 Use cases
## 4.1 Use Case 1 -- Calling party use cases
### 4.1.1 Description
This use case proposes that the calling party shall be able to receive
Enhanced Call Information (ECI) about the called party when initiating a call.
The ECI can be number, name, logo, portrait, signature, introduction etc or a
mixture of these. The media type can be single type of text, still image,
graphic, speech, audio, video, or a mixture of these types above.
The ECI is sent to the calling party during the call setup. Depending on the
amount of data being sent, the data transfer may continue during the call. The
ECI is presented to the calling party before the called party answers if it is
available to the UE of the calling party, but it can be presented also during
the call. This service should not negatively affect the voice and video
quality between the calling and the called parties.
### 4.1.2 Pre-conditions
The user (calling/called party) shall be able to subscribe to the service,
activate the service, update the settings.
The service user (calling/called party) can set different rules for each call.
The calling party may be able to block anything from the called party.
### 4.1.3 Service Flows
When the calling party calls the called party, the calling party experiences
ECI about the called party (e.g. name, logo, portrait, video, etc.).
The calling party can reject ECI about called party based on called party
identity, time, etc.
### 4.1.4 Potential requirements
The calling party shall be able to save the ECI set/sent by the called party.
The personal ECI (e.g. name, portrait, etc.), and the ECI of public services
or enterprise (e.g. name, logo, etc.) to be displayed shall be pre-stored in
the network.
The system shall be able to set limitations on file type, file size, etc. for
storing the ECI.
The system shall be able to verify that the party is authorised to store and
update the called party\'s ECI.
The system shall be able to provide different charging information (e.g. on
event basis, volume basis, media type basis) for this service.
The calling party shall be able to reject the ECI based on rules e.g. time,
the identity of the called party.
## 4.2 Use Case 2 -- Called party use cases
### 4.2.1 Description
This use case proposes that the called party shall be able to receivethe
Enhanced Call Information (ECI) about the calling party when receiving a call.
The information can be number, name, logo, portrait, signature, introduction
etc or a mixture of these. The media type can be single type of text, still
image, graphic, speech, audio, video, or a mixture of these types above.
The ECI is sent to the called party during the call setup. Depending on the
amount of data being sent, the data transfer may continue during the call. The
ECI is presented to the called party before the called party answers if it is
available to the UE of the called party, but it can be presented also during
the call. This service should not negatively affect the voice and video
quality between the calling and the called parties. The calling party is
allowed to select the specific information to be presented on the called party
on a per call basis.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
The user (calling/called party) shall be able to subscribe to the service,
activate the service, update the settings.
The service user (calling/called party) can set different rules for each call.
The called party may be able to block anything from the calling party (e.g.
the receiving party can block any audio information for all incoming
communication presentation).
As service option, the Calling Party can enter the subject of the
communication (per communication basis).
### 4.2.3 Service Flows
When the calling party calls the called party, called party experiences ECI
about the calling party (e.g. name, logo, portrait, video, etc.).
The called party can reject ECI about calling party based on calling party
identity, time, etc.
### 4.2.4 Potential requirements
The called party shall be able to save the ECI set/sent by the calling party.
The personal ECI (e.g. name, portrait, etc.), and the ECI of public services
or enterprise (e.g. name, logo, etc.) to be displayed shall be pre-stored in
the network.
As service option, if a specific text (object of the communication) is
provided by the calling user, this information should replace any potential
text information pre-stored in the network.
The system shall be able to verify that the party is authorised to store and
update the calling party\'s ECI.
The network shall allow the calling party to select from the pre-stored ECI
according to the called party on a per call basis.
The system shall be able to provide different charging information (e.g. on
event basis, volume basis, media type basis) for this service.
The called party shall be able to reject the ECI based on rules e.g. time, the
identity of the calling party.
# 5 Relation with other services
From the above use cases it can be seen that ECIP provide similar
functionality as CAT and CRS, except that it can provide additional
information and support additional media types. Hence, ECIP can be considered
as an enhancement to CAT and CRS, and will therefore have the same
relationship with other services as CAT and CRS.
# 6 Conclusions
As ECIP provide similar functionality as CAT and CRS, the use cases and
potential requirements described in the present document will be used as
enhancements to CAT and CRS.
It is concluded that normative requirements be developed based on the
potential requirements documented in clause 4 of the present document, and
that these be added to TS 22.182 (CAT) [2] and TS 22.183 (CRS) [3]
specifications.
###### ### Annex A: Bibliography
\- 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification Supplementary Services; Stage 1\".
\- 3GPP TS 22.096: \"Name identification Supplementary Services; Stage 1\".
\- 3GPP TS 24.173: \" IMS Multimedia Telephony Communication Service and
Supplementary Services; Stage 1\".
#