# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The work on Public Warning System (PWS) within the 3GPP as standardised since
3GPP Release 9 has focused on delivering text-based warning notifications of
limited content to the public at a large scale. These are known as PWS Warning
Notifications. This functionality is essential in providing a basic warning
system with the elements as set out in clause 4.3 of TS 22.268 on PWS.
It is noted within PWS that content which might trigger an increase in network
load should be avoided as the network likely to be under stress, and capacity
diminished depending upon the nature of the emergency. Such a storm of traffic
may be hazardous to the health of the network, or may be blocked by the
network in order to preserve function or prioritise other traffic.
Experience with the current PWS has led some public safety alerting agencies
to have difficulties of trying to include all the essential information needed
to inform the public into the current PWS Warning Notification limited size.
Some of this essential information includes maps with public safety mark-up,
images of missing persons, live news video broadcasts, evacuation information,
latest safety briefings, weather warnings, emergency shelter locations and
assembly points etc.
This TR studies delivering more extensive multimedia warning notification
content than is currently supported in PWS and investigating both the
broadcasting of more extensive multimedia content for a PWS and the mechanisms
by which users would be able to receive and view this multimedia content.
# 1 Scope
This TR considers enhancements to 3GPP PWS via the addition of multimedia
broadcast capability. The use cases for this capability are documented and
derived requirements are gathered and consolidated. This TR does not cover use
cases or potential requirements for specific PWS based systems (i.e. ETWS,
CMAS, EU-ALERT, and Korean Public Alert System).
This TR covers:
> \- Scenarios and use cases to provide multi-media information supplemental
> to PWS;
>
> \- UE awareness of, and ability to receive, multi-media information via PWS;
>
> \- Handling of UEs in limited service mode;
>
> \- Priority of multimedia information
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.268: \"Public Warning System (PWS) requirements\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**MBSP** : Multimedia Broadcast to Supplement PWS
**MBSP message** : The message sent from an MNO to a UE containing multimedia
component(s)
**mPWS message** : The multimedia content sent by a Public Safety agency to a
MNO in order for an MNO to create a MBSP message
**Public Safety agency** : Any agency that is responsible for the protection
of the safety of the general public from significant danger, harm, or damage.
Examples include Law enforcement agencies, firefighters, and first responders
**PWS message** : The text content sent by a Public Safety agency to a MNO in
order for an MNO to create a PWS Warning Notification
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AM Amplitude Modulation
DAB Digital Audio Broadcast
FM Frequency Modulation
MNO Mobile Network Operator
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 Geotargetted Warning
### 4.1.1 Description
This use case describes a user within a PWS-enabled network receiving a PWS
Warning Notification, supplemented by a separate transmission of geographical
data in the form of a map overlay.
### 4.1.2 Pre-conditions
The MNOs network supports PWS.
The MNOs network supports a mechanism for wide distribution of multimedia
content to a large population without overloading the network (e.g. via
broadcast).
### 4.1.3 Service Flows
**Scenario 1: Flood**
A flood occurs and is monitored by the meteorological service. Due to the
severity, the decision is made to notify all users within the potential reach
of the flood waters. This area is significantly larger than the currently
affected area due to the geography of the area.
A PWS message and an mPWS message are created by the Public Safety agency
whereby the current reach of the flood waters and the projected reach of the
flood waters are plotted onto a map overlay.
A PWS Warning Notification is sent out to users within a Notification Area
defined by the Public Safety agency. As part of the presentation to the user,
the map overlay may be presented.
### 4.1.4 Post-conditions
**Scenario 1: Flood**
All users within the Notification Area receive the PWS Warning Notification
warning them about the flooding. Users who chose to view the map overlay are
given extra information about the current and future flood area. Users who are
notified by PWS that there is a flood but who can see from the map that they
are in no immediate or projected danger can be more assured of their safety
and gauge their preparations accordingly.
### 4.1.5 Potential Requirements
Current PWS requirements in TS 22.268 [2] already require geo-targeted Warning
Notifications. No new requirements have been identified in this use case.
## 4.2 Streaming Media
### 4.2.1 Description
This use case describes a user within a PWS-enabled network receiving a PWS
Warning Notification supplemented by an MBSP message in the form of a live
continuous audio stream.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
The MNOs network supports PWS.
The MNOs network supports a mechanism for wide distribution of multimedia
content to a large population without overloading the network (e.g. via
broadcast).
### 4.2.3 Service Flows
**Scenario 1: Chemical Fire**
A chemical fire is underway in a building near a residential area in the UK.
According to the UK Government Emergency Communication Policy, local radio
streaming broadcasts are started and broadcast on local FM, AM and DAB radio
stations. In addition, these broadcasts are fed to MNOs as a PWS message and
an mPWS message for distribution in the area local to the chemical fire.
A PWS Warning Notification and an MBSP message are sent out to users within a
Notification Area defined by the emergency services. As part of the
presentation to the user, the user can listen to the live audio transmission
for up to date information in the same way as radio listeners can do.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
**Scenario 1: Chemical Fire**
All users within the Notification Area receive the PWS Warning Notification
warning them about the fire and giving basic information. Users receive the
MBSP message and who chose to listen to the streaming audio are given extra
information about evacuations, regrouping areas, information about air-quality
safety, and other information.
### 4.2.5 Potential Requirements
Current PWS requirements in TS 22.268 [2] require support of text messages.
The PWS may be extended to support multi-media messages as well.
## 4.3 Multimedia Download
### 4.3.1 Description
This use case describes a user within a PWS-enabled network receiving a PWS
Warning Notification supplemented by an MBSP message in the form of downloaded
multimedia.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
The MNOs network supports PWS.
The MNOs network supports a mechanism for wide distribution of multimedia
content to a large population without overloading the network (e.g. via
broadcast)
### 4.3.3 Service flows
**Scenario 1: Abducted Child**
A child has been abducted and the emergency services have been informed. The
emergency services have decided that due to information gathered, it may be
useful to inform users in an area of this abduction and to enable local
residents to be vigilant.
A PWS message and an mPWS message are created by the Public Safety agency
whereby details of the abductee (photo, age, height, video, context etc.) are
packaged together.
A PWS Warning Notification and MBSP message are sent out to users within a
Notification Area defined by the emergency services. As part of the
presentation to the user, the multimedia components may be presented.
**Scenario 2: Missing persons**
An earthquake has occurred some time ago. Communication services are limited
and patchy. As part of the response to the disaster, a list of missing persons
has been compiled.
A PWS message and an mPWS message are created by the Public Safety agency
whereby details of the missing people (photo, age, height, video, context
etc.) are packaged together. This MBSP message is then broadcast in an object
carousel. As the details of the missing people changes, this package is
modified on the server.
A PWS Warning Notification is sent out to users within a Notification Area
defined by the emergency services or missing person's bureau. An MBSP message
is also sent out via broadcast.
As part of the presentation to the user, the user views the initial package of
missing people's data.
Later (before the end of the broadcast), the UE is notified that the contents
of the carousel have changed and the UE downloads the MBSP message from the
broadcast.
As part of the presentation to the user, the user views an updated version of
the missing people's data.
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
**Scenario 1: Abducted Child**
All users within the Notification Area receive the PWS Warning Notification
and MBSP message warning them about the abduction. Users who chose to view the
multimedia content are given extra information about the abductee and context,
and are able to be additionally vigilant for the abductee.
**Scenario 2: Missing persons**
All users within the Notification Area receive the PWS Warning Notification
and MBSP message informing them about the missing people. Users who chose to
view the multimedia content are given extra information about the missing
persons and are able to assist in the recovery effort more effectively.
### 4.3.5 Potential requirements
Current PWS requirements in TS 22.268 [2] require support of text messages.
The PWS may be extended to support multi-media messages as well.
## 4.4 Initialisation of multimedia broadcast
### 4.4.1 Description
This use case describes a user within a PWS-enabled network receiving a PWS
Warning Notification, the automatic triggering for a UE to receive an MBSP
message broadcast, and the presentation of this information to the user
### 4.4.2 Pre-conditions
The MNOs network supports PWS.
The MNOs network supports a mechanism for wide distribution of multimedia
content to a large population without overloading the network (e.g. via
broadcast).
### 4.4.3 Service flows
Alice's UE receives a PWS Warning Notification notifying her of a nearby
incident.
Alice's UE is notified of an MBSP message for this notification and
automatically fetches the content from the broadcast.
Alice's UE alerts Alice that an MBSP message was received and presents the
multimedia components when requested by Alice.
### 4.4.4 Post-conditions
Alice receives the multimedia content without having to interact with her
device in a complicated manner.
### 4.4.5 Potential requirements
The MBSP system shall provide a mechanism by which reception of an MBSP
message can be initiated without user interaction subsequent to the reception
of a PWS Warning Notification.
## 4.5 MBSP message broadcast area
### 4.5.1 Description
This use case describes the kind of geographic control required for defining
the area where UE users will be notified of and receive MBSP messages.
### 4.5.2 Pre-conditions
The Public Safety agency creating a PWS message and an mPWS message can define
a geographic area that they want the message to target.
The MNO has the ability to map any arbitrary geographic shape descriptor into
a set of cell sectors that approximates the geographic coverage area by using
their network coverage maps
### 4.5.3 Service Flows
1\. The Public Safety agency currently dealing with an emergency identifies
the need to notify the citizens within their jurisdiction about the emergency.
The public warning includes pictures.
2\. The Public Safety agency transmits the PWS message and mPWS message to the
MNO, including describing the geographic shape of their jurisdiction.
3\. The MNO maps the transmitted geographic shape description to a set of cell
sectors providing coverage within the Public Safety agency's jurisdiction.
4\. The MNO transmits the PWS Warning Notification and MBSP message in at
least the selected set cell sectors.
5\. Merely by being located within the coverage area of the mapped cell
sectors, UEs which support MBSP messages become aware of this MBSP message,
alert the user and make the MBSP message available to the user.
6\. Merely by being located outside the coverage area of the mapped cells
sectors, UEs which support MBSP messages will not become aware of this MBSP
message, will not alert the user and will not make the MBSP message available
to the user.
### 4.5.4 Post-conditions
Users within the mapped cell sector coverage area will be notified of the MBSP
message and are able to view it.
Note there are other similar MBSP message scenarios besides the geographic
jurisdictions this use case can apply to, including:
\- Different MBSP messages with adjacent geographic boundaries
\- The need to distribute a MBSP message only to a geographic area affected by
the emergency while ensuring that it is not distributed outside the affected
area to avoid potential significant confusion and additional public safety
issues.
### 4.5.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.5.6 Potential Requirements
1\. UEs should detect and alert the user to a broadcast MBSP message and allow
the user to view the MBSP message.
2\. UEs located within the coverage area of the MBSP message selected set of
cell sectors should detect and alert the user to a MBSP message and allow the
user to view the MBSP message.
3\. UEs located outside the coverage area of the MBSP message selected set of
cell sectors shall not alert the user to any MBSP message and not allow the
user to view the MBSP message.
4\. Determination of whether a UE is inside or outside the mapped cell sector
coverage area shall be based on information broadcast (or not broadcast) by
the PLMN. The UE shall assume that if it receives all the components of a MBSP
message (and the MBSP message itself) it is inside the mapped cell sector
coverage area.
## 4.6 Linked PWS multi-media messages
### 4.6.1 Description
The current deployed PWS only supports PWS Warning Notifications, during a
transition period until MBSP message capability becomes ubiquitous end-to-end,
both PWS Warning Notification and MBSP message broadcast will be needed. Many
of these messages will need to be linked and their broadcast coordinated.
### 4.6.2 Pre-conditions
The Public Safety agency creating PWS messages will create both PWS Warnign
Notification content and multi-media content. It is assumed that during the
transition period that the same text content is used by UEs to inform the user
regardless of their MBSP capability
The MNO supports both the PWS Warning Notification and MBSP message
capabilities. The MNO's subscriber base is in transition from having UEs
supporting the PWS Warning Notification message only to UEs supporting both
PWS Warning Notification and MBSP messages.
### 4.6.3 Service Flows
1\. The Public Safety agency creates a PWS message and an mPWS message with
both text and other multi-media components and transmits the PWS message and
mPWS message to the MNO.
2\. The MNO broadcasts the PWS Warning Notification and the MBSP message.
3\. UEs which only support PWS Wsrning Notifications notify the user of the
presence of a PWS Warning Notification and display it when requested by the
user. The MBSP message is ignored.
4\. UEs which support both PWS Warning Notification and MBSP messages will
notify the user of the presence of all the supported components (PWS Warning
Notification or MBSP message) and display it when requested by the user.
### 4.6.4 Post-conditions
The UEs are able to identify the supported PWS message and mPWS message
content and display it when requested. The delivery of all the PWS message and
mPWS message components is coordinated so the user is able to view the entire
PWS message and mPWS message when notified.
### 4.6.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
This use case demonstrates some of the backwards compatibility considerations
with the existing PWS Warning Notification capabilities.
### 4.6.6 Potential Requirements
1\. The addition of MBSP messaging capability to a PLMN shall not require
changes to existing UEs supporting PWS Warning Notification only.
2\. The MNO shall be able to indicate to the UE PWS Warning Notifications and
MBSP messages linked together covering the same public warning.
3\. The UE which supports MBSP messages shall be able to ignore the linked PWS
Warning Notification and MBSP messages.
## 4.7 UE supporting both PWS Warning Notification and MBSP roams into a
network supporting PWS Warning Notification only
### 4.7.1 Description
The current deployed PWS only supports PWS Warning Notifications, during a
transition period until MBSP message capability becomes ubiquitous end-to-end
on a world-wide basis, some networks may only broadcast PWS Warning
Notification messages and not MBSP messages.
### 4.7.2 Pre-conditions
The MNO supports only the existing PWS Warning Notification, not MBSP message
capabilities.
UEs which support both PWS Warning Notifications and MBSP messages are used in
this PLMN network either through roaming or a purchase by a subscriber of this
MNO.
### 4.7.3 Service Flows
1\. The Public Safety agency creates a PWS message.
2\. The MNO broadcasts PWS Warning Notification.
3\. The UE detects that only a PWS Warning Notification is available.
4\. The UE will notify the user of the presence of a PWS Warning Notification
and display it when requested by the user.
### 4.7.4 Post-conditions
The UEs are able to identify that only PWS Warning Notifications are broadcast
by the serving PLMN, notify the user of the availability of a PWS Warning
Notification and display the PWS Warning Notification when requested.
### 4.7.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
This use case demonstrates some of the backwards compatibility considerations
with the existing PWS Warning Notification capabilities.
### 4.7.6 Potential Requirements
1\. UEs supporting both PWS Warning Notifications and MBSP messages shall be
able to determine whether a PLMN will broadcast existing PWS Warning
Notifications also as MBSP messages.
2\. UEs supporting both PWS Warning Notifications and MBSP messages operating
in a PLMN broadcasting only PWS Warning Notifications shall behave in the same
fashion as a UE only supporting PWS Warning Notifications.
## 4.8 Separate PWS Warning Notification and MBSP messages covering the same
public warning
### 4.8.1 Description
The current deployed PWS only supports PWS Warning Notifications, during a
transition period until MBSP message capability becomes ubiquitous end-to-end,
both PWS Warning Notification and MBSP message broadcast will be needed. There
may be some PWS and mPWS messages which are intended to alert the public
regarding the same public warning, but the text content portion of the PWS and
mPWS message can't be shared between PWS Warning Notification and MBSP
messages.
### 4.8.2 Pre-conditions
The Public Safety agency originating the PWS messages covering a single public
warning will create separate messages for the PWS Warning Notification as well
as for MBSP messages. The nature of the MBSP multimedia components is such
that the text component can't be shared between the PWS Warning Notification
and MBSP messages.
The MNO supports both the PWS Warning Notification and MBSP message
capabilities.
UEs only supporting the PWS Warning Notification are operating in the alerting
area.
UEs supporting both PWS Warning Notification and MBSP messages are operating
in the alerting area.
### 4.8.3 Service Flows
1\. The Public Safety agency creates a PWS message and an mPWS message
describing the single public warning. The PWS message and mPWS message include
different text.
2\. The MNO broadcasts the PWS Warning Notification.
3\. The MNO broadcasts the MBSP message.
4\. UEs which only support PWS Warning Notifications notify the user of the
presence of a PWS text Warning Notification and display it when requested by
the user. The MBSP message is ignored by the UE.
5\. UEs which support both PWS Warning Notifications and MBSP messages will
notify the user of the presence of an MBSP message and display it (including
the text component of the MBSP message) when requested. The related PWS
Warning Notification is ignored.
### 4.8.4 Post-conditions
The UE supporting only PWS Warning Notification will only handle the PWS
Warning Notification.
The UE supporting both PWS Warning Notification and MBSP messages will only
handle the MBSP message (including the text component in the MBSP message) and
ignore the PWS Warning Notification message.
### 4.8.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
This use case demonstrates some of the backwards compatibility considerations
with the existing PWS Warning Notification message capabilities.
### 4.8.6 Potential Requirements
UEs supporting both PWS Warning Notification and MBSP messages shall notify
the user about the availability of the MBSP message and display it when
requested by the user. Any PWS Warning Notifications relating to the same
public warning shall be ignored.
## 4.9 Multimedia PWS messages received by a UE in Limited Service state
### 4.9.1 Description
This use case describes a UE which is in Limited Service state.
### 4.9.2 Pre-conditions
The MNO network supports PWS and MBSP.
The UE is in Limited Service state.
### 4.9.3 Service Flows
The UE receives a PWS Warning Notification notifying the user of a nearby
incident.
The UE is notified of supplemental multimedia content for this notification
and automatically selects the MBSP message from the broadcast.
If the MBSP message was received with errors preventing the content from being
displayed, the UE needs to wait for a repetition of the notification
broadcast.
The UE alerts the user that a MBSP message was received, displays the text
component immediately and presents the multimedia components when requested.
### 4.9.4 Post-conditions
The UE displays the multimedia content if it was received.
### 4.9.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.9.6 Potential Requirements
The UE shall be able to receive PWS multi-media messages while in a limited
service state.
Subject to regulatory requirements, the UE shall detect duplicate multi-media
message broadcasts and ignore duplicate multi-media messages.
## 4.10 UE restrictions when the network is overloaded
### 4.10.1 Description
One aspect of PWS is the distribution of emergency messages during large scale
emergency scenarios, even when the 3GPP network is overloaded or operating in
a stressed condition. The UE's in obtaining MBSP messages must not contribute
additional traffic or network load in response to the messages.
### 4.10.2 Pre-conditions
A wide spread emergency condition arises and the 3GPP network is stressed from
the exceptional call traffic relating to the emergency.
UE A and UE B support MBSP and are in the area affected by the emergency.
### 4.10.3 Service Flows
1\. A wide spread emergency condition arises and the responsible public safety
agency issues an MBSP message.
2\. UE A and B are both monitoring for MBSP message broadcast and are alerted
that a MBSP message is being broadcast.
3\. UE A successfully receives the complete MBSP message and notifies the
user.
4\. UE A does not interact with the 3GPP network with any response to the MBSP
message.
5\. UE B receives an incomplete MBSP message and does not alert the user.
6\. UE B does not interact with the 3GPP network with any response to the
incomplete MBSP message (such as a retransmission or media recovery request).
7\. UE B waits for the MBSP message to be re-broadcast.
### 4.10.4 Post-conditions
UE A and B do not create any additional network traffic in response to
successfully or unsuccessfully receiving an MBSP message.
UE A and B resume monitoring the 3GPP network for additional or updated MBSP
messages.
### 4.10.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
This use case demonstrates the need to minimize network traffic in response to
receiving an MBSP message when the network is operating normally or in an
overload condition.
### 4.10.6 Potential Requirements
The UE supporting MBSP shall not initiate automatically any network traffic in
response to successful or unsuccessful reception of an MBSP message.
## 4.11 Multi-media PWS interaction with MBMS
### 4.11.1 Description
A UE, while engaged in a MBMS session still needs to handle an MBSP message
and then potentially resume the MBMS session.
### 4.11.2 Pre-conditions
UE A supports both MBMS and MBSP.
The 3GPP network supports both MBMS and MBSP.
UE A is engaged in a MBMS session broadcasting a live sports event.
### 4.11.3 Service Flows
1\. A wide spread emergency condition arises and the responsible public safety
agency issues an MBSP message. The Public Safety agency indicates that this
message should interrupt any ongoing multi-media applications running on the
UE.
2\. UE A is presenting the video and audio media from the MBMS broadcast of
the sports event to the user.
3\. The 3GPP network broadcasts the MBSP message
4\. The UE A is monitoring for MBSP message broadcasts. Based on the detection
of the MBSP message alert, the UE A prepares to receive the broadcast MBSP
message content.
5\. The UE A successfully receives the complete MBSP message content.
6\. The UE A determines from the MBSP message that the alerting urgency
requires interrupting the current multi-media session presentation.
7\. The UE A interrupts the presentation of the live sports event audio and
video media and notify the user about the MBSP message.
8\. UE A suspends the presentation of the live sports event audio and video
media presentation and presents the MBSP message contents.
9\. The UE A user views the MBSP message.
10\. The UE A resumes presentation of the live sports event audio and video
media presentation.
11\. The emergency condition mitigation reduces the threat to the citizens in
the area and the Public Safety agency decides to inform the affected citizens
that the threat level is downgraded and for anybody affected, where to
assemble for temporary shelter. The Public Safety agency indicates that this
message does not need to interrupt any ongoing multi-media applications
running on the UE.
12\. The 3GPP network broadcasts the MBSP message
13\. The UE A is monitoring for MBSP message broadcasts. Based on the
detection of the MBSP message alert, the UE A prepares to receive the
broadcast MBSP message content.
14\. The UE A successfully receives the complete MBSP message content.
15\. The UE A determines from the MBSP message that the alerting urgency does
not require interrupting the current multi-media session presentation.
16\. The live sports event ends and the user exits from the application which
presented the live sports even audio and video media.
17\. UE A informs the user about the recent MBSP message contents
availability.
18\. The UE A user views the MBSP message.
### 4.11.4 Post-conditions
While engaged in MBMS sessions UE A detected and received MBSP messages.
UE A alerted its respective user about the MBSP message
UE A suspended the presentation of the ongoing MBMS sessions based on MBSP
message information about interrupting existing UE multi-media applications.
UE A retained the MBSP message which indicated that interrupting active UE
multi-media MBMS session is not required and alerted the user when the multi-
media presentation was finished.
### 4.11.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
This use case demonstrates that while engaged in MBMS, a UE still needs to be
monitoring the 3GPP network for MBSP message broadcasts.
This use case also demonstrates that presentation of MBMS content to the user
must be interruptible to allow presentation of received multi-media PWS
message content when indicated in the MBSP message
### 4.11.6 Potential Requirements
The UE supporting MBSP shall continue to monitor for MBSP message broadcasts
while engaged in MBMS sessions.
The UE supporting MBSP shall alert the user when an MBSP message was
successfully received and is not a duplicate of a previously alerted MBSP
message while engaged in MBMS sessions either:
\- Immediately when the MBSP message indicates that current MBMS session
presentation must be interrupted.
\- At the completion of current MBMS session presentation when the MBSP
message indicates that current MBMS session can continue to completion.
Note: Regional regulations may establish additional policy requirements
regarding the relative priorities of MBSP message alerting and presentation
when different types of non-MBSP multi-media applications and presentations
are taking place on the UE.
## 4.12 UE and network combinations of PWS support
### 4.12.1 Description
Based on regional regulatory requirements and extended by operator policy,
there are likely to be a wide range of combination of support for current text
only PWS and MBSP. This use case describes the possible combinations and the
expected results.
### 4.12.2 Pre-conditions
Network A in Xanadu supports only existing text PWS.
Network B in Atlantis supports both exiting text PWS and MBSP.
Network C in Shangri-La supports only MBSP.
The Atlantis Park Police will generate only text PWS Warning Notifications.
The Atlantis Shore Patrol will generate separate text only PWS Warning
Notifications and MBSP messages containing text different from the text only
PWS Warning Notification.
The Atlantis Crossing Guards will generate a single MBSP message where the
text portion applies both standalone (text only PWS Warning Notification) and
in conjunction with the MBSP message.
The Atlantis Border Control will generate only a MBSP message where the text
content will not be meaningful by itself.
There is a cruise boat with 3 users on board travelling to Xanadu, Atlantis,
and Shangri-La.
On board this cruise boat there are the following UEs:
UE X only supports existing text PWS.
UE Y supports both existing text and multli-media PWS.
UE Z supports only MBSP (not the existing text PWS).
### 4.12.3 Service Flows
1\. The cruise boat arrives in Xanadu, and a plague of frogs threatens the
city.
2\. Network A broadcasts a PWS Warning Notification about the frogs in the
form of an existing text only PWS.
3\. The cruise boat moves on to Atlantis and a plague of wild animals
threatens the city.
4\. The Atlantis Park Police generate a text only PWS Warning Notification
warning to not pet any animals in the park.
5\. The Atlantis Shore Patrol generate a text only PWS Warning Notification
and a separate MBSP message with a text component warning citizens to not go
swimming due to a shark infestation.
6\. The Atlantis Crossing Guards generate a single MBSP message with a text
component that also applies by itself warning citizens about wild animals
jaywalking.
7\. The Atlantis Border Control generate a single MBSP message with a text
component clarifying an image of which wild animals threatening Atlantis are
illegal to export.
8\. Network B broadcasts PWS Warning Notifications relating to the wild
animals from all four Atlantis Public Safety agencies.
9\. The cruise boat moves to Shangri-La and a plague of locusts threatens the
city.
10\. Network C broadcasts a PWS Warning Notification about the locusts in the
form of a MBSP message.
### 4.12.4 Post-conditions
Table 1 describes the network actions and results for the various
combinations.
Table 1: Network and UE PWS support combinations
* * *
Operator Public Safety Agency PWS Warning Notification initiated by Public
Safety Agency UE X supporting existing text PWS only UE Y supporting both
existing text only PWS and MBSP UE Z supporting MBSP only A A single current
text only PWS Warning Notification Receives the current text only PWS Warning
Notification Receives the current text only PWS Warning Notification Does not
receive PWS Warning Notification  
B Park Police A single current text only PWS Warning Notification Receives the
current text only PWS Warning Notification Receive a PWS Warning Notification
(Note 3) Receives the MBSP message (Note 4) Shore Patrol A current text only
PWS Warning Notification plus a MBSP message with a different text component
Receives the current text only PWS Warning Notification Receives the MBSP
message (Note 5) Receives the MBSP message Crossing Guards A single combined
MBSP message (Note 1) Receives the current text only PWS Warning Notification
(Note 1) Receives the MBSP message (Note 5) Receives the MBSP message Border
Control A single MBSP message (Note 2) Does not receive PWS Warning
Notification Receives the MBSP message Receives the MBSP message C A single
MBSP message Does not receive PWS Warning Notification Receives the MBSP
message Receives the MBSP message
* * *
Note 1: This assumes that the 3GPP network extracts the text component from
the MBSP message using it to create an additional current text only PWS
Warning Notification.
Note 2: This assumes that the 3GPP network can't extract the text component
from the MBSP message since the text component is meaningless by itself.
Note 3: The 3GPP network can either send a PWS Warning Notification in the
current text only form or can create an additional multi-media only text
message using the same text component in the originated message.
Note 4: This will only apply if the 3GPP network creates an additional MBSP
message using the same text component in the originated message. Otherwise UE
Z will not receive the PWS Warning Notification.
Note 5: UE Y will need to recognize that both a current text only PWS Warning
Notification and a MBSP refer to the same Public Safety warning
### 4.12.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
The only interaction identified is that there may be a need to identify text
components of PWS Warning Notifications for use in a 3GPP network created
current text only PWS Warning Notification.
### 4.12.6 Potential Requirements
Dependent on regional regulatory requirements and extended by operator policy
the following behaviours shall be supported by 3GPP networks and UEs when
deployed in corresponding combinations listed in Table 2.
Table 2: 3GPP network and UE required behaviour combinations based on PWS
support.
* * *
3GPP network PWS support Originated PWS Warning Notification(s) for a single
public warning UE supporting existing text PWS only UE supporting both
existing text only PWS and MBSP UE supporting MBSP only Current text only PWS
supported A single current text only PWS Warning Notification Receives the
current text only PWS Warning Notification Receives the current text only PWS
Warning Notification Does not receive PWS Warning Notification Both current
text only PWS and MBSP supported A single current text only PWS Warning
Notification Receives the current text only PWS Warning Notification Receive a
PWS Warning Notification (Note 3) Receives the MBSP message (Note 4) A current
text only PWS Warning Notification plus a MBSP message with a different text
component Receives the current text only PWS Warning Notification Receives the
MBSP message (Note 5) Receives the MBSP message A single combined MBSP message
(Note 1) Receives the current text only PWS Warning Notification (Note 1)
Receives the MBSP message (Note 5) Receives the MBSP message A single MBSP
message (Note 2) Does not receive PWS Warning Notification Receives the MBSP
message Receives the MBSP message Only MBSP supported A single MBSP message
Does not receive PWS Warning Notification Receives the MBSP message Receives
the MBSP message
* * *
Note 1: This assumes that the 3GPP network extracts the text component from
the MBSP message using it to create an additional current text only PWS
Warning Notification.
Note 2: This assumes that the 3GPP network can't extract the text component
from the MBSP message since the text component is meaningless by itself.
Note 3: The 3GPP network can either send a PWS Warning Notification in the
current text only form or can create an additional multi-media only text
message using the same text component in the originated message.
Note 4: This will only apply if the 3GPP network creates an additional MBSP
message using the same text component in the originated message.
Note 5: The UE will need to recognize that both a current text only PWS
Warning Notification and a MBSP refer to the same Public Safety warning.
# 5 Considerations
## 5.1 Considerations on security
No additional security requirements beyond those in clause 4.8 in TS 22.268
[2] are identified.
## 5.2 Considerations on displaying the message
As per TS 22.268 [2], the PWS Warning Notification is presented with a
specific ring-tone and a specific vibration cadence. This would apply to
multi-media PWS as well.
# 6 Potential Requirements
## 6.1 General
The requirements for PWS from TS 22.268 [2] also apply to the Multimedia
Broadcast Supplement of PWS with the exception of the following:
\- The ETWS primary notification does not apply to MBSP.
If an MNO provides text based PWS Warning Notifications as well as MBSP, then
it is expected that the granularity will be the same for both types of
services.
## 6.2 Consolidated Requirements
Editor's Note: Text to be provided
# 7 Conclusion and Recommendations
Editor's Note: Text to be provided
#