# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
Introduction
The Selective IP Traffic Offload (SIPTO) feature defined in 3GPP Release10
specifications allows the operator to streamline an established PDN connection
by re-assigning a new PGW that is geographically closer to the current UE
location. However, as noted in TS 23.401 [2], PGW relocation implies a change
in IP address, which means that performing SIPTO may disrupt any ongoing
services.
With the introduction of SIPTO at the Local Network (SIPTO\@LN) feature, the
PGW (alias Local Gateway) is moved even further towards the network edge and
service disruptions due to SIPTO is likely to increase because of the much
smaller \"coverage\" of the Local Gateway.
One way to mitigate the effects of relocating the PGW is to prohibit SIPTO
operation for UEs in Connected mode, reference TS 23.401 [2]. While this is an
improvement compared to blindly performed SIPTO, it still does not address the
issue of smooth PGW relocation for UEs with long-lived and real-time IP flows
(e.g. long conference / video call, large file transfers, etc.).
Service disruption due to IP address change does not have the same effect on
short-lived and long-lived/real-time flows:
\- for short-lived flows (e.g. web browsing) the user may not notice anything,
or in the worst-case may have to briefly interact with the user interface
(e.g. by clicking again on the web page link following a network connection
lost\" error);
\- for long-lived and real time flows, the effect can be detrimental (e.g. the
user would be disconnected from the conference, and has to re-dial the bridge
number, enter password, etc.; similar effect applies to VPN traffic).
The UE is in the best position to identify the presence of any long-lived and
real-time flows and is therefore in the best position to advise the network
whether SIPTO can be performed without much disruption or any disruption at
all. Moreover, for supporting applications the UE may also be able to pro-
actively move the long-lived and real-time flows on a new IP address (i.e. on
a new PDN connection) before the previous IP address (i.e. old PDN connection)
is removed. The MMTel set of applications shall be studied in this regard as
well as the possibilities for other types of applications. An example of such
application is the IMS that allows the change of media transport addresses for
an ongoing session using the IMS Service Continuity mechanisms defined in TS
23.237 [3].
The present document studies methods and procedures that could be used, based
on end-user preferences and with benefit from the UE\'s knowledge of
established IP flow type, to provide information to the network so that it can
consider the end-user expectation regarding local PGW change in case of SIPTO
use.
# 1 Scope
The present document considers use cases and identifies potential requirements
for network consideration of the following items regarding the change of local
PGW in use for SIPTO:
a) end-user experience and preferences; and
b) UE\'s knowledge of ongoing IP flow types.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.237: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity; Stage
2\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 Use Case 1 -- CSIPTO for non-IMS Use Case
### 4.1.1 Description
While initially intended to address specific residential or enterprise use
cases, SIPTO at the Local Network (SIPTO\@LN) architecture can also be used by
the operator for offloading of large amounts of traffic as close to the radio
network edge as possible. Extensive deployment of SIPTO\@LN may lead to an
extremely flat architecture like the one depicted in Figure 4.1.1-1, in which
the MME controls a number of cluster areas, each of them served by a co-
located SGW/PGW node.
When a UE requests a PDN connection to a specific Access Point Name (APN), the
MME selects PGW1 that is geographically close to the current UE location, in
order to optimize the backhaul transport (S1 and S5 tunnels) via the Evolved
Packet Core (EPC) network (see red dashed line in Figure 4.1.1-1).
As the UE moves from one cluster to another (e.g. from cluster A to cluster B
in Figure 4.x.1-1), the SGW is initially relocated whereas the original PGW
can be temporarily kept (by using the inter cluster S5 interface), to preserve
IP address continuity (see green dashed line in Figure 4.1.1-1).
At some point the EPC may decide that the PDN connection needs to be
streamlined and may invoke the SIPTO feature in order to reallocate the PGW.
The execution of the SIPTO feature as currently defined involves a release of
the original PDN connection, followed by a subsequent re-establishment of a
new PDN connection to the same packet data network. Upon the PDN connection
re-establishment, a new PGW is assigned that is geographically closer to the
user\'s current location. The relocation of PGW results in assignment of a new
IP address, which means that the IP address continuity is broken and any
ongoing IP services may be disrupted.
{width="6.613194444444445in" height="4.198611111111111in"}
Figure 4.1.1-1: EPS architecture with SIPTO\@LN
The break in IP address continuity may be particularly problematic for long-
lived IP flows (flows that require IP address preservation) e.g. in services
such as large file transfer, connection to a conference bridge or VPN
connection. This use case describes how CSIPTO enables smooth and
uninterrupted handling of long-lived IP flows with non-IMS services as the UE
is transitioned from one PGW to another.
### 4.1.2 Pre-conditions
Operator X has deployed SIPTO\@LN extensively in its network.
The policy of Operator X is to optimize its network efficiency and streamline
the connections of UEs to the closest SGW/PGW whenever possible, while
minimizing disruption of ongoing services.
Bob is walking and texting with his friend on his UE.
Dylan is riding as a passenger in a car. He is participating in a conference
call via a conference bridge.
Both subscribers have just moved from Cluster A to Cluster B. The MME had
moved both their connections to SGW2 but they are still tunnelled through PGW1
which is not the closest PGW to their current locations (See green dashed
lines in Figure 4.1.3-1).
{width="6.627777777777778in" height="4.946527777777778in"}
Figure 4.1.3-1: EPS architecture with CSIPTO
Since Bob is engaged in a short-lived flow application (texting), the system
instructs Bob\'s UE to deactivate the PDN connection to PGW1 (discontinue the
green dashed line connection in Figure 4.1.3-1) with subsequent PDN
reactivation. When Bob\'s UE requests the reactivation, a new PDN connection
is established, this time to PGW2 (black dashed line connection in Figure
4.1.3-1). Upon connecting to PGW2, Bob\'s UE is able to continue the text
session. Due to the short-lived flow nature of the text session, Bob does not
notice any interruption in his text session.
Since Dylan is engaged in a conference call via a bridge (a long-lived flow
service for which service continuity is essential), his UE maintains its PDN
connection to PGW1 (green dashed line in Figure 4.1.3-1) while requesting a
new PDN connection for the same service type. The new PDN connection is
established to PGW2 (black dashed line in Figure 4.1.3-1). Once the connection
to PGW2 is made, all new IP flows are directed to it, except for any long-
lived service flows. At the same time, the existing long-lived flows of the
conference bridge session are still directed to the PDN connection to PGW1,
thus ensuring service continuity of the Dylan\'s conference bridge session.
The PDN connection to PGW1 is released only when all the long-lived flows
flowing on it have expired or when it becomes impractical to keep the PDN
connection to PGW1, whichever event occurs first. The reason for not
establishing a new long-lived flow for which service continuity is essential
to PGW2 is to not add multiple PDN connections to different PGWs for long-
lived service flows.
### 4.1.4 Post-conditions
The network was able to improve the network efficiency by streamlining the PDN
connection (from PGW1 to the closer PGW2) for all new IP flows.
Bob was able to continue his texting session without any perceived
interruption in the service.
Dylan was able to remain on his conference bridge without being disconnected.
### 4.1.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
\- There may be impact on the \"Multiple PDN connections to the same APN\"
feature because in existing Stage 2 specifications, it is assumed that all PDN
connections to the same APN are terminated on the same PDN GW.
> \- Activation of CSIPTO may cause the user to exceed the subscribed
> aggregate maximum bit rate (AMBR) when the CSIPTO-triggered concurrent PDN
> connections are associated with the same packet data network and the
> aggregate bit rate is not enforced in a common network node.
### 4.1.6 Potential requirements
\- [PR-4.1.6-001] The system shall be able to determine and monitor the
changes in the state (optimal or suboptimal) of a PDN connection.
> NOTE: The definition of optimal and suboptimal can be based on a number of
> implementation criteria like geography, topology and load balancing etc.
>
> \- [PR-4.1.6-002] The system shall be able to detect when a PDN connection
> becomes suboptimal and decides when to establish an optimal PDN connection
> for the same service type.
>
> \- [PR-4.1.6-003] The system shall be able to identify the service flows
> that require IP address preservation and determine if a suboptimal PDN
> connection needs to be maintained after an optimal PDN connection for the
> same service type is made in order to maintain service continuity.
  * [PR-4.1.6-004] The system shall be able to ensure that new service > flows are using the optimal PDN connection.
```{=html}
``` \- [PR-4.1.6-005] The system shall be able to direct any new service >
flows requiring IP address preservation towards the existing > suboptimal PDN
connection, if the system has existing service > flows requiring IP address
preservation on that suboptimal PDN > connection.
  * [PR-4.1.6-006] The system shall be able to release a suboptimal > PDN connection when it determines that there are no service flows > using that suboptimal PDN connection. The system shall be able to > release a suboptimal PDN connection when a time limit has expired.
  * [PR-4.1.6-007] The system shall be able to ensure that the actual > average aggregate bit rate for IP flows of packet data network > connections associated with the same packet data network does not > significantly exceed the subscribed aggregate maximum bit rate for > this packet data network when two PDN connections are used with > the same PDN.
## 4.2 Use Case 2 - CSIPTO always-on dual PDN connection
### 4.2.1 Description
There is a trade-off between data-path optimization and IP address
preservation (a.k.a. IP session continuity) when it comes to using SIPTO at
the Local Network (LN). Using SIPTO at LN provides a more direct data-path
between the UE and its communicating Remote Ends compared to using a PGW in
the core network. On the other hand, UE handovers are more likely to break the
IP sessions as the UE may end up changing IP subnets when changing LGW with
SIPTO at LN.
The choice between data-path optimization and IP address preservation depends
on the applications. Certain applications prefer data-path optimization
because their flows are short-lived and they do not need any IP address
preservation (e.g. DNS lookups), or they handle session continuity at a higher
layer (e.g. Instant Messengers). Certain other applications prefer IP address
preservation because an IP session break yields unacceptable user experience
(e.g. live video streaming).
When the UE establishes a single PDN connection for a given PDN, it runs the
risk of causing suboptimal results and/or disruption for its running
applications. If the PDN connection is established with a PGW in the core
network, it causes unnecessary transmission delay and core network load for
the applications that are not in need of IP address preservation. On the other
hand, if the PDN connection is established with an LGW, this causes disruption
for the applications that require IP address preservation when the UE changes
LGW.
This contribution suggests a use case for establishing both types of PDN
connections by default (when an LGW is available) and performing PDN
connection selection on a per-application/flow basis.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
Operator X has deployed SIPTO at the LN in its network.
LGW may be available to the UE depending on the location of the UE.
### 4.2.3 Service flows
UE establishes two PDN connections for the same PDN when an LGW is available
-- one connection with the LGW in the LN, another connection with the PGW in
the core network.
{width="3.817361111111111in" height="2.451388888888889in"}
Figure 4.3.3-1: Dual PDN Connection
When an application that does not require IP address preservation attempts to
establish an IP flow (e.g. an Instant Messenger session), then the UE binds
that flow to the PDN connection with the LGW (see the dashed red line in
Figure 4.3.3-1). Consequently, the traffic flow enjoys the shortest data-path
between the UE and its communication peer (Remote End1) without having to go
through the core network.
If the UE attaches to another eNB where serving LGW is not available but a new
LGW is available, then the previously established local PDN connection is
terminated and another local PDN connection is established with the new LGW.
The new PDN connection is likely to have an IP address different than the
previous one. Given that the application bound to the PDN connection with the
previous LGW did not require IP address preservation, the change of IP address
would not constitute a problem for that application.
{width="3.498611111111111in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
Figure 4.3.3-2: Falling Back to Single PDN Connection in the Absence of an LGW
If the UE attaches to an eNB where there is no LGW available (e.g. eNB2 in
Figure 4.3.3-2), then the local PDN connection is removed and not replaced by
another one. Instead, the UE is left with a single PDN connection with the
PGW. Applications that have been using the local PDN connections before can
now start using the only available PDN connection (which is the one via the
PGW in the core network).
When an application that requires IP address preservation attempts to
establish an IP flow (e.g. a live video streaming session with Remote End2),
then the UE binds that flow to the PDN connection with the PGW in core network
(see the dashed blue line in Figure 4.3.3-1). Such applications and their
flows are not affected by presence/absence/change of any local PDN connection
with the LGWs.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
The network was able to improve network efficiency by selectively utilizing
SIPTO at the LN without penalizing flows that required IP address
preservation.
### 4.2.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
\- This scenario requires ability to establish and simultaneously use two PDN
connections with the same PDN where each connection is using a separate packet
gateway. This is the basic impact of CSIPTO feature on the 3GPP system.
\- This scenario also requires the IP stack on the UE to be able to bind each
UE-initiated flow to one of the two PDN connections by making a selection
based on the flow type
\- Activation of CSIPTO may cause the user to exceed the subscribed aggregate
maximum bit rate (AMBR) when the CSIPTO-triggered concurrent PDN connections
are associated with the same packet data network and the aggregate bit rate is
not enforced in a common network node.
### 4.2.6 Potential requirements
The requirements derived from this use case are:
\- [PR-4.2.6-001] In presence of established PDN connection that supports IP
address preservation, the system shall be able to establish an additional PDN
connection for the same service type that does not support IP address
preservation, when this is possible.
\- [PR-4.2.6-002] The system shall be able to bind a flow to the PDN
connection that does not support IP address preservation, if such a PDN
connection is available and the flow does not require IP address preservation.
\- [PR-4.2.6-003] The system shall be able to bind a flow to the PDN
connection that supports IP address preservation, if the flow requires IP
address preservation or that PDN connection is the only available one at that
time.
\- [PR-4.2.6-004] The system shall be able to ensure that the actual average
aggregate bit rate for IP flows of packet data network connections associated
with the same packet data network does not significantly exceed the subscribed
aggregate maximum bit rate for this packet data network when two PDN
connections are used with the same PDN.
## 4.3 Use Case 3 - CSIPTO on-demand dual PDN connection
### 4.3.1 Description
There is a trade-off between data-path optimization and IP address
preservation (a.k.a. IP session continuity) when it comes to using SIPTO at
the Local Network (LN). Using SIPTO at LN provides a more direct data-path
between the UE and its communicating Remote Ends compared to using a PGW in
the core network. On the other hand, UE handovers are more likely to break the
IP session as the UE may end up changing IP subnets when changing LGW with
SIPTO at LN.
The choice between data-path optimization and IP address preservation depends
on the applications.\ Certain applications prefer data-path optimization
because their flows are short-lived and they do not need any IP session
continuity (e.g. DNS lookups), or they handle session continuity at a higher
layer (e.g., Instant Messengers). Certain other applications prefer IP address
preservation because an IP session break yields unacceptable user experience
(e.g. live video streaming).
When the UE establishes a single PDN connection for a given PDN, it runs the
risk of causing suboptimal results and/or disruption for its running
applications. If the PDN connection is established with a PGW in the core
network, it causes unnecessary transmission delay and core network load for
the applications that are not in need of IP address preservation. On the other
hand, if the PDN connection is established with an LGW, this causes disruption
for the applications that require IP address preservation when the UE changes
LGW.
This contribution suggests a use case for establishing a PDN connection with
one type of GW, establishing an additional PDN connection to the same PDN
using the other type of GW when required by the applications, and performing
PDN connection selection on a per-application/flow basis.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
Operator X has deployed SIPTO at the LN in its network.
LGW may be available to the UE depending on the location of the UE.
The subscription profile associated with the UE determines the default GW to
be the LGW.
### 4.3.3 Service flows
UE establishes the default PDN connection with an LGW, when an LGW is
available. If an LGW is not available, then the default PDN connection is
established with a PGW.
{width="2.75in" height="2.3784722222222223in"}
Figure 4.4.3-1: Default PDN Connection with an LGW
When the UE attempts to initiate a flow that does not require IP address
preservation, that flow can be carried over the PDN connection with the LGW
(see the red dotted-line in Figure 4.4.3-1).
When the UE attempts to initiate a flow that requires IP address preservation,
that flow shall not be carried over the SIPTO at LN PDN connection as that
connection cannot ensure preservation of the IP address. So, the UE
establishes an additional PDN connection with the same PDN but using a PGW
this time. The new flow is carried over this new PDN connection (see the blue
dotted-line Figure 4.4.3-2).
{width="3.817361111111111in" height="2.451388888888889in"}
Figure 4.4.3-2: Dual PDN Connection\
The second PDN connection stays on as long as there is an active flow that
requires IP address preservation. It can be terminated after the last flow
that required IP address preservation has terminated (plus some grace period).
When the UE is attached to an eNB where there is no LGW available, then the
default PDN connection is established with the PGW. The single PDN connection
is used irrespective of whether the flows require IP address preservation or
not (see Figure 4.4.3-3). But, UE can resume using dual PDN connections as
soon as an LGW becomes available.
{width="3.498611111111111in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
Figure 4.4.3-3: Falling Back to Single PDN Connection in the Absence of an LGW
The aforementioned use case prefers LGW as the default GW when available. This
preference is based on the assumption that most of the flows would not need IP
address preservation. This preference can be reversed based on the operator
policy and UE type.
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
The network was able to improve network efficiency by dynamically establishing
an additional PDN connection and selectively utilizing SIPTO at the LN without
penalizing flows that required IP address preservation.
### 4.3.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
\- This scenario requires ability to establish and simultaneously use two PDN
connections with the same PDN where each connection is using a separate packet
gateway. This is the basic impact of CSIPTO feature on the 3GPP system.
\- This scenario also requires the IP stack on the UE to be able to bind each
UE-initiated flow to one of the two PDN connections by making a selection
based on the flow type.
\- Activation of CSIPTO may cause the user to exceed the subscribed aggregate
maximum bit rate (AMBR) when the CSIPTO-triggered concurrent PDN connections
are associated with the same packet data network and the aggregate bit rate is
not enforced in a common network node.
### 4.3.6 Potential requirements
The requirements derived from this use case are:
\- [PR-4.3.6-001] The system shall be able to establish a default PDN
connection that either supports or does not support IP address preservation.
Default preference is given in the subscription profile.
\- [PR-4.3.6-002] The system shall be able to establish an additional PDN
connection that support IP address preservation for the same service type when
a new flow requires IP address preservation, if the existing PDN connection
does not support IP address preservation.
\- [PR-4.3.6-003] The system shall be able to establish an additional PDN
connection that does not support IP address preservation for the same service
type when a new flow does not require IP address preservation, if the existing
PDN connection supports IP address preservation and it is possible to
establish a PDN connection that does not support IP address preservation.
\- [PR-4.3.6-004] The system shall be able to bind a flow to the PDN
connection that does not support IP address preservation, if such a PDN
connection is available and the flow does not require IP address preservation.
\- [PR-4.3.6-005] The system shall be able to bind a flow to the PDN
connection that supports IP address preservation, if the flow requires IP
address preservation or that PDN connection is the only available one at that
time.
\- [PR-4.3.6-006] The system shall be able to terminate the additional PDN
connection if there are no flows using that connection anymore.
\- [PR-4.3.6-007] The system shall be able to ensure that the actual average
aggregate bit rate for IP flows of packet data network connections associated
with the same packet data network does not significantly exceed the subscribed
aggregate maximum bit rate for this packet data network when two PDN
connections are used with the same PDN.
# 5 Considerations
## 5.1 Considerations on security
CSIPTO may require additional LI reporting.
## 5.2 Considerations on charging
There may be impact on charging aspects e.g. accounting and usage information
due to CSIPTO triggered concurrent PDN connections.
## 5.3 Considerations on evolution and rollout
Backward compatibility to pre-Rel 13 is not required.
## 5.4 Considerations on IMS
In the case of IMS, the procedure not only requires a full new additional PDN
connection but it also requires an additional IMS session simultaneously
towards the same end points for the transitional period during which the two
PDN connections co-exist and thus have adverse impacts to the IMS session.
Maintaining two IMS sessions for the same connection requires not only
doubling of resources throughout the system for the transitional period during
which the two PDN connections co-exist and continuity from one IMS session
towards the other also creates complexity.
It is noted that IMS signalling will always need to be brought back to the
operator's network, and in most cases also media will need to be sent back to
the operator's network to handle routing to other networks and users.
CSIPTO requirements have not been developed for use in conjunction with IMS
# 6 Potential requirements
6.1 Introduction
The following requirements are consolidated from the requirements associated
with the use cases in section 4 of this TR. These requirements have been
created to support CSIPTO and go beyond the existing SIPTO (Rel 10) and
SIPTO\@LN (Rel 12).
## 6.2 Consolidated requirements
### 6.2.1 Establishing additional PDN connections; keeping and releasing PDN
connections
\- [CPR-6.2.1-001] The system shall be able to establish a second PDN
connection to the same PDN, without releasing the existing PDN connection, and
temporarily keep both PDN connections until all traffic is consolidated on
only one PDN connection. The following additional requirements apply:
\- [CPR-6.2.1-001.1] The system shall be able to determine and monitor the
changes in the state (optimal or suboptimal) of a PDN connection.
Note: The definition of optimal and suboptimal can be based on a number of
implementation criteria like geography, topology and load balancing etc.
\- [CPR-6.2.1-001.2] The system shall be able to detect when a PDN connection
becomes suboptimal and decides when to establish an optimal PDN connection for
the same service type.
\- [CPR-6.2.1-001.3] If IP address preservation is required, the system shall
be able to determine if a suboptimal PDN connection needs to be maintained
after an optimal PDN connection for the same service type is made in order to
maintain service.
\- [CPR-6.2.1-001.4] The system shall be able to ensure that new service flows
are using the optimal PDN connection.
\- [CPR-6.2.1-001.5] The system shall be able to direct any new service flows
requiring IP address preservation towards the existing suboptimal PDN
connection, if the system has existing service flows requiring IP address
preservation on that suboptimal PDN connection.
\- [CPR-6.2.1-001.6] The system shall be able to release a suboptimal PDN
connection when it determines that there are no service flows using that
suboptimal PDN connection. The system shall be able to release a suboptimal
PDN connection when a time limit has expired.
### 6.2.2 Establishing and simultaneously using two PDN connections with the
same PDN
\- [CPR-6.2.2-001] The system shall be configurable to do either of the
following outlined in [CPR-6.2.2-001.1] or [CPR-6.2.2-001.2]:
\- [CPR-6.2.2-001.1] Establish, on an always-on basis, an additional PDN
connection that does not support IP address preservation (when possible), if a
PDN connection supporting IP address preservation is already established.
\- [CPR-6.2.2-001.2] Establish a default PDN connection that supports or does
not support IP address preservation; based on the default preference in the
subscription profile.
\- [CPR-6.2.2-001.2.1] The system, on an on-demand basis, shall be able to
establish an additional PDN connection that supports IP address preservation
for the same service type when a new flow requires IP address preservation, if
the existing PDN connection does not support IP address preservation.
\- [CPR-6.2.2-001.2.2] The system, on an on-demand basis, shall be able to
establish an additional PDN connection that does not support IP address
preservation for the same service type when a new flow does not require IP
address preservation, if the existing PDN connection supports IP address
preservation and it is possible to establish a PDN connection that does not
support IP address preservation.
\- [CPR-6.2.2-002] The system shall be able to bind a flow to the PDN
connection that does not support IP address preservation, if such a PDN
connection is available and the flow does not require IP address preservation.
\- [CPR-6.2.2-003] The system shall be able to bind a flow to the PDN
connection that supports IP address preservation, if the flow requires IP
address preservation or that PDN connection is the only available one at that
time.
\- [CPR-6.2.2-004] The system shall be able to terminate a PDN connection if
there are no flows using that connection anymore.
### 6.2.3 Managing aggregate maximum bit rate when two PDN connections are
used with the same PDN
\- [CPR-6.2.3-001] The system shall be able to ensure that the actual average
aggregate bit rate for IP flows of packet data network connections associated
with the same packet data network does not significantly exceed the subscribed
aggregate maximum bit rate for this packet data network when two connections
are used with the same PDN.
# 7 Conclusion and Recommendations
The present document describes 3 scenarios and use cases in which specific
methods and procedures using end-user preferences and the UE's knowledge of
established IP flow type, to provide information to the network regarding
local PGW change in case of SIPTO use were analysed.
These methods and procedures have been found beneficial in enhancing end-user
experiences and address the issue of smooth P-GW relocation for UEs in
connected mode with IP flows that require IP address preservations (e.g. long
conference / video call and large file transfers). This was not addressed by
the current specifications for SIPTO in TS 22.101 & TS 23.401. The analysed
solutions enhance the benefits and potential for the implementation of SIPTO.
It is concluded to create normative requirements based on the potential
requirements documented in section 6 of the present document.
###### ### Annex A: Mapping of potential requirements.
Mapping requirement numbering of potential requirements derived from the use
cases in clause 4 to the requirement numbering of the consolidated potential
requirements in clause 6.
Note: Consolidated potential requirements could have been re-worded from the
original potential requirements derived in clause 4.
Table A.1: Mapping of potential requirements.
* * *
Potential requirements from use cases in clause 4 Consolidated potential
requirements in clause 6 n/a [CPR-6.2.1-001] [PR-4.1.6-001] [CPR-6.2.1-001.1]
[PR-4.1.6-002] [CPR-6.2.1-001.2] [PR-4.1.6-003] [CPR-6.2.1-001.3]
[PR-4.1.6-004] [CPR-6.2.1-001.4] [PR-4.1.6-005] [CPR-6.2.1-001.5]
[PR-4.1.6-006] [CPR-6.2.1-001.6] n/a [CPR-6.2.2-001] [PR-4.2.6-001]
[CPR-6.2.2-001.1] [PR-4.3.6-001] [CPR-6.2.2-001.2] [PR-4.3.6-002]
[CPR-6.2.2-001.2.1] [PR-4.3.6-003] [CPR-6.2.2-001.2.2] [PR-4.2.6-002]
[CPR-6.2.2-002] [PR-4.2.6-003] [CPR-6.2.2-003] [PR-4.3.6-006] [CPR-6.2.2-004]
n/a [CPR-6.2.3] [PR-4.1.6-007] [CPR-6.2.3-001] [PR-4.2.6-004] [CPR-6.2.3-001]
[PR-4.4.6-007] [CPR-6.2.3-001]
* * *
#