# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document identifies potential requirements for the network
information and capability that the 3GPP network could exposed to the 3^rd^
party applications and the MNOs could get the benefits from such the 3^rd^
party applications.
The present document identifies if existing capabilities (e.g. MOSAP, OMA,
GSMA oneAPI, MTC IWF) already satisfy the use cases. Potential additional
requirements are formulated if enhancements to existing capabilities or new
capabilities are needed.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
[2] GSMA Zonal Presence: http://www.gsma.com/oneapi/zonal-presence-beta/
[3] OMA Presence API: "OMA-TS-REST_NetAPI_Presence-V1_0-20130212-C".
[4] IETF RFC-5491: "GEOPRIV Presence Information Data Format Location Object
(PIDF-LO) Usage Clarification, Considerations, and Recommendations".
[5] IETF RFC-5139: "Revised Civic Location Format for Presence Information
Data Format Location Object (PIDF-LO)".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**Example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Use cases
## 4.1 M2M service enablement related use cases
### 4.1.1 Communication patterns
#### 4.1.1.1 Description
This use case describes an optimization for devices that communicate with a
predictable communication pattern. Predictions on the communication pattern
can be used to optimize resource usage, e.g. if there is more data expected
within a short time interval, the UE should remain in connected mode. If the
next data exchange is not expected before a longer time interval, the UE
should go back to idle mode.
MTC Servers (e.g. a Service Capability Server as standardized by ETSI TC M2M
or oneM2M) often have a very good idea on the communication model for a UE.
Many M2M applications use a polling strategy to get data from the MTC Devices.
That implies that the MTC Server is in control about when the data is
retrieved.
For many applications, polling is done on a regular interval. Other
applications may not have a specific interval.
#### 4.1.1.2 Pre-conditions
A MTC Server uses a polling strategy where it one by one polls a large number
of MTC Devices. Polling is done with a polling interval of one minute.
The MTC Server is connected to the mobile network via an API/interface that
allows control information to be exchanged. The MTC Server is authorised to
provide control information for particular MTC Devices communicating with the
MTC Server.
#### 4.1.1.3 Service flows
The MTC Server is connected to the mobile network via an API/interface that
allows control information to be exchanged. The MTC Server is authorised to
provide control information for particular MTC Devices communicating with the
MTC Server.
The MTC Server indicates via the API/interface a specific communication
interval for Device A.
The information about the communication interval is stored in the subscription
for Device A and used by the mobile network to optimize resource usage.
#### 4.1.1.4 Post-conditions
The mobile network will have similar knowledge as the MTC server about the
expected communication pattern for applicable MTC devices.
#### 4.1.1.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
MTC related work in 3GPP SA2 is proposing to store information on predicted
communication patterns in the core network. In these proposals, the
communication pattern is learned from past behaviour from the UE. Proposal
here is to use reliable information on the communication pattern that can come
from the MTC Server. The MTC Server also knows when it changes the
communication pattern. This will be a lot more difficult to predict on the
basis of past behaviour of the UE.
It is also possible to have the UE provide details on the predicted
communication pattern to the RAN. However, there are advantages of providing
this information by the MTC Server:
\- Information on communication pattern provided by the MTC Server can be
logged by the network, which makes it possible to check whether the MTC Server
is providing suitable information. This enables agreements between the
operator and the application owner that the application owner will provide
suitable communication schedules in order to reduce network impact of the
application.
\- There is no impact on the UE and radio interface specifications. It will
work with existing Ues as well.
#### 4.1.1.6 Potential requirements
The system shall allow MTC Servers or other 3^rd^ party application servers to
provide information (e.g. polling rate) about a predictable communication
pattern of individual Ues or groups of Ues. This information may be used by
the 3GPP system to optimize resource usage.
### 4.1.2 M2M service provider setting via MTC Server various parameters for
communication with is MTC devices
#### 4.1.2.1 Description
This use case concentrates on the information exchange between an MTC Server
-- considered an entity outside the 3GPP System -- and the EPC of the 3GPP
System. The MTC server hosts an M2M service provider's Service Enablement
Framework (specified outside of 3GPP, e.g. by ETSI M2M or oneM2M) which
communicates with its counterpart in the MTC Device.
While communication can be implemented entirely 'over the top' of 3GPP (i.e.
only the user plane (IP connectivity) of the 3GPP network is used), it can be
beneficial to expose specific 3GPP services to the Service Enablement
Framework (SEF) to enhance this communication. For these services a 3GPP
operator can charge the M2M service provider.
Such services may include e.g.
\- Broadcast/multicast certain M2M data to a group of MTC devices
\- Providing QoS and Prioritization for individual M2M sessions to/from
individual devices.
\- Scheduling of suitable M2M traffic to a different time -- e.g. in case of
high network load
These services require information exchange between the MTC Server and an
entity in the 3GPP network (e.g. MTC-IWF).
#### 4.1.2.2 Pre-conditions
An M2M Service provider is running a Service Enablement Framework (SEF) with
several M2M services on his MTC server. These services use MTC devices,
operated by M2M Service provider. The MTC Server interfaces with the 3GPP
network of one or more 3GPP operators. The MTC Server knows the external
identities of all its MTC Devices -- e.g. through pre-provisioning -- and thus
can address them.
The following situations may occur:
##### 4.1.2.2.1 For the broadcasting/multicasting case
\- An automotive service alerts vehicles around where a traffic accident has
just happened. The alerted vehicles could go slow or go another route to
prevent a second accident and to avoid the expected traffic jam
\- The M2M service provider wants to send M2M data from the MTC server to all
(or a sub-group) of his MTC devices. For this group of MTC devices a MBMS
multicast-group is already configured in the 3GPP System.
\- Ordinary unicast messaging mechanism is inadequate here. The alert messages
need to be delivered in a timely manner to all the relevant vehicles within a
specific region. Moreover the underlying communication network would have to
route a large number of unicast messages with very short delay.
\- The automotive service provider has just received indication of an accident
in a certain geographic region
##### 4.1.2.2.2 For the QoS/prioritization case
\- Another application service is provided by a hospital for persons with a
high risk of heart attacks. They wear MTC devices that inform the hospital
(the MTC Server) in case the patient shows of symptoms of a heart attack.
\- In that event the MTC server needs to establish a reliable session with
high QoS (low latency) with the MTC device for further off-line diagnostics
and for providing first aid.
\- Session establishment should occur immediately, even if the network is
congested (e.g. in some cases it might even be necessary to pre-empt other
sessions).
##### 4.1.2.2.3 For the scheduling case
\- An M2M service, running on the MTC Server, sends different kinds of M2M
data to the MTC device. Depending on the service, transmission of the data is
more or less urgent.
\- If the 3GPP network experiences high load (e.g. in a congestion case) M2M
data transmission may be delayed. This delay may or may not be acceptable for
specific data transmissions.
\- The M2M Server needs to be aware that some traffic might be delayed.
\- If the data transmission to the MTC device is very urgent the MTC server
may increase the priority of that message and send it (possibly at a higher
cost).
\- If data transmission is less urgent then, depending on the estimated time
of mitigation of the congestion situation, the M2M service may try sending the
data at a later time or cancel the transmission.
#### 4.1.2.3 Service flows
##### 4.1.2.3.1 For the broadcasting/multicasting case
Figure 4.1.2.3.1: Service Flow -- sending broadcast to a group of MTC devices
1 The MTC Server issues a broadcast request to the 3GPP network, indicating
the data to be broadcasted, the multicast group to be addressed, the
geographic area in which broadcast/multicast should occur and potentially
additional information (e.g. requirements for retransmission, confirmation
request by MTC device ...).
2 From the indicated geographic area the 3GPP Network calculates MBMS
broadcasting area (the cells) in which the broadcast should occur.
3 The 3GPP Network broadcasts the data to the multicast group in the MBMS
broadcasting area.
##### 4.1.2.3.2 For the QoS/prioritization case
Figure 4.1.2.3.2: Service flow -- QoS and priority for M2M sessions
1 The MTC Device sends an alarm message to the MTC Server. This message is
transferred in the 3GPP network with high priority (e.g. allowing session
establishment even in situations of high traffic / congestion)
2 The MTC Server requests session establishment with the MTC device with high
priority and sufficient QoS
3 The session between MTC Server and MTC device is established.
##### 4.1.2.3.3 For the scheduling case
Figure 4.1.2.3.3: Service flow -- Support for transmission scheduling
1 The 3GPP Network indicates to the M2M Server a situation in which M2M data
transmission may be delayed in a specific area. Potentially an estimate can be
given when the congestion is expected to be mitigated.
2 The M2M application on the MTC Server assesses how M2M traffic to its
devices in that area is impacted and schedules traffic accordingly
3 Traffic to the affected MTC devices is initiated by the MTC server according
to that schedule.
#### 4.1.2.4 Post-conditions
None
#### 4.1.2.5 Potential requirements
The 3GPP Network shall be able provide a standardized 3^rd^ party interface to
the MTC Server to:
\- Enable the MTC Server to request broadcast of M2M data to a specified group
of MTC devices in a specified geographic area.
\- Enable the MTC Server to request setting up data sessions to MTC devices
with specified QoS and Priority.
\- Indicate to the M2M Server a situation in which M2M data transmission may
be delayed in a specific area. Potentially an estimate can be given when the
congestion is expected to be mitigated.
## 4.2 Application related use cases
### 4.2.1 Background traffic use cases
#### 4.2.1.1 Description
This use case describes the optimization for background data delivery. This
case proposes that the network allow application to schedule their background
traffic transfers via providing one or more time windows in order to avoid the
peak load.
#### 4.2.1.2 Pre-conditions
The 3^rd^ party application provider and the MNO have an agreement according
to which the MNO will provide the 3^rd^ party application provider the network
policy information for background traffic in the geographical area specified
by the 3^rd^ party application provider and the 3^rd^ party application
provider will take this information into account to schedule information
transfer in a way that is beneficial to the MNO.
#### 4.2.1.3 Service flows
The 3^rd^ party application provider expects to initiate a push service to its
mobile users in a geographical area, e.g. like a software upgrading for its
smart phones, or a music/video transfer.
The 3^rd^ party application provider indicates to MNO that there is background
traffic to be sent within a given time window in a geographical area to the
Ues that are served by the 3^rd^ party and requests information to help it to
decide when it can be transferred. The 3^rd^ party application provider also
indicates information needed to enable the MNO to evaluate the impact of this
transfer on the network: e.g. the volume of the data traffic expected to
transfer in this geographic area. It could be an aggregate volume for all the
Ues of the application or a volume per UE (same volume for all Ues expected)
with the number of Ues expected in this geographic area.
As many 3^rd^ party application providers may request a background traffic
transfer, MNO schedules these transfers in order to avoid peak load during non
busy time. The **MNO is using its network information and its schedule
information for the specified area** to provide the 3^rd^ party application
provider the maximum aggregated bit rate for its set of Ues for data transfer
in the network and expected duration for this availability in the geographical
area specified by the 3^rd^ party application provider. The MNO can propose
more than one time window, together with a corresponding expected maximum
aggregate bitrate and cost to the 3^rd^ party application provider within the
time window. Furthermore, the bit rate announced is not guaranteed within the
time window as this is background traffic.
Figure 4.2.1.3:
#### 4.2.1.4 Post-conditions
The 3^rd^ party application provider adapts the background traffic transfer
occurring in the specified geographical area during the recommended time
window.
The MNO transfers the background traffic and can offer a lower charging rate
during this time window, and the potential peak load caused by mass background
traffic is avoided via scheduling these background traffic transfers to the
appropriate time windows.
#### 4.2.1.5 Relationship with other standardized APIs/interfaces
The "background traffic" feature is different from the OMA API "RESTfull
network API for QoS". OMA API enables the application to tell the MNO network
in advance the time at which the application estimates there will be data
transfer _._
#### 4.2.1.6 Potential requirements
Subject to MNO and 3^rd^ party agreement, to enable the MNO to evaluate the
impact on distribution of data transfer in the network, the 3^rd^ party
provider shall be able to indicate to the MNO the desired time window, the
volume of the data traffic expected to be transferred in this geographic area
(it could be aggregate volume for all the Ues of the application or volume per
UE (same volume for all Ues expected) with the number of Ues expected in this
geographical area).
Subject to MNO and 3^rd^ party agreement, the network shall be able to inform
third party provider of Push services of the recommended time window for the
traffic and maximum aggregated bitrate for its set of Ues for the geographical
area indicated by the third party provider. The goal of providing the time
window is to favour transfer of more traffic during non-busy hours and reason
for providing the maximum aggregate bitrate is to spread out traffic during
that time.
NOTE: It is expected that there is an agreement between MNO and 3^rd^ party
provider on a preferential charging regime, on the condition that the data
transfer stays below the maximum aggregate bitrate and inside the agreed time
window(s). A different charging regime will apply for data transfer beyond the
aggregated bitrate or outside the agreed time window.
The network can provide more than one time window with additional information
e.g. the corresponding maximum bitrate and the expected charging regime to the
3^rd^ party provider. The goal of multiple time windows is to allow the 3^rd^
party provider to choose one appropriate time window based on its preference
like the expected charging regime and bitrate.
### 4.2.2 Use case on "Connection Properties Exposure"
#### 4.2.2.1 Description
To improve user experience, a 3^rd^ party (e.g. website) could make use of
information on the UE's connection properties. Connection properties of a UE
describe the maximum available data rate level that the UE is likely to be
able to obtain in the near future (e.g. one minute). The connection properties
reflects the maximum that the UE may receive in total, hence the bit rate
available to the given third party may be smaller depending on the other
application traffic of the UE.
This use case identifies a requirement to support exposure of 3GPP network
information to allow 3^rd^ party access the expected connection properties.
#### 4.2.2.2 Pre-conditions
Alice and Bob are subscribers of operator A. They use smart phone browser to
access news.example.com website.
Alice is experiencing high data rate while Bob is experiencing low data rate.
#### 4.2.2.3 Service flows
The web site (3^rd^ party) queries network to determine Alice and Bob's
connection properties. Network replies the target user's connection properties
to the web site. Due to different connection properties, the web site returns
the full version of web site to Alice which includes pictures, flashes and
text. Meanwhile, the web site returns the compact version of web site to Bob
which mainly consists of text with a few low definition pictures.
#### 4.2.2.4 Post-conditions
Both Alice and Bob browse the web site with short loading time. Alice browses
the full version of web site and Bob browses the compact version of web site.
#### 4.2.2.5 Relationship with other standardized APIs/interfaces
The "Connection Properties Exposure" feature supports the GSMA One API
"Connection Profile" that allows the retrieval of the current RAT information
of the user's connection by 3^rd^ party application.
#### 4.2.2.6 Potential requirements
Depending of MNO and 3^rd^ party agreement, the network shall be able to
inform a 3^rd^ party about a UE's expected connection properties.
Connection properties of a UE describe the data rate level (e.g. data rate
range or non-absolute value) that the UE is likely to be able to obtain in
near future (e.g. one minute) at the current location.
### 4.2.3 Real-time exposure of Ues footprint
#### 4.2.3.1 Description
This use case describes the two scenarios where the MNO provides the real-time
snapshot of UE footprint information to a 3^rd^ party.
#### 4.2.3.2 Pre-conditions
The MNO network supports obtaining and exposing real-time UE footprint
information.
The MNO and the third party sign agreement for this service, and the MNO will
provide the real-time UE information to the third party.
The third party, e.g. an Emergency team is allowed to obtain the **number of
Ues present in the requested area and their anonymous location.**
**The third party like transport administration** is allowed to **obtain** the
dynamic transport information (e.g. the speed, the amount of the Ues).
#### 4.2.3.3 Service flows
**Scenario 1: Emergency service**
A fire starts in a quarter of the town and emergency services arrive in place.
Emergency team wants to determine where Ues are and therefore where
potentially are humans in order to deploy resources and protect the
appropriate areas.
Emergency team asks the MNO to provide a snapshot information on amount and
location of Ues present in an area, i.e. **the real-time user footprint
information. The area could be a civic address or a geographic area as defined
by OMA. It is expected that the MNO translates the civic address to area that
can be understood by 3GPP (TA, LA, ...) to determine the wanted UE's
information related to that area.**
**MNO is using its network information to provide the Emergency team with
number of Ues present in the requested area their location.**
**Scenario 2: Transport real-time information**
The transport administration wants to know information about Ues (e.g. the
speed, the amount of the Ues) for example in a specified state's area where
the dedicated transport network of sensors and detectors are not installed.
The transport administration requests MNO to provide the regular snapshots of
Ues information in a specified area.
MNO is using its network information (from HSS, RAN...) to identify the Ues in
the specified area and provide the transport administration with the
information (e.g. the speed, the amount of the Ues) in regular intervals.
Figure 4.2.3.3:
#### 4.2.3.4 Post-conditions
**Scenario 1: Emergency service**
The emergency members rescue with the assistance of the obtained anonymous
information.
**Scenario 2: Transport real-time information**
The screens in the control and schedule center of the transport administration
displays regular updates of the Ues information to allow them to take
appropriate action for example to solve a crowding situation.
#### 4.2.3.5 Relationship with other standardized APIs/interfaces
The "Real-time exposure of Ues movement" features supports the GSMA API "Zonal
Presence" that allows an application to determine the number of users in a
zone, be notified of entries to/exits from the Zone, and the user path taken
through the Zone.
#### 4.2.3.6 Potential requirements
Depending of MNO and authorized 3^rd^ party agreement, the 3^rd^ party shall
be able to request a one time or regular information on the number of Ues
present in a certain area and the location of each UE as for a Location Based
Service.
This should be done without violating user privacy, i.e. no possibility to for
the application to link the information with any permanent or public UE or
end-user identity.
The area that the third party API request may include, is a geographic
location as referenced by OMA Presence API [3] e.g. defined by shape areas of
IETF RFC-5491 [4] or by civic addresses defined in IETF RFC-5139 [5].
### 4.2.4 Charging model choice
#### 4.2.4.1 Description
The use case illustrates the selection of the charging model by 3^rd^ party.
#### 4.2.4.2 Pre-conditions
A 3^rd^ party service provider introduces a new on-line game and get on-line
subscription by end-users.
The end-users play the on-line games on their smart phone via the connection
offered by the MNO network.
The 3^rd^ party service provider and the MNO agree that the 3^rd^ party
service provider could change the charging model.
#### 4.2.4.3 Service flows
The user uses the smart phone to play the on-line game.
At the beginning of usage of this new game, the end-user is charged.
When this service is used more often or any other criteria that makes the end-
user becomes a VIP user, the 3^rd^ party service provider interacts with the
network to request a new charging model to charge the 3^rd^ party service
provider.
The network accepts the request if allowed.
Figure 4.2.4.3:
#### 4.2.4.4 Post-conditions
The 3^rd^ party service provider is charged for the user's traffic instead of
charging to the user.
#### 4.2.4.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
None.
#### 4.2.3.6 Relationship with other standardized APIs/interfaces
The "Charging model choice" feature complements the 3GPP feature that would be
needed for OMA QoS API which provides the identification of the party (user or
content/service provider) who is to be charged for the user's QoS
change/upgrade.
#### 4.2.4.7 Potential requirements
Depending of MNO and 3^rd^ party agreement, the network shall allow 3^rd^
party provider to indicate which of the end-user or 3^rd^ party service
provider has to be charged for an ongoing communication in order to allow:
\- The subscriber to be charged for the traffic flow;
\- The 3^rd^ party to be charged for the traffic flow.
NOTE 1: The change of the charged party only applies from the time of the
change.
NOTE 2: It is assumed that the user is advised of the change of the charged
party.
### 4.2.5 Monitoring on application usage use cases
#### 4.2.5.1 Description
This use case describes the monitoring service for application usage. This
case proposes that the monitoring service is applicable for application usage
and the network could activate or deactivate the monitoring service for one
specified UE with no GPS according to the indication from the 3^rd^ party
service provider.
#### 4.2.5.2 Pre-conditions
\- A 3^rd^ party service provider provides monitoring application services
using the MNO services.
\- The 3^rd^ party service provider signs the service agreement with MNO, and
the MNO provides the features to the 3^rd^ party service providers.
\- Features may include: change of location, loss of connectivity, and change
of the association between the UE and the UICC.
\- The user may configure the application using its application client. The
configuration may determine the features that the 3^rd^ party application
requests from MNO network.
#### 4.2.5.3 Service flows
\- User Bob install the UE in his car.
\- The service provider wants to ensure the UE is not used for other purpose
and requests the detection of change of the association between the UE and the
UICC to the MNO. Bob wants to be notified if his car is moving to another
country. The Application server requests the relevant feature Usage of Roaming
from the MNO.\ The MNO network activates the requested features for the UE.
\- Bob drives the car to a park in the countryside, and an anti-theft
application service is activated when he leaves his car: the Application
server requests the relevant feature from the MNO network\ (e.g. Presence Area
Reporting), to be notified by the Network if the UE changes location.\ The MNO
network activates the requested feature for the UE.
**Scenario1:** The MNO network detects that the location of the UE move out of
the allowed area.
**Scenario 2** : No location change is detected, and Bob comes back to the
park.
#### 4.2.5.4 Post-conditions
**Scenario 1:**
\- The MNO network notifies the Application server that the terminal leaves
out of the specified area. Further the application server will notice the
event to Bob e.g. via the SMS or an alert message which is shown on the
application client on the user's smart phone.
**Scenario 2:**
\- The 3^rd^ party service provider requests the MNO to stop Presence Area
Reporting for the terminal.
\- The other features, like Change of the association between the ME and the
UICC or Usage of roaming, remain active.
#### 4.2.5.5 Relationship with other standardized APIs/interfaces
"Usage of roaming" provides feature to 3^rd^ party in order to support GSMA
one API "Connection profile" that allows a Web application to query the
roaming status of one or more devices connected to a mobile network.
The GSMA one API "Location" allows an application to obtain the location of
one or more mobile devices that are connected to a mobile operator network,
while the feature "UE location change reporting" provides the current UE
location to a 3^rd^ party when detecting the location of a UE changes. The
location information obtained by the 3^rd^ party can be the same as obtained
with the existing LCS feature, e.g. the co-ordinates and timestamp.
The existing Presence feature specified in 3GPP TS 22.141 seems to cover SEES
potential requirement of section 4.2.5.6 "Loss of connectivity". Nevertheless,
Presence is a complete service while SEES proposal can offer MNO a service to
retrieve just one report on the event "Loss of connectivity" from the network.
#### 4.2.5.6 Potential requirements
\- Under the assumption of a service agreement between MNO and a 3^rd^ party,
the network shall make the following features available to 3^rd^ parties:
\- Reporting when the UE moves in/out of an area,
NOTE: This area indicated by a 3^rd^ party can be mapped to the area used in
the network, i.e. a list of Las/Ras/Tas.
\- UE cell change reporting
\- Usage of roaming,
\- Loss of connectivity,
\- Change or loss of the association between the ME and the UICC,
\- Communication failure events (e.g. for troubleshooting).
The goal is to enable the applications to offer value added services to end-
users based on the usage of the UE or UE's location. These services are based
on PLMN possibilities i.e. without the need of GPS and without continuous data
transfer and for low power consumption and GPS-free devices.
# 5 Potential requirements
## 5.1 Requirements covered by other existing features
Editor's Note: this section is intended to describe what requirements are
already handled by e.g. MOSAP
## 5.2 Potential additional requirements
### 5.2.1 Generic requirements for Service Exposure
Under the assumption of a service agreement between MNO and a 3^rd^ party, the
intention of service exposure is that the network allows 3^rd^ party service
providers to benefit from network provided services and capabilities that are
exposed by the PLMN.
The operator shall be able to secure the access to the exposed
services/capabilities i.e. to authenticate, authorize and charge the 3^rd^
party entities.
NOTE 1: This requirement may be implemented by the existing standardised API
frameworks e.g. the OMA API framework.
It shall be ensured that the 3GPP services/capabilities are not disclosed to
unauthorised parties and that user privacy is maintained subject to user
agreement, operator policy, service agreement between operator and 3^rd^ party
and regulation constraints. The network provided information is controlled by
the network and further subject user agreement, operator policy, service
agreement between operator and 3^rd^ party and regulation constraints.
The network service/capability exposure should be generic enough to support
different application needs. Exposed 3GPP services/capabilities may use
functionalities from different network entities and different 3GPP interfaces
The network service/capability exposure should be done to reduce the
complexity of different 3^rd^ parties to access different network services and
capabilities.
NOTE 2: When new 3GPP features are specified in future, some
capability/service may be identified to further enhance the portfolio of
offered capabilities/services in order to offer an attractive and rich
environment for 3^rd^ party applications.
**5.2.2 Requirements on Network capabilities and services to expose**
#### 5.2.2.1 General requirements
Table 5.2.x-6: General requirements
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **General requirements** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.2.1** | Under the assumption of a | | | service agreement between MNO | | **Generic requirements for | and a 3^rd^ party, the 3GPP Core | | service exposure.** | Network shall allow 3^rd^ party | | | service provider to benefit from | | | network provided services and | | | capabilities that are exposed by | | | the PLMN. | | | | | | The operator shall be able to | | | secure the access to the exposed | | | services/capabilities i.e. to | | | authenticate, authorize and | | | charge the 3^rd^ party entities. | | | | | | NOTE 1: This requirement may be | | | implemented by the existing | | | standardised API frameworks e.g. | | | the OMA API framework. | | | | | | It shall be ensured that the | | | 3GPP services/capabilities are | | | not disclosed to unauthorised | | | parties and that user privacy | | | (avoid e.g. trackable and | | | traceable identity information | | | of the concerned UE) is | | | maintained subject to user | | | agreement, operator policy, | | | service agreement between | | | operator and 3^rd^ party and | | | regulation constraints. The | | | network provided information is | | | controlled by the network and | | | further subject user agreement, | | | operator policy, service | | | agreement between operator and | | | 3^rd^ party and regulation | | | constraints. | | | | | | The network service/capability | | | exposure should be generic | | | enough to support different | | | application needs. Exposed 3GPP | | | services/capabilities may use | | | functionalities from different | | | network entities and different | | | 3GPP interfaces | | | | | | The network service/capability | | | exposure should be done to | | | reduce the complexity of | | | different 3^rd^ parties to | | | access different network | | | services and capabilities. | | | | | | > NOTE 2: When new 3GPP features | | | > are specified in future, some | | | > capability/service may be | | | > identified to further enhance | | | > the portfolio of offered | | | > capabilities/services in order | | | > to offer an attractive and | | | > rich environment for 3^rd^ | | | > party applications. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.2.2.2 Requirements on resource optimisation
Table 5.2.2.2: Requirements for resource optimisation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Network resource | | | optimisation** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.2.1.6** | To enable the 3^rd^ party | | | service provider to evaluate the | | **Use case background traffic** | impact on distribution of data | | | transfer in the network, the | | | 3^rd^ party provider shall be | | | able to indicate to the MNO the | | | desired time window, the volume | | | of the data traffic expected to | | | be transferred in this | | | geographic area (it could be | | | aggregate volume for all the Ues | | | of the application or volume per | | | UE (same volume for all Ues | | | expected) with the number of Ues | | | expected in this geographical | | | area). | | | | | | The 3GPP Core Network shall be | | | able to inform third party | | | service provider of the | | | recommended time window for the | | | traffic and maximum aggregated | | | bitrate for its set of Ues for | | | the geographical area indicated | | | by the third party service | | | provider. | | | | | | The goal of providing the time | | | window is to favour transfer of | | | more traffic during non-busy | | | hours and reason for providing | | | the maximum aggregate bitrate is | | | to spread out traffic during | | | that time. | | | | | | The network may provide more | | | than one time window with | | | additional information e.g. the | | | corresponding maximum bitrate | | | and the expected charging regime | | | to the 3^rd^ party service | | | provider. The goal of multiple | | | time windows is to allow the | | | 3^rd^ party service provider to | | | choose one appropriate time | | | window based on its preference | | | like the expected charging | | | regime and bitrate. | | | | | | > NOTE: It is expected that | | | > there is an agreement between | | | > MNO and 3^rd^ party provider | | | > on a preferential charging | | | > regime, on the condition that | | | > the data transfer stays below | | | > the maximum aggregate bitrate | | | > and inside the agreed time | | | > window(s). A different | | | > charging regime will apply for | | | > data transfer beyond the | | | > aggregated bitrate or outside | | | > the agreed time window. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.1.1.6** | The 3GPP Core Network shall | | | allow a 3^rd^ party service | | **Use case communication | provider to provide information | | patterns** | about a predictable | | | communication pattern (e.g. | | | communication initiation | | | interval, volume of data | | | transmission) of individual Ues | | | or groups of Ues. | | | | | | This information may be used by | | | the 3GPP system to optimize | | | resource usage. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.1.2.5** | The 3GPP Core Network shall be | | | able to: | | **Use case M2M service provider | | | setting via MTC Server various | - Indicate to a 3^rd^ party | | parameters for communication | service provider when data | | with is MTC devices.** | transmission have a risk to | | | experience congestion in a | | | specific area (e.g. due to | | | forecasted high traffic load in | | | that area Potentially an | | | estimate may be given when the | | | congestion is expected to be | | | mitigated | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.2.2.6** | The 3GPP Core Network shall be | | | able to inform a 3^rd^ party | | **Use case on Connection | service provider about a UE's | | Properties Exposure** | expected connection properties. | | | | | | Connection properties of a UE | | | describe the data rate level | | | (e.g. data rate range or | | | non-absolute value) that the UE | | | is likely to be able to obtain | | | in near future (e.g. one minute) | | | at the current location. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.2.2.3 Requirements on monitoring
Table 5.2.2.3: Monitoring
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Monitoring** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.2.5.6** | > The 3GPP Core Network shall be | | | > able to provide to a 3^rd^ | | **Use case monitoring on | > party service provider the | | application usage** | > following information: | | | | | | - Usage of roaming, | | | | | | - Loss of connectivity, | | | | | | - Change or loss of the | | | association between the ME and | | | the UICC; | | | | | | - Communication failure events | | | (e.g. for troubleshooting). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.2.2.4 Requirements on location
Table 5.2.2.4: Location
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Location** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.2.5.6** | The network shall make the | | | following features available to | | **Use case monitoring on | 3^rd^ service provider: | | application usage** | | | | - Presence Area Reporting when | | | UE moves in/out of an area, | | | | | | NOTE: This area indicated by | | | 3^rd^ party service provider can | | | be mapped to the area used in | | | the network, i.e. a list of | | | Las/Ras/Tas. | | | | | | - UE cell change reporting. | | | | | | The goal is to enable the | | | applications to offer value | | | added services to end-users | | | based on the usage of the UE or | | | UE's location. These services | | | are based on PLMN possibilities | | | i.e. without the need of GPS and | | | without continuous data transfer | | | and for low power consumption | | | and GPS-free devices. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.2.3.6** | The 3^rd^ party service provider | | | shall be able to request a one | | **Use case real-time exposure of | time or regular information on | | Ues footprint** | the number of Ues present in a | | | certain area and the location of | | | each UE as for a Location Based | | | Service. | | | | | | The area that the third party | | | API request may include is a | | | geographic location as | | | referenced by OMA Presence API | | | [3] e.g. defined by shape | | | areas of IETF RFC-5491 [4] or | | | by civic addresses defined in | | | IETF RFC-5139 [5]. | | | | | | These real time location and | | | presence information can be used | | | by services like Public Safety | | | services to evaluate population | | | in case of emergency or for | | | transport administrations which | | | would not need to deploy their | | | own equipments to know the car | | | traffic. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 5.2.2.5 Requirements on charging
Table 5.2.2.5: Charging
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | **Charging** | | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.2.4.7** | The 3GPP Core Network shall allow a | | | 3^rd^ party service provider to | | **Use case Charing choice** | indicate which of the subscriber or | | | 3^rd^ party service provider has to | | | be charged for an ongoing | | | communication in order to allow: | | | | | | - The subscriber to be charged for | | | the traffic flow; | | | | | | - The 3^rd^ party service provider | | | to be charged for the traffic flow. | | | | | | This allows adaptation of charging on | | | variety and evolution of application | | | needs. | +-----------------------------+---------------------------------------+
#### 5.2.2.6 Requirements on data transmission
Table 5.2.2.6: Data transmission
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Data Transmission** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.1.2.5** | The 3GPP Core Network shall be | | | able provide a standardized | | **Use case M2M service provider | interface to the 3^rd^ party | | setting via MTC Server various | service provider to: | | parameters for communication | | | with is MTC devices.** | - Enable the 3^rd^ party | | | service provider to request | | | setting up data sessions with | | | specified QoS (i.e. low latency | | | or jitter) and priority handling | | | to a UE that is served by the | | | 3^rd^ party service provider. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Clause 4.1.2.5** | The 3GPP Core Network shall be | | | able provide a standardized | | **Use case M2M service provider | interface to a 3^rd^ party | | setting via MTC Server various | service provider to: | | parameters for communication | | | with is MTC devices** | - Enable the 3^rd^ party | | | service provider to request | | | broadcast of data to the Ues of | | | a specified group of devices | | | that are served by the 3^rd^ | | | party service provider in a | | | specified geographic area. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 6 Conclusions and recommendations
Mobile operators usually interface a number of applications outside the 3GPP
Network that offer value add to the users or to the application provider.
A number of use cases have been identified where the 3GPP Network can expose
3GPP system/network capabilities and services to allow 3^rd^ parties to
enhance or create services.
The study analysis has resulted in a set of requirements as captured in the
previous section.
It is recommended that the requirements identified in this TR are considered
for the development of normative requirements.
The capability/service exposure will be supported via well established and
introduced frameworks (e.g. GSMA/OMA API) to enable existing 3^rd^ party
application easy access to new exposed capabilities and to enable new
applications taking advantage of other already available capabilities under
the same frameworks.
###### ### Annex A: OMA Architecture Group Network API Dashboard
According to OMA Architecture Group Network API Dashboard, the OMA works on
some APIs, e.g.:
Table A.1: Examples of APIs under OMA work
* * *
REST_NetAPI_FileTransfer REST_NetAPI_ThirdPartyCall
REST_NetAPI_CapabilityDiscovery REST_NetAPI_Presence REST_NetAPI_AddressBook
REST_NetAPI_ACR REST_NetAPI_NotificationChannel REST_NetAPI_Messaging
Autho4API (SE) REST_NetAPI_Chat REST_NetAPI_Payment
REST_NetAPI_DeviceCapabilities REST_NetAPI_ShortMessaging
REST_NetAPI_ImageShare REST_NetAPI_AudioCall REST_NetAPI_CustomerProfile
REST_NetAPI_TerminalLocation REST_NetAPI_CallNotification REST_NetAPI_Common
REST_NetAPI_VideoShare REST_NetAPI_TerminalStatus
* * *
#