# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides a study on scenarios of multiple operators
sharing radio network resources and creates potential requirements that
complement existing system capabilities for sharing common RAN resources.
The scenarios illustrate e.g.:
\- Means for efficiently sharing common RAN resources according to identified
RAN sharing scenarios (e.g. pooling of unallocated radio resources).
\- Means to verify that the shared network elements provide allocated RAN
resources according to sharing agreements/policies.
\- Indication of and potential actions upon overload situation in
consideration of sharing agreements/policies.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.951: \"Service aspects and requirements for network sharing\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1], TR 22.951 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the
present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if
any, in TR 21.905 [1] and TR 22.951 [2].
**Hosting RAN** : RAN resources provided by a Hosting RAN Provider for use by
a Participating Operator. The RAN could be any combination of GERAN, UTRAN or
E-UTRAN depending on which RATs are shared.
**Hosting RAN Provider** : A Provider of a Hosting RAN.
**Participating Operator** : Operator that uses allocated shared RAN resources
provided by a Hosting RAN Provider under agreement.
**Wholesale charging:** This is the charging by the Hosting RAN Provider of
any usage of a Shared RAN by subscribers of a Participating Operator.
**Wholesale charging event:** An event occurring in the Shared RAN which
provides to the Hosting RAN Provider the ability to determine usage of the
Shared RAN and identify a specific Participating Operator to be charged.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Scenarios and use cases
## 4.1 General
### 4.1.1 Network sharing use-case actor roles
### 4.1.1.1 General on roles in RAN Sharing
The arrangements for network sharing between the involved entities can vary
widely, being influenced by a number of factors including business, technical,
network deployment and regulatory conditions. Within all of this variation,
there is a set of common roles centered around connecting network facilities
between the parties participating in a network sharing agreement. This section
presents these common roles to aid in understanding the entities described in
the use cases.
### 4.1.1.2 Hosting RAN Provider
The Hosting RAN Provider is identified as sharing a hosting RAN with one or
more Participating Operators. The characteristics of the Hosting RAN Provider
include:
\- Has primary operational access to particular licensed spectrum which is
part of the network sharing arrangement.
Note: The Hosting RAN Provider does not necessarily own licensed spectrum but
has agreement to operate in that spectrum.
\- Has deployed a RAN in a specific geographic region covered under the
network sharing arrangement
\- Operates the RAN identified in the previous two items.
\- Provides facilities allowing Participating Operators to share the RAN
covered under the network sharing arrangement
Within the concept of a Hosting RAN Provider, other entities can be involved
such as outsourcing, joint ventures, or leasing agreements such as for
operating, owning the RAN infrastructure or managing the sharing agreements.
### 4.1.1.3 Participating Operator
The Participating Operator is identified as using shared RAN facilities
provided by a Hosting RAN Provider, possibly alongside other Participating
Operators. The characteristics of the Participating Operator include:
\- Uses a portion of the particular shared licensed spectrum to provide
communication services under its own control to its own subscribers.
\- Uses a portion of the shared RAN in the specific geographic region covered
under the network sharing arrangement.
Within the concept of a Participating Operator, other entities can be involved
such as outsourcing, joint ventures, or leasing agreements such as for
operating or owning the service infrastructure.
### 4.1.1.4 Roaming operators (HPLMN and VPLMN)
Roaming and roaming agreements between operators provides a similar capability
to RAN sharing where a subscriber of the HPLMN can obtain services while
roaming into a VPLMN. This can be viewed as a form of sharing where the VPLMN
shares the use of its RAN with the HPLMN for each HPLMN subscriber roaming
into the VPLMN.
The distinction between roaming and RAN sharing is:
\- when roaming, the subscriber uses the VPLMN when outside of the HPLMN
geographic coverage and within the VPLMN geographic coverage
\- in a RAN sharing arrangement, all of the participants (Hosting RAN Provider
and one or more Participating Operators) provide the same geographic coverage
through the Hosting RAN.
### 4.1.1.5 Operators with multiple roles
Operators can take on multiple roles at the same time depending on business
needs. For the purposes of this TR, each specific network set (spectrum-
region-RAN) can be considered independently and combined with other network
sets in various combinations.\ Examples include:
\- An operator has its own spectrum which he does not share and additionally
uses the shared RAN in the same region (Participating Operator) provided by
Hosting RAN Provider.
\- Two operators set up a joint venture to build and operate a shared network.
The two operators are both Participating Operators and the joint venture is a
Hosting RAN Provider.
\- Two operators A & B, divide a region covered by a joint spectrum license
and each build and operate the RAN in their portion of the region. In the
region covered by operator A's RAN, operator A is the Hosting RAN Provider and
at the same time Participating operator while operator B is only Participating
Operator. In the region covered by operator B's RAN, operators A and B are the
Participating Operators and operator B is the Hosting RAN Provider.
Note: Roaming could be considered a form of network sharing where the Visited
Operator allows an individual UE to use the visited RAN (VPLMN) in
coordination with the Home Operator. However for the purpose of this
specification, RAN sharing only applies to deployments where a shared RAN
operates as a home network (HPLMN) for each of the Participating Operators.
### 4.1.2 What constitutes a shared RAN
A Hosting RAN Provider may share RAN resources with Participating Operators in
various ways.
In the context of the current study it is assumed that at least
\- a set of Radio Base Stations (RBS)
are shared for use by Participating Operators.
The sharing agreement between Hosting RAN Provider and Participating Operators
may or may not include
\- Sharing of a part of the radio spectrum of the Hosting RAN Provider
For example, a MVNO as a Participating Operator would use the spectrum
provided by the Hosting RAN Provider.
In the context of the current study the sharing of Core network nodes, while
not excluded, is not considered.
Typically RAN sharing arises out of the following situations:
\- A Greenfield deployment -- two operators jointly agree to build out a new
technology (typically 4G). At the outset, the new shared network
infrastructure and operations can be based on capacity and coverage
requirements of both operators. The operator can e.g. fund built-on 50:50 or
according to their expected needs.
\- Buy-in -- when one of the sharing operator has already built (4G for
example) and looking for another operator to share this network. In this case,
the second operator would typically either pay a capacity usage fee or up-
front fee to acquire in the network.
\- Maximise cost savings -- two operators agree to share the maintenance of
existing assets (e.g., 2G), each operator covering a different geographical
area, possibly with some mutual overlaps. In this case the maintenance costs
can be reduced for each operator.
\- Maintain an obsolescent network -- three operators each own 2G, 3G, and 4G
networks, The 2G networks are obsolescent but are still needed to support
existing services (e.g. roaming customers and long-term M2M communication
requirements). The amount of use would not justify each operator owning and
maintaining their own 2G network so one (maybe 2) shared 2G networks are kept
that can be used by all operators in that country or region.
## 4.2 Scenario and use case 1 (RAN Sharing Monitoring)
### 4.2.1 Description
This use case demonstrates that a Participating Operator will want to obtain
the same OAM status information from a Hosting RAN as from an unshared RAN. It
also shows that a hosting operator will want to restrict the Participating
Operator from accessing certain OAM status information from a Hosting RAN for
business, operational or technical reasons.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
Operator A is sharing RAN X (RAN X could be one of E-UTRAN, UTRAN or GERAN or
any combination of these RATs).
Operator B has an unshared RAN R but is in need of additional capacity (RAN R
could be one of E-UTRAN, UTRAN or GERAN or any combination of these RATs).
Operator B negotiated an agreement with Operator A to use the RAN X.
Operator B obtains RAN OAM status information from RAN R in the normal course
of operating and engineering its network.
### 4.2.3 Service flows
Operator B wants to receive the same level of RAN OAM status information from
the shared RAN X as it receives from RAN R in order to use RAN X as a seamless
offload from RAN R.
Operator A sets up Operator B's access to RAN X OAM status information only
regarding the information about the RAN X resources allocated or used by
Operator B.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
Operator B is able to obtain the needed RAN X OAM status information to
perform the planned seamless offload and integrate it into internal processes.
Operator A is able to set the limits of what OAM status information that
Operator B is allowed to access in RAN X.
### 4.2.5 Alternate Flows
_Operator A decides that some OAM status information provided by the_ RAN X
_could provide details of other Participating Operator's service usage of the_
RAN X _and for business reasons blocks Operator B from accessing this
information but allowing access to other non-sensitive information._
### 4.2.6 Requirements
The requirements derived from this use case are:
\- The Hosting RAN shall be able to provide to the Participating Operators
access to the Hosting RAN OAM status information to the same level of detail
as would be available from a non-shared RAN.
\- The Hosting RAN shall be able to provide for setting limits on what OAM
status information each Participating Operator can access from the Hosting RAN
including (but not limited to):
\- Only the resources allocated to or used by the Participating Operator.
\- Individual or classes of information elements for business, technical or
operational reasons.
## 4.3 Scenario and use case 2 (MDT Support for RAN operator)
### 4.3.1 Description
Minimization of Drive Testing (MDT) is a feature introduced in Release 10 to
allow the harvesting of network coverage & quality information from customer
UEs as they move within the coverage of the RAN. This provides better quality
data, at a lower cost, than that produced by the RAN operator performing drive
testing of the RAN using test UEs.
This use case describes the generation & retrieval of MDT data by a Hosting
RAN Provider that does not have an adjunct core network & which therefore does
not provide service, other than RAN connectivity, to the UEs connected via its
network.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
The Hosting Provider agrees to share RAN resources with one or more
Participating Operators.
The Hosting Provider does not have a core network adjunct to the RAN.
All UEs connected through the RAN are associated with one or more of the
Participating Operators.
The Participating Operators have network sharing agreement with the Hosting
RAN Provider that UEs owned by Participating Operators are allowed to be
selected for MDT data collection purpose triggered by the Hosting RAN
Provider.
The Hosting RAN Provider requires to initiate collection of MDT data.
### 4.3.3 Service flows
1) The Hosting Provider requests retrieval of MDT data by UEs which is allowed
to do this task by participating operators connected to the RAN.
2) The Hosting provider collects the retrieved data.
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
The Hosting Provider is in possession of the coverage & network quality data
for the shared RAN provided by MDT.
### 4.3.5 Requirements
The requirements derived from this use case are:
\- Subject to agreement between The Hosting RAN Provider and Participating
Operators the Hosting RAN Provider shall be able to control collection of MDT
data by UEs connected through its RAN.
Subject to agreement between The Hosting RAN Provider and Participating
Operators the Hosting RAN Provider shall be able to retrieve MDT data
collected by UEs connected through its RAN.
## 4.4 Scenario and use case 3 (Use case regarding RAN sharing granularity)
### 4.4.1 Description
This use case describes the description where a shared network allocation
granularity needs to be at the radio sector level. It can be found where there
are political border situations where some sectors crossing the border need to
be shared and those providing coverage in the local territory must not be
shared.
### 4.4.2 Pre-conditions
\- Operator A operates in country X and has cell sites operating near the
border with country Y. Some of the sectors of the cell sites cover areas
across the border in country Y.
\- Operator B operates in country Y using adjacent spectrum to Operator A.
\- Both operators agree to operate a shared network using Operator A's RAN
covering both operator's bands. This shared network is limited to the sectors
which provide coverage across the border into country Y.
The following diagram illustrates the network sharing arrangement:
Figure 1: Shared network allocation granularity at the radio sector level
### 4.4.3 Service flows
\- A UE subscribed to Operator B starts in Country Y in an area well away from
the border and starts obtaining wireless services in one of Operator B's non-
shared cell/sectors.
\- The UE moves to the shared RAN cell/sector in Operator A's RAN, still in
Country Y. The UE continues to use wireless services from operator B.
\- The UE moves across the border into Country X and into the coverage of
Operator A's RAN, but in a non-shared cell/sector. The UE continues to use
wireless services as a roamer.
### 4.4.4 Post-conditions
\- The UE operates in the Home PLMN while being served by both Operator B's
cell/sectors and in Operator A's shared cell/sectors and is charged non-
roaming rates.
\- The UE operates in the Visited PLMN while being served in Operator A's non-
shared cell/sectors and is charged roaming rates.
### 4.4.5 Requirements
\- A shared RAN shall allow setting a different portion of resource allocation
per each Participating Operator down to the cell/sector level.
## 4.5 Scenario and use case 4 (maximizing RAN sharing revenue)
### 4.5.1 Description
Maximizing revenues and efficient use of a RAN are often two goals for any
wireless operator. However in the case of shared networks, depending on the
wholesale business model, a Hosting RAN Provider may find it necessary to
trade one off for the other. This use case presents a scenario where
Participating Operators have variable RAN resource usage; this enable Hosting
RAN Provider to apply different charge based on the resource usage.
### 4.5.2 Pre-conditions
1) Operator A is a Hosting RAN Provider only providing network wholesale
services to Participating Operators.
2) Operators B and C are Participating Operators using the shared RAN only to
offload its own non-shared RAN.
3) Operator A, in order to maximize predictable revenue flow establishes the
following rates:
\- A base rate for a committed percentage dedicated shared RAN capacity
\- 2x base rate for a percentage of dedicated shared RAN capacity for a month
\- 3x base rate for a percentage of dedicated shared RAN capacity for a week
\- 5x base rate for first come first served access to any remaining RAN
capacity
### 4.5.3 Service flows
1) Operator B expects that its offload use of the shared RAN will be minimal
and does not want to commit in advance for any shared RAN usage. Operator B is
willing to pay the highest rate for this on demand usage of the shared RAN.
2) Operator C expects a significant amount of its traffic will be offloaded to
the shared RAN and will commit to 25% of the shared RAN capacity and will
commit to an additional 10% shared RAN capacity during the summer months to
handle vacation traffic.
### 4.5.4 Post-conditions
1) Operator B and C are able to use the shared RAN in a cost efficient manner.
2) Operator A is able to gain a predictable revenue stream at least from
operator C. Operator B provides an additional revenue based on demand RAN
resource usage.
### 4.5.5 Requirements
1) The shared RAN shall have the flexibility to allocate RAN resource capacity
by the following but not limited to:
> a. Fixed allocation
>
> b. Fixed allocation for a specified period of time
>
> c. First come-first served allocation to all the Participating Operators
> collectively (i.e. on demand).
## 4.6 Scenario and use case 5.a (Asymmetric RAN Resource Allocation)
### 4.6.1 Description
At full or nearly-full capacity, RAN resources are shared among two
Participating Operators proportional to their financial interest in the
Hosting RAN.
### 4.6.2 Pre conditions
Two Participating Operators have an unequal controlling interest in a Joint
Venture (JV), which builds, operates and maintains the Hosting RAN. The JV
investment level is as follows: Participating Operator Partner \"Primary\" (P)
has 60% interest; Participating Operator Partner \"Secondary\" (S) has the
remaining 40% interest. Each of these partners owns and manages its own core
network infrastructure independently from each other.
Note that this use case is also applicable when one entity is the Hosting RAN
Provider and the others are Participating Operators
The agreement between Primary and Secondary for the JV is that each Partner
will be guaranteed shared network resource allocation proportional with its
controlling interest level in the JV.
### 4.6.3 Service flows
As a one-time (or infrequent) operation, the Hosting RAN is given information
about the 60/40 resource allocation proportion among the two partners, so that
it can conduct or assist in resource management operations accordingly.
Resource management operations include:
\- Bearer admission (allocation of a new bearer) decisions for either of the
two partners;
\- Uplink/downlink radio transmission (e.g., packet transmission scheduling).
The shared RAN routinely charges for resource management operations for
Partners P and S separately, i.e., when admitting a bearer for P, it records
it as such, and likewise for S. Similar applies for scheduler and other
operations.
Case L: Low traffic load
At times of low traffic load (below full capacity of the (e)NB or BTS), new
bearers are admitted on the basis of overall resource availability, i.e. the
pre-agreed resource allocation proportion interest is not taken into
consideration.
Since traffic load is low, such scheduler decisions result in comfortably
meeting QoS objectives for all bearers belonging to either of the two
partners.
Case H: High traffic load
At times of high traffic load (approaching the full capacity of the (e)NB or
BTS), a new bearer is admitted by taking into consideration the agreed
resource allocation proportion interest of each of the partners. If admission
of a new bearer belonging to Partner S would result in projected imbalance of
RAN resource consumption in excess of the proportional interest (allowing for
by a margin of tolerance), the new bearer is not admitted. Otherwise, the new
bearer is admitted. Similar Hosting RAN behavior applies for Partner P bearer
admission. Additionally, any admission decisions are governed by overall
capacity constraints of the (e)NB or BTS.
Radio resource scheduling takes into consideration the resource allocation
proportion breakdown of partners P and S. In principle, the scheduling is such
that the average amount of resources committed to each of the partners P and S
is proportional to their interest in the JV.
A possible algorithm for resource distribution could be that each partner's
pre-agreed usage portion of the Hosting RAN becomes a Participating Operator
weighting factor. This weighting factor is added to all other existing
factors. Radio resource scheduling considers when deciding to grant a request
for a radio resource. When traffic load is high, due to ebbs and flows of
traffic, mobility effects, etc., scheduler decisions may result in
occasionally not meeting QoS objectives for one of more bearers. The
Participating Operator weighting factor determines the proportion among the
Partners P and S in which such failure to meet QoS objectives can occur.
### 4.6.4 Post conditions
Usage of radio resources is tracked for each partner. Radio resource usage
during the time RAN is at or near full capacity is proportional for each of
the partners based on their Participating Operator pre-agreed usage portion of
the Hosting RAN. Partners P and S can negotiate details of the implementation
of the RAN sharing partnership with some degree of flexibility, and can convey
them to the RAN elements to carry out.
### 4.6.5 Requirements for this use case
1) It shall be possible to establish each Participating Operator's pre-agreed
usage portion of the Hosting RAN.
2) A shared RAN element shall measure network resource usage at all times
separately for each Participating Operator and identify whether the
Participating Operator's pre-agreed usage portion of the Hosting RAN is being
used.
3) A shared RAN element involved in user plane packet transmission scheduling
shall be capable of differentiation among traffic associated with the
Participating Operators, based on the Participating Operator pre-agreed usage
portion of the Hosting RAN.
4) A shared RAN element at or near capacity shall conduct bearer admission by
taking into consideration the assigned Participating Operator's pre-agreed
usage portion of the Hosting RAN, such that the balance of RAN resources upon
admission decision does not violate the Participating Operator pre agreed
usage portion of the Hosting RAN, within a margin of tolerance.
5) When a Hosting RAN element is at or near capacity, user plane packet
transmission shall be such that the average amount of resources allocated to
each Participating Operator is based on their Participating Operator pre-
agreed usage portion of the Hosting RAN, within a margin of tolerance.
6) The Hosting RAN shall be capable to apportion among the Participating
Operators reduced resource allocations when QoS objectives cannot be met, due
to excessive traffic load, distributed according to Participating Operators
pre-agreed usage portion of the Hosting RAN.
## 4.7 Scenario and use case 5.b (Asymmetric RAN Resource Allocation in a
static way)
### 4.7.1 Description
RAN resources owned and operated in a joint venture are shared among two RAN
Sharing Partners proportional to their interest in the joint venture
statically.
### 4.7.2 Pre conditions
Two Participating Operators have an asymmetric unequal controlling in a Joint
Venture (JV), which builds, operates and maintains the Hosting RAN. The JV
investment level is as follows: Participating Operator Partner \"Primary\" (P)
has 60% interest; Participating Operator Partner \"Secondary\" (S) has the
remaining 40% interest.
Note that thus use case is also applicable when one entity is the Hosting RAN
Provider and the others are Participating Operators
The agreement between Primary and Secondary for the JV is that each Partner
will be guaranteed shared network resource allocation proportional to its
controlling interest level in the JV.
### 4.7.3 Service flows
As a one-time (or infrequent) operation, the Hosting RAN is given information
about the 60/40 resource allocation proportion among the two partners, so that
it can conduct or assist in resource management operations accordingly.
Resource management operations include:
\- Bearer admission (allocation of a new bearer) decisions for either of the
two partners;
\- Uplink/downlink radio transmission (e.g., packet transmission scheduling).
The shared RAN routinely charges for resource management operations for
Partners P and S separately, i.e., when admitting a bearer for P, it records
it as such, and likewise for S. Similar applies for scheduler and other
operations.
  * For Partner P and S:
A new bearer is admitted by taking into consideration Participating Operator
pre-agreed resource allocation proportion. If admission of a new bearer
belonging to Partner S would result in exceeding this proportion, the new
bearer is not admitted. Otherwise, the new bearer is admitted. Similar Hosting
RAN behavior applies for Partner P bearer admission.
Radio resource scheduling takes into consideration the Participating Operator
pre-agreed resource allocation proportion of partners P and S. In principle,
the scheduling is such that the average amount of resources committed to each
of the partners P and S is based on their Participating Operator pre-agreed
resource allocation proportion.
Scheduler decisions due to hard limit per participating operator may result in
occasionally not being able to meet QoS objectives for one or more bearers.
The Participating Operator pre-agreed resource allocation proportion
determines the distribution among the Partners P and S that such failure to
meet QoS objectives can occur.
### 4.7.4 Post conditions
Usage of radio resources is tracked for each partner. Radio resource usage is
proportional for each of the partners based on their Participating Operator
pre-agreed usage portion of the Hosting RAN. .
### 4.7.5 Requirements for this use case
1) It shall be possible to establish each Participating Operator's pre-agreed
usage portion of the Hosting RAN.
2) A Hosting RAN element shall measure network resource usage at all times
separately for each Participating Operator and identify whether the
Participating Operator's pre-agreed usage portion of the Hosting RAN is being
used.
3) A Hosting RAN element involved in user plane packet transmission scheduling
shall be capable of differentiated control among traffic associated with the
Participating Operators, based on the Participating Operator pre-agreed usage
portion of the hosting RAN.
4) A Hosting RAN element shall conduct bearer admission by taking into
consideration the Participating Operator's pre-agreed usage portion of the
Hosting RAN, such that the balance of Hosting RAN resource remains in
accordance with the pre-agreed usage portion of the Hosting RAN.
5) User plane packet transmission shall be such that the average amount of
resources given to each Participating Operator remains in accordance with the
Participating Operator's pre-agreed usage portion of the Hosting RAN.
6) The Hosting RAN shall be capable to apportion among the Participating
Operators reduced resource allocations when QoS objectives are not met,
distributed according to the Participating Operator pre-agreed usage portion
of the Hosting RAN.
## 4.8 Use case 6 (Dynamic RAN Sharing Enhancements)
### 4.8.1 Description
This use case presents a scenario where the Participating Operator may require
varying network capacities during different time periods of the day or the
week. The Participating Operator requests various allocations of a portion of
the shared RAN to meet projected variation in network usage.
### 4.8.2 Pre-conditions
Operator A is Hosting RAN provider sharing RAN X.
Operator B is a Participating Operator owning an unshared RAN Y, but is in
need of additional capacity during specific times during week days.
Upon careful analysis, Operator B requests the following portion of shared RAN
(RAN X) resources from Operator A:
\- Monday -- Friday (4:00 pm -- 7:00 pm) 30%
\- Monday -- Friday (Rest of the time not covered above) 0%
\- Saturday -- Sunday 0%
Operator A determined that it can accommodate Operator B's request and still
utilize RAN X in an optimal manner to meet projected usage.
Operator A and B negotiated an agreement to share the RAN X
Tom, a subscriber of Operator B is using his UE at 3:59 pm on Monday. Tom's
communication is established via RAN Y.
Jerry, a subscriber of Operator B is using his UE at 6:59 pm on Friday.
Jerry's communication is established via the shared RAN X.
### 4.8.3 Service flows
Based on the dynamic RAN sharing agreement, Operator A will provide Operator B
with RAN sharing capacities to RAN X based on the mutually agreed-upon RAN
Sharing schedules.
Tom's case:
As the 4:00pm RAN Sharing Period starts, Operator B notifies Tom's UE to the
availability of additional RAN resources in the shared RAN (RAN X)
Mobility management of Tom's UE may utilize the availability of RAN X.
Jerry's case:
As the RAN Sharing Period is due to expire at 7:00pm, the shared RAN steers
Jerry's UE away from RAN X and towards RAN Y based on Operator B's policies.
[]{#__RefHeading___Toc399411602 .anchor}4.8.4 Post-conditions
Operator A optimizes its shared RAN both from an operating and financial
standpoint.
Operator B is able to optimize its need for additional RAN capacity
efficiently according to the traffic patterns of its customer base.
### 4.8.5 Requirements
1) The system shall provide flexibility in handling dynamic changes in the
cell's RAN Sharing allocation to Participating Operators.
2) Participating Operators shall be able to drive both connected and idle UEs
towards the Hosting RAN at the beginning of the RAN sharing period and the
Hosting RAN Provider shall be able to drive both connected and idle UEs away
from the shared RAN resources at the end of the RAN Sharing Period.
3) Subject to the Hosting RAN Provider settings, the RAN shall be able to
involve Participating Operators in the decision of where to drive both
connected and idle UEs to when multiple options are available at the end of
the RAN Sharing Period.'
## 4.9 Scenario and use case 7 (On-demand Automated Capacity Brokering)
### 4.9.1 Description
This use case describes the situation of a Hosting RAN Provider that might
share by automatic means some designated portion of its RAN capacity with
other Participating Operators (e.g., MVNOs). Such designated portion of the
shareable RAN resources shall support On-demand Capacity requests for
additional capacity by Participating Operators.
A typical situation for this use case would be a Hosting RAN Provider with
designated sharable excess capacity during the night that Participating
Operators request to use, e.g., M2M services as security video surveillance,
meter measurements, etc.).
Another example could be a major event (e.g., sports, concerts, fairs ...)
requiring short term additional capacity from a Participating Operator for
that event.
A third example could be a monthly special bargain of reduced usage charges by
the Hosting RAN Provider for a limited time available to the Participating
Operators.
### 4.9.2 Pre-conditions
The Hosting RAN provider provides shareable resources designated as On-demand
Capacity that are available for Participating Operators to request.
The Participating Operator has identified the need for additional resources
dedicated temporarily in the shared network through automatic network
engineering mechanisms and has identified:
\- The time period the additional shared resources are needed,
\- the quantity of shared resources needed, and
\- any service specific attributes of the shared resources needed.
The need for additional resources may arise in addition to the resources
already allocated to the Participating Operator either statically or on-
demand.
### 4.9.3 Service flows
The Requesting Participating Operator sends a request to the Hosting RAN
Provider, indicating the needed amount of capacity for a predefined period of
time, whether exclusive or non-exclusive access to granted capacity is
requested and any service specific attributes required (e.g., based on
standardized QCIs).
The Hosting RAN Provider then verifies automatically whether the RAN sharing
request can be fulfilled.
\- If the request can be fulfilled the allocation is signalled to the
Participating Operator and the shared RAN is re-configured as requested.
\- If the request cannot be fulfilled, the Hosting RAN will signal to the
Participating Operator that the resources requested are not available.
\- If the request cannot be fulfilled, the Hosting RAN may signal to the
Participating Operator how much of the request can be fulfilled or
\- If the request cannot be fulfilled, the Hosting RAN may allocate the
portion of the request that can be fulfilled and signal to the Participating
Operator the actual resource allocation.
### 4.9.4 Post-conditions
On demand requests which are granted are allocated from the pool of Operator
On-demand Capacity resources in the shared RAN for the duration of the grant.
The Participating Operator receiving the grant will have exclusive or non-
exclusive access to the allocated granted resources according to the grant
request specification for the specified duration of the grant.
### 4.9.5 Requirements
The requirements derived from this use case are:
\- The Hosting RAN shall be able to offer by automatic means sharable RAN
resources as on-demand capacity to Participating Operator's networks.\ The
offer may indicate the period of time for the offer, any applicable shared
network resource identification, whether exclusive or non-exclusive access can
be granted and any service specific attributes e.g., based on standardized QoS
Class Identifiers (QCIs).
\- The Participating Operator's networks shall be able to request offered on-
demand resources.
\- The Hosting RAN Provider shall be able to allow a Participating Operator to
request the cancellation of granted on-demand requests.
\- The Hosting RAN Provider shall be able to withdraw a granted request
(within SLA/business agreement)
## 4.10 Scenario and use case 8 (Participating Operator managing allocated
resources)
### 4.10.1 Description
This use case describes a shared RAN providing selective O&M access to a
Participating Operator to perform O&M tasks (troubleshooting) supporting the
Participating Operator's use of the shared RAN. The shared RAN O&M elements
allow access by the Participating Operator based on the Hosting RAN Provider
O&M access policies.
### 4.10.2 Pre-conditions
1) Operator A is a Hosting RAN Provider sharing a RAN.
2) Operator B is a Participating Operator using a portion of capacity of
Operator A's shared RAN.
3) Operator B's O&M systems have access the O&M elements of the shared RAN is
under control of Operator's A's policy.
### 4.10.3 Service flows
1) A fault occurs in a cell site of the shared RAN and is reported to the
shared RAN O&M elements
2) The fault is reported to Operator A's operation staff to fix.
3) The fault is reported to Operator B's O&M systems by the shared RAN O&M
elements to inform Operator B of a cell outage.
4) Operator B's operation staff contact Operator A's operation staff to obtain
an update of the situation.
5) Operator B's operation staff reset fault reporting from the shared RAN O&M
elements so as to not receive any further related faults.
6) Operator A's operation staff continue to receive fault reports.
7) An intermittent failure condition is detected on the link between one of
the shared RAN base stations and Operator B's core network.
8) Operator B's operation staff decides that a link test from the shared
network base station is required to help troubleshoot the problem.
9) Operator B's O&M system is able to initiate the required link test in the
base station through the shared RAN O&M elements.
### 4.10.4 Post-conditions
1) Operator B is able to perform O&M tasks on the shared RAN related to
Operator B's usage of the shared RAN
2) Operator A is able to control what O&M tasks Operator B is able to perform
on the shared RAN.
### 4.10.5 Requirements
\- The shared RAN shall be able to provide selective O&M access to the
Participating Operator to perform O&M tasks supporting the Participating
Operator's use of the shared RAN.
\- The shared RAN O&M elements shall be able to use the Hosting RAN Provider
O&M access policy to control access by each Participating Operator.
## 4.11 Scenario and use case 9 (Load balancing in shared RAN)
### 4.11.1 Description
This use case describes the situation of a certain shared coverage area
consisting of several cells, which are shared by multiple operators. The
agreed shares are predefined among these operators. In this case Load
balancing between these cells needs to take the network sharing ratio per
operator into account.
### 4.11.2 Pre-conditions
Two neighbouring cells (A and B) are shared by Operator 1 and 2.
Two neighbouring cells (C and D) are shared by Operator 1 and 2.
Cell A and B does not overlap with Cell C and D.
Agreed usage of RAN resources:
\- Operator 1 is allowed to use 30% of cell capacity of A and B, and Operator
2 is allowed to use 70 % of cell capacity of A and B.
\- Operator 1 is allowed to use 30% of cell capacity of C and D, and Operator
2 is allowed to use 70 % of cell capacity of C and D.
Load status of cells and usage per PLMN prior to load balancing:
\- Cell A is 40 % loaded (60% spare)
\- 31 % used by Operator 1
\- 9 % used by Operator 2
\- Cell B is 50 % loaded (50% spare)
\- 20 % used by Operator 1
\- 30 % used by Operator 2
\- Cell C is 90% loaded (10% spare)
\- 31% used by Operator 1
\- 59% used by Operator 2
\- Cell D is 30% loaded (70% spare)
\- 10% used by Operator 1
\- 20% used by Operator 2
### 4.11.3 Service flows
1) Although the ratio of Operator 1 exceeds 30% in cell A, the whole load of
Cell A is very light. In addition the total percentage used by Operator 1 in
Cell A and B does not exceed 30%. The 1% additional radio resource usage of
operator 1 exceeding his guaranteed use of 30% cell capacity in Cell A is
allowed and will not trigger Operator 1's load balancing towards Cell B. In
other words, when Cell A is lightly loaded, even though Operator 1's usage
exceeds his guaranteed cell capacity, load balancing towards Cell B is not
necessary. This is mainly to avoid unnecessary load balancing behaviour, e.g.
handover Operator 1's subscribers from Cell A to Cell B would result in more
risks on network performance, e.g. increasing call drop rate or handover
failures.
Figure 2: Service flows for use case 9: Load balancing in shared RAN
2) In case of Cell C and D, not only does the ratio of Operator 1 exceed 30%
but also the overall Cell C load is very high (figure 2). Load balancing has
to be triggered to offload Cell C's traffic to Cell D by exchanging cell load
information between these affected cells:\ Since Operator 1 exceeds the ratio
of predefined usage ratio, traffic from Operator 1 would be handed over to
Cell D, until the maximal usage limit of operator 1 has been reached. After
that, traffic from Operator 1 and Operator 2 will be offloaded to Cell D to
achieve further load balancing between the cells while trying to keep usage
ratio of both operators proportional to their relative shares.
### 4.11.4 Post-conditions
Load status of cells and usage per PLMN after load balancing (under optimal
conditions):
\- Cell A is 40 % loaded
\- 31 % used by Operator 1
\- 9 % used by Operator 2
\- Cell B is 50 % loaded
\- 20 % used by Operator 1
\- 30 % used by Operator 2
\- Cell C is 60% loaded
\- 19% used by Operator 1
\- 41% used by Operator 2
\- Cell D is 60% loaded
\- 22% used by Operator 1
\- 38% used by Operator 2
### 4.11.5 Requirements
\- The System shall be able to support load balancing within a shared RAN
while respecting the agreed shares of RAN resources based on the whole cell
load level and the load level for each operator.
\- When load levels, defined by the Hosting RAN Provider, of individual cells
are exceeded the 3GPP System shall be able to enforce agreed maximal usage
limits of each Sharing Operator and to reduce the total load of the cell by
e.g. preferably handing over UEs to neighbouring cells if possible.
## 4.12 Scenario and use case 10 (RAN Sharing Charging Event Triggering)
### 4.12.1 Description
This use case describes the situation of two or more RAN operators with wholly
or partially overlapping coverage; for example one RAN provides contiguous
coverage, the other covers areas including those where additional capacity is
required. A Hosting RAN Provider (hereafter known as HP) shares its RAN
capacity (in the areas where the additional capacity is required) with
Participating Operators, including that associated with the overlaid RAN
(hereafter known as PO1).
In order to generate wholesale start/stop charging records for proper
accounting of usage of the shared RAN, it is necessary to generate a wholesale
charging event record for an event when the UE enters or exits HP's shared
RAN.
### 4.12.2 Pre-conditions
The Hosting Provider (HP) agrees to share RAN resources with one or more
Participating Operators including PO1.
Each Participating Operator has additionally operates its own non-shared RAN
that geographically overlaps (wholly or partially) the shared RAN.
Each Participating Operator supports service continuity when subscriber's UE
handover between HP's shared RAN and their own non-shared RAN, including that
associated with PO1.
Participating Operators and the Hosting Provider have established mutual
commercial wholesale charging arrangements.
A subscriber of one of the Participating Operators (PO1) is currently in an
area of overlap of the HP's shared RAN and PO1's non-shared RAN.
### 4.12.3 Service flows
When the UE is in connected state and mobile, it may experience several kinds
of handovers: From HO cell to another HO cell, from PO1 cell to HO cell, and
vice versa.
The shared RAN generates wholesale charging events when a UE connects to and
disconnects from the shared RAN, but does not generate wholesale charging
events when a UE moves within the shared RAN.
### 4.12.4 Post-conditions
The Hosting Provider is able to efficiently process wholesale charging event
records detailing usage of the shared RAN. Each wholesale charging event
record can be identified as being chargeable to one of the Participating
Operators.
### 4.12.5 Requirements
The requirement derived from this use case is:
\- The shared RAN shall be able to generate accounting events that support the
accounting of Participating Operators by the Hosting Provider. This includes:
\- Start of service in the shared RAN for a UE of the Participating Operator
\- End of service in the shared RAN for a UE of the Participating Operator
\- The network shall be able to distinguish events caused by movement of the
UE to & from the shared RAN, which require wholesale charging event messages
to be generated, from those mobility events which do not require to be
reported for accounting purposes.
Note: For example, if this function were to be provided using TA updates as
currently described in 3GPP, then there would be a large number of non-
charging related messages generated which would not have any useful function.
## 4.13 Scenario and use case 11 (RAN Sharing Charging Reconciliation)
### 4.13.1 Description
This use case describes the situation of a Hosting RAN provider sharing its
RAN capacity with one or more Participating Operators. The Hosting RAN
provider needs to be able to independently verify usage of the RAN, and to
generate wholesale charges for each of the Participating Operators
proportionately for their subscribers' usage of the shared RAN.
The Hosting RAN provider uses detailed wholesale charging event records,
classified by Participating Operator, to charge each PO for the amount of data
transported per QoS levels to & from its subscribers. Each Participating
Operator may also wish to receive wholesale charging event records generated
by the shared RAN for its own subscribers; the Participating Operator may need
these wholesale charging event records for wholesale charging verification,
for onward Third Party (MVNO) charging, etc.
### 4.13.2 Pre-conditions
The Hosting RAN Provider agrees to share RAN resources with one or more
Participating Operators.
Wholesale charging and usage information exchange to support wholesale
charging of shared network usage is established between the Participating
Operators and the Hosting Provider.
### 4.13.3 Service flows
\- The service activities of subscribers operating on the shared RAN trigger
the need for wholesale charging event records to be generated within the RAN.
The wholesale charging event records provide details of each wholesale
chargeable event including the Participating Operator with which the
subscriber's usage is associated.
\- The wholesale charging event records are available to the Hosting Provider
who is able to separate the wholesale charging event records into groupings
associated with each Participating Operator.
\- After processing by the Hosting Provider, the wholesale charging event
records associated with a particular Participating Operator are delivered to
that Participating Operator.
### 4.13.4 Post-conditions
The Hosting Provider is able to perform both overall shared RAN wholesale
charging tasks as well as Participating Operator specific tasks such as
periodic wholesale charging.
The Participating Operator is able to perform shared RAN wholesale charging
verification tasks as well as integrated the share wholesale charging event
records with other charging event records it generates internally such as
Hosting Provider wholesale charging verification and 3^rd^ party usage
charging.
### 4.13.5 Requirements
The requirements derived from this use case are:
\- The shared RAN shall be able to generate wholesale usage information
identifiable per each Participating Operator; e.g. characterized by such
parameters as data volume, QoS level supported, location, time.
\- The wholesale usage information of any specific Participating Operator's
subscribers may be independently available (i.e. directly from the RAN
elements) to that Participating Operator, to allow verification of wholesale
charges & onward charging.
\- The Hosting RAN Provider shall be able to check and filter any wholesale
usage information sent from the RAN
## 4.14 Scenario and use case 12 (PLMN selection enhancements towards a shared
RAN)
### 4.14.1 Description
This use case describes the situation that when a UE is moving towards a
shared RAN, which is shared by its Home operator as well as other operators,
the UE shall be able to select to its HPLMN based on the operator guidance to
get better user experience.
### 4.14.2 Pre-conditions
UE is originally camped on Cell A and PLMN A (non-HPLMN for the UE) is its
registered PLMN;
UE is now moving from Cell A to Cell B which is shared by PLMN A and PLMN B
(UE's HPLMN);
Cell B broadcasts the PLMN identifiers of the participating operators.
### 4.14.3 Service flows
When trying to camp on Cell B, the UE would read the system information and
realize its Home operator is one participating operator. Based on the
operator's policy, UE can choose to start PLMN registration procedure by
selecting its Home PLMN, i.e. PLMN B, instead of keeping the original
registered PLMN A.
### 4.14.4 Post-conditions
After updating PLMN registration the UE is now successfully registered to its
HPLMN and can enjoy local services with lower charging.
### 4.14.5 Requirements
Upon the operator's policy, the UE shall be able to reselect to its HPLMN when
moving towards a shared RAN where at least one participating operator is UE's
Home operator, even though the old registered PLMN is still available.
Note 1: This is applied if and only if the UE is in automatic network
selection mode.
## 4.15 Scenario and use case 13 (PWS in shared RAN)
### 4.15.1 Description
Public Warning System is a broadcast capability where all UEs in a RAN
coverage area designated by the warning message will receive the warning
message to alert a user of an urgent condition concerning public safety.
### 4.15.2 Pre-conditions
1) Operator A is the Hosting Provider and has RAN X which is not shared and
RAN Y which is shared.
2) Operators B is a Participating Operator who is using RAN Y and has its own
RAN Z which is not shared.
3) Operator A has a regulatory obligation to broadcast PWS message to all UEs
operating on RAN X and RAN Y.
4) Operator B has a regulatory obligation to broadcast PWS messages to all UEs
operating on RAN Y and RAN Z.
### 4.15.3 Service flows
1) A Public Safety agency creates a PWS message for a specific region which is
covered by RAN X, RAN Y and RAN Z.
2) The Public Safety agency sends the PWS message to both Operator A and
Operator B.
3) Operator A and Operator B both broadcast the PWS message in the area
designated over all the RAN they have regulatory obligations for (RAN X, RAN Y
and RAN Z).
4) UEs which are operating in RAN X or RAN Z may handover to RAN Y during the
period the PWS message is periodically rebroadcasting.
5) UEs subscribed to Operator A operating in RAN Y may handover to RAN X
during the period the PWS message is periodically rebroadcasting.
6) UEs subscribed to Operator B operating in RAN Y may handover to RAN Z
during the period the PWS message is periodically rebroadcasting.
The following table illustrates which RAN a UE could receive a particular PWS
while located in an area covered by RAN X, Y and Z.
Table 4.15.3-1: Service flows for use case 13 (PWS in shared RAN)
* * *
UE is subscribed to: PWS can be received from  
RAN X (unshared) RAN Y (shared) RAN Z (unshared) Operator A From Operator A
only From both Operator A & B No Operator B No From both Operator A & B From
Operator B only
* * *
### 4.15.4 Post-conditions
1The UE only displays one copy of the PWS message and rejects the remainder
received as rebroadcasts regardless of the RAN it is operating in or may
handover to.
### 4.15.5 Requirements
  * The Hosting RAN shall be able to broadcast PWS messages originated > from the core networks of all Participating Operators
## 4.16 Scenario and use case 14 (Common network shared by multiple operators)
### 4.16.1 Description
This is the case where there are 4 operators in a country that each have 2G,
3G and 4G networks. The traffic on the 2G networks has reduced considerably
but there are still many devices that could use it, principally:
\- UEs with no 3G and 4G capability
\- low-traffic M2M devices (e.g. for Smart Metering)
\- 3G and 4G UEs that run out of coverage on the 3G and 4G network
\- 3G and 4G UEs (for voice) when the 3G and 4G networks are congested
It is agreed amongst the 4 operators to jointly share a single 2G RAN to
support their own devices and roaming UEs from other countries that fall into
the above categories.
Some of the operators have MVNO agreements that also use the 2G network.
Each operator has its own core network.
At any time, an operator can be provided with an indication of how much
capacity they have and which operator is using some of their share of the
resource (Signalling and User traffic to be separately identified).
The resource can be managed is different ways according to the needs of the
sharing operators:
a) Fixed allocation, i.e. guaranteeing a minimum allocation and limiting to a
maximum allocation.
b) Fixed allocation for a specified period of time and/or specific
cells/sectors
c) First come-first served allocation (i.e. on demand).
### 4.16.2 Pre-conditions
All operators put their 2G traffic onto the, shared 2G network. The MVNOs also
use the shared 2G network. It can be agreed that one operator acts as the
Hosting RAN provider.
The resources of the network are dynamically shared among the operators
according to the traffic carried at any one time. Each operator is entitled to
at least 25% of the capacity but if it is not all needed at any particular
time, all operators are willing for a portion of the excess capacity to be
allocated to another operator if required. The Signalling and User plane
traffic capacities can be managed separately.
The interaction between the shared GERAN and the unshared UTRAN and E-UTRAN is
under the control of each operator.
Each operator broadcasts its PLMN ID on the 2G RAN.
### 4.16.3 Service flows
UEs from all 4 operators (and associated MVNOs) that use 2G (2G only UEs, M2M
devices and roaming UEs) all operate on the single 2G network. Many are M2M
devices that communicate small amounts of data (\25% of the capacity. Traffic is also high at this time on
2G from UEs on operators B and C (within their 25% share) but there is little
traffic from UEs on operator D. Therefore operator D's 25% capacity is reduced
to 15% to allow extra temporary capacity for operator A.
A UE connected to its HPLMN's 3G RAN runs out of coverage on 3G but can see
the shared 2G RAN. In this case the UE is handed over to the shared 2G RAN.
Soon after, it comes back into coverage of its HPLMN's 3G RAN and is
immediately handed back over back to the 3G RAN.
A UE (2G, 3G and 4G capable) is camped on the shared 2G RAN as it is out of
coverage of its HPLMN's 3G and 4G RANs. It moves to an area where there is 3G
coverage and immediately camps onto the 3G RAN of its HPLMN.
### 4.16.4 Post-conditions
After the devices have sent their data, the full capacity can be restored to
operator D and all operators can use their 25% allocation.
All devices that are capable of 3G and/or 4G stay off the shared 2G RAN
whenever there are 3G or 4G networks available.
### 4.16.5 Requirements
The system shall provide the ability to make dynamic changes in the cell's RAN
Sharing allocation to Participating Operators based on traffic demand. In any
case, each Participating Operator must maintain a minimum capacity (to be
agreed) even if this is not being used at any particular time. Signalling and
User Plane traffic may be separately managed.
The Hosting RAN shall be able to provide an indication to each participating
operator of how much capacity they have according to the Hosting RAN
operator's setting. (Signalling and User traffic may be separately
identified).
Each participating operator shall be able to maintain existing MVNO deals
technically without any compromise in a shared RAN as compared to a non-shared
RAN network.
From an operator perspective, service provisioning, network management and
operations, the fully shared 2G network shall appear to be exactly the same as
in a non-shared 2G network
## 4.17 Scenario and use case 15 (Interworking between shared RATs)
### 4.17.1 Description
This Use Case describes the situation where UEs are moving in an area where
there are multiple PLMNs sharing some of their RATs. It should be noted that
there are 2 separate situations in this Use Case: one that describes RAN
Sharing and the other that describes how the UE moves between RATs in a shared
evironment.
Specifically, two operators (A & B) share parts of their 2G and 4G networks.
Each also has a 3G network. Operator A shares its 3G network with Operator C.
### 4.17.2 Pre-conditions
Sharing on the 2G network is to accommodate mostly older UEs or low-cost
devices (e.g. M2M modules) but any device can use the 2G network if it has the
capability.
Devices can select any RAT while in idle mode and can handover to any RAT
while in connected mode in accordance with existing PLMN selection rules in
the ME, handover rules and the RAN Sharing agreement rules.
The PLMNs broadcast their identifiers on shared cells as follows:
\- 2G shared -- PLMN A ID, PLMN B ID;
\- 3G shared - PLMN A ID, PLMN C ID;
\- 4G shared - PLMN A ID, PLMN B ID
### 4.17.3 Service flows
A UE that belongs to operator A is connected to operator A's own 3G RAN but
then moves into an area where operator A's own 3G coverage is weak. Shared 3G
coverage with operator C is available but so is shared 4G coverage with
operator B. In this case, the UE is handed over to the 3G RAN shared with
operator C as this maintains the 3G connection.
A UE that belongs to operator C is connected to operator C's own 3G RAN but
then starts to lose coverage. The UE can see the 3G RAN shared with operator A
and the 2G RAN from its own operator (C). In this case, the UE is handed over
to the 3G RAN shared with operator A to maintain a consistent experience.
A UE that belongs to operator B is connected to operator B's 2G RAN but then
starts to lose coverage. The UE can see its own operator's 3G and 4G RANs and
also the shared 2G and 4G RANs from operator A. In this case, the UE is handed
over to 2G RAN shared with operator A.
A UE that belongs to operator A is connected to the 4G RAN shared with
operator B but moves into an area where it can see the 3G RAN shared with
operator C and its own operator's 2G RAN. In this case, it is handed over to
the 3G RAN shared with operator C to ensure that it can use the maximum data
rate available.
A UE that belongs to operator A is in idle mode camped on the 3G RAN shared
with operator C. It then moves to an area where operator A's own 3G RAN has a
good signal strength. At the next scan, the UE camps onto operator A's own 3G
RAN.
The table below shows a possible priority order of RATs the UE should choose
if it loses coverage on its current RAN. If the RAN doesn't exist or isn't
available, the next available one in the list is chosen.
Table 4.17.3-1: possible priority order of RATs
* * *
**UE on 2G Own** **UE on 3G Own** **UE on 4G Own** **UE on 2G Shared** **UE on
3G Shared** **UE on 4G Shared** 2G Shared 3G Shared 4G Shared 2G Own 3G Own 4G
Own 3G Own 4G Own 3G Own 3G Own 4G Own 3G Own 3G Shared 4G Shared 3G Shared 3G
Shared 4G Shared 3G Shared 4G Own 2G Own 2G Own 4G Own 2G Own 2G Own 4G Shared
2G Shared 2G Shared 4G Shared 2G Shared 2G Shared
* * *
### 4.17.4 Post-conditions
The UE is supported by a suitable RAT on either its own network or as a shared
access. The user experience is maintained as far as possible by the choice of
available RATs.
### 4.17.5 Requirements
No new requirements from this Use Case have been identified.
# 5 Considerations
## 5.1 General
Although it might be possible for the Hosting Providers to request the
Participating Operators to collect MDT data in a shared RAN environment,
issues such as the area of service provided to each Participating Operator,
which may or may not be contiguous and/or overlapping, & data confidentiality,
require that the RAN operator should have the ability to request & collect MDT
data independently.
The prime issue consideration is that the mechanism chosen to generate these
charging messages shall not cause a large number of spurious messages to be
generated; i.e. spurious messages that would be triggered by non-chargeable
events
It is realized that collection of usage data in the RAN will place an
additional burden upon the (e)NB or BTS, but this is probably unavoidable. It
can be compared to collection of other data by (e)NB or BTS, such as
Minimization of Drive Testing, which is already accepted as a function that
can only be provided by the (e)NB or BTS in this network environment.
Relative to use case 14, current 3GPP specifications limit PWS to only a
single core network (CBC) provide the PWS to the RAN. The result of this is to
force a shared network to designate a single Participating Operator to provide
the PWS for all the Participating Operators. However the effect of this is to
require either the Hosting RAN Provider to deploy enough core network elements
to support PWS or require all the Participating Operators establish a business
agreement with the Participating Operator providing PWS for the shared network
in addition to the business agreement established with the Hosting RAN
Provider.
These limitations must be lifted to support increased flexibility in RAN
sharing arrangements.
## 5.2 Considerations on network evolution/rollout
It should be possible for these functions to be provided by a shared RAN even
where the Participating Operator network supports with an earlier Release of
3GPP standards.
It should be possible for these functions to be provided by a shared RAN even
where the Participating Operator network supports an earlier Release of the
3GPP standards (i.e. the PO network is pre Release 12).
It should be possible for these functions to be provided by a shared RAN even
where the Participating Operator network supports with an earlier Release of
3GPP standards.
## 5.3 Considerations on security
Any automated mechanism for the Participating Operator to request any amount
of any allocation type needs to have the Hosting RAN Provider approval.
Any shared RAN O&M function invoked by the Participating Operator needs to be
under the control of the Hosting RAN Provider O&M access policy.
Privacy of subscriber information in MDT data shall be provided in the shared
RAN environment to the same level as in the non-shared RAN environment.
Privacy of subscriber information in operational data shall be provided in the
shared RAN environment to the same level as in the non-shared RAN environment.
The ability to create usage triggers without overloading uninvolved network
elements is itself a security consideration, in reducing the possibility of a
DoS attack on the network.
Privacy of subscriber information in charging records shall be provided in the
shared RAN environment to the same level as in the non-shared RAN environment.
## 5.4 Difference with pre-Release-12 RAN sharing specification
RAN Sharing Monitoring is not possible in pre-Release 12 networks.
Standardized Hosting RAN OAM status reporting is not possible in pre-Release
12 networks.
Different types of capacity allocation were not considered in previous
specifications. Shared RAN support of multiple types of capacity allocation
concurrently were also not considered.
Specific access to shared RAN O&M functions by Participating Operators was not
considered in previous specifications.
Support for MDT in a RAN sharing environment was not specifically considered
in pre-Release 12 specifications. The consideration of alternative business
arrangements between Hosting Providers and Participating Operators was not
explored.
Support for collection of operational data by the Hosting RAN Provider in a
RAN sharing environment was not specifically considered in pre-Release 12
specifications. The consideration of alternative operational arrangements
between Hosting Providers and Participating Operators was not explored.
In pre-Rel-12 load balancing between cells does not take into account the
percentage of shared RAN resources for each operator and the whole cell load
together. Thus it remains unclear when to trigger load balancing and how to
balance traffic between cells for each operator.
Support for charging events to be generated by a shared RAN was not
specifically considered in pre-Release 12 specifications. The consideration of
alternative business arrangements between Hosting Providers and Participating
Operators was not explored.
Support for billing and charging reconciliation in a RAN sharing environment
was not specifically considered in pre-Release 12 specifications. The
consideration of alternative business arrangements between Hosting Providers
and Participating Operators was not explored.
On-demand Capacity Brokering: On-demand Capacity Brokering is not possible in
pre-Release 12 networks.
Consideration of PWS broadcast in shared RAN and mixed shared/non-shared RAN
were not considered in previous specifications.
## 5.5 Impact on RANs
The impact on the Radio Access Network (including E-UTRAN, UTRAN and GERAN)
technologies arising from any requirements agreed needs to be investigated. It
should be ensured that any changes to enhance RAN sharing do not degrade the
performance of the RAN or remove any capabilities required in the non-RAN
sharing case.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 General
The following potential requirements on RAN sharing have been consolidated
from the use cases in section 4 of this document. These requirements have been
created to support enhanced RAN sharing and go beyond existing RAN sharing
requirements in Rel.-12.
## 6.2 Consolidated requirements
Table 6.2-1: Consolidated requirements
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Allocation of Shared RAN | | | resources** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - The Hosting RAN shall be | | | > able to allocate RAN | | use case maximizing RAN sharing | > resource capacity to each | | revenue | > of the Participating | | | > Operators by the | | And use case RAN Sharing | > following: | | Granularity | | | | > a. Fixed allocation, i.e. | | | > guaranteeing a minimum | | | > allocation and limiting to a | | | > maximum allocation. | | | > | | | > b. Fixed allocation for a | | | > specified period of time | | | > and/or specific cells/sectors | | | > | | | > c. First come-first served | | | > allocation (i.e. on demand). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - A Hosting RAN Provider shall | | | > be able to define in the | | use case Asymmetric RAN Resource | > Hosting RAN the allocated | | Allocation | > share of RAN capacity for | | | > each Participating | | | > Operator. | | | | | | - A shared RAN shall be | | | > capable of differentiating | | | > traffic associated with | | | > individual Participating | | | > Operators. | | | | | | - A shared RAN shall conduct | | | > admission control based on | | | > the proportion of assigned | | | > RAN usage for each | | | > Participating Operator, | | | > within a margin of | | | > tolerance. | | | | | | - A shared RAN shall control | | | > transmission resource | | | > usage based on the | | | > proportion of assigned RAN | | | > usage for each | | | > Participating Operator, | | | > within a margin of | | | > tolerance. | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | - The 3GPP System shall be | | | > capable of applying | | | > differentiated QoS | | | > attributes per | | | > Participating Operator for | | | > traffic in the Shared RAN. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - The system shall provide the | | | > ability to make dynamic | | Use case Common Network Shared | > changes in the cell's RAN | | by Multiple Operators | > Sharing allocation to | | | > Participating Operators | | | > based on traffic demand. | | | | | | - A minimum capacity (to be | | | > set) shall be maintained | | | > for each Participating | | | > Operator that cannot be | | | > shared even if this is not | | | > required. (Signalling and | | | > User plane traffic may be | | | > separately managed) | | | | | | - The Hosting RAN shall be | | | > able to allocate RAN | | | > resource capacity to each | | | > of the Participating | | | > Operators by the | | | > following: | | | | | | > a. Fixed allocation, i.e. | | | > guaranteeing a minimum | | | > allocation and limiting to a | | | > maximum allocation. | | | > | | | > b. Fixed allocation for a | | | > specified period of time | | | > and/or specific cells/sectors | | | > | | | > c. First come-first served | | | > allocation (i.e. on demand). | | | | | | - The Hosting RAN shall be | | | > able to provide an | | | > indication to each | | | > participating operator of | | | > how much capacity they | | | > have according to the | | | > Hosting RAN operator's | | | > setting. (Signalling and | | | > User traffic may be | | | > separately identified). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **OAM Access to the Hosting | | | RAN** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - The Hosting RAN shall be | | | > able to provide and | | use case Participating Operator | > control selective OAM | | managing allocated resources | > access (e.g. to allow link | | | > test in the base station, | | | > provide fault reports...) | | | > to each Participating | | | > Operator to perform OAM | | | > tasks supporting the | | | > Participating Operator's | | | > use of the Hosting RAN. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - The Hosting RAN shall be | | | > able to allow | | use case RAN Sharing Monitoring | > Participating Operators to | | | > retrieve selective OAM | | | > status information to the | | | > same level of detail as | | | > would be available from a | | | > non-shared E-UTRAN. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Support for load balancing** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - The Hosting RAN shall be | | | > able to support load | | use case Load balancing in | > balancing within a shared | | shared RAN | > RAN while respecting the | | | > agreed shares of RAN | | | > resources based on the | | | > whole cell load level and | | | > the load level for each | | | > Participating Operator. | | | | | | - The Hosting RAN shall be | | | > able to perform load | | | > balancing per | | | > Participating Operator | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Generation and retrieval of | | | usage and accounting | | | information** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - A Hosting RAN shall report | | | > events supporting the | | use case RAN Sharing Charging | > accounting of network | | Event Triggering | > resource usage separately | | | > for each Participating | | | > Operator. This includes: | | | | | | - Start of service in the | | | Hosting RAN for a UE of | | | the Participating | | | Operator | | | | | | - End of service in the | | | Hosting RAN for a UE of | | | the Participating | | | Operator | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - The usage information | | | > generated by the Hosting | | use case RAN Sharing Charging | > RAN shall be on a per | | Reconciliation | > Participating Operator | | | > basis. | | | | | | - In addition to delivery to | | | > the Hosting RAN Provider a | | | > subscriber's usage | | | > information may be | | | > directly delivered to the | | | > subscriber's Participating | | | > Operator. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - Subject to agreement between | | | > the Hosting RAN Provider | | use case MDT Support for RAN | > and Participating | | operator | > Operators the Hosting RAN | | | > Provider shall be able to | | | > control collection of MDT | | | > data by UEs connected | | | > through its RAN. | | | | | | - Subject to agreement between | | | > the Hosting RAN Provider | | | > and Participating | | | > Operators the Hosting RAN | | | > Provider shall be able to | | | > retrieve MDT data | | | > collected by UEs connected | | | > through its RAN. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **On-demand capacity | | | negotiation** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From use case On-demand | - The Hosting RAN shall be | | Automated Capacity Brokering | > able to offer by automatic | | | > means sharable RAN | | | > resources as on-demand | | | > capacity to Participating | | | > Operator's networks. | | | | | | - The Participating Operator's | | | > networks shall be able to | | | > request offered on-demand | | | > resources. | | | | | | - The Hosting RAN Provider | | | > shall be able to allow a | | | > Participating Operator to | | | > request the cancellation | | | > of granted on-demand | | | > requests. | | | | | | - The Hosting RAN Provider | | | > shall be able to withdraw | | | > a granted request (within | | | > SLA/business agreement) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Handover functionality due to | | | RAN Sharing Agreements** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From Use case Dynamic RAN | - At the beginning of RAN | | Sharing Enhancements | sharing Participating | | | Operators shall be able to | | | direct both connected and | | | idle UEs towards the Hosting | | | RAN and the Hosting RAN | | | Provider shall be able to | | | direct both connected and | | | idle UEs away from the | | | Hosting RAN at the end of | | | the RAN Sharing Period. | | | | | | - If required by the on-demand | | | granted RAN Sharing | | | agreements, Participating | | | Operators shall be involved | | | in the decision of where to | | | drive connected and idle UEs | | | to when multiple options are | | | available at the end of the | | | RAN Sharing Period. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From Use case PLMN selection | - Upon the operator's policy, | | enhancements towards a shared | a UE in automatic network | | RAN | selection mode shall | | | reselect to its HPLMN when | | and Use Case Interworking | moving towards a shared RAN | | between shared RATs | where at least one | | | participating operator is | | and Use case Common Network | UE's Home operator, even | | Shared by Multiple Operators | though the old registered | | | PLMN is still available | | | | | | - Based on HPLMN operator | | | policy and if the UE is in | | | automatic selection mode, | | | the UE using its HPLMN's | | | unshared RAT shall be able | | | to reselect to the | | | equivalent shared RAT when | | | the HPLMN's RAT is no longer | | | available. If no equivalent | | | shared RAT is available, the | | | UE shall be able to reselect | | | to a higher-capable unshared | | | RAT on its HPLMN (e.g. 3G to | | | 4G) as a preference over a | | | higher-capable shared RAT. | | | | | | - Based on HPLMN operator | | | policy and if the UE is in | | | automatic selection mode, | | | the UE using a shared RAT | | | shall be able to reselect to | | | the equivalent unshared RAT | | | of its HPLMN if available | | | (even if the shared RAT is | | | still available). If both | | | the shared and unshared RAT | | | become unavailable, the UE | | | shall reselect to a | | | higher-capable unshared RAT | | | on its HPLMN as preference | | | to a shared RAT. | | | | | | - The selection and handover | | | mechanisms shall ensure that | | | the UE does not "ping-pong" | | | between RATs | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **PWS support of shared RAN** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From use case on PWS | The Hosting RAN shall be able to | | | broadcast PWS messages | | | originated from the core | | | networks of all Participating | | | Operators | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Miscellaneous** | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | From | - Each participating operator | | | shall be able to maintain | | Use case Common Network Shared | existing MVNO deals | | by Multiple Operators | technically without any | | | compromise in a shared RAN | | | as compared to a non-shared | | | RAN network. | | | | | | - From an operator | | | perspective, service | | | provisioning, network | | | management and operations | | | in, a fully shared 2G | | | network shall appear to be | | | exactly the same as in a | | | non-shared 2G network | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
The present document describes 16 scenarios and use cases in which specific
enhancements to existing RAN sharing in E-UTRAN, UTRAN and GERAN were
analysed.
These enhancements have been found beneficial in offering savings as well as
providing other benefits such as improving coverage of Participating
Operators' networks. The analysed solutions expand the flexibility for RAN
sharing arrangements for Participating Operators.
Normative requirements for E-UTRAN have already been agreed based on TR22.852
version 12. It is proposed to create normative requirements for GERAN and
UTRAN based on this version of the TR.
#