# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In mission critical networks ensuring the ability of Public Safety officers to
communicate is of the utmost importance. Isolated E-UTRAN Operation seeks to
enhance the ability of Public Safety officers to communicate by investigating
improved support for situations where users move out of E-UTRAN coverage or
following the loss of backhaul communications.
# Scope
The present document studies use cases and identifies potential requirements
for Isolated E-UTRAN Operation in support of mission critical network
operation for Public Safety.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: "Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Isolated E-UTRAN:** either an E-UTRAN without normal connectivity with the
EPC or deployed NeNBs with E-UTRAN functionality.
**Nomadic eNB (NeNB)** : An NeNB is a nomadic cell and may consist: base
station, antennas, microwave backhaul and support for local services. The NeNB
is intended for Public Safety use providing coverage or additional capacity
where: 1) coverage was never present (e.g. forest fire or underground rescue)
or 2) where, for example, due to natural disaster coverage is no longer
present.
**Isolated E-UTRAN operation** : Comprises two situations: 1) In the event of
an interruption to normal backhaul connectivity Isolated E-UTRAN operation
aims to adapt to the failure and maintain an acceptable level of network
operation in the Isolated E-UTRAN. The restoration of service is the eventual
goal. 2) Operation following the deployment of one or more Nomadic eNBs either
without backhaul or with limited backhaul.
**Network redundancy** : In the event of failure redundancy aims to maintain
network operation with minimum downtime. This is achieved with the addition,
for example, of duplicate communication paths and network elements.
**Network resiliency** : Resiliency is the ability of a system to operate
under adverse conditions. Network Resiliency can draw on aspects of both
network redundancy and Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
**User** : Within the scope of the present document the use of the term 'user'
is limited to Public Safety operation.
**Limited backhaul capability** : Isolated E-UTRAN operation supports
operation where the Isolated E-UTRAN has no backhaul capability to the EPC.
Furthermore Isolated E-UTRAN operation may have limited backhaul capability to
the EPC. For the case of limited backhaul capability to the EPC only the
signalling of public safety Ues can reliably be communicated to the EPC; in
addition users may have the possibility to transmit a limited amount of user
data with no guarantee of service.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document there are no specific symbols
defined.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
NeNB Nomadic eNB
# 4 Problem statement
An Isolated E-UTRAN can be created:
\- Following an event isolating the E-UTRAN from normal connectivity with the
EPC.
\- Following deployment of standalone E-UTRAN NeNBs.
Isolated E-UTRAN can comprise:
\- Operation with no connection to the EPC.
\- One or multiple eNBs.
\- Interconnection between eNBs.
\- Limited backhaul capability to the EPC.
\- The services required to support local operation e.g. Group Communication.
An illustration of an Isolated E-UTRAN is provided in Figure 1.
{width="6.064583333333333in" height="1.9076388888888889in"}
Figure 4.1: Isolated E-UTRAN formed following an outage event within the
network
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Local fall back at eNB group call use case
### 5.1.1 Description
This use case describes group call communications when an eNB becomes
disconnected from the EPC (e.g. S1 link broken) and provides local services
only.
It also describes the operation when the eNB becomes reconnected to the
network.
### 5.1.2 Actors
Oscar: Officer transmitting group addressed multimedia call.
Peter: Officer participating in group addressed multimedia call with Oscar as
its originator, as a receiver of the call.
Quentin: Dispatcher participating in group addressed multimedia call with
Oscar as its originator, also as a receiver of the call.
Roger: Officer needing to obtain service from the eNB whilst disconnected, and
to join call with Oscar and Peter.
### 5.1.3 Pre-conditions
Dispatcher Quentin is connected to the System via fixed lines.
All field Officers, except Roger, are under the coverage of the same eNB.
There is no other eNB that they could use to access the System, e.g. because
of radio propagation.
The eNB is connected to the EPC.
Oscar, Peter and Quentin are participating in a group multimedia call.
### 5.1.4 Service Flows
#### 5.1.4.1 Service Flow 1 -- Disconnection of link between eNB and EPC
1\. The link between eNB and EPC becomes disconnected.
2\. Oscar and Peter receive an indication that the call is being carried
locally only. Quentin receives an indication that he has become disconnected
from the call.
NOTE: The call between Oscar and Peter may be disconnected, requiring them to
restart communications, or may be continued -- either option is acceptable.
3\. The eNB maintains an appropriate level of security such that
communications remain confidential from eavesdroppers who are not members of
the network.
NOTE: It is generally preferable for users to maintain communications on eNBs
which are still connected to the EPC, and Ues may have algorithms which
attempt to find service on such eNBs, rather than remaining connected to the
disconnected eNB.
#### 5.1.4.2 Service Flow 2 -- Operation whilst eNB disconnected from EPC
1\. Roger moves into the coverage area of the eNB, and is unable to obtain
service from any other site.
2\. Roger's UE obtains service from the eNB. The eNB validates Roger's
entitlement to receive service. Roger receives the indication that service is
local only.
NOTE: The process may validate Roger as part of a permitted organisation,
rather than as a permitted individual.
3\. Roger joins the group call between Oscar and Peter. Security mechanisms
maintain an appropriate level of confidentiality.
#### 5.1.4.3 Service Flow 3 -- Reconnection between eNB and EPC
1\. The link between eNB and EPC is restored.
2\. The indication received by Oscar, Peter and Roger that their serving eNB
is providing local area services is cancelled, and an explicit notification
that wide area services are now available may be provided.
3\. Quentin may receive an indication that the eNB is reconnected to the
network.
4\. The ongoing local call between Oscar, Peter and Roger is disconnected. All
participants receive an indication that the call has been disconnected. Oscar
may re-initiate the group call. The group call will now carry multimedia
information from Oscar to Peter and Quentin.
### 5.1.5 Alternative Service Flows
NOTE: Alternative flows indicate alternative solutions that may be provided by
the standard which will be acceptable for the users. It is not intended that
all possibilities will be provided.
**_Alternative Flow #1 for Service Flow 3 in sub clause 5.1.4.3 step 4:_**
4\. Oscar receives an indication that the state of his call has changed and it
is now being sent to Quentin (and/or any other group members) as well as Peter
and Roger. The multimedia information flows from Oscar to Peter, Quentin and
Roger.
**_Alternative Flow #2 for Service Flow 3 in sub clause 5.1.4.3 step 4:_**
4\. A second ongoing call in the same group is ongoing and includes Quentin.
The EPC recognises that the calls are now in conflict. The EPC may disconnect
one of the two calls according to a prioritisation algorithm or may disconnect
both. The EPC indicates that the call(s) have been disconnected to all
disconnected participants and may provide an indication of reason (such as the
conflict condition).
### 5.1.6 Post-conditions
Oscar, Peter and Roger have wide area communications available again.
### 5.1.7 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.1.7-001] When the eNB is disconnected from the EPC, calls in progress on
that eNB shall be either terminated and re-established or continue with local
participants only.
[PR-5.1.7-002] While in local mode, there shall be adequate means of providing
confidentiality and authenticity for users joining and receiving service from
the eNB, although these may be using parameters which are common for all
members of an organisation (or the network) rather than individual.
[PR-5.1.7-003] When the eNB has re-connected to the EPC, existing local group
calls shall either be terminated and re-established or continued with the
addition of other group members.
[PR-5.1.7-004] The security of credentials shall not be compromised by
solutions for isolated E-UTRAN.
## 5.2 Local fall back at eNB individual call use case
### 5.2.1 Description
This use case describes communications when a cell site becomes disconnected
from the EPC and provides local services only.
It also describes the operation when the cell site becomes reconnected to the
network.
### 5.2.2 Actors
Mick: Dispatcher in individual multimedia communication with officer Ned.
Ned: Officer in individual multimedia communication with dispatcher Mick.
Oscar: Officer in individual multimedia communication with officer Peter.
Peter: Officer in individual multimedia communication with officer Oscar.
Roger: Officer needing to obtain service from the eNB whilst disconnected.
### 5.2.3 Pre-conditions
Dispatcher Mick is connected to the System via fixed lines.
All field Officers, except Roger, are under the coverage of the same eNB.
There is no other eNB that they could use to access the System, e.g. because
of radio propagation.
The eNB is connected to the EPC.
Mick and Ned are engaged in an individual multimedia communication.
Oscar and Peter are engaged in an individual multimedia communication.
### 5.2.4 Service Flows
#### 5.2.4.1 Service Flow 1 -- Loss of connection between eNB and EPC
1\. Mick and Ned are exchanging voice and/or video. Oscar and Peter are
exchanging voice and/or video.
2\. A fault develops in the link between eNB and EPC, disconnecting the eNB
from the EPC, halting the information flow between Mick and Ned, and the
information flow between Oscar and Peter.
3\. All participants under the coverage of the affected eNB receive an
indication that the eNB has been disconnected from the network:
3a. Ned, Mick, Peter and Oscar receive notification of call ending due to
network connectivity.
3b. Mick receives an indication that Ned is no longer contactable.
3c. Ned, Oscar and Peter receive an indication that their serving eNB is
providing local service only.
4\. Ned, Oscar and Peter may receive a list of other users within their
respective groups, and/or a list of groups who are also receiving service from
the local site.
5\. Ned, Oscar and Peter may initiate individual calls between themselves
whilst the eNB remains disconnected.
6\. The eNB maintains an appropriate level of security such that
communications remain confidential from eavesdroppers who are not members of
the network.
NOTE: It is generally preferable for users to maintain communications on eNBs
which are still connected to the EPC, and Ues may have algorithms which
attempt to find service on such eNBs, rather than remaining connected to the
disconnected eNB.
#### 5.2.4.2 Service Flow 2 -- Operation whilst eNB disconnected from EPC
1\. Roger moves into the coverage area of the eNB, and is unable to obtain
service from any other site.
2\. Roger's UE obtains service from the eNB. The eNB validates Roger's
entitlement to receive service. Roger receives the indication that service is
local only.
NOTE: The process may validate Roger as part of a permitted organisation,
rather than as a permitted individual.
3\. Roger may receive an indication of which other users are receiving service
from that eNB. The other users may receive an indication that Roger is now
receiving service from the eNB.
4\. Roger is able to place and receive calls to/from Ned, Oscar and Peter.
#### 5.2.4.3 Service Flow 3 -- Reconnection between eNB and EPC
1\. The link between eNB and EPC is restored.
2\. The indication received by Roger, Ned, Oscar and Peter that their serving
eNB is providing local area services is cancelled, and an explicit
notification that wide area services are now available may be provided.
3\. Mick may receive an indication that the eNB is reconnected to the network.
It is useful information to know that these four officers can be contacted
again and that the coverage is back to normal, and Mick may receive other
information such as the service area served by the eNB or list of served users
within his organisation who have service from the reconnected eNB.
4\. Mick, Oscar, Peter, Roger or Ned may initiate a new individual multimedia
service to another user.
### 5.2.5 Alternative Service Flows
**_Alternative Flow #1 for Service Flow 1 in sub clause 5.2.4.1 step 3:_**
3\. Oscar receives an indication that his ongoing call is being continued but
to local participants only. The call is carried locally by the eNB and
received by Peter.
### 5.2.6 Post-conditions
_Part 1 -- following steps in sub clauses 5.2.4.1 and 5.2.4.2:_
Ned, Oscar, Peter and Roger (in sub clause 5.2.4.2) who are being served by
the disconnected cell site enjoy local multimedia communications with each
other, and others served by this site. They continue to receive notifications
that calls are only possible locally.
All users at the site may receive information concerning others in the same
groups, and/or a list of groups who are present at the disconnected site.
_Part 2 -- following steps in sub clause 5.2.4.3:_
Roger, Ned, Oscar and Peter have wide area communications available again.
### 5.2.7 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.2.7-001] An eNB shall be able to provide local multimedia and data
communications to all users under the coverage of the eNB and groups if
disconnected from the EPC.
[PR-5.2.7-002] When the eNB goes into the disconnected state, it shall
disconnect and re-establish all calls in progress, or maintain calls already
in progress between users under the coverage of that isolated system.
[PR-5.2.7-003] The isolated system shall provide an indication of local area
service only to all users under its coverage while in the disconnected state.
[PR-5.2.7-004] Once in the disconnected state, the isolated system shall allow
users under its coverage to set up and maintain multimedia and data calls with
other users under this same isolated system.
[PR-5.2.7-005] The isolated system shall maintain an appropriate level of
communications security, including encryption, whilst in the disconnected
state. This shall include a check of authenticity of served users, which may
be implicit, and may validate them as members of an organisation or as members
of the network, rather than an individual authentication check.
[PR-5.2.7-006] The isolated system shall be capable of providing a list of
served users and/or served groups to all users under the coverage of the
isolated E-UTRAN. The list of served users and/or served groups may be
obtained from the network or may be compiled from information collected from
the served public safety Ues. Lists may be restricted according to security
policy, for example information on users and/or groups within a served user's
organisation may only be provided to that served user, and information on
users may only be provided to other users within the same group.
[PR-5.2.7-007] The isolated system shall automatically reconnect to the EPC
when the link becomes available again.
[PR-5.2.7-008] The isolated system shall withdraw the local service indication
to users under its coverage, and may provide an explicit notification of wide
area service to those when it is reconnected to the EPC. Any existing local
calls may be terminated, or re-routed via the EPC.
[PR-5.2.7-009] The security of subscription credentials normally stored in the
core network shall not be compromised by solutions for isolated E-UTRANs.
NOTE: Those requirements may apply for other use cases.
## 5.3 Local routing use case
### 5.3.1 Local routing use case with an infrastructure-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN
#### 5.3.1.1 Description
Isolated E-UTRAN operation can offer improved coverage by supporting ProSe
'local routing' at an Isolated E-UTRAN formed from a single eNB. The Isolated
E-UTRAN can be created following a network outage in the infrastructure
E-UTRAN.
#### 5.3.1.2 Pre-conditions
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are at an incident. Each Public Safety
Officer has a UE which is ProSe-enabled; however the Public Safety Officers
are communicating by means of group call via the infrastructure network.
#### 5.3.1.3 Service Flows
There is an outage in the E-UTRAN which results in the backhaul for a single
eNB becoming disconnected. This eNB previously served Public Safety Officers
A, B, C and D.
The Public Safety Officers are in proximity to each other so their respective
Ues can perform ProSe Group Communication provided by 'direct mode' ProSe in
the absence of network coverage.
The single eNB (now isolated from the infrastructure network following the
loss of the backhaul connection) begins operation as an Isolated E-UTRAN.
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are in coverage of the Isolated E-UTRAN
and are subsequently served by the Isolated E-UTRAN.
The Public Safety Officers spread out in pairs: Public Safety Officers A and
B, and Public Safety Officers C and D. Public Safety Officers A and B remain
in proximity for 'direct mode' ProSe to be maintained. The same applies to
Public Safety Officers C and D. Therefore Public safety Officers A and B are
in ProSe Communication; similarly Public safety Officers C and D are in ProSe
Communication.
The Isolated E-UTRAN determines that services between Public Safety Officers A
and B, and Public Safety Officers C and D are to be supported by 'locally-
routed' ProSe.
#### 5.3.1.4 Post-conditions
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D retain their ProSe Group Communication
even though not all Public Safety Officers are in 'direct mode' proximity.
#### 5.3.1.5 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.3.1.5-001] The Ues shall indicate to their respective Public Safety
Officers that they are working within an Isolated E-UTRAN, i.e. no connection
to the EPC.
[PR-5.3.1.5-002] The isolated eNB shall detect the loss of backhaul connection
and transition to infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
[PR-5.3.1.5-003] The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely
admit to the system the Ues that belong to Public Safety Officers. The
infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely admit any further
authorised Ues to the system.
[PR-5.3.1.5-004] The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to
establish 'local routing' and ProSe Group Communication for the Ues of Public
Safety Officers.
### 5.3.2 Local routing use case with an NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN
#### 5.3.2.1 Description
Isolated E-UTRAN operation can offer improved coverage by supporting ProSe
'local routing' at an Isolated E-UTRAN formed from a single eNB. The Isolated
E-UTRAN can be created following the deployment of an NeNB.
#### 5.3.2.2 Pre-conditions
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are at an incident.
There is no network coverage due to a widespread outage in the E-UTRAN.
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are in proximity; their respective Ues
are able to perform ProSe Group Communication provided by 'direct mode' ProSe.
#### 5.3.2.3 Service Flows
Isolated E-UTRAN coverage is subsequently established using a single NeNB that
is deployed to provide coverage at the location of the incident.
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are in coverage of the Isolated E-UTRAN
and served by the Isolated E-UTRAN.
The Public Safety Officers spread out in pairs: Public Safety Officers A and
B, and Public Safety Officers C and D. Public Safety Officers A and B remain
in proximity for 'direct mode' ProSe to be maintained. The same applies to
Public Safety Officers C and D. Therefore Public safety Officers A and B are
in ProSe Communication; similarly Public safety Officers C and D are in ProSe
Communication.
The Isolated E-UTRAN determines that services between Public Safety Officers A
and B, and Public Safety Officers C and D are to be supported by 'locally-
routed' ProSe.
#### 5.3.2.4 Post-conditions
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D retain their ProSe Group Communication
even though not all Public Safety Officers are in 'direct mode' proximity.
#### 5.3.2.5 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.3.2.5-001] The Ues shall indicate to their respective Public Safety
Officers that they are working within an Isolated E-UTRAN, i.e. no connection
to the EPC.
NOTE: This potential requirement is a duplicate of [PR-5.3.1.5-001].
[PR-5.3.2.5-002] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely readmit to
the system the Ues belonging to Public Safety Officers. The NeNB-derived
Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely admit any further authorised Ues to the
system.
[PR-5.3.2.5-003] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to establish
'local routing' and ProSe Group Communication for the Ues of Public Safety
Officers.
## 5.4 A limited backhaul connection use case
### 5.4.1 A limited backhaul connection use case with an infrastructure-
derived Isolated E-UTRAN
#### 5.4.1.1 Description
Following an outage in the E-UTRAN it may be possible to create an Isolated
E-UTRAN from infrastructure eNBs in which limited (i.e. available bandwidth
supports only signalling and low speed data) backhaul connectivity may still
be retained. This connectivity is able to assist in the creation and operation
of the Isolated E-UTRAN.
#### 5.4.1.2 Pre-conditions
Public Safety Officers A and B are at an incident. Each Public Safety Officer
has a UE which is communicating via the infrastructure network.
#### 5.4.1.3 Service Flows
There is an outage in the E-UTRAN which results in the backhaul for a single
eNB to become disconnected. This eNB previously served Public Safety Officers
A and B.
The single eNB (now isolated from the infrastructure network following the
loss of the backhaul connection) begins operation as an Isolated E-UTRAN.
A limited backhaul connection is retained in the Isolated E-UTRAN. The limited
backhaul connection permits the exchange of security-control plane signalling
with the EPC; the user plane traffic is routed locally in the Isolated
E-UTRAN. Officers A and B are able to utilize low speed communication services
but are not able to use higher speed communication services through the
infrastructure.
Public Safety officers C and D arrive on the scene and are authenticated.
#### 5.4.1.4 Post-conditions
Public Safety Officers A and B retain their security context established prior
to the network outage in the E-UTRAN.
#### 5.4.1.5 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.4.1.5-001] The Ues shall indicate to their respective Public Safety
Officers that they are working within an Isolated E-UTRAN with limited
bandwidth to users and services outside the E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.4.1.5-002] The isolated eNB shall detect the loss of backhaul connection
and transition to infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
NOTE: This potential requirement is a duplicate of [PR-5.3.1.5-002].
[PR-5.4.1.5-003] The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall retain the
security context for Ues originally provided directly by the E-UTRAN and now
by the E-UTRAN via the limited backhaul of infrastructure-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN. The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall admit any further
authorised Ues to the system.
[PR-5.4.1.5-004] The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall use the
limited backhaul connection to exchange security-control plane signalling with
the EPC and route locally the user plane traffic within the Isolated E-UTRAN.
### 5.4.2 A limited backhaul connection use case with an NeNB-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN
#### 5.4.2.1 Description
Following the creation of an Isolated E-UTRAN from a deployment of NeNBs there
may exist the possibility of deploying a limited backhaul connection. This
connectivity is able to assist in the creation and operation of the Isolated
E-UTRAN.
#### 5.4.2.2 Pre-conditions
Public Safety Officers A and B are at an incident.
There is no network coverage due to a widespread network outage in the
E-UTRAN.
Public Safety Officers A and B are in proximity; their respective Ues are able
to perform ProSe Group Communication provided by 'direct mode' ProSe.
#### 5.4.2.3 Service Flows
Isolated E-UTRAN coverage is subsequently established using a single NeNB that
is deployed to provide coverage at the location of the incident.
A limited backhaul connection permits the exchange of security-control plane
signalling with the EPC; the user plane traffic is routed locally in the
Isolated E-UTRAN.
Public Safety Officers A and B are in coverage of the Isolated E-UTRAN and are
then served by the Isolated E-UTRAN. Officers A and B are able to utilize low
speed communication services but are not able to use higher speed
communication services through the infrastructure.
Public Safety officers C and D arrive on the scene and are authenticated.
#### 5.4.2.4 Post-conditions
Public Safety Officers A and B obtain their security context from the EPC via
the Isolated E-UTRAN.
#### 5.4.2.5 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.4.2.5-001] The Ues shall indicate to their respective Public Safety
Officers that they are working within an Isolated E-UTRAN, with limited
bandwidth to users and services outside the E-UTRAN.
NOTE: This potential requirement is a duplicate of [PR-5.3.1.5-001].
[PR-5.4.2.5-002] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall obtain the security
context for Ues from the EPC via the limited backhaul of the Isolated E-UTRAN.
The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall admit any further authorised Ues to
the system.
[PR-5.4.2.5-003] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall use the limited
backhaul connection to exchange security-control plane signalling with the EPC
and route locally the user plane traffic within the Isolated E-UTRAN.
## 5.5 A wide area Isolated E-UTRAN use case
### 5.5.1 A wide area Isolated E-UTRAN use case using a number of
infrastructure eNBs
#### 5.5.1.1 Description
Following an outage in the E-UTRAN it may be possible to create an Isolated
E-UTRAN from a number of isolated infrastructure eNBs. This is expected to
result in an increase in the range of the Isolated E-UTRAN.
#### 5.5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are at an incident which is occurring
over a large area. Each Public Safety Officer has a UE which is ProSe-enabled;
however the Public Safety Officers are communicating by means of group call
via the infrastructure network.
Public Safety Officer A is served by eNB1, Public Safety Officer B is served
by eNB2, Public Safety Officer C is served by eNB3, and Public Safety Officer
D is served by eNB4.
#### 5.5.1.3 Service Flows
There is an outage in the E-UTRAN which results in the backhaul for all eNB 1,
2, 3 and 4 becoming disconnected. The eNBs previously served Public Safety
Officers A, B, C and D.
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are not in proximity to each other so are
unable to support ProSe Group Communication provided by 'direct mode' ProSe.
eNB 1, 2, 3 and 4 are all isolated from the infrastructure network, i.e. no
backhaul connection, but retain interconnects between each other. An Isolated
E-UTRAN is therefore established using eNBs 1 2, 3 and 4.
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are in coverage of the Isolated E-UTRAN
and are served by the Isolated E-UTRAN.
#### 5.5.1.4 Post-conditions
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are able to communicate in the Isolated
E-UTRAN via infrastructure paths.
#### 5.5.1.5 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.5.1.5-001] The Ues shall indicate to their respective Public Safety
Officers that they are working within an Isolated E-UTRAN, i.e. no connection
to the EPC.
NOTE: This potential requirement is a duplicate of [PR-5.3.1.5-001].
[PR-5.5.1.5-002] Each isolated eNB shall detect a lost backhaul connection and
transition to infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN operation with all eNBs
to which they also have a connection. The infrastructure-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN shall bar unknown isolated eNBs from joining the infrastructure-
derived Isolated E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.5.1.5-003] The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely
admit to the system the Ues belonging to Public Safety Officers. The
infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall admit any further authorised Ues
to the system.
NOTE: This potential requirement is a duplicate of [PR-5.3.1.5-003].
### 5.5.2 A wide area Isolated E-UTRAN use case using a number of NeNBs
#### 5.5.2.1 Description
The creation of an Isolated E-UTRAN may comprise a number of NeNBs. This is
expected to result in an increase in the range of the Isolated E-UTRAN.
#### 5.5.2.2 Pre-conditions
At an incident site there is an outage in the E-UTRAN such that there is no
coverage.
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D subsequently arrive at the incident. Each
Public Safety Officer has a UE which is ProSe-enabled.
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are in proximity to each other in order
that their respective Ues can perform ProSe Group Communication provided by
'direct mode' ProSe.
#### 5.5.2.3 Service Flows
Isolated E-UTRAN coverage is established following the deployment of 4 NeNBs.
NeNB 1, 2, 3, and 4 are all isolated from the infrastructure network, i.e. no
backhaul connection, but establish interconnectivity with each other.
The Isolated E-UTRAN comprises only NeNBs known to the dispatcher.
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D move away from each other as the mission
develops and cover a wider area. The Ues belonging to the Public Safety
Officers are no longer in proximity to each other so are unable to support
ProSe Group Communication provided by 'direct mode' ProSe.
The distribution of Public Safety Officers means that: Public Safety Officer
A's UE is served by NeNB1, Public Safety Officer B's UE is served by NeNB2,
Public Safety Officer C's UE is served by NeNB3, and Public Safety Officer D's
UE is served by NeNB4.
#### 5.5.2.4 Post-conditions
Public Safety Officers A, B, C and D are able to communicate via a group call
in the Isolated E-UTRAN when each Public safety Officer is served by a
different NeNB.
#### 5.5.2.5 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.5.2.5-001] The Ues shall indicate to their respective Public Safety
Officers that they are working within an Isolated E-UTRAN, i.e. no connection
to the EPC.
NOTE: This potential requirement is a duplicate of [PR-5.3.1.5-001].
[PR-5.5.2.5-002] Each NeNB shall interconnect and exchange traffic with other
NeNBs deemed to be part of the NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN. The Isolated
E-UTRAN shall bar unknown NeNBs from joining the NeNB-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.5.2.5-003] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely admit to the
system the Ues belonging to Public Safety Officers. The NeNB-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN shall admit any further authorised Ues to the system.
## 5.6 User moves between isolated and fully connected E-UTRAN use case
### 5.6.1 Description
If a UE is connected to an Isolated E-UTRAN and there is the possibility of
moving and reconnecting to an alternate E-UTRAN that is not isolated then the
UE may connect to E-UTRAN based on operator policy.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
A Public Safety Officer is present at an incident. The Public Safety Officer
is part of a group call with other Public Safety Officers. The group call is
carried via E-UTRAN.
There is an outage in the E-UTRAN which results in the backhaul for a single
eNB becoming disconnected. This eNB previously served the Public Safety
Officer.
The single eNB (now isolated from the infrastructure network following the
loss of the backhaul connection) begins operation as an Isolated E-UTRAN.
Coverage is then provided for the affected Public Safety Officer by the
Isolated E-UTRAN.
The UE of the affected Public Safety Officer indicate that they are working
within an Isolated E-UTRAN, i.e. no connection to the EPC.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
The Public Safety Officer moves such that the Officer is in coverage of both
the Isolated E-UTRAN and a fully backhaul connected E-UTRAN eNB. Based on
operator policy the UE may move to a fully connected E-UTRAN or remain
connected to the Isolated E-UTRAN or allow the public safety officer to
select.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
The UE has re-established its group call with other Public Safety Officers.
### 5.6.5 Potential Requirements
[PR-5.6.5-001] The UE shall indicate to the Public Safety Officers when they
are working within an Isolated E-UTRAN, i.e. no connection to the EPC.
NOTE: This potential requirement is a duplicate of [PR-5.3.1.5-001].
[PR-5.6.5-002] The UE shall indicate to the Public Safety Officer when there
is restoration of service and a connection to E-UTRAN and the Public Safety
Officer is no longer being served by the Isolated E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.6.5-003] Based on operator policy the UE shall be able to attach to a
fully connected E-UTRAN or remain connected to the Isolated E-UTRAN or allow
the public safety officer to select.
# 6 Potential requirements
6.1 General
The grouping of potential requirements is related to Isolated E-UTRAN
operation, namely:
\- Initiation of an Isolated E-UTRAN,
\- Operation of an Isolated E-UTRAN,
\- Termination of an Isolated E-UTRAN,
\- Isolated E-UTRAN security aspects.
The potential requirements in the present clause are identical to those
derived in the use cases.
6.2 Initiation of an Isolated E-UTRAN
The following potential requirements are concerned with the initiation of an
Isolated E-UTRAN:
[PR-5.1.7-001] When the eNB is disconnected from the EPC, calls in progress on
that eNB shall be either terminated and re-established or continue with local
participants only.
[PR-5.2.7-002] When the eNB goes into the disconnected state, it shall
disconnect and re-establish all calls in progress, or maintain calls already
in progress between users under the coverage of that isolated system.
[PR-5.2.7-003] The isolated system shall provide an indication of local area
service only to all users under its coverage while in the disconnected state.
[PR-5.3.1.5-001] The Ues shall indicate to their respective Public Safety
Officers that they are working within an Isolated E-UTRAN, i.e. no connection
to the EPC.
[PR-5.3.1.5-002] The isolated eNB shall detect the loss of backhaul connection
and transition to infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN operation.
[PR-5.5.1.5-002] Each isolated eNB shall detect a lost backhaul connection and
transition to infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN operation with all eNBs
to which they also have a connection. The infrastructure-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN shall bar unknown isolated eNBs from joining the infrastructure-
derived Isolated E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.5.2.5-002] Each NeNB shall interconnect and exchange traffic with other
NeNBs deemed to be part of the NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN. The Isolated
E-UTRAN shall bar unknown NeNBs from joining the NeNB-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.4.1.5-001] The Ues shall indicate to their respective Public Safety
Officers that they are working within an Isolated E-UTRAN with limited
bandwidth to users and services outside the E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.3.1.5-004] The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to
establish 'local routing' and ProSe Group Communication for the Ues of Public
Safety Officers.
[PR-5.3.2.5-003] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to establish
'local routing' and ProSe Group Communication for the Ues of Public Safety
Officers.
6.3 Operation of an Isolated E-UTRAN
The following potential requirements are concerned with the operation of an
Isolated E-UTRAN:
[PR-5.2.7-001] An eNB shall be able to provide MCPTT services, local
multimedia and data communications to all public safety users under the
coverage of the eNB and groups if disconnected from the EPC.
[PR-5.2.7-004] Once in the disconnected state, the isolated system shall allow
public safety users under its coverage to set up and maintain MCPTT,
multimedia and data calls with other users under this same isolated system.
An isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to accept public safety users who were not
previously connected to this isolated system and provide services to them.
[PR-5.2.7-006] A list of served users and/or served groups may be obtained
from the network or may be compiled from information collected from the Ues
served by the isolated system. The isolated system shall be capable of
maintaining this list and providing this list to all users under the coverage
of the isolated E-UTRAN. Lists may be restricted according to security policy,
for example information on users and/or groups within a served user's
organisation may only be provided to that served user, and information on
users may only be provided to other users within the same group.
[PR-5.4.1.5-004] The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall use the
limited backhaul connection to exchange security-control plane signalling with
the EPC and route locally the user plane traffic within the Isolated E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.4.2.5-003] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall use the limited
backhaul connection to exchange security-control plane signalling with the EPC
and route locally the user plane traffic within the Isolated E-UTRAN.
6.4 Termination of an Isolated E-UTRAN
The following potential requirements are concerned with the termination of an
Isolated E-UTRAN:
[PR-5.1.7-003] When the eNB has re-connected to the EPC, existing local group
calls shall either be terminated and re-established or continued with the
addition of other group members.
[PR-5.2.7-007] The isolated system shall automatically reconnect to the EPC
when the link becomes available again.
[PR-5.2.7-008] The isolated system shall withdraw the local service indication
to users under its coverage, and may provide an explicit notification of wide
area service to those when it is reconnected to the EPC. Any existing local
calls may be terminated, or re-routed via the EPC.
[PR-5.6.5-002] The UE shall indicate to the Public Safety Officer when there
is restoration of service and a connection to E-UTRAN and the Public Safety
Officer is no longer being served by the Isolated E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.6.5-003] Based on operator policy the UE shall be able to attach to a
fully connected E-UTRAN or remain connected to the Isolated E-UTRAN or allow
the public safety officer to select.
6.5 Isolated E-UTRAN security aspects
The following potential requirements are concerned with the Isolated E-UTRAN
security aspects:
[PR-5.1.7-002] While in local mode, there shall be adequate means of providing
confidentiality and authenticity for users joining and receiving service from
the eNB, although these may be using parameters which are common for all
members of an organisation (or the network) rather than individual.
[PR-5.1.7-004] The security of credentials shall not be compromised by
solutions for isolated E-UTRAN.
[PR-5.2.7-005] The isolated system shall maintain an appropriate level of
communications security, including encryption, whilst in the disconnected
state. This shall include a check of authenticity of served users, which may
be implicit, and may validate them as members of an organisation or as members
of the network, rather than an individual authentication check.
[PR-5.2.7-009] The security of subscription credentials normally stored in the
core network shall not be compromised by solutions for isolated E-UTRANs.
[PR-5.3.1.5-003] The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely
admit to the system the Ues that belong to Public Safety Officers. The
infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely admit any further
authorised Ues to the system.
[PR-5.3.2.5-002] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely readmit to
the system the Ues belonging to Public Safety Officers. The NeNB-derived
Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely admit any further authorised Ues to the
system.
[PR-5.5.2.5-003] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall securely admit to the
system the Ues belonging to Public Safety Officers. The NeNB-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN shall admit any further authorised Ues to the system.
[PR-5.4.1.5-003] The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall retain the
security context for Ues originally provided directly by the E-UTRAN and now
by the E-UTRAN via the limited backhaul of infrastructure-derived Isolated
E-UTRAN. The infrastructure-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall admit any further
authorised Ues to the system.
[PR-5.4.2.5-002] The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall obtain the security
context for Ues from the EPC via the limited backhaul of the Isolated E-UTRAN.
The NeNB-derived Isolated E-UTRAN shall admit any further authorised Ues to
the system.
6.6 Minimum set of services
An Isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to provide Public Safety users with a
minimum set of services. An isolated E-UTRAN shall be able to provide Public
Safety users with professional (e.g. group) communications. Since it would be
too complex to offer the same level of service whether the E-UTRAN is isolated
or not, we define a minimum set of services that an E-UTRAN may provide when
in isolated mode.
During the IOPS operation users should be able to communicate between
themselves. The following requirements apply only to users under the coverage
of the same Isolated E-UTRAN.
A Public Safety user shall be able to start public safety emergency call that
reaches:
\- A dispatcher (the dispatcher may be connected directly to the eNB or via a
UE) and/or;
\- The members of the Public Safety user's organization under the coverage of
the Isolated E-UTRAN and/or;
\- The members of all Public Safety organizations under the coverage of the
isolated E-UTRAN.
It shall be possible to configure the MCPTT emergency call service on the
Public Safety UE to contact a dispatcher, the members of Public Safety user's
organization or the members of all Public Safety organizations.
A public safety emergency call in IOPS mode shall include voice group
communication and may include group video communication.
During Isolated E-UTRAN operation each organization shall be able to initiate
at least one voice group communication that all the organisation's members are
allowed to join, up to the limit of available radio resources
MCPTT group communication shall be able to pre-empt video communications or
other data services.
During Isolated E-UTRAN operation each organization may be able to initiate at
least one video group communication that all of its members are allowed to
join, provided sufficient resources are available.
During Isolated E-UTRAN operation Public Safety users shall be able to connect
to an inter-organization voice group communication. Any Public Safety officer
shall be able to join or initiate such communications.
During Isolated E-UTRAN operation Public Safety users shall be able to connect
to an inter-organization video group communication provided there are
sufficient radio resources available. Any Public Safety officer shall be able
to join or initiate such communications.
Isolated E-UTRAN operation shall be resource efficient.
NOTE: in Release 13 only MCPTT voice communication will be available.
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
The Feasibility Study for Isolated E-UTRAN operation for Public Safety (IOPS)
Technical Report analyses several use cases. Potential requirements identified
in the use cases seek to address the following key aspects of Isolated E-UTRAN
operation, namely:
\- Initiation of an Isolated E-UTRAN;
\- Management of a lost backhaul by an eNB.
\- Detection and creation of an Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- Local routing in the event of a lost backhaul.
\- Provide an appropriate indication of Isolated E-UTRAN operation status to
Ues/Users.
\- Operation of an Isolated E-UTRAN;
\- Interconnection and communication for users within an Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- Interconnection and communication between eNBs within an Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- Management of a limited backhaul connection to the Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- Termination of an Isolated E-UTRAN;
\- Management of a restored backhaul.
\- Support for operator policy decisions for UE/User handling of a restored
backhaul.
\- Provide an appropriate indication of Isolated E-UTRAN operation status to
Ues/Users.
\- Isolated E-UTRAN security aspects;
\- Secure admission of Ues to an Isolated E-UTRAN.
\- Secure operation for Ues in an Isolated E-UTRAN.
It may not be feasible to support isolated E-UTRAN on all eNBs. The
requirements related to isolated E-UTRAN operation for Public Safety shall be
specified to apply for eNBs that are equipped to operate in isolate E-UTRAN
mode, rather than to apply for all eNBs.
Taking into consideration the use cases defined in Clause 5, and the analysis
of potential requirements in clauses 6, it is recommended to proceed with
normative work.
#