# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Spoofing or malicious modification of caller information to hide the real
caller identity provided by such capabilities as Calling Line Identification
and Caller Name (Caller ID) is growing into a significant problem in many
countries. The complaints to authorities and PLMN operators regarding these
spoofed calls range from nuisance calls, violations of various phone
solicitation rules (such as the US Federal Trade Commission's Telemarketing
Sales Rules) to being used as a platform for significant fraud, identity theft
and social engineering. Various malicious uses of caller information spoofing
include these categories: swatting, vishing, and TDOS.
There are several SDOs dealing with creating the ability to detect caller
information spoofing within call setup signalling including IETF's Stir
working group, 3GPP's SA3 and ATIS's PTSC CSEC. However their focus is to
define automated mechanisms to identify whether the caller information is
authentic and the caller is authorized to use the presented caller
information. What the user and network is able to control when spoofed calls
are identified or mis-identified is not addressed in these activities.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies new service capabilities and enhancements to
existing service capabilities needed to allow the called user to control:
\- How spoofed calls are reported to the called user.
\- The treatment given to the spoofed call and calling user.
\- Provide the called user the ability to review the results of spoofed call
detection.
\- Allow the called user to provide feedback to the network of incorrect
detection decisions (false positive and false negative).
New service network capabilities and enhancements to existing network
capabilities needed to support network operator policies regarding treatment
of spoofed calls are also covered including:
\- Support for law enforcement and network operator fraud investigations into
originators of spoofed calls.
\- Setting default or limiting spoofed call controls the user is able to
access.
The present document also studies the interaction between spoofed call control
capabilities available to users using MTSI voice services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary services;
Stage 1\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Caller identity:** At least the originating phone number, and optionally the
caller\'s name (CNAME) included in call signalling used to identify the caller
for call screening purposes. In some cases this may be the Calling Line
Identification or Public User Identity. For the purposes of this study, the
caller identity may be set to an identity other than the caller's Calling Line
Identification or Public User Identity. Presentation of the caller identity to
the called user may be the originating phone number or the caller\'s name if
available, or both.
**Robo-call system:** An automated call system which usually plays a series of
pre-recorded messages to the called user after which may transfer the call to
a call agent, often used in outbound call centers for telemarketing purposes.
For the purposes of this study, only the modification or obscuring the Robo-
call system's caller identity for the purposes to commit fraud or violate
regional regulations is considered.
**Spoofed call:** A call where caller identity creation, modification or
removal in call signalling results in an unauthorized or illegal use of this
identity in the call., This typically occurs where the caller intends to
defraud the called user or otherwise illegally obscure the real caller
identity.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 User reporting a spoofed call
### 4.1.1 Description
This use case describes how the called user is able to report a spoofed call
not detected by the network.
### 4.1.2 Pre-conditions
Network X is a PLMN which employs automated spoofed call detection.
Peter is a subscriber of Network X.
Percival is a subscriber of Network 9.
Network 9 is a network which does not validate any subscriber's authenticity.
### 4.1.3 Service Flows
1\. Percival, as part of an illegal solicitation organization initiates a call
to Peter changing his caller identity to an identity Percival is not
authorized to use.
2\. Network 9 delivers the call attempt with the spoofed caller identity to
Network X.
3\. The spoofed call detection in Network X is unable to identify the call as
a spoofed call.
4\. Network X presents the caller identity provided by Percival to Peter along
with an indication that Network X can neither confirm nor repudiate the caller
identity.
5\. Peter does not recognize the caller identity and becomes suspicious that
Network X is unable to verify the authentication of and the authorization to
use the caller identity.
6\. Peter indicates to Network X that the call is believed to be spoofed, and
does not answer the call.
7, Percival's provided caller identity information is investigated by Network
X's fraud unit and determined to be part of a criminal activity.
8\. Network X's fraud unit adds the spoofed caller identity to the spoofed
call blacklist to block future call attempts with the same caller identity
characteristics.
### 4.1.4 Post-conditions
Peter is able to report a spoofed call (either before the call is answered,
during the call or after the call is completed) which goes undetected by the
spoofed call detection. This allows the Network X operator to investigate the
spoofed caller identity and take actions on enhancing the spoofed call
detection and support further fraud and criminal investigations.
### 4.1.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
This use case describes a service contains elements which are similar to
existing services such as Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID).
Comparison with existing service definitions is discussed later in this
specification.
### 4.1.6 Potential Requirements
1\. The user shall be able to notify the network, either before the call is
answered, during the call, or after the call is completed, that an incoming
call or call attempt is believed to have a spoofed caller identity.
2\. The network operator shall be able to take further action based on this
indication of an undetected spoofed call or call attempt.
## 4.2 User reporting a call incorrectly determined to be a spoofed call
### 5.2.1 Description
This use case describes how a user indicates to the network that specific
calls which the network has determined to be spoofed calls, contain an
authentic caller identity, and exceptions are required for the specific caller
identity for calls to that user.
### 4.2.2 Pre-conditions
Network X is a PLMN which employs automated spoofed call detection.
Network X provides its users with the ability to review the history of
selected incoming call and call attempts determined by the network to be
spoofed calls
Peter is a subscriber of Network X.
Sandra is Peter's daughter and is in another country for college studies and
needs additional funds from her parents.
### 4.2.3 Service Flows
1\. Sandra calls Peter from a phone in the country she is studying in.
2\. The call is identified by Network X as a spoofed call and blocked.
3\. Network X records the call attempt in Peter's spoofed call history.
4\. Peter finds out that Sandra has been trying to reach him, and accesses his
spoofed call history provided by Network X.
5\. Peter discovers that Sandra's calls are being blocked.
6\. Peter indicates to Network X that calls from the country that Sandra is in
should not be blocked as spoofed calls and should be delivered to Peter in the
future.
### 4.2.4 Post-conditions
Sandra is finally able to call Peter to ask for additional funds for her
studies.
### 4.2.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
This use case describes a service containing elements which are similar to
existing services such as blacklists. Comparison with existing service
definitions is discussed later in this specification.
### 4.2.6 Potential Requirements
1\. The user shall be able to notify the network that calls that had been
determined to be spoofed and possibly blocked by the network are either not
spoofed calls or an exception is needed for the particular user.
2\. The network operator shall be able to take further action based on this
user notification that a spoofed call or call attempt detected to be spoofed
is not considered spoofed by the user or an exception for the particular user
is required.
## 4.3 User accessing spoofed call history information
### 4.3.1 Description
This use case describes the capabilities to view the history of spoofed calls
to the user which will be needed to have available when spoofed calls are
provided a treatment such that the user isn't aware of the call attempt when
it arrives in the terminating network. The treatment can include call
blocking, redirecting the call to record a message in a voicemail spam folder
or an announcement regarding illegal call spoofing.
### 4.3.2 Pre-conditions
Network X is a PLMN which employs automated spoofed call detection.
Network X provides its users with the ability to review the history of
selected incoming call and call attempts identified by the network as spoofed
calls.
Peter is a subscriber of Network X.
### 4.3.3 Service Flows
1\. Network X sends Peter a notice that there has been some recent spoofed
call activity and the history is listed for Peter to review.
2\. Network X lists the calls and call attempts identified as spoofed for the
past 30 days.
2\. Peter accesses the list and reviews the incoming spoofed call attempts.
3\. Several spoofed call attempts Peter doesn't recognize and believes they
are spoofed call attempts. Peter deletes these from the list so he doesn't
have to review them again in the future.
4\. Peter identifies one call which he does not consider to be a spoofed call.
Peter indicates to the network that this call was incorrectly determined to be
a spoofed call. Peter then deletes this call from the list so he doesn't have
to review it again. In the future
### 4.3.4 Post-conditions
Peter is able to review his network selected spoofed call history list to
identify any incoming calls and incoming call attempts incorrectly determined
to be spoofed calls.
### 4.3.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
None identified.
### 4.3.6 Potential Requirements
1\. The user shall be able to review the selected history list of spoofed
calls and call attempts to the user and determined by the network to be
spoofed calls.
2\. The network shall be able to select the history list of spoofed calls and
call attempts to present to users for review.
3\. Within the selected history list of spoofed calls and call attempts, the
user shall be able to manage the list entries depending on network operator
policy.
## 4.4 Presenting the trust level of the caller's claimed identity
### 4.4.1 Description
When the terminating network supports calling number or caller identity
verification, there is a need for the terminating network to receive and
present this trust level to the called user. This trust level is provided to
support the users choice of appropriate call treatment to apply such as answer
the call, direct to voicemail, or direct to a network provided spoofed call
information collection service.
### 4.4.2 Pre-conditions
Network A is a PLMN which employs automated spoofed call detection.
Network A has the ability to indicate to Alice at call alerting the automated
spoofed call detection service's trust of the claim by the caller as to their
identity in the form of the calling number.
Alice is a subscriber of Network X.
### 4.4.3 Service Flows
1\. A family member calls Alice.
2\. Network A's automated spoofed call detection verifies that the family
member's calling number is authentic and they are authorized to use the
calling number.
3\. Network A presents the call to Alice along with an indication that there
is a high level of trust in the caller's identity.
4\. Alice views the indication and based on the trust indication, decides to
answer the call.
5\. Later a robo-call system places a call to Alice using a random phone
number as the originating number.
6\. Network A's automated spoofed call detection detects that the calling
number is spoofed, that the robo-call system is not authorized to use the
number.
7\. Network A presents the call to Alice along with an indication that there
is a high level of mistrust in the caller's identity.
8\. Alice views the indication and based on the mistrust indication, decides
to apply the Network A's service to redirect the call to Network A's spoofed
call information collection service.
9\. Still later, Alice's son traveling on another continent calls. The
originating network does not support caller identity verification and does not
provide the appropriate verification information with the call.
10\. Network A's automated spoofed call detection is unable to verify whether
the calling number is authentic and the caller is authorized to use the
calling number.
11\. Network A presents the call to Alice along with an indication that the
network was unable to determine the trust level of the caller's identity.
12\. Alice views the indication and even though the network is not able to
establish a trust level, recognizes the calling number as her son's, decides
to answer the call.
### 4.4.4 Post-conditions
The terminating network presents its determination of the trust level of the
caller's claimed identity in the form of calling number at the time the call
is presented to the user.
The called user takes the network trust level into consideration when deciding
what call treatment to apply to the call.
### 4.4.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Potentially additional information (trust level) would be presented to the
called user at call alerting from the terminating network.
Potential additional call treatment options can be made available to the user
to direct spoofed calls to a spoofed call information collection function.
### 4.4.6 Potential Requirements
1\. The terminating network and UE shall provide the ability to present a
trust level regarding the originating caller's claimed identity to the user
along with the call delivery.
2/ The terminating network and UE shall be able to provide to the user,
incoming call treatment which includes the choice of identifying spoofed calls
for which call information needs to be collected for further investigation.
## 4.5 Using caller identity trust level in incoming call filtering
### 4.5.1 Description
When terminating networks provide users personal call filtering mechanism such
as white list/black list call blocking and support calling number or caller
identity verification, there is a need to be able to incorporate the
terminating network identified trust level of the claimed identity in the
filtering criteria.
### 4.5.2 Pre-conditions
Network A is a PLMN which employs automated spoofed call detection.
Network A has the ability to indicate to Alice at call alerting the automated
spoofed call detection service's trust of the claim by the caller as to their
identity in the form of the calling number.
Alice is a subscriber of Network A.
Alice subscribes to Network A's personal white list/black list service.
### 4.5.3 Service Flows
1\. Alice creates a personal white list/black list rule to block all calls
where the caller identity is determined to be untrusted by the terminating
network.
2\. A family member calls Alice.
2\. Network A's automated spoofed call detection service verifies that the
family member's calling number is authentic and they are authorized to use the
calling number.
3\. Network A examines the rules in Alice's personal white list/black list
service and finds that Alice wants to allow the call from the family member.
6\. Later a robo-calling system calls Alice with a random phone number as the
calling identity that it is not authorized to use.
7\. Network A's automated spoofed call detection service verifies that the
robo-calling system's random calling number is not authentic and it is not
authorized to use the selected number.
Network A examines the rules in Alice's personal white list/black list service
and finds that Alice wants calls with untrusted calling numbers to be blocked.
### 4.5.4 Post-conditions
Alice personal white list/black list service has rules which allow the caller
identity trust level to be included as a condition.
The Network A's personal white list/black list utilizes the determined caller
identity trust level when included in personal white list/black list rule
conditions in acting on the rules.
### 4.5.5 Potential Impacts or Interactions with Existing Services/Features
Potentially supplemental information about the caller\'s identity would be
presented to the called user at call alerting from the terminating network.
Presentation of caller\'s identity supplemental information will be determined
by any caller privacy settings and network operator privacy policies.
### 4.5.6 Potential Requirements
1\. The terminating network shall allow the calling identity trust level to be
included as a condition to any incoming call filtering services.
2\. The terminating network shall utilize the calling identity trust level
determined in the terminating network, when included as a condition, when
applying any call filtering services to a user's incoming calls.
# 5 Considerations
## 5.1 Interactions with existing MMTEL features
### 5.1.1 Introduction
Many of the MMTEL features defined in TS 22.173 [2] will likely have
interactions with possible services giving user control or interact with
reporting and managing spoofed calls. This section presents some of the
interaction considerations which may need to be addressed for any user control
or management of spoofed calls and apply mainly to the call termination
aspects of the MMTEL services.
The following clauses only describe the MMTEL features in TS 22.173 [2] where
possible interactions have been identified The actual interactions will depend
on the specific user service definition providing user control and management
of receiving spoofed calls.
Note: The issue of splitting the support of user control of spoofed call
detection service between an Enterprise IP PBX and a IMS network is not
considered in this study.
### 5.1.2 White / blacklists
If other MMTEL services use whitelist or blacklist capabilities, they may need
to be integrated with possible spoofed call whitelists or blacklists. The
spoofed call whitelist or blacklist may be a user\'s personal list or list(s)
maintained by the network applicable to all users.
There may be a need to distinguish the user whitelist or blacklist entries
which have been added by spoofed call detection or user reporting of spoofed
calls.
### 5.1.3 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
OIP may need to be enhanced to report additional information regarding the
results of any terminating network detection of spoofed calls or any matching
with whitelists or blacklists.
### 5.1.4 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
Since OIR restricts the presentation of Originating Identification, but not
the transport to the terminating network, any spoofed call detection can still
be applied and the results potentially presented to the called user.
However there are some privacy related considerations which are likely to be
required when OIR is set for a call including:
\- Any regional privacy regulatory determination whether OIR also applies to
spoofed call detection results
\- Not disclosing the Originating Identification to the user when added to any
whitelist or blacklist as part of any list management by the user
\- Not disclosing Originating Identification to the user as part of any
spoofed call history or log reporting.
### 5.1.5 Malicious Communication Identification (MCID)
There are similarities in the function of MCID and some aspects of user
control of spoofed calls in that both can be used to report a malicious or
spoofed call. MCID would only need to record the results of spoofed call
detection by the terminating network. However the MCID feature does not
include the rest of the possible user control of spoofed calls such as call
history, white/blacklists.
Also in some regions, there is a distinction needed between reporting
malicious calls from spoofed calls. MCID may be used to report threatening or
harassing calls which could have authorized use of the Originating
Identification (i.e. are not spoofed calls). Whereas indicating a false
positive spoofed call detection result may be used only to report violations
of regional spoofed call regulations. The procedures for dealing with
malicious calls and spoofed calls by network operators and public safety
agencies are likely to be different as well, requiring a service distinction
be made.
### 5.1.6 Anonymous Communication Rejection (ACR)
As it is possible that the terminating network may define automated treatment
for terminating calls identified as spoofed calls and may provide the user
with service settings on which treatment to apply, the interaction between
spoofed call treatment and application of ACR may be needed.
### 5.1.7 Communication DIVersion (CDIV)
It is assumed that any security elements in call signalling which are used as
part of spoofed call detection will be delivered to the CDIV destination. The
criteria for detecting spoofed call may differ between the invoker of the CDIV
service and the CDIV destination, so the spoofed call detection may need to be
re-evaluated for the CDIV target.
As part of the user control of handling spoofed calls, the definition of an
additional CDIV service to forward on spoofed call detection (e.g. spoofed
call, possible spoofed call) may prove beneficial.
### 5.1.8 Communicaton Barring (CB)
For Incoming Call Baring (ICB) only interaction with any incoming call
treatment defined by user control of spoofed call detection may be needed.
### 5.1.9 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
It is assumed that any security elements in call signalling which are used as
part of spoofed call detection will be delivered to the ECT destination
(transfer target). The criteria for detecting spoofed call may differ between
the transferring user and the ECT destination, so the spoofed call detection
may need to be re-evaluated for the ECT destination
If the transferring user identity (either alone or along with the transferee)
as defined in clause 8.2.15.2.1.2 in TS 22.173 [2] is presented to the
transfer target, whether to apply spoofed call detection and how to report the
results to the user may be required.
### 5.1.10 Flexible Alerting (FA)
There may need to be a definition of interaction between FA and user control
of spoofed calls when one of the FA group members indicates or marks a call as
a spoofed call or when a caller identity is present only on a subset of the FA
group members\' personal blacklists or whitelists, or appears both on a FA
group member\'s personal blacklist and on another FA group member\'s personal
whitelist.
## 5.2 Device capability considerations
There are several aspects of user control of spoofed call detection which are
enabled or limited by the called user\'s device. This is mainly concerning the
ability of the device to receive and present caller identity and the results
of spoofed call detection plus the ability of the device to access various
features of a potential user control of spoofed call detection service such as
managing white lists/black lists and displaying spoofed call histories.
The range of devices for this discussion can be classed as follows:
\- Devices with an ability for presenting a limited caller identity (e.g.
caller name or number, not both) and limited or non-existent ability to handle
user control of spoofed call features such as short black list/white lists or
only displaying recent call histories.
\- Smartphones with the potential to present extended caller identity as well
as the results of any network spoofed call detection as well as user control
of spoofed call features more extensively such as longer black lists/white
lists or spoofed call histories.
As spoofed call exploits of different elements of a caller identity, become
more complex and sophisticated it may be that more details of both the caller
identity and what aspects of the identity are spoofed may need to be presented
to the called user relying on the capabilities of a smartphone.The
consideration is to determine what classes of devices have the necessary
capabilities to adequately support user control of spoofed call detection.
## 5.3 Adoption levels of spoofed call detection by network operators
Any user control of spoofed call detection service is likely to need to
consider different adoption levels of spoofed call detection capabilities such
as the mechanisms being developed by the IETF Stir WG. These types of spoofed
call detection mechanisms require that the originating network operator
certify that the caller is authorized to use the delivered caller identity.
This certification is delivered along with existing call information to the
terminating network. If the originating network has not deployed this
certification mechanism, then the terminating network is unable to
definitively determine whether the call is a spoofed call or not.
It is expected that in early phases of adoption of spoofed call detection
mechanisms small number of network operators will have deployed spoofed call
detection described above and hence there will be a high percentage of
incoming calls that are not certified by the originating network operator and
the spoofed call determination at the terminating network will be uncertain or
unknown.
As network operators deploy and support this kind of spoofed call detection,
then the percentage of calls that can be determined to be spoofed calls or not
will increase significantly.
The impact of this on user control of spoofed call detection service is the
need to consider how to handle potentially large amounts of calls where the
spoofed call detection results are uncertain or unknown and handle the
transition to high percentages of spoofed call determinations.
# 6 Potential Requirements
## 6.1 Potential network requirements
The user shall be able to notify the network containing the spoofed call
detection capability, either before the call is answered, during the call, or
after the call is completed, that an incoming call or call attempt is believed
to be a false positive or false negative spoofed call detection result.
The network operator shall be able to take further action based on this false
positive or false negative indication of an undetected spoofed call or call
attempt including updating the caller identification on any white lists/black
lists
The user shall be able to review and manage the selected history list of
detected spoofed calls and call attempts to the user depending on operator
policy.
The network containing the spoofed call detection capability and UE shall
provide the ability to present a trust level regarding the originating
caller's claimed identity to the user along with the call delivery.
The network containing the spoofed call detection capability and UE shall be
able to provide to the user, incoming call treatment which includes the choice
of identifying spoofed calls for which call information needs to be collected
for further investigation.
The network containing the spoofed call detection capability shall allow the
calling identity trust level to be included as a condition to any incoming
call filtering services.
The network containing the spoofed call detection capability shall utilize the
detected calling identity trust level, when included as a condition, when
applying any call filtering services to a user's incoming calls.
## 6.2 Potential UE requirements
The user shall be able to notify the network containing the spoofed call
detection capability, either before the call is answered, during the call, or
after the call is completed, that an incoming call or call attempt is believed
to be a false positive or false negative spoofed call detection result
The user shall be able to review and manage the selected history list of
detected spoofed calls and call attempts to the user depending on operator
policy.
The network containing the spoofed call detection capability and UE shall
provide the ability to present a trust level regarding the originating
caller's claimed identity to the user along with the call delivery.
The network containing the spoofed call detection capability and UE shall be
able to provide to the user, incoming call treatment which includes the choice
of identifying spoofed calls for which call information needs to be collected
for further investigation.
# 7 Conclusion and Recommendations
This study demonstrates that when spoofed call detection mechanisms are
available and deployed such as the approach developed by the IETF Stir WG
work, there will be a need for user control of spoofed call detection. This
need arises both from several aspects of spoofed call detection:
\- User reporting false positive and false negative spoofed call detection
results
\- Differing user needs regarding the sophistication level of control of
spoofed call detection as well as differing UE MMI capabilities
\- Increasing penetration of support for spoofed call detection mechanisms by
network operators
\- Opportunities to allow users to personalize how spoofed call detection
interacts with MMTEL capabilities such as treatments for calls detected as
spoofed calls
In conclusion this study recommends that when a spoofed call detection
mechanism is standardized by 3GPP, that a service providing user control of
spoofed call detection should also be considered for standardization
considering the following points:
\- Definition of what aspects of user interaction with spoofed call detection
mechanisms should be standardized
\- Specification of the interaction between this potential new service and
MMTEL services
\- Consider both what classes of devices that should be supported by this
potential new service as well as several scenarios of network adoption levels
of spoofed call detection deployments
#