# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
For Fixed-Mobile Convergence (FMC), some scenarios require seamless roaming
between a GSM/GPRS/3G mobile network and a WLAN. Both networks may be
independently authenticated. To maintain the quality of the customer
experience, and due to the difference of networks, handovers to support
service continuity may require that the handset is authenticated to both
networks simultaneously, for relatively short periods of time.
The objective of the present document is therefore to determine the
requirements for seamless roaming and service continuity between a GSM/GPRS/3G
mobile network and a WLAN.
An example of a use case for such a study could be where the user, on his way
to the office, is having a call on a 3GPP access network using his mobile
phone. He then roams onto his office WLAN (and vice versa), while still being
on the line and the call is transferred without the user noticing any
interruption to the network served by the WLAN..
# 1 Scope
The present document develops the use cases and requirements for service
continuity between a 3GPP network and another network, which can be:
\- a TISPAN NGN with an IMS, accessed by a WLAN.
\- an ISP accessed via a WLAN
Each access network has its own separate security system and the NOs have a
commercial agreement for roaming and handover.
The present document considers use cases whereby:
_Editors Note: Text to be added when use cases are agreed_
The present document also examines the requirements and implications of:
\- service aspects: maintaining service quality and service continuity, while
roaming between a 3GPP PLMN and an independently-owned WLAN;
\- security aspects: while roaming between a 3GPP PLMN and a WLAN, in
particular when networks may be independently authenticated.
\- UICC aspects, including NAA types, personalisation and ownership.
The present document is related to ongoing standardisation efforts in the
following areas:
\- where the WLAN is an I-WLAN , requirements for which are described in [3];
\- methods for selecting the 3GPP or the non-3GPP access network, requirements
for which are described in [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.912: \"Study into network selection requirements for non-3GPP
access\".
[3] 3GPP TS22.234: \" Requirements on 3GPP system to Wireless Local Area
Network (WLAN) interworking\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[5] ETSI TS 102 310: \"Smart Cards; Extensible Authentication Protocol support
in the UICC\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Credentials** : Data objects which are used to uniquely identify a
subscriber and which are used in security procedures. For example, in the case
of a USIM the credentials are IMSI and shared-secret Ki. The Milenage
customisation parameter OPc can also be regarded also a credential, since it
is derived from the Ki and is usually provisioned with the Ki.
**Credential-Attach:** This is a procedure whereby a credential is used to
identify and authenticate a UE and to enrol it in a session with a network or
subsystem.
**Primary NO:** The Network Operator which has the commercial relationship
with the subscriber and is responsible for billing the subscriber.
**Secondary NO:** A Network Operator that has a commercial relationship with
the Primary Network Operator by which the SNO provides services to subscribers
of the PNO. The relationship could support the seamless handover of services
to and from the PNO.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAA Authentication, Authorisation, Accounting
DSL Digital Subscriber Line
EAP Extensible Authentication Protocol
EPS Evolved Packet System
FMC Fixed-Mobile Convergence
> FMCA Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance
>
> GNAA Generic Network Access Application (not supported on the UICC)
NAA Network Access Application (on the UICC)
PNM Personal Network Management
PNO Primary Network Operator
SNO Secondary Network Operator
VCC Voice Call Continuity
# 4 Use Cases
## 4.1 General requirements
The subscriber possesses an UE which gives access to WLAN and 3GPP and access
networks.
The UE shall support functionality to support service continuity when
performing handover between the access networks to which it allows access.
Handover between networks shall be transparent to the user.
## 4.2 Use Case 1
### 4.2.1 Description
Alice is a subscriber whose PNO provides her with home connectivity to DSL via
technologies including WLAN. The PNO also provides her with seamless access to
its public WLANs and those of its roaming partners. The PNO is a member of the
WiFi Alliance and its infrastructure requires the UE to support EAP-SIM for
secure access.
The PNO also provides Alice with seamless access to the mobile networks of a
SNO and its roaming partners. Her PNO\'s network uses its own AAA
infrastructure, which was in place before the PNO formed the commercial
relationship with its current SNO.
The PNO may also provide Alice with multimedia services through an IMS
Alice is at home. She wishes to have an Internet multimedia session on her
hand-held dual-mode UE.
She switches on the UE and it automatically obtains a secure connection
(authenticated and encrypted) to the WLAN of her WLAN provider -- that being
the default network when she is at home. She then connects to the desired
Internet multimedia service. If that service is part of the PNO's IMS, the UE
establishes a secure session with the IMS, and then identifies which public
user identities Alice wants to use.
Alice needs to undertake a journey to a location in a different town but she
wants to carry on with her Internet and/or IMS multimedia session during the
journey. She gets into a taxi, which sets off towards a local rail station.
Within a few seconds, the taxi approaches the limit of Alice's home WLAN
coverage. The UE, which is in automatic network selection mode, connects to
the 3GPP mobile network of the SNO and drops the PNO\'s WLAN connection. Alice
does not have to enter a username or password or PIN for the handover. Alice
can see on the UE that the current network has changed, but the identity of
the SNO is not visible to her. As far as she is aware, network service is
always provided by her PNO. The Internet and/or IMS multimedia session
continues uninterrupted.
When the taxi approaches the station, the UE comes within range of a public
WLAN hotspot of Alice's PNO (or a roaming partner). Alice's PNO prefers that
Internet and/or IMS access is provided over WLAN rather than the 3GPP network,
so the UE automatically moves the Internet and/or IMS multimedia session to
the WLAN.. Again, the UE indicates that the network has changed, but Alice is
otherwise unaware of the change in Network Operator.
As the train leaves the station, the UE detects a fall in WLAN signal, and so
re-establishes the 3G connection and then drops the WLAN connection.
Alice knows from previous experience that as she stops at various stations
along the way, or passes slowly though them, her UE will try to connect to the
WLAN hotspots at those stations. She decides that her user experience would be
more consistent if she remained connected to the 3GPP network for the duration
of the train journey. So, she uses the "User Preferred" menu function on the
UE to select the "3GPP Preferred\" option for the duration of her train
journey.
When Alice reaches the destination town, she knows that she can get handover
with service continuity between WLAN hotspots along the walk to her office
building, so she decides to set the UE to \"WLAN Preferred\" for the duration
of that journey. Alternatively, she could have switched the UE back to
automatic network selection mode.
When Alice reaches her final destination (her employer's office building), she
transfers to an Enterprise WLAN, from the current network. Access to the
Enterprise WLAN can be done under the same PNO subscription, as it supports
secure access to the Enterprise WLAN in addition to the public WLANs and 3GPP
networks.
The handover between different networks can happen several times as Alice
walks to her destination.
For this service, Alice receives a single bill, i.e. from the primary NO.
### 4.2.2 Requirements
**Security and authentication**
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the PNO\'s non-3GPP CN via a WLAN in
a secure way using the appropriate security and authentication mechanisms for
that network.
Note: the SNO network could be considered an IP-CAN
Note: the WLAN is not an I-WLAN in this use case.
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the SNO\'s 3GPP network according to
3GPP security and authentication requirements.
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the Enterprise WLAN in a secure way
using the appropriate security and authentication mechanisms for that network.
The UE may be capable of connecting to the PNO\'s IMS network according to IMS
security and authentication requirements.
**Network selection/steering**
> Note: network selection/steering between the PNO's public WLAN and the
> Enterprise WLAN is out of scope, because both are non-3GPP networks. The
> requirements below apply only where either the target network or current
> network is a SNO's 3GPP network
The UE shall be able to select a target network and to hand over from the
current network to the target network in mid-session while maintaining service
continuity. This shall apply whether the UE is in automatic network selection
mode or in user-preferred mode.
When the UE is in user-preferred mode, it may be directed by the user to
select only available 3GPP networks or only available WLANs. At any time
during user-preferred mode, if operation in that mode would result in loss of
connectivity, e.g. due to non-availability of the selected network type, the
UE shall be able to automatically revert to automatic mode until the user-
preferred mode again becomes possible. The user shall be informed of the
suspension and later resumption of user-preferred mode.
The UE shall be able to select and register to the target network in idle
mode. Requirements for this are described in [2] and [4]
The UE shall contain policies that allow it to decide automatically to which
network to initially attach, when multiple networks are available.
The PNO shall be capable of controlling and setting the UE policies related to
initial attachment for network selection.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE to use the most appropriate
network.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of static policy (i.e. by
use of a local policy), whether the UE is involved in an active session or
not.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of dynamic policy (i.e.
using real-time instructions from the PNO) related to the AN capabilities
(e.g. coverage, load, etc) and PNO preferences, whether the UE is involved in
an active session or not.
**Charging**
The PNO shall be aware of the status of the UE with respect to the network
attachment.
The SNO shall be capable of generating CDRs for the type of access network
used by the subscriber and of providing those CDRs to the PNO.
The PNO shall be capable of charging the subscriber according to the type of
access network used in its own network.
The PNO shall be capable of billing the subscriber according to the type of
access network used in its own network and the SNO\'s network.
The PNO shall be capable of indicating to the SNO to block/enable the
subscriber's access network in real time for reasons concerned with charging
(e.g. subscriber's credit has expired), when using the SNO's network.
The SNO shall be capable of blocking/enabling the subscriber according to the
type of access network used in its own network, when indicated by the PNO.
**Mobility**
> Note: Service continuity between the Enterprise WLAN and the public WLAN is
> out of scope, because both are non-3GPP networks.
It shall be possible to support service continuity of the multimedia session,
including the IMS session, if used, from the WLAN to the 3GPP network and
vice-versa.
Independently from the service continuity to the final user, the UE shall be
capable of providing information to the user regarding the current type of
access network used.
**QoS**
Note: QoS considerations when handing over between the Enterprise WLAN and the
public WLAN are out of scope, because both are non-3GPP networks.
The ability to maintain service continuity when changing networks shall be
dependent on the QoS capabilities of the target network:
It shall be possible to release the session on the change of network if the
target network does not provide adequate QoS.
When a network-change event is triggered, it shall be possible to reject that
change of network if the target network does not provide a QoS that is
appropriate for the service currently being accessed. However, the change of
network shall not be rejected if that rejection would result in the subscriber
losing all network connectivity , for example if the change is triggered by
impending non-availability of the current network.
The service platform may adapt the service (e.g. degrade or enhance the
service) to the capability of the target access.
It shall be possible to inform the user if the change of network is rejected
or if it is allowed but the service session is lost or degraded due to the
change of network.
**User Identity**
The PNO may provide the subscriber with a unique public identity for use on
the multiple access networks of the primary and SNOs.
The PNO may provide the subscriber with multiple public identities.
Any other identifier provided by the PNO or the SNO should not be visible to
the user.
### 4.2.3 Analysis
**Seamless Mobility**
This use case requires the use of different sets of credentials to access the
3GPP AN/CN and the WLAN/non-3GPP CN. Service continuity of the IP-based
service, which may be part of the PNO's IMS, must be maintained, within the
limitations of QoS, etc. If considerations of service continuity require a
\"make-before-break\" process, the UE will need to establish credential-attach
to the target network before credential-attach to the current network can be
released. This simultaneous credential-attach may only be required temporarily
until the handover is successfully completed. Nevertheless, it may have
implications on the functionality of the UICC, which are discussed elsewhere
in this section (e.g. the simultaneous activation of two USIMs, which is
currently prohibited by 3GPP specifications). It also has implications on the
design of the UE, e.g. radio technology and battery life.
**Authentication**
General:
There may be a need to relax the existing Rel-8 requirements on charging, QoS
and mobility, while making the existing security and trust requirements
stronger.
SNO\'s 3GPP Network:
This network will be accessed using a USIM on the UICC. The USIM will be
personalised with a set of credentials determined by the SNO.
PNO\'s WLAN/non-3GPP CN:
The non-3GPP CN is a TISPAN NGN with an IMS (the IMS may be invoked in this
use case), or ISP accessed by a WLAN.
If handover with service continuity in requires a \"make before break\"
process, then the NAAs or GNAAs that are used to achieve credential-attach to
each network would need to be active simultaneously for at least the duration
of the handover operation. Furthermore, the requirement for independent
authentication and authorisation of the PNO's and SNO's networks requires the
WLAN/non-3GPP CN to be accessed using a set of credentials that is independent
of that used to access the 3GPP network. Possible approaches to this problem
are discussed below.
Use of EAP-SIM is described in this use case, for automatic access to WLANs.
It is especially suitable for WLAN roaming. EAP-SIM permits the WLAN NO to
take advantage of the many available products and systems that are certified
by the W-Fi Alliance. The fast re-authentication function is especially
suitable for frequent and automatic handover between WLAN and 3GPP networks.
An EAP application on the UICC [5] could be used to support EAP-SIM and other
standardised EAP methods. [5] stipulates that the EAP application must be
located under a top-level application on the UICC. That could be an ISIM
application, i.e. the ISIM application that is required for access to the
PNO\'s IMS.. With this solution, even if the UE did not support IMS, it would
still be necessary for it to select the ISIM. This should not be a problem, as
the selection method for ISIM and USIM are the same.
An EAP application on the UICC [5] could be located under the SNO\'s USIM on
the UICC, given agreement between the SNO and PNO. The USIM and EAP
application would have to use different credentials and possibly different
algorithm customisations. This solution would cause a problem if the SNO
needed to have its own EAP application under the same USIM.
A PNO-personalised ISIM alone, i.e. without the underlying EAP application on
the UICC, could support EAP-AKA, provided the EAP supplicant could select the
ISIM application. However, an ISIM cannot currently support EAP-SIM, since it
does not currently support authentication in GSM security context.
EAP-SIM could be supported from a SIM or USIM on the UICC. In this use case,
such a (U)SIM would have to be personalised with credentials for the PNO\'s
HSS, since the PNO\'s and SNO\'s networks are fully independent, i.e. the WLAN
is not an I-WLAN. Furthermore, it would be necessary for the PNO\'s and SNO\'s
(U)SIMs to be active simultaneously, if \"make before break\" is required for
service continuity. However, the simultaneous activation of two USIMs on a
UICC is currently prohibited by 3GPP specifications.
EAP-SIM could be supported from a new NAA that provides authentication
functions which are identical to that of a USIM operating in GSM security
context, but which could be specified by a WLAN-oriented organisation, e.g.
the FMCA or the WiFi Alliance. Perhaps the WiSIM, proposed by some members of
the WiMAX Forum, could be adopted or adapted. EFs (Elementary Files) for this
NAA would typically be limited to those few required to support the
authentication functions, thereby minimising concerns about \"collisions\"
between files in this NAA and those in the (U)SIM. It would be up to the SNO
and PNO to agree that the presence of this NAA on the UICC would not give rise
to operational or security-related problems. If such problems could be
addressed between 3GPP and the WLAN NAA\'s specifying body at the
specification stage, then that would be more satisfactory than relying on ad-
hoc agreements between PNOs and SNOs.
Use of a GNAA cannot currently support this use case, because EAP-SIM and EAP-
AKA require the presence of a UICC in the UE. In future, however, GNAAs could
include (U)SIM-like functions when UEs become available with embedded hardware
functions capable of enforcing the required security policies and providing a
secure execution environment.
GNAAs that utilise username/password, one-time password, certificates/private
keys, etc., are out of scope of this us case and this study item, but they
could be exploited in use cases where the PNO's WLAN and its WLAN roaming
partners are not concerned with exploiting UICC-based applications.
**Charging and billing**
For the PNO to provide a unique bill to the user, it is necessary to provide
adequate support for the charging information, e.g. to produce, exchange and
manage the CDRs.
The PNO has the task to correlate and mediate the charging information (e.g.
CDRs) to assure proper billing to the end user and proper payments to the SNO
according to commercial contract.
If the solution can be based on standard roaming, all the features required
for the identification of the user and the exchange of CDRs are already
supported in current the 3GPP specifications, following the indication and
procedures established by GSMA.
**Initial network selection/steering:**
For the SNO's 3GPP network, network selection shall be based on the existing
3GPP specification [4].
Network selection for WLAN could be based on appropriate UE local policy
configuration, set by the PNO by means of UE configuration (e.g. OTA
settings).
Steering with active connection could be based on many different criteria,
such as radio quality, QoS supported, PNO and user priorities, etc.
As far as the requirement for automatic network selection, based on these
criteria, is concerned it may need some additional specification.
**QoS support**
It is necessary to correctly manage the exchange of QoS information during the
handover procedures.
## 4.3 Use Case 2
### 4.3.1 Description
This use case is the same as Use Case 1, with the following differences:
  * The PNO is a 3GPP Network Operator and may provide also WLAN.
  * The SNO provides WLAN.
  * The PNO offers to Alice Pre-paid and Post-paid service subscription.
    1. ### Requirements
**Security and authentication**
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the SNO's non-3GPP CN via a WLAN in a
secure way using the appropriate security and authentication mechanisms for
that network.
Note: the WLAN could be considered an IP-CAN
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the PNO's 3GPP network according to
3GPP security and authentication requirements.
The UE may be capable of connecting to the PNO's IMS according to IMS security
and authentication requirements.
**Network selection/steering**
The UE shall contain policies that allow it to decide automatically which
network to initially attach to, when multiple networks are available.
The PNO shall be capable of controlling and setting the UE policies related to
initial attachment for network selection.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE to use the most appropriate
network.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of static policy (i.e. by
use of a local policy) whether a UE is involved in active session or not.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of dynamic policy (i.e.
using real-time instructions from the PNO) related to the access network
capabilities (e.g. coverage, load, and etc) and PNO preferences whether a UE
is involved in active session or not.
**Charging**
The PNO shall be aware of the status of the UE with respect to the network
attachment.
The SNO shall be capable of charging the subscriber according to the type of
access network used.
The SNO shall be capable of providing on-line and off-line charging
information to the PNO.
The PNO shall be capable of charging the subscriber according to the type of
access networks used in its own networks.
The PNO shall be capable of indicating to the SNO to block/enable the
subscriber's access network in real time for reasons concerned with charging
(e.g. subscriber credit expired), when using the SNO's network.
The SNO shall be capable of blocking/enabling the subscriber according to the
type of access network used in its own network, when indicated by the PNO.
The PNO shall be capable of blocking/enabling the subscriber to use the PNO
network.
As a charging consequence, the PNO shall be capable of billing the subscriber
according to the type of access network used in its own networks and in the
SNOs network.
**Mobility**
It shall be possible to supportn service continuity of the multimedia session
from the WLAN to the 3GPP network and vice-versa.
Independently from the service continuity to the end user, the UE shall be
capable of providing information to the user regarding the current type of
access network used.
**QoS**
The ability to maintain service continuity when changing networks shall be
dependent on the QoS capabilities of the target network.
It shall be possible for the PNO to reject the change of network if the target
network does not provide adequate QoS to maintain service continuity.
It shall be possible to release the session on the change of network if the
target network does not provide adequate QoS to maintain service continuity.
The system may adapt the service (e.g. degrade or enhance the service) to the
capability of the target access.
**User identity**
The PNO may provide the subscriber with a unique public identity for use on
the multiple access networks of the primary and SNOs.
The PNO may provide the subscriber with multiple public identities.
Any other identifier provided by the PNO or the SNO should not be visible to
the user.
### 4.3.3 Analysis
**Authentication**
Credential for IMS is the USIM or the ISIM.
Credential for the PNO's 3GPP network is the USIM
Credentials for the WLAN could be any kind of secure credential.
  * In the case it is a USIM, 3GPP has already defined a solution, e.g. > the I-WLAN [3], whereby the user is roaming in the SNO.
  * For any other kind of secure credential (e.g. certificates, > Login&PWD, etc.), the WLAN connectivity could be considered an > IP-CAN to access the IMS
**Initial network selection/Steering**
In 3GPP Networks, network selection shall be based on the existing 3GPP
specification [4].
Network selection for WLAN could be based on the I-WLAN specification [3], in
the case where the I-WLAN approach is used to handover in the SNO's WLAN.
Network selection for non-3GPP WLAN could be based on appropriate UE local
policy configuration, set by the PNO by means of UE configuration (e.g. OTA
settings).
Steering with active connection could be based on many different criteria,
such as radio quality, QoS supported, PNO and user priorities, etc.
As far as the requirement for automatic network selection, based on these
criteria, is concerned it may need some additional specification.
**Seamless Mobility**
The ability to enable session continuity while the UE is moving between 3GPP
network and non-3GPP WLAN could be based on different approaches.
If the session should be continued between a 3GPP network based on CS access
and non-3GPP WLAN, anchoring the session in the PNO's IMS, as already defined
in the VCC for the voice call, is a solution to be enhanced for multimedia.
Extension of VCC for multimedia session continuity is under discussion in SA2.
If the session should be continued between a 3GPP network based on PS access
and non-3GPP WLAN (assuring the appropriate performance for multimedia
session), anchoring the session in the PNO's packet network is a solution
under the work on EPS where mobility and session continuity between 3GPP
access and non-3GPP IP-CAN are considered.
It has to be noted also that, in the case that the session should be continued
inside a 3GPP network between the PS access and the I-WLAN access, anchoring
the session in the 3GPP CN is a solution under study in SA2 in the WI
"Feasibility Study of Mobility between 3GPP-WLAN Interworking and 3GPP
Systems" which was approved at SA#35.
**Charging and billing**
For the PNO to provide a unique bill to the user, it is necessary to provide
adequate support for the charging information, i.e. to produce, exchange and
manage the CDRs.
The PNO has the task to correlate and mediate the charging information (e.g.
CDRs) to assure proper billing to the end user and proper payments to the SNO
according to commercial contract.
If the solution is based on standard roaming, all the features required for
the identification of the user and the exchange of CDRs are already supported
in current the 3GPP specifications, following the indication and procedures
established by GSMA.
**QoS support**
It is necessary to correctly manage the exchange of QoS information during the
handover procedure.
## 4.6 Use Case 3
### 4.6.1 Description
This the same as use case 1, except that when on the WLAN, Alice uses a VOIP
service that is supported by a client on the UE. When handover to the 3GPP
network occurs, the voice service switches to 3GPP CS voice service. This does
not require Alice to have any manual input. Alice may be able to audibly
detect the handover, e.g. by a very momentary interruption to voice contact,
but she finds that quite acceptable for voice service.
### 4.6.2 Requirements
**Security and authentication**
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the PNO\'s non-3GPP CN via a WLAN in
a secure way using the appropriate security and authentication mechanisms for
that network.
Note: the WLAN is not an I-WLAN in this use case.
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the SNO\'s 3GPP network according to
3GPP security and authentication requirements.
The UE may be capable of connecting to the PNO\'s IMS network according to IMS
security and authentication requirements.
**Network selection/ steering**
The UE shall be able to select a target network and to hand over from the
current network to the target network in mid-session while maintaining service
continuity.
The UE shall be able to select and register to a target network in idle mode.
Requirements for this are described in [2] and [4]
The UE shall contain policies that allow it to decide automatically to which
network to initially attach, when multiple networks are available.
The PNO shall be capable of controlling and setting the UE policies related to
initial attachment for network selection.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE to use the most appropriate
network.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of static policy (i.e. by
use of a local policy decision function), while the UE is not involved in any
active session.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of dynamic policy (i.e.
using real-time instructions from the PNO) related to the AN capabilities
(coverage, load, etc) and PNO preferences, while the UE is not involved in any
active session.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of static policy (e.g.
preferred SNO\'s AN), while the UE is involved in an active session.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of dynamic policy related
to the AN capabilities (coverage, load, etc) and PNO preferences, while the UE
is involved in an active session.
**Charging**
The PNO shall be aware of the status of the UE with respect to the network
attachment.
The SNO shall be capable of generating CDRs for the type of access used by the
subscriber and of providing those CDRs to the PNO.
The PNO shall be capable of charging the subscriber according to the type of
access used in its own network .
The PNO shall be capable of billing the subscriber according to the type of
access used in its own network and in the SNO's network.
The PNO shall be capable of indicating to the SNO to block/enable the
subscriber's access in real time for reasons concerned with charging (e.g.
subscriber's credit has expired), when using the SNO's network.
The SNO shall be capable of blocking/enabling the subscriber according to the
type of access used in its own network, when indicated by the PNO.
**Mobility**
The system shall be capable of supporting service continuity of the voice
session (including the IMS session, if used) from the WLAN to the 3GPP network
and vice-versa.
Independently from the service continuity to the end user, the UE shall be
capable of providing information to the user regarding the current type of
access used.
The UE shall be capable of switching automatically between CS voice service
and PS VOIP service, according to the current and target ANs.
**QoS**
In the case of voice session continuity, the ability to provide service
continuity to the user when changing networks shall be dependent on the QoS
capabilities of the target network:
It shall be possible to release the session on the change of network if the
target network does not provide adequate QoS.
When a network-change event is triggered, it shall be possible to reject that
change of network if the target network does not provide a QoS that is
appropriate for the VOIP service currently being accessed. However, the change
of network shall not be rejected if that rejection would result in the
subscriber losing all network connectivity , for example if the change is
triggered by impending non-availability of the current network.
It shall be possible to inform the user if the change of network is (a)
rejected or (b) allowed but the VOIP session is lost or degraded due to the
change of network.
**User identity**
The PNO may provide the subscriber with a unique public identity for use on
the multiple networks of the PNO and SNOs.
The PNO may provide the subscriber with multiple public identities.
Any other identity, e.g. IMSI, IMPI, and etc, provided by the PNO or the SNO
should not be visible to the user.
### 4.6.3 Analysis
**Seamless mobility**
The analysis in use case 1 applies without modification.
**Authentication**
The analysis in use case 1 applies without modification.
**Charging and billing**
The analysis in use case 1 applies without modification.
**Network selection/steering**
The analysis in use case 1 applies without modification.
**QoS Support**
It is necessary to correctly manage the exchange of QoS information during the
handover process. The principal QoS consideration is the ability of the 3GPP
network to provide CS voice service and the ability of the WLAN to provide
effective VOIP service, which is relatively robust to variations in effective
available bandwidth.
## 4.7 Use Case 4
### 4.7.1 Description
Alice is making a video call while walking in the city center on the 3GPP
network of her PNO. At this moment Alice\'s PNO receives a large number of
connection requests in the area, the number of requests being too many for the
local cell to support. To be able to support the increase in requests, the PNO
needs to divert part of the traffic. Fortunately, Alice is within range of a
WLAN operated by the SNO that she can access and which can support video
calls. The PNO then sends a message to Alice\'s UE to switch to the WLAN of
the SNO so that other users not having WLAN capable handsets can connect to
the 3G services.
### 4.7.2 Requirements
The UE should inform the user in case of automatic switch of network (e.g.
display text, play a tone).
### 4.7.3 Analysis
Such a system switch has to be automatic, as the user is in a call and not
aware of the traffic constraints.
It is understood that the automatic switch shall not occur if the preferences
provisioned into the UICC are forbidding the automatic switch. In that case,
the call will continue on the current network.
## 4.8 Use Case 5
### 4.8.1 Description
While registered to her 3GPP PNO, Alice is having a video call with her friend
Jane while shopping. Unfortunately, the video call service is not able to be
maintained and has to be downgraded to voice call. Reasons could be that Alice
has moved out of the correct 3GPP coverage to continue the video call, or that
an increase of call traffic in the area necessitates a temporary downgrade of
the local QoS. By staying connected with the PNO, the call should
automatically change into a voice call. Fortunately, Alice is within range of
a WLAN operated by the SNO that she can access. So, instead of falling into
voice mode, the UE switches to the WLAN and Alice is able to continue her
video call, while showing the latest fashion clothes to Jane using her UE.
### 4.8.2 Requirements
It shall be possible for the 3GPP PNO to set preferences into the UICC
concerning the automatic switch of system when QoS is downgraded (e.g. enable
or disable).
It shall be possible for the user to set preferences into the UICC and/or into
the ME concerning the automatic switch of system when QoS is downgraded (e.g.
enable or disable), overriding the 3GPP PNO\'s preferences. If both sets of
preferences are present, the one in the UICC shall take priority.
In case of loss of QoS, the UE shall automatically switch to the appropriate
system, according to the preferences provisioned into the UICC or ME.
The UE should inform the user about the switch of network (e.g. display text,
play a tone).
### 4.8.3 Analysis
Such a system switch has to be automatic, as the user is in a call.
Within this condition, it would be difficult for the user to continue the call
while manually operating the switch of system.
It is understood that the automatic switch shall not occur if the preferences
provisioned into the UICC or the ME are forbidding the automatic switch. In
that case, the call will drop.
## 4.9 Use Case 6
### 4.9.1 Description
While registered to her WLAN PNO, Alice is having a video call with her friend
Jane while shopping. Unfortunately, Alice moves out of WLAN coverage that is
sufficient to ensure a correct data rate for a video call. By having its data
rate reduced, the call should either drop or switch to voice mode, or
dramatically reduce the video quality. Fortunately, Alice is under coverage of
a 3GPP network operated by the SNO that she can access. So, instead of having
a reduced service for the video call, the UE switches to the 3GPP network and
Alice is able to continue her video call while showing the latest fashion
clothes to Jane.
### 4.9.2 Requirements
It shall be possible for the WLAN PNO to set preferences into the UICC
concerning the automatic switch of system when QoS is downgraded (e.g. enable
or disable).
It shall be possible for the user to set preferences into the UICC and/or into
the ME concerning the automatic switch of system when QoS is downgraded (e.g.
enable or disable), overriding the WLAN PNO\' preferences. If both sets of
preferences are present, the one in the UICC shall take priority.
The UE shall automatically switch to the appropriate system, according to the
preferences provisioned into the UICC or ME.
The UE should inform the user about the switch of network (e.g. display text,
play a tone).
### 4.9.3 Analysis
Such a system switch has to be automatic, as the user is in a call.
Within this condition, it would be difficult for the user to continue the call
while manually operating the switch of system.
It is understood that the automatic switch shall not occur if the preferences
provisioned into the UICC or ME are forbidding the automatic switch. In that
case, the call will either drop or continue with reduced quality.
## 4.10 Use Case 7
### 4.10.1 Description
This use case is the same as Use Case 1, with the following modification:
  * The PNO is a non-3GPP Network Operator, provides I-WLAN access, IMS services
  * The SNO is a 3GPP Network Operator and provides CS/PS mobile access
  * The PNO have a commercial roaming agreement with the SNO that allows PNO users to roma into SNO mobile network
  * The PNO provides the user with a USIM and optionally ISIM
### 4.10.2 Requirements
**Security and authentication**
The UE shall use USIM to authenticate to I-WLAN PNO and to SNO network.
The UE may use USIM or ISIM authenticate to the PNO's IMS.
**Network selection/steering**
The UE shall use I-WLAN procedure for the network selection and the steering
in the PNO's network.
**Charging**
The network operator shall use 3GPP standard charging mechanism.
**Mobility**
It shall be possible to support service continuity of the multimedia session
from the WLAN to the 3GPP network and vice-versa.
Independently from the service continuity to the end user, the UE shall be
capable of providing information to the user regarding the current type of
access used.
**QoS**
The ability to maintain service continuity when changing networks shall be
dependent on the QoS capabilities of the target network.
It shall be possible for the PNO to reject the change of network if the target
network does not provide adequate QoS to maintain service continuity.
It shall be possible to release the session on the change of network if the
target network does not provide adequate QoS.
### 4.10.3 Analysis
**Authentication**
Credential for the I-WLAN is the USIM.
Credential for IMS is the USIM or the ISIM.
Credential for the SNO's 3GPP access network is the USIM of the PNO under a
roaming agreement.
**Initial network selection/Steering**
In 3GPP Networks, network selection shall be based on the existing 3GPP
specification [4].
Network selection for I-WLAN could be based on the I-WLAN specification [3].
Steering with active connection could be based on many different criteria,
such as radio quality, QoS supported, PNO and user priorities, etc.
As far as the requirement for automatic network selection, based on these
criteria, is concerned it may need some additional specification.
**Seamless Mobility**
The VCC Rel-8 needs additional requirement to support multimedia sessions to
be applicable to this scenario
**Charging and billing**
For the PNO to provide a unique bill to the user, it is necessary to provide
adequate support for the charging information, i.e. to produce, exchange and
manage the CDRs.
The PNO has the task to correlate and mediate the charging information (e.g.
CDRs) to assure proper billing to the end user and proper payments to the SNO
according to commercial roaming contract.
If the solution is based on standard roaming, all the features required for
the identification of the user and the exchange of CDRs are already supported
in current the 3GPP specifications, following the indication and procedures
established by GSMA.
**QoS support**
It is necessary to correctly manage the exchange of QoS information during the
handover procedure.
# 5 Harmonized requirements
## 5.1 Service aspects
The system shall be capable of supporting multimedia, voice and internet
session continuity from the WLAN access network to the 3GPP access network and
vice-versa, where supported by considerations of QoS and where the NOs support
compatible services. Voice session continuity includes the case where VOIP
service is provided over the WLAN and CS voice service is provided over the
3GPP network.
The system shall be capable of assuring service continuity to the end user,
when moving between WLAN access network and the 3GPP access network.
The PNO may provide the subscriber with a unique public identity for use on
the multiple access networks of the primary and SNOs.
The PNO may provide the subscriber with multiple public identities.
Any other identifier provided by the PNO or the SNO should not be visible to
the user.
Independently from the service continuity to the end user, the UE may be
capable of providing information to the user regarding the current type of
access used.
It shall be possible to release the session on the change of network if the
target network does not provide adequate QoS.
When a network-change event is triggered, it shall be possible to reject that
change of network if the target network does not provide a QoS that is
appropriate for the service currently being accessed. However, the change of
network shall not be rejected if that rejection would result in the subscriber
losing all network connectivity , for example if the change is triggered by
impending non-availability of the current network.
The service platform may adapt the service (e.g. degrade or enhance the
service) to the capability of the target access.
It shall be possible to inform the user if the change of network is (a)
rejected or (b) allowed but the service session is lost or degraded due to the
change of network.
The UE shall contain policies that allow it to decide automatically to which
network to initially attach, when multiple networks are available.
The UE shall be able to select and register to the target network in idle
mode. Requirements for this are described in [2]
The UE shall be able to select a target network and to hand over from the
current network to the target network in mid-session while maintaining service
continuity. This shall apply whether the UE is in automatic network selection
mode or in user-preferred mode. This shall apply regardless of in which CN the
service session is anchored.
The user shall be able to switch the UE into user-preferred mode,. In that
mode, the UE may be directed by the user to select only available 3GPP
networks or only available WLANs. At any time during user-preferred mode, if
operation in that mode would result in loss of connectivity, e.g. due to non-
availability of the selected network type, the UE shall be able to
automatically revert to automatic mode until the user-preferred mode again
becomes possible. The user shall be informed of the suspension and later
resumption of user-preferred mode.
A set of manageable criteria and functions, both automatic and manual, shall
be provided for intelligent handover with service continuity between the PNO's
and SNO's access networks
The PNO shall be capable of controlling and setting the UE policies related to
initial attachment for network selection.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE to use the most appropriate
network.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of static policy (i.e. by
use of a local policy decision function), while the UE is not involved in any
active session.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of dynamic policy (i.e.
using real-time instructions from the PNO) related to the AN capabilities
(coverage, load, etc) and PNO preferences, while the UE is not involved in any
active session.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of static policy (e.g.
preferred SNO\'s AN), while the UE is involved in an active session.
The PNO shall be capable of steering the UE by means of dynamic policy related
to the AN capabilities (coverage, load, etc) and PNO preferences, while the UE
is involved in an active session.
Where the WLAN is an I-WLAN, the UE shall use I-WLAN procedure for the
selection and the steering in the PNO network
Where both 3GPP (e.g. 3G) and the non-3GPP networks (e.g. WLAN) support access
to an IMS, it shall be possible to access the IMS of at least the PNO
seamlessly on all access networks that the user is allowed to access under his
agreement with the PNO.
The PNO may provide the subscriber with a unique public identity for use on
the multiple access networks of the PNO and SNOs.
The PNO may provide the subscriber with multiple public identities.
Other identifiers provided by the PNO or the SNO should not be visible to the
user.
The UE shall support at least one method of access to the PLMN of the 3GPP NO.
The NAA for that shall support AAA services to the HSS of that NO. It would
normally be a USIM on a UICC.
TheUE shall support at least one method of access to the WLANs of an
Enterprise and to the public WLANs of the WLAN NO.
The UE shall support the case where each type of network may require a
separate NAA with its own credentials. In such a case, and where service
continuity requires the handover between 3GPP networks and WLAN to be handled
on a "make before break" basis, it shall be possible for both NAAs to be
active simultaneously. This shall apply during the period of network handover.
Device Management settings are to be obtained from and controlled by the
Primary NO.
## 5.2 Security aspects
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the non-3GPP CN via a WLAN in a
secure way using the appropriate security and authentication mechanisms for
that network. This applies if the non-3GPP CN and WLAN is operated by the PNO
or by the SNO.
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the 3GPP CN via its RAN, according to
3GPP security and authentication requirements. This applies if the 3GPP CN/RAN
is operated by the PNO or by the SNO.
Where required by the intended usage of the UE, the UE shall be capable of
connecting to the Enterprise WLAN in a secure way using the appropriate
security and authentication mechanisms for that network.
It shall be possible for the 3GPP NO and the WLAN NO to operate their own
completely separate security systems, including independent authentication
centres in their respective CNs.
The NAA(s) used for WLAN access shall include an application or applications
to support EAP-SIM and EAP-AKA.
The UE may be capable of connecting to the PNO\'s IMS network according to IMS
security and authentication requirements.
Where the WLAN is an I-WLAN, the following requirements apply:
> The UE shall use a single USIM to authenticate to the I-WLAN and to the 3GPP
> network.
>
> The UE may use USIM or ISIM to authenticate to the IMS of the PNO.
## 5.3 UICC aspects
The UICC shall be able to support separate NAAs for the 3GPP access and WLAN
access, where the credentials in each NAA are different. This does not
preclude support for the two networks using the same NAA, or for two NAAs with
the same credentials.
The UICC shall support USIM and SIM for 3GPP network access.
The UICC shall support one or more NAA(s) for WLAN access that can be used for
EAP-SIM and EAP-AKA.. The UICC should also support.
Where the UICC supports separate NAAs for 3GPP access and WLAN access, the
UICC shall permit simultaneous sessions with both NAAs on different logical
channels.
The UICC shall be capable of supporting an ISIM for secure access to the IMS
of the PNO.
## 5.4 Charging aspects
> A user shall be able to receive a single, itemised bill from the PNO
> covering use of both access-network types and IMS services and representing
> a single user identity (single phone number).
>
> A user may opt to receive a single, itemised bill covering use of all access
> networks and IMS and representing multiple user identities, e.g. a private
> and a business identity. This covers the cases of a small business user who
> requires a split between personal and business use and where an Enterprise
> needs bills for its employees, split into personal and business use.
The PNO shall be aware of the status of the UE with respect to the network
attachment.
The SNO shall be capable of generating CDRs for the type of access used by the
subscriber and of providing those CDRs to the PNO.
The PNO shall be capable of charging the subscriber according to the type of
access used in its own network.
The PNO shall be capable of indicating to the SNO to block/enable the
subscriber's access in real time for reasons concerned with charging (e.g.
subscriber's credit has expired), when using the SNO's network.
The SNO shall be capable of blocking/enabling the subscriber according to the
type of access used in its own network, when indicated by the PNO.
Where the WLAN is an I-WLAN, the network operator shall use 3GPP standard
charging. This includes the case where the WLAN NO is the PNO and has a
roaming agreement with the 3GPP NO who is the SNO.
# 6 Recommendations
## 6.1 General recommendations and suggested workplan
This section shall contain an indication of the parts already covered by
current specification, the parts requiring additional standardization effort,
a workplan harmonized with current standardization activity (e.g. VCC), and an
indication about potential new stage 1 specifications.
It is strongly recommended to reuse the mechanisms already defined in 3GPP
specification and the roaming mechanisms.
It is strongly recommended to use the flexibility already defined in 3GPP
specification, such as taking benefit from the possibility to establish
multiple ISIM on the UICC when multiple IMS subscriptions are needed.
## 6.2 List of recommended requirements
This section shall contain a list of requirements to agreed to be potentially
transferred to specifications
**Security aspects**
It shall be possible for the 3GPP NO and the WLAN NO to operate their own
completely separate security systems, including independent authentication
centres in their respective CNs.
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the non-3GPP network via a WLAN in a
secure way using the appropriate security and authentication mechanisms for
that network.
The UICC shall be able to support separate NAAs for the 3GPP access and WLAN
access, where the credentials in each NAA are different.
Where the UICC supports separate NAAs for 3GPP access and WLAN access, the
UICC shall permit simultaneous sessions with both NAAs on different logical
channels.
In the case the PNO (non-3GPP operator with WLAN coverage) have a commercial
roaming agreement with the SNO (3GPP operator) that allows PNO users to roam
into SNO mobile network, the already defined I-WLAN specification [3] allows
to re-use USIM authentication and network selection mechanism.
The UE shall be capable of connecting to the 3GPP network via a WLAN in a
secure way using I-WLAN security and authentication mechanisms for that
network as already defined in [3].
The UE shall support already defined security and authentication requirements
to connect to the 3GPP network (e.g. USIM-AKA, SIM-AKA) or to the 3GPP IMS
domain (e.g. IMS-AKA, HTTP digest).
Note: the WLAN network could be considered an IP-CAN when used to access the
IMS domain
**Service aspects**
It shall be possible to support service continuity of the multimedia session,
including the IMS session, if used, from the WLAN to the 3GPP network and
vice-versa
The system shall be capable of assuring service continuity to the end user,
when moving between WLAN access network and the 3GPP access network.
In the case service continuity is required, there is an ongoing work in the
Release 8 to define multimedia sessions continuity
The UE shall be capable of providing information to the user regarding the
current type of access used.
The ability to maintain service continuity when changing networks shall be
dependent on the QoS capabilities of the target network.
It shall be possible for the PNO to reject the change of network if the target
network does not provide adequate QoS to maintain service continuity.
It shall be possible to release the session on the change of network if the
target network does not provide adequate QoS.
The system may adapt the service (e.g. degrade or enhance the service) to the
capability of the target access.
**Charging aspects**
The NOs shall be aware of the status of the UE with respect to the network
attachment and shall be capable of charging the subscriber according to the
type of access used.
The NOs shall be capable of collecting on-line and off-line charging
information.
#