# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This Technical Report (TR) presents the results of the Feasibility Study on
Priority Service. The intent of this Feasibility Study is to assess the
ability of 3GPP specifications to meet high-level requirements identified for
Priority Service. This Feasibility Study consisted of a multi-step process,
namely:
  1. Identify high-level requirements for Priority Service.
  2. Determine existing relevant 3GPP specifications for Priority Service.
  3. Perform a Gap Analysis to assess the ability of existing 3GPP specifications to meet the high-level Priority Service requirements.
As defined in this document, Priority Service allows qualified and authorized
users to obtain priority access to the next available radio (voice or data
traffic) channels on a priority basis before other PLMN users during
situations when PLMN congestion is blocking call attempts. In addition,
Priority Service supports priority call progression and call completion to
support an "end-to-end" priority call.
Priority Service is intended to be used by qualified and authorized users,
i.e., emergency service personnel, only during times of emergency situations
and network congestion. Access to Priority Service is limited to key personnel
and those with leadership responsibilities and is not intended for use by all
emergency service personnel. This is to ensure that non-emergency service
personnel cannot "take over" the network and deny the other non-emergency
service subscribers a reasonably level of service.
Priority Service providers should adhere to uniform, nationwide operating
access procedures. Priority Service can provide significant benefits for
public safety. There may be times during emergencies when non-Priority Service
subscribers will be unable to obtain access to their wireless services
(because Priority Service personnel are using the channels); nevertheless, the
benefits of Priority Service outweigh any inconvenience to non-Priority
Service subscribers.
Priority Service is to be available at all times in equipped markets in both
the HPLMN and VPLMN within a country where the PLMN provider is offering the
service. The capability for pre-emption should be supported, with the option
to turn it on/off depending on regional requirements. Priority Service is
applicable to both GERAN and UTRAN and is activated on a per call basis using
Priority Service dialing procedures.
Priority Service, supported by the 3GPP system set of services and features,
is one element in ability to deliver calls of a high priority nature from
mobile to mobile networks, mobile to fixed networks, and fixed to mobile
networks.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Report (TR) presents the results of the Feasibility Study on
Priority Service. The intent of this Feasibility Study is to assess the
ability of 3GPP specifications to meet high-level requirements identified for
Priority Service. This Feasibility Study consisted of a multi-step process,
namely:
  1. Identify high-level requirements for Priority Service.
  2. Determine existing relevant 3GPP specifications for Priority Service.
  3. Perform a Gap Analysis to assess the ability of existing 3GPP specifications to meet the high-level Priority Service requirements.
Additional functionalities not documented in this TR are considered outside
the scope of this TR. Such additional functionality may be on a network-wide
basis, nation-wide basis or particular to a group of users. Such additional
functionality shall not compromise conformance to the requirements of the
Priority Service defined in this specification.
The Priority Service is intended to be utilised for both Voice and Data and
therefore both elements are considered within the scope of this document.
While Priority Service is meant for both Voice and Data services, the initial
set of requirements address Circuit Switched Services (Voice as well as Data).
Multimedia and non-circuit switched aspects of Priority Service have not been
addressed in this feasibility study and are for further study.
The Priority Service is intended to interwork with external networks to
provide an end-to-end service. Therefore, service interactions with external
networks are considered within the scope of this document, although the
specification of these interactions may be in other standards. If this occurs,
a reference to that specification shall be made.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[2] TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[3] ETSI TS 100 921 version 7.0.1 (1999-07), Digital cellular
telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Service accessibility (GSM 02.11 version
7.0.1 Release 1998)
[4] 3GPP TS 22.011 version 3.5.0 (2005-01), 3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Service
accessibility (Release 1999)
[5] 3GPP TS 22.011 version 4.4.0 (2005-01), 3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Service
accessibility (Release 4)
[6] ETSI EN 300 924 version 7.0.1 (2005-01), Digital cellular
telecommunications system (Phase 2+); enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-
emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 1 (GSM 02.67 version 7.0.1 Release 1998)
[7] 3GPP TS 03.67 version 7.2.0 (2005-01), 3rd Generation Partnership Project;
Technical Specification Group Core Network; Digital cellular
telecommunications system (Phase 2+); enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-
emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 2 (Release 1998)
[8] ETSI EN 300 927 version 7.0.1 (2005-01), Digital cellular
telecommunications system (Phase 2+); enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-
emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 3 (GSM 04.67 version 7.0.1 Release 1998)
[9] 3G TS 22.067 version 3.0.1 (1999-10), 3rd Generation Partnership Project;
Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; enhanced Multi-
Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 1 (Release 1999)
[10] 3GPP TS 23.067 version 3.3.0 (2005-01), 3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network; enhanced Multi-Level
Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 2 (Release 1999)
[11] 3GPP TS 24.067 version 3.3.0 (2005-01), 3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network; enhanced Multi-Level
Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 3 (Release 1999)
[12] 3G TS 22.067 version 4.0.0 (2005-01), 3rd Generation Partnership Project;
Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; enhanced Multi-
Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 1 (Release 4)
[13] 3GPP TS 23.067 version 4.1.0 (2005-01), 3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network; enhanced Multi-Level
Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 2 (Release 4)
[14] 3GPP TS 24.067 version 4.1.0 (2005-01), 3rd Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network; enhanced Multi-Level
Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 3 (Release 4)
[15] GSM 11.11 v7.6.1, Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module \-
Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface; Release 1998
[16] GSM 04.08 v7.13.0, Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 Specification; Release
1998
[17] 3GPP TS 11.11 v8.5.0, Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module -
Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface; Release 1999
[18] 3GPP TS 51.011 v4.1.0, Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module -
Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface; Release 4
[19] 3GPP TS 08.08 v. 7.7.0, Mobile-services Switching Centre- Base Station
System (MSC - BSS) interface Layer 3 specification; Release 1998
[20] 3GPP TS 08.08 v. 8.12.0, Mobile-services Switching Centre- Base Station
System (MSC - BSS) interface Layer 3 specification; Release 1999
[21] 3GPP TS 08.08 v. 9.0.0, Mobile-services Switching Centre- Base Station
System (MSC - BSS) interface Layer 3 specification; Release 4
[22] 3GPP TS 25.413 v. 3.9.0, UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling; Release
1999
[23] 3GPP TS 25.413 v. 4.2.0, UTRAN Iu interface RANAP signalling; Release 4
[24] 3GPP TS 24.008 v. 3.11.0, Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification;
Core Network Protocols - Stage 3; Release 1999
[25] 3GPP TS 24.008 v. 4.4.0, Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification;
Core Network Protocols - Stage 3; Release 4
[26] ITU Recommendation I.255.3, Multi-Level Precedence and Preemption Service
(MLPP), 1990
[27] ITU Recommendation Q.85, Stage 2 Description for Community of Interest
Supplementary Services, Section 3 -- Multi-Level Precedence and Preemption
(MLPP) (rev. 1), 1992
[28] ITU Recommendation Q.735, Stage 3 Description for Community of Interest
Supplementary Services using SS No. 7, Section 3 -- Multi-Level Precedence and
Preemption (MLPP), 1993
[29] GSM 11.14, Specification of the SIM Application Toolkit for the
Subscriber Identity Module - Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface
[30] 3GPP TS 31.102, Characteristics of the USIM Application
[31] 3GPP TS 31.111, USIM Application Toolkit (USAT)
[32] 3GPP TS 25.321, Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Priority Service:** A service that allows qualified and authorized users to
obtain priority access to the next available radio (voice or data traffic)
channels during situations when PLMN congestion is blocking call attempts. In
addition, Priority Service supports priority call progression and call
completion to support an "end-to-end" priority call.
**Service User:** A user subscribed to Priority Service.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CDR Charging Data Record
eMLPP Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
MLPP Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
PIN Personal Identification Number
PIE Priority Information Element
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
SC Service Code
UE User Equipment
# 4 High Level requirements
The following sections describe the high-level requirements to support
Priority Service. These high-level requirements are used as a basis for the
gap analysis described in Section 6.
## 4.1 Priority Call Origination
A call shall receive priority treatment (priority access to voice or traffic
channels) on the originating side, when the call is setup by a Service User
using the priority service dialling procedure described in section 4.9.
## 4.2 Priority Call Termination
A call shall receive priority treatment (priority access to voice or traffic
channels) on the terminating side, when the call is setup by a Service User
using the priority service dialling procedure described in section 4.9.
## 4.3 Priority Call Progression
The Priority Service user shall receive priority call treatment/progression
through the mobile network(s). A priority call should be given higher priority
over normal calls in the originating mobile network, to interconnected
networks (including the PSTN) and in the terminating network. Note: The ISDN
MLPP feature may be used for signalling of priority level in the core network.
## 4.4 Priority Radio Resource Queuing
Priority Service assumes a signalling channel is always available.
When a Priority Service call encounters a "no radio available" condition in
the call path involving an access or egress air-interface, or both,
[and]{.underline},
\- [at call origination]{.underline}, and upon recognition of the Priority
Service dialing pattern, the Priority Service call is queued in the cell
serving the calling party and processed for the next available radio channel
in that cell in accordance with the caller's priority level and call
initiation time.
\- [at call termination]{.underline} upon recognition of a priority call
indication in an incoming call, the Priority Service call is queued in the
cell serving the called party and processed for the next available radio
channel in that cell in accordance with the call's priority level and arrival
time.
## 4.5 Priority Levels
The Priority Service subscriber shall be assigned one of _n_ priority levels.
Priority levels are defined as 1, 2, 3,...,_n_ , with 1 being the highest
priority level and _n_ being the lowest priority level. Refer to Annex A for
Regional requirements for priority levels.
## 4.6 Invocation on Demand
Priority Service is invoked only when requested and an idle voice or traffic
channel required for an origination request is not available.
If an idle voice or traffic channel is available when Priority Service is
requested, the origination request is allowed to proceed normally without
delay.
Invocation of Priority Service at access (origination), during call
progression (end-to-end), or egress (termination) is considered complete when
one of the following occurs:
\- A radio (voice or traffic) channel is assigned to the call (at origination
or termination),
\- The loss of radio contact or roaming to another PLMN provider's system (at
origination only),
\- The subscriber cancels the request by pressing the key.
\- Expiration of the maximum allowed time to hold for the next available radio
(voice or traffic) channel (at origination or termination), or
\- Deletion of the Priority Service request due to arrival of a higher
priority request coupled with lack of queue capacity (at origination or
termination).
## 4.7 Applicability to Telecommunications Services
Priority Service shall be applicable to voice and data telecommunications
services that require a voice or traffic channel assignment.
## 4.8 Authorization
A subscriber invoking Priority Service on call origination is authorized based
on the caller's subscription. It should also be possible for an additional
second level of authentication (e.g., by the use of PIN) to identify that the
user is authorized to make a priority call. In this case, authorization of the
subscriber may be realized by the usage of a PIN. The PIN solution is for
further study and needs to be standardized. The user priority levels (1-n) and
the associated PINs are assigned by the appropriate national authority and are
fixed, i.e., a subscriber may not be allowed to change the PIN or the priority
level. Note: There are some concerns related to security for "PIN
Authorization".
## 4.9 Priority Service Service Code
Priority Service is manually requested by adding on the Priority Service
service code (SC) to the origination request, as in:
SC + termination address +
## 4.10 Roaming
Priority Service shall be able to be supported during roaming when the roaming
network supports Priority Service.
## 4.11 Handover
Priority Service shall be able to be supported during handover.
## 4.12 Charging Data Record
The system should record the following Priority Service charging data record
(CDR) information, in addition to non-Priority Service CDR information:
a Priority Service invocation attempts.
b Call legs (origination and/or termination) on which Priority Service was
used to gain access to the radio channel.
c Recording of appropriate Priority Service information (e.g., Priority Level,
PIN usage indication). Note: The value of recording this information in CDRs
is for further study.
## 4.13 Priority Trunk Queuing
Priority Service shall be able to support queuing of Priority Service calls
for trunk resources. Trunk queuing provides the capability to place a Priority
Service call that has experienced a congestion condition for trunk resources
(e.g., no circuit available) into a queue associated with a trunk group until
a trunk becomes available or until a maximum trunk queuing time has expired.
Priority Trunk Queuing applies to ISDN User Part (ISUP) and Multi-Frequency
(MF) trunks.
## 4.14 Coexistence with eMLPP
As a service provider option, it shall be possible to offer Priority Service
and eMLPP within the same network, but not to the same user.
# 5 Additional Description of Priority Service
## 5\. 1 At call origination
If a user invokes and is authorized for Priority Service and a radio (voice or
traffic) channel is available, then the call is allowed to proceed in the
originating system. The call is given priority treatment during progression
through the network.
If a user invokes and is authorized for Priority Service but a radio (voice or
traffic) channel is not available, the call is queued for the next available
radio channel in the cell in accordance with the user's priority level and
call initiation time. The user should be given an indication that the call is
progressing. The network treats the user as busy while a priority call request
for the user is queued.
If a user invokes and is authorized for Priority Service and a radio (voice or
traffic) channel is not available, if the queue for the cell is full, and if
the user's Priority Service priority is higher than one or more Priority
Service calls already in the queue, then the lowest, most recent call in the
queue is dropped from the queue. The user's call is placed in the queue in
accordance with the user's priority level and call initiation time. The user
should be given an indication that the call is progressing. The network treats
the user as busy while a priority call request for the user is queued.
It is desirable that if the system changes the resources allocated to a
Service User (e.g., cell handover), the call set-up should proceed, as if the
resources had remained the same (e.g., queue status). Note: The handling of
queue status during handover is for further study.
The following indications should be provided to the subscriber:
i Acceptance of a Priority Service request.
ii Rejection of a Priority Service request.
iii Loss of a pending request (including loss of radio contact and possibly
roaming to another system).
A priority call request may be removed from the queue by the Service User
pressing the key. The request shall also be removed by the system, if radio
contact is not maintained with the requesting UE.
## 5\. 2 During call progression
The Priority Service call receives priority treatment for call routing to
interconnected networks supporting priority.
## 5\. 3 At call termination
If a terminating radio (voice or traffic) channel is available, the call is
terminated to the called party.
If a terminating radio (voice or traffic) channel is not available, the call
is queued for the next available radio channel in the cell serving the called
party in accordance with the call's priority level. When a terminating radio
channel becomes available and is assigned to the call, the call is terminated
to the called party.
If a terminating radio (voice or traffic) channel is not available, the queue
for the cell serving the called party is full, and the call's priority level
is higher than one or more Priority Service calls in the queue, then the
lowest, most recent call in the queue is dropped from the queue. The user's
call is entered in the queue in accordance with the call's priority level.
When a terminating radio channel becomes available and is assigned to the
call, the call is terminated to the called party.
It is desirable that if the system changes the resources allocated to the
called party (e.g., cell handover), the call set-up should proceed, as if the
resources had remained the same (e.g., queue status).
## 5.4 Exception Procedures or Unsuccessful Outcome
At call origination, the following exceptions or unsuccessful outcomes can
occur:
1 If the user invokes but is not subscribed to Priority Service, call setup is
not allowed to proceed and the call is dropped.
2 If the user invokes and is subscribed to Priority Service but the user's
mobile set times out while the call is undergoing Priority Service call queue
processing, the user's mobile returns to the null state and the call is
dropped.
3 If a user invokes and is subscribed to Priority Service, a radio channel is
not available, and the queue for the cell is full, and the user's Priority
Service priority is lower than all of the Priority Service calls in the queue,
the call is dropped.
4 If a user invokes and is subscribed to Priority Service, and is queued for a
radio channel, but the user loses coverage, the call is removed from the queue
and is dropped.
5 If a user invokes and is subscribed to Priority Service, and is queued for a
radio channel, but the maximum allowed call time in queue expires before a
radio channel becomes available in the cell, the call is removed from the
queue and is dropped.
6 If a user invokes and is subscribed to Priority Service, and is queued for a
trunk resource, but the user loses coverage, the call is removed from the
trunk queue and is dropped.
7 If a user invokes and is subscribed to Priority Service, and is queued for a
trunk resource, but the maximum allowed call time in queue expires before a
trunk resource becomes available in the cell, the call is removed from the
trunk queue and is dropped.
At call termination the following exceptions or unsuccessful outcomes can
occur:
1 If a radio channel is not available and the queue for the cell is full, but
the calling party's priority is lower than all of the Priority Service calls
in the queue, the call is not completed and the Service User is given an
appropriate indication.
2 If the call is queued for a radio channel but the called party's mobile
loses coverage, the call is removed from the queue and the Service User is
given an appropriate indication.
3 If the call is queued for a radio channel but the maximum allowed call time
in queue expires before a radio channel becomes available in the designated
terminating cell, the call is removed from the queue and the Service User is
given an appropriate indication.
## 5.5 Features Interactions
**Call Waiting**
Priority Service call users will not receive an incoming call indication while
the call is being queued.
**Call forwarding and call re-direction**
Service users will not be allowed to invoke Priority Service calls through
call forwarding or re-direction.
(E.g., \"*SC + termination address\" as a forwarded-to number, or Priority
Service invocation through other re-direction services, such as IN DP12
Redirection etc.)
**Call Origination Restrictions**
Priority Service shall override Call origination Restrictions for Barring of
Outgoing Calls (BAOC), Barring of outgoing International Calls (BOIC) and
Barring of Outgoing International Calls except to Home PLMN Country (BOIC-
exHC), as a network option. Note: This may be necessary only for the PIN-based
solution.
**eMLPP** **(USA regional requirement)**
Priority Service call attempt shall override any eMLPP priority levels that
may be received from eMLPP capable mobile phones. That is Priority Service
users shall be able to only invoke their assigned priority level. If a
Priority Service user has an eMLPP capable phone and attempts to use an eMLPP
priority level in addition to Priority Service *SC dialing, the eMLPP priority
level request will be ignored by the network.
**Prepaid service**
Priority Service applies only to post-paid calls. Users shall not be allowed
to subscribe to Priority Service and Prepaid.
**Emergency Calls (USA regional requirement)**
There is no interaction between Priority Service and emergency calls. If a
service user dials *SC + [emergency call number], the call either receives
radio traffic channel priority access treatment based on the service user's
priority level or the call is denied. If a non-service user dials *SC +
[emergency call number], the call is denied.
# 6 Priority Service Gap Analysis
## 6.1 Service Accessibility
Service Accessibility is specified in:
Release 1998:
\- ETSI TS 100 921 version 7.0.1 (1999-07), Digital cellular
telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Service accessibility (GSM 02.11 version
7.0.1 Release 1998);
Release 1999:
\- 3GPP TS 22.011 version 3.5.0 (2005-01), 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Service
accessibility (Release 1999); and
Release 4:
\- 3GPP TS 22.011 version 4.4.0 (2005-01), 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Service
accessibility (Release 4).
Service Accessibility supports an Access Control capability that is pertinent
to Priority Service.
### 6.1.1 Summary of Service Accessibility Capabilities
The Access Control capability prevents mobile users from initiating call
origination attempts and from responding to pages in specific areas (e.g., in
emergency situations where resource shortages exist). Access control is
intended to allow network operators to prevent overload of radio access
channels under critical conditions.
The basic mechanism is administered as follows: All SIMs are randomly assigned
to one of ten access classes (0 -- 9). In addition, SIMs may also be members
of one or more of five special categories (access classes 11 to 15). These
special classes are designated for specific purposes as summarized in the
following table:
Table 1: Service Accessibility Access Classes
+--------------+--------------------+------------------------+ | Access Class | Usage | Applicability | +--------------+--------------------+------------------------+ | 15 | PLMN Staff | Home PLMN Only | +--------------+--------------------+------------------------+ | 14 | Emergency Services | Home and Visited PLMNs | | | | | | | | of home country only | +--------------+--------------------+------------------------+ | 13 | Public Utilities | | +--------------+--------------------+------------------------+ | 12 | Security Services | | +--------------+--------------------+------------------------+ | 11 | For PLMN Use | Home PLMN Only | +--------------+--------------------+------------------------+ | 0 - 9 | General Use | Home and Visited PLMNs | +--------------+--------------------+------------------------+
In an emergency situation, broadcast messages are used (on an individual cell
basis) to indicate the "Access Classes" of subscribers that are barred from
network access. Any number of classes may be barred at any one time. For
example, to reduce approximately 20 percent of the basic mobile traffic in a
given cell, broadcast messages might indicate that two of the basic access
classes should be barred from access. Upon receiving an emergency broadcast
message, those mobiles belonging to the barred access classes (and not also
being members of any of the special classes) should not initiate a call
attempt or respond to a page[^1]. In addition, broadcast messages use "access
class 10" to indicate whether network access is allowed for emergency calls.
Access Control is designed to suppress not only the ability of non-priority
end users to seize traffic channels, but also the ability of those end users
to use signaling channels for call attempts. Service Accessibility, as
specified, cannot be turned on and off by the end user.
### 6.1.2 Support for Priority Service
The following table identifies Service Accessibility support for Priority
Service.
Table 2: Service Accessibility Gap Analysis
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Priority | Description | Service | Comments | | Service | | Accessibility | | | Requirement | | Support | | | Item | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 Priority | A call shall | Supported | Using | | Call | receive | | appropriate | | Origination | priority | | Access | | | treatment | | Class(es) to | | | (priority | | prevent access | | | access to | | attempts | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channels) on | | | | | the | | | | | originating | | | | | side, when the | | | | | call is setup | | | | | by a Service | | | | | User using the | | | | | priority | | | | | service | | | | | dialling | | | | | procedure | | | | | described in | | | | | section 4.9. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 Priority | A call shall | Supported | Using | | Call | receive | | appropriate | | Termination | priority | | Access | | | treatment | | Class(es) to | | | (priority | | prevent | | | access to | | response to | | | voice or | | pages | | | traffic | | | | | channels) on | | | | | the | | | | | terminating | | | | | side, when the | | | | | call is setup | | | | | by a Service | | | | | User using the | | | | | priority | | | | | service | | | | | dialling | | | | | procedure | | | | | described in | | | | | section 4.9. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 Priority | The user | Not supported | | | Progression | should receive | | | | | priority call | | | | | treatme | | | | | nt/progression | | | | | through the | | | | | mobile | | | | | network(s). A | | | | | priority call | | | | | should be | | | | | given higher | | | | | priority over | | | | | normal calls | | | | | in the | | | | | originating | | | | | mobile | | | | | network, to | | | | | interconnected | | | | | networks | | | | | supporting | | | | | priority | | | | | (including the | | | | | PSTN) and in | | | | | the | | | | | terminating | | | | | network. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4 Priority | When a | Not supported | | | Radio Resource | Priority | | | | Queuing | Service call | | | | | encounters a | | | | | "no radio | | | | | available" | | | | | condition in | | | | | the call path | | | | | involving an | | | | | access or | | | | | egress | | | | | air-interface, | | | | | or both, | | | | | [and | | | | | ]{.underline}, | | | | | | | | | | [at call | | | | | origination | | | | | ]{.underline}, | | | | | and upon | | | | | recognition of | | | | | the Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | dialing | | | | | pattern, the | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service call | | | | | is queued in | | | | | the cell | | | | | serving the | | | | | calling party | | | | | and processed | | | | | for the next | | | | | available | | | | | radio channel | | | | | in that cell | | | | | in accordance | | | | | with the | | | | | caller's | | | | | priority level | | | | | and call | | | | | initiation | | | | | time. | | | | | | | | | | [at call | | | | | terminatio | | | | | n]{.underline} | | | | | upon | | | | | recognition of | | | | | a priority | | | | | call | | | | | indication in | | | | | an incoming | | | | | call, the | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service call | | | | | is queued in | | | | | the cell | | | | | serving the | | | | | called party | | | | | and processed | | | | | for the next | | | | | available | | | | | radio channel | | | | | in that cell | | | | | in accordance | | | | | with the | | | | | call's | | | | | priority level | | | | | and arrival | | | | | time. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5 Priority | The subscriber | Partially | Ten (0-9) | | Level | should be | supported | randomly | | | assigned one | | allocated | | | of _n_ | | Access | | | priority | | Classes. Five | | | levels. | | (11-15) | | | Priority | | special | | | levels are | | classes. | | | defined as 1, | | Enumeration of | | | 2, 3,...,_n_ , | | special | | | with 1 being | | classes is not | | | the highest | | meant as a | | | priority level | | priority | | | and n being | | sequence. | | | the lowest | | Priority | | | priority | | Service | | | level.. | | priority | | | | | levels could | | | | | map to special | | | | | Access | | | | | Classes. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6 Invocation | Priority | Not supported | | | on Demand | Service is | | | | | invoked only | | | | | when requested | | | | | and an idle | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channel | | | | | required for | | | | | an origination | | | | | request is not | | | | | available. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7 | Priority | Supported | | | Applicability | Service shall | | | | to | be applicable | | | | Tele | to voice and | | | | communications | data | | | | Services | tele | | | | | communications | | | | | services that | | | | | require a | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channel | | | | | assignment. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8 | A subscriber | Supported | Access Classes | | Authorization | invoking | | stored in the | | | Priority | | SIM. | | | Service on | | | | | call | | | | | origination is | | | | | authorized | | | | | based on the | | | | | caller's | | | | | subscription. | | | | | It should also | | | | | be possible | | | | | for an | | | | | additional | | | | | second level | | | | | of | | | | | authentication | | | | | (e.g., by the | | | | | use of PIN) to | | | | | identify that | | | | | the user is | | | | | authorized to | | | | | make a | | | | | priority call. | | | | | In this case, | | | | | authorization | | | | | of the | | | | | subscriber may | | | | | be realized by | | | | | the usage of a | | | | | PIN. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 Priority | Priority | Not supported | | | Service | Service is | | | | service code | manually | | | | | requested by | | | | | adding on the | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | service code | | | | | to the | | | | | origination | | | | | request. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10 Roaming | Priority | Partially | Access classes | | | Service shall | supported | 0-9 pertain to | | | be supported | | **_Home and | | | during roaming | | Visited | | | when the | | PLMNs_**. | | | roaming | | | | | network | | Access classes | | | supports | | 11 and 15 | | | Priority | | pertain to | | | Service. | | **_Home PLMN | | | | | only_**. | | | | | | | | | | Access classes | | | | | 12, 13, and 14 | | | | | pertain to | | | | | **_Home and | | | | | Visited PLMNs | | | | | [of home | | | | | country | | | | | only]{. | | | | | underline}_**. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 11 Handover | Priority | Not supported | | | | Service shall | | | | | be supported | | | | | during | | | | | handover. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12 Priority | The system | Not supported | | | Service | should record | | | | charging data | the following | | | | record | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | charging data | | | | | information, | | | | | in addition to | | | | | non-Priority | | | | | Service CDR | | | | | information: | | | | | | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | invocation | | | | | attempts, | | | | | | | | | | Call legs | | | | | (origination | | | | | and/or | | | | | termination) | | | | | on which | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service was | | | | | used to gain | | | | | access to the | | | | | radio channel. | | | | | | | | | | Recording of | | | | | appropriate | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | information. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 13 Priority | Priority | Not supported | | | Trunk Queuing | Service shall | | | | | be able to | | | | | support | | | | | queuing of | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service calls | | | | | for trunk | | | | | resources. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 14 Coexistence | As a service | Not supported | | | with eMLPP | provider | | | | | option, it | | | | | shall be | | | | | possible to | | | | | offer Priority | | | | | Service and | | | | | eMLPP within | | | | | the same | | | | | network, but | | | | | not to the | | | | | same user. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.2 Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP)
eMLPP is specified in:
Release 1998:
  * ETSI EN 300 924 version 7.0.1 (2005-01), Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 1 (GSM 02.67 version 7.0.1 Release 1998);
  * 3GPP TS 03.67 version 7.2.0 (2005-01), 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network; Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 2 (Release 1998);
  * ETSI EN 300 927 version 7.0.1 (2005-01), Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 3 (GSM 04.67 version 7.0.1 Release 1998);
Release 1999:
  * 3G TS 22.067 version 3.0.1 (1999-10), 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 1 (Release 1999);
  * 3GPP TS 23.067 version 3.3.0 (2005-01), 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network; enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 2 (Release 1999);
  * 3GPP TS 24.067 version 3.3.0 (2005-01), 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network; enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 3 (Release 1999);
Release 4:
  * 3G TS 22.067 version 4.0.0 (2005-01), 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 1 (Release 2000);
  * 3GPP TS 23.067 version 4.1.0 (2005-01), 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network; enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 2 (Release 4);
  * 3GPP TS 24.067 version 4.1.0 (2005-01), 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Core Network; enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP) -- Stage 3 (Release 4).
### 6.2.1 Summary of eMLPP Capabilities
The eMLPP service is provided as a network operator's option to a domain of a
network. The domain can be the whole network or a subset of the network. The
eMLPP service applies to all network resources in the domain, and eMLPP is
provided to a subscriber for all basic services subscribed to and for which
eMLPP applies.
The eMLPP service supports two capabilities: precedence and pre-emption.
Precedence involves the assignment of a priority level to a call. eMLPP
supports a maximum of seven priority levels. The two highest levels (A and B)
are reserved for network internal use (e.g., for emergency calls). These are
only used locally (i.e., in the domain of one MSC)[^2]. The other five
priority levels are offered for subscription and can be applied globally
(presuming the priority level is successfully passed from the originating end
and processed at the terminating end).
For each of the seven priority levels, the network operator can administer
parameters that control the treatment of that priority within its domain. This
treatment includes the selection of a target set-up time and whether or not
pre-emption is allowed for each priority level. For example, a network
operator might administer priority levels as follows:
Table 3: Example eMLPP Priority Levels
* * *
Priority Level Set-Up Time Pre-emption A Class 1 no B Class 2 no 0 Class 2 no
1 Class 3 no 2 Class 3 no 3 Class 3 no 4 Class 3 no
* * *
In the example above, three classes of set-up time performance are supported.
In the above example, the network operator has assigned class 1 (fast set-up,
nominally 1-2 seconds[^3]) to Priority Level A traffic, has assigned class 2
(normal set-up, nominally less than 5 seconds) to traffic at Priority Levels B
and 0, and has assigned class 3 (slow set-up, nominally less than 10 seconds)
to the lower Priority Level traffic. 3GPP specifications do not define
specific mechanisms (which may include specific technical capabilities and/or
network engineering decisions) to achieve the target set-up times as defined
by the service provider[^4].
If idle resources are not available, pre-emption involves the seizure of
resources (currently in use by a lower-priority call) for use by a call that
is of higher priority. The network releases the lowest-priority call and
seizes the necessary resources that are required to set up the higher-priority
call. At handover to a congested cell, higher-priority calls replace existing
calls of the lowest priority.
In the above example, the network operator has chosen not to allow pre-
emption. Thus, priority levels will use different queuing priorities rather
than pre-emption capabilities.
The eMLPP priority level for a given call depends on the calling subscriber.
The maximum precedence level for each subscriber is set at subscription time
(and is stored on the SIM).
The default priority level is established via normal registration procedures.
If the user does not explicitly select a precedence level at call set-up, the
network applies the subscriber-specific default precedence level.
The priority level can be selected by the user on a per-call basis (up to and
including their maximum authorized precedence level).
The eMLPP service is invoked automatically by the network at call set-up, with
the priority level established as above for mobile-originated calls. For
mobile-terminated calls, the priority level is established based on the
priority of the calling party, and is applied at the terminating end
(presuming the call's priority is passed via signaling between the originating
and terminating networks). Interworking with ISDN MLPP is required.
The eMLPP service applies to roaming scenarios, if eMLPP is supported by the
related networks.
The HLR maintains the logical state for eMLPP (provisioned or not
provisioned), the maximum priority level, and the default priority level for
each user.
The MSC stores service configuration information for each priority level
(i.e., set up time [class] and pre-emption indicators, as illustrated in the
previous section).
The SIM stores data that influences UE actions, as noted in the following
table:
Table 4: Example SIM data
* * *
_Priority Level_ _Subscription Available_ _Automatic answering_ _Fast set-up
actions_ A yes / no yes / no yes / no B yes / no yes / no yes / no 0 yes / no
yes / no yes / no 1 yes / no yes / no yes / no 2 yes / no yes / no yes / no 3
yes / no yes / no yes / no 4 yes / no yes / no yes / no
* * *
The maximum authorized precedence level is stored on the SIM, allowing the
mobile station to check that only an authorized level is used for set-up. (In
addition, the network may verify the level used at set-up against the maximum
authorized level.)
In the case of automatic answering of an incoming call with a sufficient
priority level, the alerting indication to the calling party may not be
provided in order to shorten the set-up time. If the called mobile subscriber
is busy and automatic answering applies, the existing call may be released (if
pre-emption applies) or may be placed on hold in order to accept an incoming
call of higher priority.
### 6.2.2 Support for Priority Service
The following table identifies eMLPP support for Priority Service.
Table 5: eMLPP Gap Analysis
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Priority | Description | eMLPP Support | Comments | | Service | | | | | Requirement | | | | | Item | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 Priority | A call shall | Supported | Based on | | Call | receive | | subscribed | | Origination | priority | | priority level | | | treatment | | | | | (priority | | | | | access to | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channels) on | | | | | the | | | | | originating | | | | | side, when the | | | | | call is setup | | | | | by a Service | | | | | User using the | | | | | priority | | | | | service | | | | | dialling | | | | | procedure | | | | | described in | | | | | section 4.9. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 Priority | A call shall | Supported | Based on | | Call | receive | | priority level | | Termination | priority | | of calling | | | treatment | | party | | | (priority | | | | | access to | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channels) on | | | | | the | | | | | terminating | | | | | side, when the | | | | | call is setup | | | | | by a Service | | | | | User using the | | | | | priority | | | | | service | | | | | dialling | | | | | procedure | | | | | described in | | | | | section 4.9. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 Priority | The user | Supported | Requires | | Progression | should receive | depending on | interworking | | | priority call | inter-operator | with priority | | | treatme | agreements | services | | | nt/progression | | supported | | | through the | | within the | | | mobile | | interconnected | | | network(s). A | | networks (e.g. | | | priority call | | ISDN MLPP.) | | | should be | | | | | given higher | | Requires | | | priority over | | special | | | normal calls | | agreements | | | in the | | between | | | originating | | network | | | mobile | | operators to | | | network, to | | achieve | | | interconnected | | transparent | | | networks | | progression of | | | supporting | | priority level | | | priority | | between | | | (including the | | networks. | | | PSTN) and in | | | | | the | | | | | terminating | | | | | network. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4 Priority | When a | Partially | Priority | | Radio Resource | Priority | Supported | levels with no | | Queuing | Service call | | pre‑emption | | | encounters a | | capability | | | "no radio | | allocated | | | available" | | shall only | | | condition in | | have queuing | | | the call path | | priority | | | involving an | | 22.067, ch 4.\ | | | access or | | Note: BSS | | | egress | | i | | | air-interface, | | mplementations | | | or both, | | should have | | | [and | | internal | | | ]{.underline}, | | functionality | | | | | to handle | | | [at call | | signaling | | | origination | | channels | | | ]{.underline}, | | overload, | | | and upon | | however in | | | recognition of | | case of | | | the Priority | | complete | | | Service | | congestion | | | dialing | | there may not | | | pattern, the | | be way to | | | Priority | | guarantee | | | Service call | | priority | | | is queued in | | access to | | | the cell | | network, | | | serving the | | however due to | | | calling party | | large capacity | | | and processed | | of paging and | | | for the next | | random access | | | available | | channels the | | | radio channel | | complete | | | in that cell | | overload of | | | in accordance | | signaling | | | with the | | channels very | | | caller's | | rare and thus | | | priority level | | is not likely | | | and call | | to be the | | | initiation | | bottle neck. | | | time. | | | | | | | | | | [at call | | | | | terminatio | | | | | n]{.underline} | | | | | upon | | | | | recognition of | | | | | a priority | | | | | call | | | | | indication in | | | | | an incoming | | | | | call, the | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service call | | | | | is queued in | | | | | the cell | | | | | serving the | | | | | called party | | | | | and processed | | | | | for the next | | | | | available | | | | | radio channel | | | | | in that cell | | | | | in accordance | | | | | with the | | | | | call's | | | | | priority level | | | | | and arrival | | | | | time. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5 Priority | The subscriber | Partially | Seven priority | | Level | should be | supported | levels (with | | | assigned one | | five available | | | of _n_ | | for | | | priority | | subscription). | | | levels. | | Priority | | | Priority | | Service | | | levels are | | priority | | | defined as 1, | | levels could | | | 2, 3,...,_n_ , | | map to eMLPP | | | with 1 being | | priority | | | the highest | | levels. | | | priority level | | | | | and n being | | | | | the lowest | | | | | priority | | | | | level.. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6 Invocation | Priority | Supported | If the user | | on Demand | Service is | | has an eMLPP | | | invoked only | | subscription, | | | when requested | | the call shall | | | and an idle | | have the | | | voice or | | priority level | | | traffic | | selected by | | | channel | | the user at | | | required for | | set-up or the | | | an origination | | priority level | | | request is not | | predefined by | | | available. | | the subscriber | | | | | as default | | | | | priority level | | | | | by | | | | | registration. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7 | Priority | Supported | eMLPP is a | | Applicability | Service shall | | supplementary | | to | be applicable | | service and | | Tele | to voice and | | shall be | | communications | data | | provided to a | | Services | tele | | subscriber for | | | communications | | all basic | | | services that | | services | | | require a | | subscribed to | | | voice or | | and for which | | | traffic | | eMLPP applies. | | | channel | | | | | assignment. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8 | A subscriber | Supported | Priority level | | Authorization | invoking | | stored in the | | | Priority | | SIM. | | | Service on | | | | | call | | | | | origination is | | | | | authorized | | | | | based on the | | | | | caller's | | | | | subscription. | | | | | It should also | | | | | be possible | | | | | for an | | | | | additional | | | | | second level | | | | | of | | | | | authentication | | | | | (e.g., by the | | | | | use of PIN) to | | | | | identify that | | | | | the user is | | | | | authorized to | | | | | make a | | | | | priority call. | | | | | In this case, | | | | | authorization | | | | | of the | | | | | subscriber may | | | | | be realized by | | | | | the usage of a | | | | | PIN. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 Priority | Priority | Partially | The exact MMI | | Service | Service is | supported | proposed is | | service code | manually | | not supported. | | | requested by | | | | | adding on the | | The MMI | | | Priority | | supported by | | | Service | | eMLPP is | | | service code | | specified in | | | to the | | 22.030. The | | | origination | | service code | | | request. | | is 75. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10 Roaming | Priority | Supported | eMLPP is | | | Service shall | | applicable in | | | be supported | | case of | | | during roaming | | roaming, if | | | when the | | supported by | | | roaming | | the related | | | network | | networks. | | | supports | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 11 Handover | Priority | Partially | When | | | Service shall | supported | pre-emption | | | be supported | | applies, at | | | during | | handover to a | | | handover. | | congested | | | | | cell, higher | | | | | priority calls | | | | | shall replace | | | | | those of the | | | | | lowest | | | | | priority. The | | | | | pre-empted | | | | | user shall | | | | | receive an | | | | | indication for | | | | | congestion as | | | | | defined in GSM | | | | | 02.40. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12 Priority | The system | Supported | TS 22.067 ch | | Service | should record | | 5.11.The | | charging data | the following | | utilized | | record | Priority | | precedence | | | Service | | level shall be | | | charging data | | able to be | | | information, | | extracted from | | | in addition to | | the event | | | non-Priority | | records if | | | Service CDR | | different from | | | information: | | the default | | | | | precedence | | | Priority | | level. | | | Service | | | | | invocation | | | | | attempts, | | | | | | | | | | Call legs | | | | | (origination | | | | | and/or | | | | | termination) | | | | | on which | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service was | | | | | used to gain | | | | | access to the | | | | | radio channel. | | | | | | | | | | Recording of | | | | | appropriate | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | information. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 13 Priority | Priority | Not supported | eMLPP Stage 2, | | Trunk Queuing | Service shall | | TS 23.067 ch | | | be able to | | 4, items c. | | | support | | and d. refer | | | queuing of | | to "contention | | | Priority | | in gaining | | | Service calls | | terrestrial | | | for trunk | | resources," | | | resources. | | which may be | | | | | interpreted as | | | | | referring to | | | | | Trunk Queuing. | | | | | However, | | | | | neither the | | | | | Stage 1 (TS | | | | | 22.067) nor | | | | | the Stage 3 | | | | | (TS 24.067) | | | | | has any | | | | | additional | | | | | specification | | | | | associated | | | | | with trunk | | | | | queuing. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 14 Coexistence | As a service | Not supported | | | with eMLPP | provider | | | | | option, it | | | | | shall be | | | | | possible to | | | | | offer Priority | | | | | Service and | | | | | eMLPP within | | | | | the same | | | | | network, but | | | | | not to the | | | | | same user. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.3 Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) Specifications
Release 1998:
\- GSM 11.11 v7.6.1, Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module - Mobile
Equipment (SIM - ME) interface; Release 1998;
\- GSM 04.08 v7.13.0, Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 Specification; Release
1998;
\- GSM 11.14, Specification of the SIM Application Toolkit for the Subscriber
Identity Module - Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface
Release 1999:
\- 3GPP TS 11.11 v8.5.0, Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module \-
Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface; Release 1999;
\- 3GPP TS 24.008 v. 3.11.0, Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification;
Core Network Protocols - Stage 3; Release 1999;
\- GSM 11.14, Specification of the SIM Application Toolkit for the Subscriber
Identity Module - Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface
Release 4:
\- 3GPP TS 51.011 v4.1.0, Specification of the Subscriber Identity Module -
Mobile Equipment (SIM - ME) interface; Release 4;
\- 3GPP TS 24.008 v. 4.4.0, Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols - Stage 3; Release 4;
\- 3GPP TS 31.102, Characteristics of the USIM Application;
\- 3GPP TS 31.111, USIM Application Toolkit (USAT)
### 6.3.1 Summary of SIM-based Capabilities
The SIM specifications address the allocation and administration of _Access
Control Classes_ for control of Service Accessibility.
All mobile stations with an inserted SIM are members of one out of 10 access
classes numbered 0 to 9. In addition, mobile stations may be members of one or
more out of 5 special access classes (access classes 11 to 15). Both the
regular as well as the special access class number are stored in the SIM. The
access control class is a parameter to control the RACH utilization. The first
10 Access Control Classes (0-9) are randomly allocated to normal subscribers;
and the top 5 classes (11-15) are allocated to specific high priority users.
The system information messages on the BCCH broadcast the list of authorized
access classes and authorized special access classes in the system information
messages, and whether emergency calls are allowed in the cell to all mobile
stations or only to the members of authorized special access classes.
If the establishment cause for the request of the MM sub-layer is not
\"emergency call\", access to the network is allowed if and only if the mobile
station is a member of at least one authorized:
\- access class; or
\- special access class.
If the establishment cause for the request of the MM sub-layer is \"emergency
call\", access to the network is allowed if and only if:
\- emergency calls are allowed to all mobile stations in the cell; or
\- the mobile station is a member of at least one authorized special access
class.
Access Control is designed to suppress not only the ability of non-priority
end users to seize traffic channels, but also the ability of those end users
to use signaling channels for call attempts. Access Control class cannot be
updated by the end-user, but by the operator and/or another authorized body.
The information i.e., the access class field can be updated either over the
air (with caution) or via SIM Toolkit. Security and authentication mechanism
for the update of access control class need to be further investigated.
### 6.3.2 Support for Priority Service
The following table identifies SIM based support for Priority Service.
Table 6: SIM Gap Analysis
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Priority | Description | SIM Support | Comments | | Service | | | | | Requirement | | | | | Item | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 Priority | A call shall | Supported | | | Call | receive | | | | Origination | priority | | | | | treatment | | | | | (priority | | | | | access to | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channels) on | | | | | the | | | | | originating | | | | | side, when the | | | | | call is setup | | | | | by a Service | | | | | User using the | | | | | priority | | | | | service | | | | | dialling | | | | | procedure | | | | | described in | | | | | section 4.9. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 Priority | A call shall | Supported | | | Call | receive | | | | Termination | priority | | | | | treatment | | | | | (priority | | | | | access to | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channels) on | | | | | the | | | | | terminating | | | | | side, when the | | | | | call is setup | | | | | by a Service | | | | | User using the | | | | | priority | | | | | service | | | | | dialling | | | | | procedure | | | | | described in | | | | | section 4.9. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 Priority | The user | Not supported | | | Progression | should receive | | | | | priority call | | | | | treatme | | | | | nt/progression | | | | | through the | | | | | mobile | | | | | network(s). A | | | | | priority call | | | | | should be | | | | | given higher | | | | | priority over | | | | | normal calls | | | | | in the | | | | | originating | | | | | mobile | | | | | network, to | | | | | interconnected | | | | | networks | | | | | supporting | | | | | priority | | | | | (including the | | | | | PSTN) and in | | | | | the | | | | | terminating | | | | | network. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4 Priority | When a | Not supported | | | Radio Resource | Priority | | | | Queuing | Service call | | | | | encounters a | | | | | "no radio | | | | | available" | | | | | condition in | | | | | the call path | | | | | involving an | | | | | access or | | | | | egress | | | | | air-interface, | | | | | or both, | | | | | [and | | | | | ]{.underline}, | | | | | | | | | | [at call | | | | | origination | | | | | ]{.underline}, | | | | | and upon | | | | | recognition of | | | | | the Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | dialing | | | | | pattern, the | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service call | | | | | is queued in | | | | | the cell | | | | | serving the | | | | | calling party | | | | | and processed | | | | | for the next | | | | | available | | | | | radio channel | | | | | in that cell | | | | | in accordance | | | | | with the | | | | | caller's | | | | | priority level | | | | | and call | | | | | initiation | | | | | time. | | | | | | | | | | [at call | | | | | terminatio | | | | | n]{.underline} | | | | | upon | | | | | recognition of | | | | | a priority | | | | | call | | | | | indication in | | | | | an incoming | | | | | call, the | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service call | | | | | is queued in | | | | | the cell | | | | | serving the | | | | | called party | | | | | and processed | | | | | for the next | | | | | available | | | | | radio channel | | | | | in that cell | | | | | in accordance | | | | | with the | | | | | call's | | | | | priority level | | | | | and arrival | | | | | time. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5 Priority | The subscriber | Partially | Ten (0-9) | | Level | should be | supported | randomly | | | assigned one | | allocated | | | of _n_ | | Access | | | priority | | Classes. Five | | | levels. | | (11-15) | | | Priority | | special | | | levels are | | classes. | | | defined as 1, | | Enumeration of | | | 2, 3,...,_n_ , | | special | | | with 1 being | | classes is not | | | the highest | | meant as a | | | priority level | | priority | | | and n being | | sequence. PS | | | the lowest | | priority | | | priority | | levels could | | | level.. | | map to special | | | | | Access | | | | | Classes. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6 Invocation | Priority | Partially | The user can | | on Demand | Service is | Supported | insert a | | | invoked only | | special SIM | | | when requested | | when he/she | | | and an idle | | needs to make | | | voice or | | a priority | | | traffic | | call. | | | channel | | | | | required for | | | | | an origination | | | | | request is not | | | | | available. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7 | Priority | Supported | | | Applicability | Service shall | | | | to | be applicable | | | | Tele | to voice and | | | | communications | data | | | | Services | tele | | | | | communications | | | | | services that | | | | | require a | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channel | | | | | assignment. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8 | A subscriber | Supported | Access Classes | | Authorization | invoking | | stored in the | | | Priority | | SIM. | | | Service on | | | | | call | | | | | origination is | | | | | authorized | | | | | based on the | | | | | caller's | | | | | subscription. | | | | | It should also | | | | | be possible | | | | | for an | | | | | additional | | | | | second level | | | | | of | | | | | authentication | | | | | (e.g., by the | | | | | use of PIN) to | | | | | identify that | | | | | the user is | | | | | authorized to | | | | | make a | | | | | priority call | | | | | UE. In this | | | | | case, | | | | | authorization | | | | | of the | | | | | subscriber may | | | | | be realized by | | | | | the usage of a | | | | | PIN. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 Priority | Priority | Not supported | | | Service | Service is | | | | service code | manually | | | | | requested by | | | | | adding on the | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | service code | | | | | to the | | | | | origination | | | | | request. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10 Roaming | Priority | Partially | Access classes | | | Service shall | supported | 0-9 pertain to | | | be supported | | **_Home and | | | during roaming | | Visited | | | when the | | PLMNs_**. | | | roaming | | | | | network | | Access classes | | | supports | | 11 and 15 | | | Priority | | pertain to | | | Service. | | **_Home PLMN | | | | | only_**. | | | | | | | | | | Access classes | | | | | 12, 13, and 14 | | | | | pertain to | | | | | **_Home and | | | | | Visited PLMNs | | | | | [of home | | | | | country | | | | | only]{. | | | | | underline}_**. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 11 Handover | Priority | Not supported | | | | Service shall | | | | | be supported | | | | | during | | | | | handover. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12 Priority | The system | Not supported | | | Service | should record | | | | charging data | the following | | | | record | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | charging data | | | | | information, | | | | | in addition to | | | | | non-Priority | | | | | Service CDR | | | | | information: | | | | | | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | invocation | | | | | attempts, | | | | | | | | | | Call legs | | | | | (origination | | | | | and/or | | | | | termination) | | | | | on which | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service was | | | | | used to gain | | | | | access to the | | | | | radio channel. | | | | | | | | | | Recording of | | | | | appropriate | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | information. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 13 Priority | Priority | Not supported | | | Trunk Queuing | Service shall | | | | | be able to | | | | | support | | | | | queuing of | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service calls | | | | | for trunk | | | | | resources. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 14 Coexistence | As a service | Not supported | | | with eMLPP | provider | | | | | option, it | | | | | shall be | | | | | possible to | | | | | offer Priority | | | | | Service and | | | | | eMLPP within | | | | | the same | | | | | network, but | | | | | not to the | | | | | same user. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
## 6.4 Assignment request Priority Information Element
Priority Information Element (PIE) is specified in 3GPP TS 08.08 [19], [20],
[21] and 3GPP TS 25.413 [22], [23]. The term used for the _Assignment request
Priority Information Element_ in Release 4 is _Allocation/Retention Priority_.
### 6.4.1 Summary and coding of Priority Information Element Capabilities
This element indicates the priority of the assignment request in A and Iu
interface. Following information may be included in IE:
\- priority level of the request (levels 1-14),
\- if the request can be queued,
\- if the request may pre-empt an existing connection and
\- if the request can be pre-empted by another request.
The management of priority levels is implementation dependent, under operator
control.
Priority information IE is also used if the Network supports eMLPP: "The
priority level of a call shall be determined by the MSC. Accordingly, the MSC
shall request channel assignment with an indication of the priority level and
the pre-emption capability of that call. For this the MSC shall use the
priority message element as defined in GSM 08.08. Mapping of the priority
information in this message element on the network specific eMLPP
configuration shall be performed in the MSC. Queuing and resource pre-emption
shall be performed accordingly if necessary." (23.067 [10])
It is coded as follows [19]:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
Element identifier octet 1  
Length octet 2  
Priority octet 3
* * *
Octet 2 is a binary indication of the length of the rest of the element.
Octet 3 is coded as follows:
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1  
spare pci priority level qa pvi octet 3
* * *
Bit 8 is spare, set to 0
pci = Pre-emption Capability indicator (see note)
0 this allocation request shall not pre-empt an existing connection
1 this allocation request may pre-empt an existing connection
priority level:
6 5 4 3
0 0 0 0 spare
0 0 0 1 priority level 1 = highest priority
0 0 1 0 priority level 2 = second highest priority
: : : :
1 1 1 0 priority level 14 = lowest priority
1 1 1 1 priority not used
qa = queuing allowed indicator
0 queuing not allowed
1 queuing allowed
pvi = Pre-emption Vulnerability indicator (see note)
0 this connection shall not be pre-empted by another allocation request
1 this connection might be pre-empted by another allocation request
NOTE: Pre-emption Capability indicator applies to the allocation of resources
for an event and as such it provides the trigger to the pre-emption
procedures/processes of the BSS. Pre-emption Vulnerability indicator applies
for the entire duration of a connection and as such indicates whether the
connection is a target of the pre-emption procedures/processes of the BSS.
### 6.4.2 Support for Priority Service
The following table identifies Priority Information Element support for
Priority Service.
Note that the 3GPP specifications do not explicitly define the use of Priority
IE, e.g. the data that the setting of the Information Element fields
could/should be based on. Since this information element was introduced quite
early in the standards, Network Element vendors may have taken this IE into
other than eMLPP uses, too. Therefore, mandating usage of these fields in 3GPP
specifications in this regard could cause problems.
The table indicates issues that may be achieved with using Priority
Information Element, requirements that can be fulfilled with MSC internal or
other additional vendor specific functionality have been also identified. Note
that vendor specific information or functionality is not needed over open
interfaces, where only standardized information is used.
Table 7: Priority Information Element Gap Analysis
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Priority | Description | PIE support | Comments | | Service | | | | | Requirement | | | | | Item | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 Priority | A call shall | Supported | | | Call | receive | | | | Origination | priority | | | | | treatment | | | | | (priority | | | | | access to | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channels) on | | | | | the | | | | | originating | | | | | side, when the | | | | | call is setup | | | | | by a Service | | | | | User using the | | | | | priority | | | | | service | | | | | dialling | | | | | procedure | | | | | described in | | | | | section 4.9. | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2 Priority | A call shall | Supported | | | Call | receive | | | | Termination | priority | | | | | treatment | | | | | (priority | | | | | access to | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channels) on | | | | | the | | | | | terminating | | | | | side, when the | | | | | call is setup | | | | | by a Service | | | | | User using the | | | | | priority | | | | | service | | | | | dialling | | | | | procedure | | | | | described in | | | | | section 4.9. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3 Priority | The user | Not | Vendor | | Progression | should receive | su | specific | | | priority call | pported/vendor | functionality | | | treatme | specific | is needed to | | | nt/progression | | set priorities | | | through the | | for each leg. | | | mobile | | This may not | | | network(s). A | | be supported | | | priority call | | in all | | | should be | | interfaces or | | | given higher | | some nodes on | | | priority over | | path may not | | | normal calls | | have needed | | | in the | | functionality. | | | originating | | | | | mobile | | | | | network, to | | | | | interconnected | | | | | networks | | | | | supporting | | | | | priority | | | | | (including the | | | | | PSTN) and in | | | | | the | | | | | terminating | | | | | network. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4 Priority | When a | Supported | | | Radio Resource | Priority | | | | Queuing | Service call | | | | | encounters a | | | | | "no radio | | | | | available" | | | | | condition in | | | | | the call path | | | | | involving an | | | | | access or | | | | | egress | | | | | air-interface, | | | | | or both, | | | | | [and | | | | | ]{.underline}, | | | | | | | | | | [at call | | | | | origination | | | | | ]{.underline}, | | | | | and upon | | | | | recognition of | | | | | the Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | dialing | | | | | pattern, the | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service call | | | | | is queued in | | | | | the cell | | | | | serving the | | | | | calling party | | | | | and processed | | | | | for the next | | | | | available | | | | | radio channel | | | | | in that cell | | | | | in accordance | | | | | with the | | | | | caller's | | | | | priority level | | | | | and call | | | | | initiation | | | | | time. | | | | | | | | | | [at call | | | | | terminatio | | | | | n]{.underline} | | | | | upon | | | | | recognition of | | | | | a priority | | | | | call | | | | | indication in | | | | | an incoming | | | | | call, the | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service call | | | | | is queued in | | | | | the cell | | | | | serving the | | | | | called party | | | | | and processed | | | | | for the next | | | | | available | | | | | radio channel | | | | | in that cell | | | | | in accordance | | | | | with the | | | | | call's | | | | | priority level | | | | | and arrival | | | | | time. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5 Priority | The subscriber | Vendor | MMI used needs | | Level | should be | specific | to be | | | assigned one | | recognized by | | | of _n_ | | number | | | priority | | analysis. | | | levels. | | | | | Priority | | | | | levels are | | | | | defined as 1, | | | | | 2, 3,...,_n_ , | | | | | with 1 being | | | | | the highest | | | | | priority level | | | | | and n being | | | | | the lowest | | | | | priority | | | | | level.. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6 Invocation | Priority | Vendor | MMI used needs | | on Demand | Service is | specific | to be | | | invoked only | | recognized by | | | when requested | | number | | | and an idle | | analysis. | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channel | | | | | required for | | | | | an origination | | | | | request is not | | | | | available. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 7 | Priority | Supported | | | Applicability | Service shall | | | | to | be applicable | | | | Tele | to voice and | | | | communications | data | | | | Services | tele | | | | | communications | | | | | services that | | | | | require a | | | | | voice or | | | | | traffic | | | | | channel | | | | | assignment. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8 | A subscriber | Vendor | MSC has | | Authorization | invoking | specific | various | | | Priority | | information | | | Service on | | from HLR like | | | call | | Subscriber | | | origination is | | category, | | | authorized | | IMSI, etc. | | | based on the | | that can be | | | caller's | | used to | | | subscription. | | identify | | | It should also | | subscription. | | | be possible | | | | | for an | | | | | additional | | | | | second level | | | | | of | | | | | authentication | | | | | (e.g., by the | | | | | use of PIN) to | | | | | identify that | | | | | the user is | | | | | authorized to | | | | | make a | | | | | priority call. | | | | | In this case, | | | | | authorization | | | | | of the | | | | | subscriber may | | | | | be realized by | | | | | the usage of a | | | | | PIN. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 Priority | Priority | Vendor | MMI used needs | | Service | Service is | specific | to be | | service code | manually | | recognized by | | | requested by | | number | | | adding on the | | analysis. | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | service code | | | | | to the | | | | | origination | | | | | request. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 10 Roaming | Priority | Not supported | | | | Service shall | / Vendor | | | | be supported | specific | | | | during roaming | | | | | when the | | | | | roaming | | | | | network | | | | | supports | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 11 Handover | Priority | Supported | | | | Service shall | | | | | be supported | | | | | during | | | | | handover. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12 Priority | The system | Vendor | | | Service | should record | specific | | | charging data | the following | | | | record | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | charging data | | | | | information, | | | | | in addition to | | | | | non-Priority | | | | | Service CDR | | | | | information: | | | | | | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | invocation | | | | | attempts, | | | | | | | | | | Call legs | | | | | (origination | | | | | and/or | | | | | termination) | | | | | on which | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service was | | | | | used to gain | | | | | access to the | | | | | radio channel. | | | | | | | | | | Recording of | | | | | appropriate | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service | | | | | information. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 13 Priority | Priority | Not supported | | | Trunk Queuing | Service shall | | | | | be able to | | | | | support | | | | | queuing of | | | | | Priority | | | | | Service calls | | | | | for trunk | | | | | resources. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 14 Coexistence | As a service | Not supported | | | with eMLPP | provider | | | | | option, it | | | | | shall be | | | | | possible to | | | | | offer Priority | | | | | Service and | | | | | eMLPP within | | | | | the same | | | | | network, but | | | | | not to the | | | | | same user. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# 7 Conclusions
The objectives of this Feasibility Study for Priority Service were to:
1\. outline the high-level technical requirements for Priority Service,
2\. identify existing 3GPP capabilities related to Priority Service,
3\. perform a gap analysis to determine the extent existing 3GPP
specifications can support these Priority Services requirements.
The following high-level requirements were identified to support Priority
Service:
1 Priority Call Origination,
2 Priority Call Termination,
3 Priority Progression,
4 Priority Radio Resource Queuing,
5 Priority Level,
6 Invocation on Demand,
7 Applicability to Telecommunications Services,
8 Authorization,
9 Priority Service service code,
10 Priority Service supported during roaming,
11 Priority Service supported during handover,
12 Priority Service charging data record,
13 Priority Trunk Queuing,
14 Coexistence with eMLPP.
The following primary 3GPP capabilities were identified to support Priority
Service:
1 Service Accessibility,
2 Enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption (eMLPP),
3 Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) Specifications,
4 Priority Information Element.
The following table summarizes the mapping of the high-level requirements to
3GPP Specifications:
Table 8: Mapping of High-level Priority Service Requirements to 3GPP
Specifications
* * *
High-level Requirement Specification  
3G TS 22.011, Service Accessibility 3G TS 22.067, 23.067, 24.067, eMLPP 3G TS
11.11, SIM 3G TS 08.08, 25.413, PIE R.1 -- Priority Call Origination √ (=
Supported) √ √ √ R.2 -- Priority Call Termination √ √ √ √ R.3 -- Priority
Progression NS (=Not Supported) √ NS NS or VS (=vendor specific) R.4 --
Priority Radio Resource Queuing NS PS (= Partially Supported) NS √ R.5 --
Priority Level PS PS PS VS R.6 -- Invocation on Demand NS √ PS VS R.7 --
Applicability to Telecommunications Services √ √ √ √ R.8 -- Authorization √ √
√ VS R.9 -- Priority Service service code NS PS NS VS R.10 -- Roaming PS √ PS
NS/VS R.11 -- Handover NS PS NS √ R.12 -- Priority Service charging data
record NS √ NS VS R.13 -- Priority Trunk Queuing NS NS NS NS R.14 --
Coexistence with eMLPP NS NS NS NS
* * *
Based on the analysis in this Feasibility Study, most of the high-level
requirements for Priority Service can be supported through the use of Access
Control, eMLPP, A/Iu Priority element, and SIM-based capabilities. The
"authorization by PIN" requirement could be supported by a handset-based
solution and not a network-based solution.
###### ## Annex A (Informative): Regional Priority Service Requirements
Annexes are labeled A, B, C, etc. and are "informative" (3G TRs are
informative documents by nature).
United States Regional Requirements
For the United States, the top 5 priority levels are described in table 1.
Table A-1: Priorities for NS/EP Users
* * *
Priority Level Responsibility Qualifying Criteria 1 Executive Leadership and
Policy Makers Users who qualify for the Executive Leadership and Policy Makers
priority will be assigned Priority 1. A limited number of PLMN technicians who
are essential to restoring the PLMN networks shall also receive this highest
priority treatment. Wireless carrier may assign Priority 1 to its technicians
with operational responsibilities. 2 Disaster Response / Military Command and
Control Users who qualify for the Disaster Response/Military Command and
Control priority will be assigned Priority 2. Individuals eligible for
Priority 2 include personnel key to managing the initial response to an
emergency at the local, State, regional and Federal levels. Personnel selected
for this priority should be responsible for ensuring the viability or
reconstruction of the basic infrastructure in an emergency area. In addition,
personnel essential to the continuity of government and national security
functions (e.g., conducting international affairs and intelligence activities)
are included. 3 Public Health, Safety, and Law Enforcement Command Users who
qualify for the Public Health, Safety, and Law Enforcement Command priority
will be assigned Priority 3. Eligible for this priority are individuals who
direct operations critical to life, property, and maintenance of law and order
immediately following an event. 4 Public Services/ Utilities and Public
Welfare Users who qualify for the Public Services/Utilities and Public Welfare
priority will be assigned Priority 4. Eligible for this priority are those
users whose responsibilities include managing public works and utility
infrastructure damage assessment and restoration efforts and transportation to
accomplish emergency response activities. 5 Disaster Recovery Users who
qualify for the Disaster Recovery priority will be assigned Priority 5.
Eligible for this priority are those individuals responsible for managing a
variety of recovery operations after the initial response has been
accomplished.
* * *
Note: For US networks, these 5 priority levels are assigned by Office of the
Manager, National Communications System (OMNCS) to key National Security and
Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP) personnel in leadership positions.
In addition, the following Use Cases have been identified:
  1. Priority Service should be ubiquitous. This requirement means that any authorized user should be able to make a priority call using any UE and that the authorization is "tied" to the user and not the UE.
a. If, in the short term, having a special UE expedites the > fielding of this
service, this is an acceptable approach for > initial service. However, if the
device contains the > authorization, there must be a user-involved
authentication > (e.g., PIN) to prevent misuse or abuse by an un-authorized >
person.
b. Initial service might have technology dependent implementations > that
include differing invocation sequences and man-machine > interfaces (MMI).
While this might be acceptable in the > short-term, a migration needs to be
planned to achieve a > uniform invocation sequence and a single MMI that
supports the > ability for any authorized user to invoke priority service on >
any UE, regardless of technology.
c. The priority service user should authenticate once for each > session.
Authentication should be user friendly and will be > used for accountability
purposes. Authentication might be used > for billing purposes. Methods of
authentication might include > a PIN, a credit-card-like "swipe", or voice
recognition.
d. The concept of using a credit card-like dialing sequence (Dial a > specific
prefix, enter a credit card and the destination > number) for service
authentication and billing is acceptable.
  2. The user should not have multiple telephone numbers, but rather the ability from one UE with which he/she is able to make priority and non-priority calls on a call-by-call basis. The user should have a user-friendly MMI and/or invocation mechanism to initiate and authenticate a priority call.
a. The MMI could offer the ability to place the UE into a "Priority > Service"
mode or profile. During this timeframe, all calls > placed from that UE are
provided priority treatment. The user > would then have to change "profiles"
from priority to normal > subscription.
b. The MMI could also easily allow the user to invoke priority > service on a
call-by-call basis. Prompts might be required to > get the user to enter a
PIN, authentication, or destination > number, if necessary.
  3. The user needs to make a voice call in a congested area (due to either increased call volume or infrastructure damage). The user invokes priority service and authenticates.
a. If end-to-end resources are available, the call proceeds as > normal.
b. As the user attempts to place the call, the network recognizes > the user
as a priority service subscriber that has requested > priority service and
allocates network resources to this > special user first before servicing
other non-priority > subscribers. If priority service users of different
priority > levels attempt to place a call simultaneous, then the user > with
the higher priority is serviced first by the network, > followed by lower
priority users, then non-priority > subscribers.
c. If network resources are not immediately available, the network > places
the priority service subscriber in queue for the next > available resource.
The queue is managed by priority level and > (within each level) time of entry
into the queue.
d. The network provides feedback to the priority service subscriber > (either
tones or short messages) on the status of their call > (e.g., authenticating,
queuing, dropped from queue, > completing).
e. The user needs the ability to call with priority other mobile > (3G and
non-3G) subscribers, PSTN subscribers, and in the > future, IP voice
subscribers, regardless of their priority > status. (Mobile to mobile, mobile
to PSTN, and mobile to > IP-device).
f. If, in the case of the US, users need the ability to interwork > with GETS,
a PSTN service. Since GETS has only one priority > level, priority levels need
to be mapped and supported so that > a GETS call gets priority origination,
treatment, and > termination across the wireless networks (i.e., across the
air > interface) and WPS calls gets mapped and supported into the > PSTN.
g. With the current architecture, dissimilar wireless networks > connect via
the PSTN and not directly with each other. The > PSTN is therefore responsible
for "translating" priority > service indicator(s) for all types of wireless
networks.
  4. The user needs data services in a congested area (due to either increased call volume or infrastructure damage).
a. The user needs to send priority and receive priority short > messages. The
user should have the ability to reject or accept > the message. Again, the
initiator sets the priority level of > the session.
b. The user sends/receives e-mails, voice-mails, fax etc.
c. The user needs to query on-line databases and make a transaction > (e.g.,
buy blankets, cots, water, etc).
d. The user needs to make a secure telephone circuit-switched data > call
(using COTS secure handsets, e.g., Motorola Sectera GSM > phones).
  5. Charging Data Records and Billing Issues
a. In the service provider's billing statement, the user should be able to
see/verify each priority call attempt and result (duration if successful, and
a reason for termination if unsuccessful).
  6. A Service Code of "272" has been identified to invoke Priority Service.
  7. Use Cases for PIN authentication are for further study.
  8. International roamers should not have access to Priority Service.
  9. The ability to distinguish Priority Users from eMLPP Users needs consideration.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Change history