# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
**Speech Enabled Services**
The advancement in the Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) technology, coupled
with the rapid growth in the wireless telephony market has created a
compelling need for speech-enabled services. Voice-activated dialling has
become a de facto standard in many of the mobile phones in the market today.
The speech recognition technology has also been applied more recently to voice
messaging and personal access services. A Voice Extensible Markup Language
(Voice XML) has been designed to bring the full power of web development and
content delivery to voice response applications [11]. Voice portals that
provide voice access to conventional graphically oriented services over the
Internet are now becoming popular. Forecasts show that speech-driven services
will play an important role on the 3G market. Users of mobile terminals want
the ability to access information while on the move and the small portable
mobile devices that will be used to access this information need improved user
interfaces using speech input.
**Multimodal and Multi-device Services**
Speech-enabled services may utilize speech alone for input and output
interaction, or may also utilise multiple input and output modalities leading
to the multimodal services.
Online access to information is fast becoming a must-have. Along with this
trend, come new usage models for information access, particularly in mobile
environments. Information appliances in cars such as navigation systems are
standard in high-end cars already and this will penetrate lower-end vehicles
soon. Data access using mobile phones, though limited and currently estimated
to take three years to be widespread, has significant momentum that makes it
certain to become widespread. In this new computing paradigm a person will
expect to have access to information and interactions in a seamless manner in
many environments, be it in the office, at home, in the car, often on several
different devices. These new access methods have compelling advantages, such
as mobile accessibility, low cost, ease of use, and mass market penetration.
They also have their limitations - in particular, it is hard to enter and
access data using small devices, speech recognition can introduce mistakes
that can sometimes be repeating and therefore blocking the transaction; one
interaction mode does not suit all circumstances, and so on.
For example, a recent study of task-performance using wireless phones, such as
reading world headlines and checking local weather concluded that currently,
these services are often poorly designed, have insufficient task analysis, and
abuse existing non-mobile design guidelines. The full report from the field
study can be downloaded at [6]. The basic conclusion of this study is that
wireless access usability fails miserably; accomplishing even the simplest of
tasks takes much too long to provide any user satisfaction. It is thus
essential for the widespread acceptance of this computing paradigm to provide
an efficient and usable interface on the different device platforms that
people are expected to use to access and interact with information.
We can expect and already observe a trend towards a new frontier of
interactive services: multimodal and multi-device services.
These services exploit the fact that different interaction modes are good at
different things - for example, talking is easier than typing, but reading is
faster than listening. Multi-modal interfaces combine the use of multiple
interaction modes, such as voice, keypad and display to improve the user
interface to services.
Different standard bodies are addressing aspects of this space, driven by
several industry proposals: W3C (e.g. MMI activity)[11], OMA/WAP Forum, ETSI
[1], IETF[14],...). In particular, the W3C MMI [13] aims at defining a
programming model for multimodal and multi-device applications.
Additional details and motivations are discussed in [2, 7, 8].
**Overview**
A brief overview of the speech-enabled services is presented in Chapter 4\.
The different ways of enabling speech recognition for the speech enabled
services are described in chapter 5. Section 6 discusses multimodal services
and options to enable multimodal and multi-device services. The scope of the
report, references, definitions and abbreviations are detailed in the first
few chapters.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Informative references
[1] D. Pearce, \"Enabling new speech driven services for mobile devices: An
overview of the ETSI standards activities for distributed speech
recognition\", _Proc. of AVIOS\'00_ , 2000.
> [2] ETSI ES 201 108: \"Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality aspects
> (STQ); Distributed speech recognition; Front-end feature extraction
> algorithm; Compression algorithms; DRS front end\".
>
> [3] ETSI ES 202 050: \" Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality aspects
> (STQ); Distributed speech recognition; Advanced front-end feature extraction
> algorithm; Compression algorithms\".
[4] Y. Muthuswamy, P. Walther, \"Applications and Requirements\", ETSI Aurora
DSR Applications & Protocols sub-group, Nov. 10, 2000.
[5] TSG T2010652: \"Support of Multi-modal and Multi-device browsers
applications by 3GPP\".
[6] Nielsen Norman Group: http://www.nngroup.com/reports/wap.
[7] TSG S1-020769-Presentation: Companion presentation to TSG S1-020769.
[8] TSG S1-021274 - \"Service Aspects: Multimodal and Multi-device Services\".
[9] W3C: http://www.w3.org/TR/nl-spec/.
[10] http://www.w3c.org/2002/ws/.
[11] http://www.w3c.org/Voice/.
[12] Speech Engine Remote Control Protocols by treating Speech Engines and
Audio Sub-systems as Web Services - draft-maes-sercp-web-services-00.txt:
http://flyingfox.snowshore.com/mrcp_archive/msg00105.html
[13] W3C Multimodal Interaction Working Group: http://www.w3c.org/2002/mmi/.
[14] IETF SPEECHSC -- Speech Service Control working group.
> [15] D Macho et al. \"Evaluation of a Noise-Robust DSR Front-End on Aurora
> Databases\", International Conference on Spoken Language Processing; ICSLP
> 2002, Denver, CO, Sept 2002
[16] D Pearce, \"Developing the ETSI Aurora Advanced Distributed Speech
Recognition Front-end & What Next?\", IEEE Automatic Speech Recognition and
Understanding Workshop; ASRU 2001, Madonna di Campiglio, Dec 2001
## 2.1 Normative references
[17] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[18] 3GPP TS 22.243: \"Speech recognition framework for automated voice
services; Stage 1\".
[19] 3GPP TS 21.133: \"3G security; Security threats and requirements\".
[20] 3GPP TS 22.228: \"Service requirements for the Internet Protocol (IP)
multimedia core network subsystem; Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Automated Voice Services** : Voice applications that provide a voice
interface driven by a voice dialog manager to drive the conversation with the
user in order to complete a transaction and possibly execute requested
actions. It relies on speech recognition engines to map user voice input into
textual or semantic inputs to the dialog manager and mechanisms to generate
voice or recorded audio prompts (text-to-speech synthesis, audio playback,).
It is possible that it relies on additional speech processing (e.g. speaker
verification). Typically telephony-based automated voice services also provide
call processing and DTMF recognition capabilities. Examples of traditional
automated voice services are traditional IVR (Interactive Voice Response
Systems) and VoiceXML Browsers.
**Conventional Codec:** The module in UE that encodes the speech input
waveform , similar to the encoder in a vocoder e.g. EFR, AMR.
**Channel:** denotes a particular user agent (browser), device, or a
particular modality.
**Downlink exchanges:** Exchanges from servers and networks to the terminal.
**DSR Optimised Codec** : The module in UE which takes speech input, extracts
acoustic features and encodes them with a scheme optimised for speech
recognition. This module is similar to the the conventional codec (e.g. AMR).
On the server-side, the uplink encoded stream can be directly consumed by
speech engines without having to be converted to a waveform.
**Haptic interface:** An interface that allows a user to interact by receiving
feed back achieved by applying a degree of opposing force to the user along
the x, y, and z axes (e.g. pressure).
**Mono-modal application:** application designed for access through only one
channel or channel type (e.g. WAP, Web or Voice exclusively).
**Multi-channel applicatio** n: applications designed for ubiquitous access
through different channels, one channel at a time. No particular attention is
paid to synchronization or coordination across different channels.
**Multi-device applications:** denote application that supports the capability
to interact with a particular application over a number of physical devices
with browsers being synchronised with the MT accessing 3G services. These
browsers may support the same (e.g. GUI) or different modalities.
**Multimodal application:** denotes application that supports more than one
interaction mode by relying on a combination of multiple input (e.g. key,
stylus, voice, ...) to access and manipulate information on the move and to
enable the most convenient output (display, tactile, audio ) at the discretion
of the user/ terminal capability.
**Multimodal browser:** \"declarative\" user agent that renders different
modalities (e.g. GUI browser and Speech Browser) simultaneously available
(concurrently or sequentially) and synchronized for the user to interact with
the application. These different user agents may be located on the same device
or distributed on among UEs or across the 3G network.
**Speech Recognition Framework** : A generic framework to distribute the audio
sub-system and the speech services by sending encoded speech between the
client and the server. For the uplink, it can rely on conventional (ASR) or on
DSR optimised codecs where acoustic features are extracted and encoded on the
terminal.
**SRF Call:** An uninterrupted interaction of a user with an application that
relies on SRF-based automated voice services.
**SRF Session:** Exchange of audio and meta-information, explicitly negotiated
and initiated by the SRF session control protocols, between terminal (audio-
sub-systems) and SRF-based automated voice services. Sessions last until
explicitly terminated by the control protocols.
**SRF User Agent:** a process within a terminal that enables the user to
select a particular SRF-based automated voice service or to enter the address
of a SRF-based automated voice service. The user agent converts the user input
or selection into a SIP IMS session initiation with the corresponding SRF-
based automated voice service. The user agent can also terminate the session
with the service when the user device to disconnect.
**Tactile interface:** Touch-based interface.
**Uplink exchanges:** Exchanges from the mobile terminal to the server /
network.
**User agent** : The component that renders the presentation data into
physical effects that can be perceived and interacted with by the user. For a
given modality this may be a separate browser or platform or one or multiple
components internal to a browser or platform.
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this document the following abbreviations apply:
AMR Adaptive Multi Rate
DOM Document Object Model
DSR Distributed Speech Recognition
DTMF Dual Tone Multi-Frequency
ELRA European Language Resource Association
GUI Graphical User Interface
IP Internet Protocol
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
MIT Meta-information Transport
MMSP Multimodal Synchronization Protocol
MVC Model View Controller
SDP Session Description Protocol
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol
SPEECHSC Speech service Control
SRCP Speech Remote Control Protocol
RTP Real Time Streaming Protocol
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
# 4 Speech-Enabled Services
Most traditional telephony-based speech-enabled applications fall into one of
the following groups:
  1. Information applications : Here the user queries the service to retrieve some information from a remote database. Examples of this type of service include voice portals which provide weather reports, restaurant information, stock quotes, movie listings etc.
  2. Transaction-based applications: Unlike the information applications, here the user calls the service to execute specific transactions with a web server. Examples of this type of service include financial transactions (stock trading), travel reservations, e-commerce etc.
Depending on the modalities used for user interaction with the service,
speech-enabled services can be divided into speech services or
multimodal/multi-device services. This is illustrated in Figure 1. As the name
implies, speech-only services utilise only the speech modality for both user
input and output. These services are especially suited to the smaller size
wireless devices in the market today. These devices have smaller screens and
smaller or difficult-to-enter keyboards and are becoming increasingly
difficult for GUI applications.
With respect to Figure 1, it is possible to design speech-enabled services
that alternate or combine the use of client-side only engines and servers-side
speech engines.
## 4.1 Application Scenarios
In a typical transaction application scenario, involving speech as input and
output modalities, the system may prompt the user to login using some ID or
password. Challenge and feedback are provided via voice. The application can
then guide the user through the menus to provide the data required for the
transaction. Once the user submits the data, the system completes the
transaction and may provide feedback to the user using pre-recorded audio
information or synthesized speech depending on the data. While typical, this
is only a particular example and numerous other and richer scenarios be
considered.
# 5 Multimodal Services
Speech, however, has its own limitations. It is serial and the user may find
it difficult to remember long outputs. Speech output may sometime be unnatural
sounding. Even though, the speech recognition technology has matured over
recent years, it is not a perfect technology and the recognition systems are
still prone to errors, particularly in adverse operating conditions. This is
especially problematic if the mistakes are repeated and block completion of an
application (transaction, query, ...). It is thus obvious that each of the
modalities, speech or visual, have their pros and cons. The use of multiple
modalities can yield a synergistic blend in which the strengths of each
modality are used to overcome the weaknesses of a mono-modal interaction, to
result in more efficient user interfaces as compared to the mono-modal ones.
Some of the advantages of multimodal interaction include:
\- Easy entry and access of data in wireless devices by combining multiple
input & output modes (concurrently or sequentially)
\- Choosing the interaction mode that suits the task and the circumstances
\- Input: key pad or keyboard (including DTMF), touch, stylus, voice,
joystick, haptic / tactile, video...
\- Output: display, haptic/tactile, audio, multimedia...
\- Enabling use of several devices in combination by exploiting the resources
of multiple devices.
{width="4.690972222222222in" height="3.408333333333333in"}
Figure 1 Chart illustrating the different kinds of speech-enabled services and
the different methods available to implement speech recognition technology
needed to enable these services
The features available for multimodal and multi-device services will evolve;
as will the notion of multimodality. GUI is typically multimodal (display,
keypad or keyboard and pointer); but it is now widely considered as a
particular channel characterized by well established GUI programming patterns.
The combination and synchronization of voice and GUI (including multimedia
output) as well as the synchronization of different devices (multi-device) are
expected to be deployed first. Handwriting / pen input and multimedia output
will probably follow soon after. We may have to wait longer for large volume
deployments of more exotic capabilities like video and haptic/tactile inputs
or output.
## 5.1 Application Scenarios
An example of a multimodal airline reservation service, involving both speech
and GUI, is shown in Figure 2 and discussed in [5].
{width="4.947222222222222in" height="2.66875in"}
Figure 2 - Example of a multi-modal scenario
Additional discussions of requirements for SES applications can be found in
[4].
# 6 Speech recognition technology
Many of the speech-enabled services require a speech recognition engine to
decode (i.e. interpret) speech input from the user (what is being said by the
user). Similarly, speech enabled services require speech synthesis engine (TTS
engine) to generate output prompts. Other engines may typically be required by
speech enabled services, like speaker recognition (enrolment, identification,
verification, natural language (NL) parsers, NL dialog managers, prompt
generators etc..) '
As shown in Figure 1, there are three different ways by which speech
recognition can be implemented for a speech-enabled service:
1) - Client-side only speech engines (i.e. terminal based),
2) - Server-side speech engines (i.e. network based). This can itself be
subdivided into:
\- Circuit switched-based.
\- Packet switched-based speech recognition framework that supports exchange
of encoded speech and meta-information [18]:
\- with conventional codecs (e.g. AMR)
\- with DSR optimized codecs (Distributed Speech Recognition) [1]
These different implementation methodologies are explained in the next
paragraphs. To understand the difference between these implementations, it is
necessary to understand the basic speech recognition process, which can be
divided into two modules:
\- Feature extraction (front-end): This involves the conversion of input
speech into a set of features that are relevant for recognition of speech.
\- Recognition algorithm (pattern matching) (Back-end): this module
constitutes the real recognition process that matches the input speech
features against one of the stored set of models and provides recognition
results based on the active speech grammar and vocabulary. The front-end
algorithm typically is a computationally simple algorithm relative to the
recognizer and hence often completely masked by the recognizer in terms of the
resource requirements.
The speech-driven applications include simple terminal based applications like
voice dialling and command and control applications with limited vocabularies
that facilitate the speech recogniser to be implemented solely in the
terminal. However, more demanding applications like the dictation, time-table
enquiry systems, street navigation etc require a complex speech recognition
systems that would need lots of memory and computational resources - items
that are scarce in today's portable devices. Hence these applications require
part or whole of the speech recognition process to be carried out in the
network, which can accommodate bigger and more complex computational devices.
Note that other considerations may lead to prefer using server-side
processing: when the task is too complex for the local engine, when the task
requires a specialized engine, when it would not be possible to download the
speech data files (grammars etc...) without introducing significant delays or
taking too much bandwidth or when intellectual property (e.g. proprietary
grammars), security or privacy considerations (e.g. it would be inappropriate
to download a grammar or vocabulary file that contains the names of the
customers of a bank or the password grammars) make it not appropriate to
download such data files on the client or to perform the processing on the
client.
In a network-based system (Figure 3), the conventional circuit switched speech
channel is used for the transmission of speech and the complete speech
recognition processing -- both the feature extraction and recognition - is
done at the network side. At the terminal side, speech spoken by the user is
encoded using conventional speech coders (e.g. AMR).
The speech recognition framework (SRF) enables to distribute the audio sub-
system and the speech services by sending encoded speech and meta-information
between the client and the server over packet switched network. It is
illustrated in Figure 4. The SRF may use conventional codecs like AMR or
Distributed Speech Recognition (DSR) optimized codecs.
The SRF can be deployed over a packet switched (PS) network; like, but not
only, on IMS [20]. Over a generic PS network, SRF will require:
\- Uplink and downlink transport of audio (e.g. RTP)
\- Session establishment, signalling and control
\- Codec negotiations
\- Quality of service negotiation and provisioning
\- Service administration.
Such features and services can be automatically exploited on IMS and adapted
to the specificities of SRF. SRF on IMS can rely on and extend the IMS
protocol stack.
In the particular case of the DSR approach, the terminal hosts the feature
extraction module, while the recognition is done in the server. The speech
features are usually compressed to reduce the transmission bit rate, error
protection is added and the resulting data stream is transmitted through error
protected data channels.
{width="5.147916666666666in" height="1.8256944444444445in"}
Figure 3 - Illustration of Network Based Circuit Switched Speech Recognition
{width="5.927777777777778in" height="2.1in"}
Figure 4 - Ilustration of Speech Recognition Framework
Figure 5 shows the different components of a typical speech enabled service,
which may use either conventional or DSR optimized codec and is explained
below:
1) Voice Platform: The voice platform hosts the network side components needed
for enabling a speech service.
2) Speech Recognizer: Speech recognizer includes the speech recognition back-
end in the case of DSR or a complete speech recognizer in the case of a
conventional codecs.
3) Text-to-Speech: This module converts the text into speech to be sent as
speech output to the user.
4) Audio-Playback and Record: This module facilitates the audio prompts to be
played back to the user.
5) Voice Browser: The voice browser interprets the voice dialog between the
user and the speech service (e.g. VoiceXML Browser).
6) Call Control: The call control module handles the call control functions
needed for the speech service.
7) Content Server: The content server hosts the web content, which is accessed
by the voice platform through HTTP.
Note that additional modules may be needed to enable multimodal services.
{width="6.825694444444444in" height="2.859722222222222in"}
Figure 5 - Illustration of the architecture for a typical speech service in a
3G network using network side speech recognition resources based on the speech
recognition framework (SRF)
## 6.1 DSR standards
ETSI STQ-Aurora working group have developed two DSR Front-ends:
1) ES 201 108 [2] was published in Feb 2000. It is based on the popular Mel-
Cepstrum feature extraction that is extensively used in speech recognition
systems.
2) ES 202 050 [3], the Advanced DSR front-end, was selected in Feb 2002 and
will be published in September 2002. It provides improved robustness in
background noise giving significant reduction in speech recognition word error
rate compared to the Mel-Cepstrum in noise [15].
The requirements for the advanced front-end have been defined to meet the
needs of user in a mobile environment. These requirements are described in
[16] and a competitive selection was conducted to find the best front-end
technology. A set of evaluation databases have been established and used for
the characterisation of the recognition performance of these front-ends. These
databases are now publicly available via ELRA and cover both small vocabulary
and large vocabulary tasks in a range of noises typical of those found in
mobile environment. As part of this, the front-ends have been tested on 5
languages (Finnish, Spanish, German, Danish, and Italian) from databases
collected in a car environment [16].
In addition to the front-end feature extraction, these standards define a
compression algorithm to achieve a data rate of 4.8kbps and a server side
error mitigation to maintain recognition performance under channel errors.
Examples of the computational complexities of the two standards are estimated
in table 1.
Table 1: DSR Terminal side Complexity
[Editor's note: publicly available references to the information presented
would be valuable]
# 7 Multimodal and Multi-device Technology
{width="3.6875in" height="3.5208333333333335in"}
Figure 6 - Execution model of multimodal or multi-device applications;
independent of programming model or configuration.
## 7.1 Execution Model
The proposed execution model of multimodal and multi-device applications is
discussed in [8]:
\- A user interaction in one of the available modalities (user agent) results
into handling a representation of the interaction event to determine of the
impact of the interaction via synchronization rules. This in turns results
into updates of the synchronization rules and all the registered modalities
(user agents) available to the user.
This is summarized in Figure 6, where each user agent may represent a
different modality (e.g. VoiceXML browser and XHTML-MP browser or GUI and
Voice Java applications) or different devices (e.g. smart phone and PDA or
kiosk).
The user action may or may not result into an immediate update of the affected
modality state prior to the synchronization.
Note also that Figure 6 does not address the steps internal to the user
agents. For example, a voice or handwriting user agent will interface with
local or distributed speech engines to process input and generate outputs.
This execution model supports the different authoring approaches that have
been proposed for authoring multimodal and multi-device services [8].
The following is an example of a basic architecture that implements the
execution model (Figure 7).
{width="3.34375in" height="2.375in"}
Figure 7 -- Example of a basic architecture that supports multimodal and
multi-device interactions illustrated for voice and GUI interaction.
In distributed cases, voice can be exchanged based on SRF on IMS [18].
The synchronization manager is responsible for the exchange of synchronization
messages (interaction events and presentation updates) using the multimodal
synchronization interfaces and protocols. The synchronization logic can also
be responsible for functions like:
\- Ordering and possible composition of inputs from several modalities
\- Maintenance of the state and session context (i.e. history of interaction
and state changes) of the application.
Dialog management i.e. to process user inputs to interpret the intent of the
user and generate an output, presentation update or action resulting from a
complete input. To do so, a dialog manager relies on strategies / algorithms
to determine focus and intent based on the session context and possibly
external knowledge sources as well as based on disambiguation, correction and
confirmation sub-dialogs.
## 7.2 Deployment configurations
Examples of multimodal or multi-device configurations are provided in Figure 8
to Figure 13. It can be deployed under numerous configurations. Except for the
sequential configuration, they can support any synchronization granularity
authorized by application, network or user.
{width="5.939583333333333in" height="2.9590277777777776in"}
Figure 8 -- Example of sequential configuration (no voice and data support
simultaneously) for voice and GUI interaction. This configuration does not
require IMS (SRF): it can be deployed on 2G or 2.5G networks. Only one
modality is available at a given moment. The user may switch at any time or
when allowed or imposed by the application.
{width="6.260416666666667in" height="3.0180555555555557in"}
Figure 9 -- Example of Thin Client Configuration (voice and data support) -
Server-side speech engines local to speech browser for voice and GUI
interaction.
{width="6.149305555555555in" height="2.91875in"}
Figure 10 -- Example of Thin Client Configuration (voice and data support) -
Server-side speech engines remote with respect to speech browser for voice and
GUI interaction.
{width="6.308333333333334in" height="2.9090277777777778in"}
Figure 11 -- Example of Fat client configuration with local speech engines for
speech and GUI interaction. This can be the internal architecture of a browser
implementation.
{width="5.960416666666666in" height="2.740972222222222in"}
Figure 12 - Example of Fat client configuration with server-side speech
engines for speech and GUI interaction. The speech engines are remote
controlled by SRCP.
{width="5.300694444444445in" height="2.4680555555555554in"}
Figure 13 -- Example of Multi-device configuration.
Configurations as illustrated in Figure 10 and Figure 12 require speech engine
remote control APIs or protocols. This could be based on the SRCP
specifications currently developed by the IETF SPEECHSC activity [14]. As no
other activity addresses these issues, the support of such distributed
configurations introduces a dependency on IETF.
## 7.3 Authoring
The W3C MMI working group is currently developing specification for
declarative (i.e. XML-based) authoring of multimodal and multidevice
applications [13].
# 8\. Requirements to introduce Speech-enabled services
This section provides the high level requirements to enable speech and
multimodal / multi-device services. Users of the Speech service shall be able
to initiate voice communication, access information or conduct transactions by
voice commands. Multimodal interaction will utilise other modalities depending
on the UE and network capabilities.
The speech-enabled service will be offered by the network operators and will
bring value to the network operator by the ability to charge for these
services. Speech recognition Framework-enabled services shall be compatible
with the IMS. However, it is possible that aspects of the speech service will
be available without requiring IMS.
## 8.1 Initiation
### 8.1.1 Service initiation
It shall be possible for a user to initiate a connection to the speech-enabled
service, for example, by entering the identity of the service. The identity
used will depend on the scheme of the service provider but could include a
phone number, an IP address or even a URI.
Multimodal and multi-device services will allow URI-based initiation entered
in the terminal user agent by the user (e.g. entered address or selected icon
or bookmark).
### 8.1.2 Multimodal or multi-device access configuration
In addition, multimodal and multi-device services, when in distributed
configurations, may require a registration of the different user agents /
devices that will participate to the interaction with the service. This may
include a \"definition\" of the role of the different user agents and devices.
This step may take place prior to accessing the service and be maintained
across services or it may take place after initiating a service or while
interacting with the service. This step may involve clock synchronization for
correct relative time stamping of the interaction events and presentation
manipulations.
## 8.2 Information during the interaction session
This may be motivated by the expected or observed acoustic environment, the
service package purchased by the user, the user profile (e.g. hands-free as
default) or the service need. In the case of a speech service, the user speaks
to the service and receives output back from the service provider as audio
(recorded 'natural' speech) or Text-to-Speech Synthesis. The output from the
server can be provided in the downlink as a streaming service or by using
conversational speech codec. Additional modalities may be involved in a
multimodal service depending on the capabilities of the client device.
Additionally, it shall be possible to exchange control and application
specific information during the call between the client and the service (e.g.
speech meta-information). Accordingly some terminals shall support sending
additional data to the service (e.g. keypad information and other terminal
events) and receiving data feedback from the server that shall be displayed on
the terminal screen.
With multimodal services where synchronization is distributed, it will be
necessary to exchange synchronization information:
\- Events that result from the user interaction (possibly time stamped) along
with possible meta-information about the events (e.g. see NLSML [9]).
\- Presentation manipulation instructions (as events or presentation mutations
instructions). Details are provided in [8].
The QoS for these exchanges shall be the highest available (conversational) to
minimize any synchronization delay felt by the user.
In addition, when the user change the configuration of his or her multimodal
or multi-device user agents (e.g. by adding or removing a device), the
necessary exchanges to support registration, de-registration, change of role
etc.. must take place.
Eventually, replication of the state of the synchronization manager may
require additional exchanges (multi-device configurations or hybrid cases,
e.g. case where the configuration can switch between thin and fat client
configuration (e.g. between Figure 9 and Figure 11).
Eventually, configurations as illustrated in Figure 10 and Figure 12 require
the exchanges of the messages required to remote configure and control the
server-side speech engines (e.g. SPEECHSC [14]).
## 8.3 Control
It shall be possible for network operators to control access to services based
on subscription profile of the callers.
SRF-based automated voice services may be provided by the network operator
(home or visited) or by third parties.
The administration of the speech or multimodal/multi-device services
(authorization, deauthorization, registration, deregistration, activation,
deactivation) shall be under the control of the network operator. But when
decided to do so by the network operator, it should be possible to the third
part providers to administer the speech or multimodal/multi-device services
themselves through the gateway that they would connect to IMS. In such case,
the third part provider performs all the administrative steps and no
registration would be required with the network operator.
It shall be possible to use speech or multimodal/multi-device sessions in
order to provide access to the corresponding services. For example
applications might use a speech or multimodal/multi-device session to access
and navigate within and between the various automated services by spoken
dialogs or multimodal/multi-device interactions.
## 8.4 User perspective (user interface)
The user's interface to this service shall be via the UE. User can interact by
spoken and keypad inputs. The UE can have a visual display capability. When
supported by the terminal, the server-based application can display visual
information (e.g., stock quote figures, flight gates and times) in addition to
audio playback (via recorded speech or text-to-speech synthesis) of the
information. Depending on the terminal capabilities, other modalities can also
be supported.
Feedback is provided via spoken speech (recorded or prompted), displays (GUI)
when available on the UE or other output modality supported by the UE.
## 8.5 Service provisioning
Speech or multimodal/multi-device service shall be able to be provisioned by
either the network operator (roaming or home) or by a 3rd party service
provider.
It shall be possible for network operators and 3rd party service providers to
offer speech or multimodal/multi-device services by providing identity of
service, such as a phone number, an IP address or a URI that the user can say,
enter or select on the terminal.
## 8.6 Security
The \"Security Threats and Requirements\" specified in 21.133 [17] shall not
be compromised.
It shall be possible to deny unauthorized access to the 3GPP speech or
multimodal/multi-device services. An authorization may be based on the
following,
\- identity of the accessing user agent, server or device
\- the destination user, device or user agent
Third parties shall have authorization from the User and PLMN Operators in
order to access the speech or multimodal/multi-device service.
In the case of distributed multi-modal or multidevoice browser, the exchange
of interaction events and client manipulation raise the following security
issues that must be addressed:
\- Interaction events and presentation manipulations can be intercepted by
unauthorized third parties. This would enable reconstruction of the complete
interaction with the application; especially in between submits to the
backend. Any note, temporarily selections etc would be accessible!
\- Unauthorized third parties may be able to issue presentation manipulations
that would affect the user agent.
Mechanisms shall be considered to securely exchange multi-modal
synchronization. This may require:
\- Encryption of the exchanged information.
\- Presentation manipulation shall be accepted only from trusted / authored
parties. Mechanisms to achieve this shall be supported. Again encryption may
be an adequate mechanism to address these issues.
In the case of client-based speech engines, additional security (and privacy)
issues arise when the application is downloaded from a third party service
provider:
\- The speech data files (acoustic model grammars, language models,
vocabularies, NL parser data files, etc...) sent to the client may contain
proprietary or sensitive information (e.g. passwords, list of customers and
associated input information, propprietary grammar, ...).
\- The data files may be intercepted by un-authorized third parties or
tampered with in the UE.
\- This may relate to the Digital Right Management work items.
\- Results of some client-side engine sent across the network can be tampered
with or intercepted on the UE or when transmitted.
These issues shall be addressed by appropriate mechanisms or by requiring
server-side engines when needed.
## 8.7 Privacy
Speech or multimodal/multi-device privacy requirements shall be at least as
good as for IMS voice or data sessions [18]:
\- It shall be possible to encrypt speech and speech meta-information
exchanges
\- It shall be possible to prevent exchange of the user\'s true identity,
location and other terminal or user related information when required.
Speech or multimodal/multi-device services may imply that the service provider
collects information about the user or usage. This information should be
treated according to the policies in place for data and voice (e.g. human to
operator or human to automated service) services. The speech or
multimodal/multi-device services shall not add additional privacy risks.
In the case of multimodal or multi-device services, interaction events enable
reconstruction of the complete interaction with the application, including in
between submission to the backend and therefore possibly beyond the knowledge
or control of the user. This information or aspect of it may be considered as
private by the user. Therefore, it is important that the multimodal
synchronization be associated to schemas that let the user specify the use
that can be done of the information, beside synchronization. Multi-modal
services shall produce similar schemas to describe their handling and use of
the information. Trust and resolution mechanism should be provided to enable
the user to accept the particular service and configuration on the basis of
the usage that will be made of such information or the management options
provided to the user.
Privacy of user shall not be threatened when exchanging speech data files
across the wireless network or by storing them on a UE.
## 8.8 Charging
The user can be charged for sessions with the speech or multimodal/multi-
device service in a variety of ways. The following shall be possible:
a) a) By duration of session (including \"one-off\" charge/flat rate)
b) b) By data volume transferred (number of packets) or other similar
criteria.
c) c) By subscription fees for the service (unlimited usage or unlimited usage
up to a point and then per-use fees)
d) d) Free (e.g. with the service being subsidised by advertising revenue from
advertisement spots).
Speech or multimodal/multi-device services shall be available to pre-paid and
post-paid subscribers.
# 9 Impact on the 3GPP system
## 9.1 Speech Recognition within 3GPP system
There are no speech-enabled services that are exclusively specific to the
speech recognition technologies described earlier. However, there are some
requirements for enabling these speech services in a wireless system, based on
the available technologies.
Speech services utilising terminal based speech recognition like voice
dialling do not require any special resources in the wireless network other
than possibly accessing and downloading the applications (e.g. VoiceXML pages)
and associated engine data files (e.g. grammar, language model, acoustic
models etc...) and the resulting delays, privacy and security issues afore
mentioned. These considerations may impact the terminal as well as services
that provided client-side speech engine-based speech services. A technical
specification may be needed to address these issues. However, it is expected
that this will be covered in a technical specification that would address
multimodal and multi-device services
Server-side speech engine relies on network based resources.
Non SRF-based server-side automated voice services performs speech encoding by
conventional speech coders, which are already included as part of the 3GPP
specifications. Hence there are no additional requirements, specific to this
technology, which requires standardisation for enabling such services in the
3GPP system. It is to be noted that speech services relying on network based
speech recognition exist today and can be accessed using current wireless
terminals. At this time, these typically provide informational services like
weather, sports, news information etc. These services currently utilise a
circuit switched voice connection to send encoded speech.
Part of the speech recognition processing in DSR based speech recognition,
unlike the network based recognition, takes place in the terminal. There are
some recognition technology specific requirements that are to be satisfied for
DSR, which include the introduction of a uplink optimised DSR codec in the UE.
SRF-based automated voice services rely on PS and shall preferably rely on IMS
with specification of the control and exchange of speech meta-information.
This also impacts the terminal to enable these exchanges. When relying on DSR-
optimized codecs, these shall be supported by the audio sub-system on the UE.
A separate technical specification outlining the additional changes is
required to support speech-enabled services based on SRF [18]. A possible
architecture view of the impact is schematically presented in Figure 14.
{width="6.409722222222222in" height="4.5784722222222225in"}
Figure 14 -- Possible architecture for integrating SRF framework within 3GPP
protocol stack and architecture.
## 9.2 Multimodal and Multi-device Services within 3GPP system
A separate technical specification outlining the additional changes is
required to support multimodal and multi-device services. It is expected to
also cover the requirements of applications with client-side speech engines.
A possible architecture that provides basic support of multimodal and multi-
device services within 3GPP system is presented in Figure 15.
{width="7.11875in" height="4.903472222222222in"}
Figure 15 -- Possible architecture for integrating multimodal and multi-device
services within 3GPP.
MIT designates Meta-information Transport which can be exchanged on SOAP or
RTP (e.g. as part of the payload or with dynamic payload switches).
MMSP designates Multi-modal Synchronization protocols
SRCP (speech engine remote control protocol) helps to remotely control the
speech engines, if they are located away from a Voice browser. This protocol
is addressed currently by IETF SPEECHSC working group [14].
#