# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In order to ensure correctness and consistency of the specifications (i.e.,
technical specifications and technical reports) under responsibility of the
Technical Specification Groups (TSG) of the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP), clear, manageable and efficient mechanisms are necessary to
handle version control, change control, document updating, distribution and
management.
Also, the fact that the specifications are/will be implemented by industry
almost in parallel with the writing of them requires strict and fast
procedures for handling of changes to the specifications.
It is very important that the changes that are brought into the standard, from
the past, at present and in the future, are well documented and controlled, so
that technical consistency and backwards tracing are ensured.
The 3GPP TSGs, and their sub-groups together with the Support Team are
responsible for the technical content and consistency of the specifications
whilst the Support Team alone is responsible for the proper management of the
entire documentation, including specifications, meeting documents,
administrative information and information exchange with other bodies.
# 1 Scope
This document outlines the working methods to be used by the 3GPP Technical
Specification Groups and their Working Groups and their Sub-Groups, and by the
3GPP Support Team in relation to document management.
The provisions for this Release are identical with those for the latest
Release [1].
# 1A References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.900 Release 9: \"Technical Specification Group working
methods\".
#