# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This technical specification gives an overview of the security architecture
and defines the security features and security mechanisms for the presence
services.
Presence services enable the dissemination of presence information of a user
to other users or services. A presence entity or presentity comprises the
user, user's devices, services and service components. It is the intention
that this platform will enable new services like e.g. enhancement to chat,
multimedia messaging, cinema ticket information, the score of a football game
and so on.
A user has the possibility to control if her or his information is made
available to other users or services. This control is possible to achieve with
high granularity e.g. explicitly define which user or users and services have
access to presence information.
A presentity is a uniquely identifiable entity with the capability to provide
the presence information and it has only one principal associated with it.
Hence a principal is distinct from all other principals and can be e.g. a
human, organisation, program or even a collection thereof. One example of such
a relation is when the presentity is a terminal and the principal of the
terminal is the subscriber. However, the presence service is based on Public
Identities, and consequently it is possible to have several terminals related
to the same presentity. A watcher is also a uniquely identifiable entity but
with the aim to fetch or request information about a presentity. There are
access rules that set the rules for how presence information gets available to
watchers.
Presence information consists of a number of elements or presence tuples as
defined in TS 23.141 [3]
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Stage 2 specification for the security
requirements, security architecture, security features and security mechanisms
for the Presence Service, which includes the elements necessary to realise the
requirements in TS 22.141 [2] and TS 23.141 [3]. As far as SIP-based
procedures are concerned, this specification refers to TS 33.203 [4]. The main
content of this specification is the security for the Ut reference point,
which is HTTP--based, as applied in presence services.
The present document includes information applicable to network operators,
service providers and manufacturers.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.141: \"Presence service; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.141: \"Presence service; Architecture and functional
description\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G Security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[5] Void
[6] Void
[7] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[8] Void
[9] Void
[10] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP network layer
security\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture\".
[12] Void
[13] Void.
[14] Void
[15] 3GPP TR 33.919: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); System
description\".
[16] Void
[17] Void
[18] Void
[19] 3GPP TS 33.222: \" Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
network application functions using secure hypertext transfer protocol
(HTTPS)\".
[20] Void.
[21] 3GPP2 S.S0109-A v1.0: \"Generic bootstrapping architecture\"
[22] 3GPP2 S.S0114-A v1.0: \"Security mechanisms using GBA\"
[23] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh interface based on the Diameter protocol; Protocol
details\"
[24] 3GPP TS 24.109: \"Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and network application
function interface (Ua); Protocol details
[25] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[26] 3GPP TS 29.328: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Sh interface; Signalling
flows and message contents\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Confidentiality:** The property that information is not made available or
disclosed to unauthorised individuals, entities or processes.
**Data integrity:** The property that data has not been altered in an
unauthorised manner.
**Data origin authentication:** The corroboration that the source of data
received is as claimed.
**Entity authentication:** The provision of assurance of the claimed identity
of an entity.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply,
TR 21.905 [1] contains additional applicable abbreviations:
AKA Authentication and key agreement
AP Authentication Proxy
APN Access Point Name
AS Application Server
BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
CSCF Call Session Control Function
ESP Encapsulating Security Payload
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
GIBA GPRS-IMS-Bundled Authentication
HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol
HTTPS HTTP over TLS
IM IP Multimedia
IMPI IM Private Identity
IMPU IM Public Identity
IMS IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem
IP Internet Protocol
IPsec IP Security
ISIM IM Services Identity Module
NAF Network Application Function
NDS/IP Network Domain Security for IP based Protocols
P-CSCF Proxy Call Session Control Function
PDP Packet Data Protocol
SEG Security Gateway
SIP Session Initiation Protocol
TLS Transport Layer Security
# 4 Security architecture
## 4.1 Overview of the security architecture
An IMS operator using the CSCFs as Watcher Presence proxies and Presentity
Presence proxies may offer the Presence services on top of the IMS network,
see TS 22.141 [2]. The access security for IMS is specified in TS 33.203 [4]
ensuring that SIP signalling is integrity protected and that IMS subscribers
are authenticated through the use of IMS AKA. The security termination point
from the UE towards the network is in the P-CSCF utilising IPsec ESP.
A watcher may send a SIP SUBSCRIBE over IMS towards the network, to subscribe
or to fetch presence information, i.e., the Presence Service supports SIP-
based communications for publishing presence information. The presence
information is provided by the Presence Server to the Watcher Application
using SIP NOTIFY along the dialogue setup by SUBSCRIBE. This traffic is
protected in a hop-by-hop fashion as specified in TS 33.210 [10] with the
access security provided in TS 33.203 [4].
The Presence Server is responsible for managing presence information on behalf
of the presence entity and it resides in the presentity\'s home network.
Furthermore, the Presence Server provides a subscription authorization policy
that is used to determine which watchers are allowed to subscribe to certain
presence information. Prior to accepting the subscription requests from
watchers, the presence server attempts to verify the identities of the
watchers. Optionally, depending on the implementation, the Presence Server may
authenticate an anonymous watcher depending on the Subscription Authorization
Policy.
A Presence List Server is responsible of storing grouped lists of watched
presentities and enables a Watcher Application to subscribe to the presence of
multiple presentities using a single SIP SUBSCRIBE transaction. The Presence
List Server also stores and enables management of filters in the presence
list, see figure 1.
Figure 1: The Location of the Presence Server and the Presence List Server
from an IMS point of view
## 4.2 The Ut reference point
A Presence User Agent shall be able to manage the data on the Presence Server
and the Presence List Server over the Ut reference point, see TS 23.002 [7],
which is based on HTTP. This reference point is not covered in TS 33.203 [4]
and it is mainly this reference point for Presence use, which is covered in
this specification.
NOTE: The term Presence Server refers to both the Presence Server and the
Presence List Server as depicted in figure 1 above. For definitions of the
Presence Server and the Presence List Server see TS 23.141 [3].
An overview of the security architecture for Presence Ut reference point is
depicted in figure 2:
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="2.923611111111111in"}
Figure 2: An overview of the Security architecture for the Ut reference point
including the support of an Authentication Proxy
# 5 Security features
## 5.1 Secure Access to the Presence Server over the Ut reference point
### 5.1.1 Authentication of the subscriber and the presence server
A subscriber shall be authenticated before accessing user data in a server.
The subscriber shall only be able to manipulate data that is associated with
that particular subscriber. A subscriber shall authenticate the presence
server.
Authentication between the subscriber and the presence server shall be
performed as specified in clause 6.1.
### 5.1.2 Confidentiality protection
It shall be possible to apply confidentiality protection over the Ut reference
point.
### 5.1.3 Integrity protection
The Ut reference point shall be integrity protected.
### 5.1.4 Authentication Proxy
The Authentication Proxy may reside between the UE and the Presence Server as
depicted in figure 2. Its use is specified in TS 33.222 [19].
The following requirements apply for the use of an Authentication Proxy in
addition to those in TS 33.222 [19]:
\- Authentication Proxy may authenticate the UE using the means of Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture, or it may use other means of authentication;
\- if the AP uses the GBA for authentication of the UE, then the procedures
shall conform to TS 33.222 [19].
Confidentiality and integrity protection may be provided for the interface
between the AP and the AS, using the Zb interface of NDS/IP as specified in TS
33.222 [19].
# 6 Security Mechanisms for the Ut reference point
The UE and the AP/Presence Server shall support the TLS version and profile as
specified in clause 5.3 of TS 33.222 [19].
## 6.1 Authentication and key agreement
### 6.1.1 Authentication of the subscriber
The authentication of the UE may take place in either the Authentication
Proxy, see TS 33.222 [19], or the Presence server.
Subscriber authentication can be also performed by the operator using
proprietary or non-3G standardized methods. A UE may contact the Presence
Server/AP for further instructions on authentication procedures, see
initiation of bootstrapping in clause 4.5.1 of TS 33.220 [11].
In case 3GPP authentication mechanisms are used, the authentication of the
subscriber shall be based on the Generic Authentication Architecture as
defined in TR 33.919 [15]. Generic Authentication Architecture enables the use
of different authentication methods to be used for the authentication of the
subscriber by using:
\- subscriber certificates; or
\- shared secrets.
For both cases, the authentication of the subscriber shall conform to the use
of the Generic Authentication Architecture, TR 33.919 [15], for access to
network application functions using HTTPS, as specified in TS 33.222 [19].
### 6.1.2 Authentication of the AP/Presence Server
Authentication of the AP/Presence Server shall be performed according to
clause 5.3.1.3 of TS 33.222 [19].
### 6.1.3 Management of public user identities
The presence server, acting as a NAF in the sense of TS 33.220 [11], may
obtain identities related to the subscriber over the Zn reference point, as
part of the GBA user security setting for presence, according to the policies
of the BSF, see clause 4.5.3 of TS 33.220 [11]. These identities may include
the IMPI and several IMPUs. The UE shall send its preferred public user
identity in each HTTP request. The Presence server (or AP) shall then verify
that the preferred identity inserted in the HTTP request by the UE is one of
the IMPUs, associated with the HTTP request, according to clause 6.5.2.4 of TS
33.222 [19].
If the presence server sits behind an AP and the verification of the preferred
identity, which was inserted by the UE in the HTTP request, was successful,
then the AP shall verify the value of the preferred identity of the user in
the HTTP request before forwarding it to the presence server. How the asserted
user identity is carried in each HTTP request is specified in the relevant
stage 3 specification.
If there is no preferred identity inserted in the HTTP request, the AP shall
insert a default IMPU from the user profile in the HTTP request, before
forwarding it to the Presence server. If the validation of the UE inserted
preferred identity fails in the AP the HTTP request shall be dropped.
### 6.1.4 Authentication failures
The handling of authentication failures shall be according to clause 5.3.1.4
of TS 33.222 [19].
## 6.2 Confidentiality protection
If confidentiality protection is provided over the Ut interface, then it shall
be provided using TLS. The terminal shall in the negotiation phase include
protection alternatives that include at least one alternative with encryption
algorithm support. The terminal and the server shall be able to resume a
previous session and to perform an abbreviated handshake.
## 6.3 Integrity protection
Integrity protection over the Ut reference point shall be provided using TLS.
The terminal and the server shall be able to resume a previous session and to
perform an abbreviated handshake.
# 7 Security parameters agreement
## 7.1 Set-up of Security parameters
Security parameters shall be set-up according to clause 5.3.15 of TS 33.222
[19].
## 7.2 Error cases
Error cases shall be handled as specified in clause 5.3.1.6 of TS 33.222 [19].
In addition, the AP/Presence Server shall consider the following cases as a
fatal error:
\- if none of the received ciphersuites include encryption and the policy of
the operator stipulates that encryption is required;
\- if the policy of the operator stipulates that encryption is required and
the common set of supported ciphersuites only include key material less than
the number of bits required by the operator for confidentiality protection.
###### ### Annex A: Void
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
###### ## Annex C (normative): Requirements specific to 3GPP2 Access
# C.1 General
The present Annex describes how the normative text in the main body of this
specification differs for 3GPP2 Access.
TLS with pre-shared keys as specified in [22] is referenced in this Annex. For
this deployment of TLS the same TLS profiling shall apply as given for PSK TLS
in clause 5.4.1 of TS 33.222 [19].
# C.2 Authentication of the subscriber
The text in clause 6.1.1 is replaced by the following text.
The authentication of the subscriber shall take place in the Presence server.
Subscriber authentication may be performed by the operator using proprietary
or non-3G standardized methods. GBA defined in [21] may also be used. The UE
may contact the Presence Server for further instructions on authentication
procedures, see initiation of bootstrapping in 3GPP2 S.S0109 [21].
In case GBA is used for authentication, the authentication of the subscriber
shall be based on the Generic Bootstrapping Architecture as defined in [21].
Generic Bootstrapping Architecture enables the use of different authentication
methods to be used for the authentication of the subscriber by using shared
secrets.
The authentication of the subscriber with GBA shall conform to Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture, [21], for access to network application functions
using HTTPS, using TLS with pre-shared keys as specified in [22].
# C.3 Authentication of the Presence Server
The text in clause 6.1.2 is replaced by the following text.
Authentication of the Presence Server shall be performed using TLS with pre-
shared keys as specified in [22].
# C.4 Management of public user identities
The text in clause 6.1.3 is replaced by the following text.
The presence server, acting as a NAF in the sense of GBA, may obtain
identities related to the subscriber over the Zn reference point, as part of
the GBA user security setting for presence, according to the policies of the
BSF, see [21]. These identities may include the IMPI and several IMPUs. The UE
shall send its preferred public user identity in each HTTP request. The
Presence server shall then verify that the preferred identity inserted in the
HTTP request by the UE is one of the IMPUs provided by the BSF.
# C.5 Authentication failures
The text in clause 6.1.4 is replaced by the following text.
The handling of authentication failures when using TLS with pre-shared keys
shall be according to [22].
# C.6 Set-up of Security parameters
The text in clause 7.1 is replaced by the following text.
Security parameters shall be set-up using TLS with pre-shared keys as
specified in [22].
# C.7 Error cases
The text in clause 7.2 is replaced by the following text.
Error cases when using TLS with pre-shared keys shall be handled as specified
in [22]. In addition, the Presence Server shall consider the following cases
as a fatal error:
\- if none of the received ciphersuites include encryption and the policy of
the operator stipulates that encryption is required;
\- if the policy of the operator stipulates that encryption is required and
the common set of supported ciphersuites only include key material less than
the number of bits required by the operator for confidentiality protection.
###### ## Annex D (normative): GPRS-IMS-Bundled Authentication for Ut
interface security
A solution similar to GIBA for Gm interface, specified in TS 33.203 [4] , may
be used to protect HTTP services based on the secure IP address binding
information stored in the HSS as an alternative to the mechanism specified in
the main body of this specification. To achieve this, the Sh interface
described in TS 29.328 [26] and TS 29.329 [23] shall be used by the
Application Server (AS) to fetch secure IP address binding information from
the HSS.
NOTE: The GIBA procedures relies on that only authorized traffic intended for
the particular Ut usage is sent towards the Application Server.
Authentication can also be performed by an Authentication Proxy (AP) used to
separate the authentication procedure from the application logic. Provisioning
of information to the AP is outside the scope of the present document.
The GGSN/PGW shall provide the user\'s IP address (or the prefix in the case
of IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration) and IMSI to the HSS when a PDP/EPS Bearer
context is activated. The HSS stores the currently assigned IP address (or
prefix) so that it can be looked up using the user\'s IMPI and/or IMPU(s). The
precise way of the handling of these identities in the HSS is outside the
scope of standardization. The GGSN/PGW informs the HSS when the PDP/EPS Bearer
context is deactivated/modified so that the stored IP address (or prefix) can
be updated in the HSS.
When the AS/AP receives a HTTP request, it checks that the IP address (or
prefix) in the HTTP request matches the IP address (or prefix) that was stored
in the HSS. The UE must indicate its user identity in the HTTP requests so
that the AS/AP has a reliable identity to use when querying the HSS.
This approach requires the APN to support GIBA, and that all active PDP/EPS
Bearer contexts, for a single UE, associated with that APN use the same IP
address (or the prefix in the case of IPv6 stateless autoconfiguration) at any
given time. This approach also requires the GGSN/PGW to be in the home network
and that the GGSN/PGW does not allow a UE to successfully transmit an IP
packet with a source IP address (or prefix) that is different to the one
assigned during PDP/EPS Bearer context activation.
Since the security of this approach relies on the security of the PS bearer, a
dependency is created between the HTTP service and the PS bearer, which does
not exist with the mechanism specified in the main body of this specification.
This means that the solution described in this section does not provide as
high a degree of access network independency as the solution in the main body
of this specification. In particular, the solution does not currently support
scenarios where HTTP services are offered over WLAN.
The following steps describe the procedure:
1) The UE sends the HTTP GET request to the AS. The \"X-3GPP-Intended-
Identity\" header, as defined in TS 24.109 [24], shall be used by the UE to
indicate the user identity. The user is identified by the IMPU that is derived
from the IMSI of the subscription according to the rules in TS 23.003 [25].
2) The AS/AP decides to authenticate the UE based on the secure IP address
binding information from the HSS. This decision might be based on the fact
that GBA is not available. The AS/AP checks whether secure IP address binding
information is available at the AS/AP; if yes, it proceeds with step 7, if not
then it proceeds with step 3.
3) The AS/AP queries the HSS using User-Data-Request (UDR) over the Sh
interface, and the IMPU is used for User-Identity.
4) The HSS responds with User-Data-Answer (UDA) including the secure binding
information. If a securely bound IP address is not available in the HSS, then
any incoming HTTP requests at the AS/AP shall be rejected.
5) The AS/AP stores the secure binding information.
6) The AS/AP uses the subscriber/notify feature on the Sh interface to ensure
that it is informed about any changes in the secure IP address binding
information in the HSS. If the AS/AP is notified by the HSS about such a
change, it updates the secure IP address binding information stored in the
AS/AP accordingly.
7) The AS/AP shall check that the IP address (or prefix) from the UE in HTTP
requests matches the IP address (or prefix) provided by the HSS, otherwise the
HTTP request shall be rejected.
The mechanism does not preclude that the HTTP service may run inside a server-
authenticated TLS tunnel established between the UE and the AS/AP. However,
support of TLS in the UE and in the AS/AP is not mandated in the present
document.
The details for the interface between the AS/AP and HSS are described in TS
29.328 [26] and TS 29.329 [23] .
#