# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
For 3GPP systems there is a need for truly scalable entity Authentication
Framework (AF) since an increasing number of network elements and interfaces
are covered by security mechanisms.
This specification provides a highly scalable entity authentication framework
for 3GPP network nodes. This framework is developed in the context of the
Network Domain Security work item, which effectively limits the scope to the
control plane entities of the core network. Thus, _the Authentication
Framework will provide entity authentication for the nodes that are using
NDS/IP_.
Feasible trust models (i.e. how CAs are organized) and their effects are
provided. Additionally, requirements are presented for the used protocols and
certificate profiles, to make it possible for operator IPsec and PKI
implementations to interoperate.
# 1 Scope
The scope of this Technical Specification is limited to authentication of
network elements, which are using NDS/IP or TLS, and to Certificate Enrolment
for Base Stations as described in the present document.
In the case of NDS/IP this specification includes both the authentication of
Security Gateways (SEG) at the corresponding Za-interfaces and the
authentication between NEs and between NEs and SEGs at the Zb-interface.
Authentication of end entities (i.e. NEs and SEGs) in the intra-operator
domain is considered an internal issue for operators. This is quite much in
line with [1] which states that only Za is mandatory and that the security
domain operator can decide if the Zb-interface is deployed or not, as the Zb-
interface is optional for implementation. Validity of certificates may be
restricted to the operator\'s domain in case of Zb interface or in case of Za-
interface between two security domains of the same operator.
NOTE: In case two SEGs interconnect separate network regions under a single
administrative authority (e.g. owned by the same mobile operator) then the Za-
interface is not subject to interconnect agreements, but the decision on
applying Za-interface is left to operators.
The NDS architecture for IP-based protocols is illustrated in figure 1.
Figure 1: NDS architecture for IP-based protocols [1]
In the case of TLS this Specification concentrates on authentication of TLS
entities across inter-operator links. For example, TLS is specified for inter-
operator communications between IMS and non-IMS networks TS 33.203 [9] and on
the Zn\' interface in GBA TS 33.220 [10]. Authentication of TLS entities
across intra-operator links is considered an internal issue for operators.
However, NDS/AF can easily be adapted to the intra-operator use case since it
is just a simplification of the inter-operator case when all TLS NEs and the
PKI infrastructure belong to the same operator. Validity of certificates may
be restricted to the operator\'s domain. An Annex contains information on the
manual handling of TLS certificates in case automatic enrolment and revocation
according to NDS/AF for TLS is not implemented.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Network domain
security; IP network layer security\".
[2] IETF RFC 2986: \"PKCS#10 Certification Request Syntax Specification
Version 1.7\".
[3] Void.
[4] IETF RFC 4210: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate
Management Protocol\".
[5] IETF RFC 2252: \"Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3): Attribute
Syntax Definitions\".
[6] Void.
[7] \"PKI basics -- A Technical Perspective\", November 2002,
http://www.oasis-pki.org/pdfs/PKI_Basics-A_technical_perspective.pdf.
[8] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[9] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"Access security for IP-based services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture: Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture\".
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] IETF RFC 5280: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and
Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile\".
[15] IETF RFC 4945: \"The Internet IP Security PKI Profile of IKEv1/ISAKMP,
IKEv2, and PKIX\".
[16] Void.
[17] Void.
[18] IETF RFC 6712: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure -- HTTP
Transfer for the Certificate Management Protocol (CMP)\".
[19] IETF RFC 4211: \"Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate
Request Message Format (CRMF)\".
[20] IETF RFC 2818: \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[21] IETF RFC 5922: \"Domain Certificates in the Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP)\".
[22] IETF RFC 5924: \"Extended Key Usage (EKU) for Session Initiation Protocol
(SIP) X.509 Certificates\".
[23] Void.
[24] Void.
[25] IETF RFC 1035: \"Domain Names - Implementation and Specification\".
[26] Void.
[27] Void.
[28] Void.
[29] Void.
[30] Void.
[31] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network sharing; Architecture and functional
description\".
[32] 3GPP TS 32.508: \"Telecommunication management; Procedure flows for
multi-vendor plug-and-play eNode B connection to the network\".
[33] 3GPP TS 32.509: \"Telecommunication management; Data formats for multi-
vendor plug and play eNode B connection to the network\".
[34] Void.
[35] Void.
[36] Void.
[37] Void.
[38] Void.
[39] Void.
[40] Void.
[41] Void.
[42] IETF RFC 7296: \"Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)\".
[43] IETF RFC 7427: \"Signature Authentication in the Internet Key Exchange
Version 2 (IKEv2)\".
[44] Void.
[45] Void.
[46] Void.
[47] IETF RFC 6960: \" X.509 Internet Public Key Infrastructure Online
Certificate Status Protocol - OCSP\".
[48] IETF RFC 8201: \"Path MTU Discovery for IP version 6\".
[49] IETF RFC 8446: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.3\".
[50] IETF RFC 7540: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol Version 2 (HTTP/2)\".
[51] IETF RFC 6066: \"Transport Layer Security (TLS) Extensions: Extension
Definitions\".
[52] IETF RFC 6125: \"Representation and Verification of Domain-Based
Application Service Identity within Internet Public Key Infrastructure Using
X.509 (PKIX) Certificates in the Context of Transport Layer Security (TLS)\".
[53] IETF RFC 7633: \"X.509v3 Transport Layer Security (TLS) Feature
Extension\".
[54] IETF RFC 5246: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.2\".
[55] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[56] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network function repository services; Stage
3\".
[57] 3GPP TS 29.571: \"5G System; Common Data Types for Service Based
Interfaces; Stage 3\".
[58] CA-Browser-Forum-BR-1.8.0, August 2021, https://cabforum.org/wp-
content/uploads/CA-Browser-Forum-BR-1.8.0.pdf.
[59] GSMA FS.34 Key Management for 4G and 5G inter-PLMN Security,
https://www.gsma.com/security/resources/fs-34-key-management-
for-4g-and-5g-inter-plmn-security/.
[60] IETF RFC 9310: \"X.509 Certificate Extension for 5G Network Function
Types\".
[61] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the definitions given in TR 21.905
[8] and the following definitions apply:
**CA:** \"Certification Authority\", a PKI entity issuing X.509 certificates
**Interconnection CA:** The CA that issues cross-certificates on behalf of a
particular operator to the SEG CAs of other domains with which the operator's
SEGs have interconnection.
**Interconnect Agreement** : In the context of this specification an
interconnect agreement is an agreement by two operators to establish secure
communications. This may be for the purpose of protecting various forms of
communications between the operators, e.g. GPRS roaming, MMS interconnect,
WLAN roaming and IMS interconnect.
**Local CR:** Repository that contains cross-certificates.
**Local CRL:** Repository that contains cross-certificate revocations.
**PSK** : Pre-Shared Key. Method of authentication used by IKE between SEG in
NDS/IP [1].
**Public CRL:** Repository that contains revocations of SEG and CA
certificates and can be accessed by other operators.
**RA** : \"Registration Authority\", an optional PKI entity that does not
issue certificates and is separate from the CA.
NOTE: An RA is delegated by a CA to receive and evaluate certificate signing
requests, potentially verify them, and forward them to the CA which will issue
an X.509 certificate.
**RA/CA:** The PKI entity or entities in the operator network issuing
certificates, and making them available to base stations via CMPv2.
NOTE: If used in context of receiving certificate signing requests from a base
station, the term may mean RA. If used in context of issuing certificates, the
term means CA.
**SEG CA:** The CA that issues end entity certificates to SEGs within a
particular operator's domain.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[8] and the following abbreviations apply:
AF Authentication Framework
CA Certification Authority
CR Certificate Repository
CRL Certificate Revocation List
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
NDS Network Domain Security
PKI Public Key Infrastructure
POP Proof Of Possession
PSK Pre-Shared Key
RA Registration Authority
SEG Security Gateway
VPN Virtual Private Network
Za Interface between SEGs belonging to different networks/security domains (a
Za interface may be an intra or an inter operator interface).
Zb Interface between SEGs and NEs and interface between NEs within the same
network/security domain
# 4 Introduction to Public Key Infrastructure (PKI)
_PKI Forum\'s \"_ PKI basics -- A Technical Perspective\" [7] _provides a
concise vendor neutral introduction to the PKI technology. Thus only two
cross-certification aspects are described in this introduction section._
Cross-certification is a process that establishes a trust relationship between
two authorities. When an authority A is cross-certified with authority B, the
authority A has chosen to trust certificates issued by the authority B. Cross-
certification process enables the users under both authorities to trust the
other authority\'s certificates. Trust in this context equals being able to
authenticate.
## 4.1 Manual Cross-certification
Mutual cross-certifications are established directly between the authorities.
This approach is often called manual cross-certification. In manual cross-
certification the authority makes decisions about trust locally. When an
authority A chooses to trust an authority B, the authority A signs the
certificate of the authority B and distributes the new certificate (B\'s
certificate signed by A) locally.
The disadvantage of this approach is that it often results in scenarios where
there needs to be a lot of certificates available for the entities doing the
trust decisions: There needs to be a certificate signed by the local authority
for each security domain the local authority wishes to trust. However, all the
certificates can be configured locally and are locally signed, so the
management of them is often flexible.
## 4.2 Cross-certification with a Bridge CA
The bridge CA is a concept that reduces the amount of certificates that needs
to be configured for the entity that does the certificate checking. The name
\"bridge\" is descriptive; when two authorities are mutually cross-certified
with the bridge, the authorities do not need to know about each other.
Authorities can still trust each other because the trust in this model is
transitive (A trusts bridge, bridge trusts B, thus A trusts B and vice versa).
The bridge CA acts like a bridge between the authorities. However, the two
authorities shall also trust that the bridge does the right thing for them.
All the decisions about trust can be delegated to the bridge, which is
desirable in some use cases. If the bridge decides to cross-certify with an
authority M, the previously cross-certified authorities start to trust M
automatically.
Bridge CA style cross-certifications are useful in scenarios where all
entities share a common authority that everybody believes to work correctly
for them. If an authority needs to restrict the trust or access control
derived from the bridge CA, it additionally needs to implement those
restrictions.
# 5 Architecture and use cases of the NDS/AF
The following types of certification authority are defined:
\- SEG CA: A CA that issues end entity certificates to SEGs within a
particular operator\'s domain.
\- NE CA: A CA that issues end entity IPsec certificates to NE\'s within a
particular operator\'s domain. Certificates issued by an NE CA shall be
restricted to the Zb-interface.
\- TLS client CA: A CA that issues end entity TLS client certificates to TLS
entities within a particular operator\'s domain.
\- TLS server CA: A CA that issues end entity TLS server certificates to TLS
entities within a particular operator\'s domain.
\- Interconnection CA: A CA that issues cross-certificates on behalf of a
particular operator to the SEG CAs, TLS client CAs and TLS server CAs of other
domains with which the operator\'s SEGs and TLS entities have interconnection.
The public key of the interconnection CA shall be stored securely in each SEG
and TLS entity within the operator\'s domain. This allows the SEG and TLS
entity to verify cross-certificates issued by its operator\'s Interconnection
CA. It is assumed that each operator domain could include 10s, but not 100s of
SEGs or TLS entities.
An operator may choose to combine two or more of the above CAs. For example,
the same CA may be used to issue end entity TLS and IPsec certificates.
Furthermore, the same CA may be used to issue both end entity certificates and
cross-certificates.
The NDS/AF is initially based on a simple trust model (see Annex B) that
avoids the introduction of transitive trust and/or additional authorisation
information. The simple trust model implies manual cross-certification.
## 5.1 PKI architecture for NDS/AF
This chapter defines the PKI architecture for the NDS/AF. The goal is to
define a flexible, yet simple architecture, which is easily interoperable with
other implementations.
The architecture described below uses a simple access control method, i.e.
every element which is authenticated is also provided service. More fine-
grained access control may be implemented, but it is out of scope of this
specification.
The architecture does not rely on bridge CAs, but instead uses direct cross-
certifications between the security domains. This enables easy policy
configurations in the SEGs and TLS entities.
### 5.1.1 General architecture
Unless the operator chooses to combine CAs, each security domain has at least
one SEG CA, NE CA, TLS client CA or TLS server CA, and one Interconnection CA
dedicated to it.
The SEG CA of the domain issues certificates to the SEGs in the domain that
have interconnection with SEGs in other domains i.e. Za-interface. The SEG
certificate can be used also in communication with an NE over the Zb-
interface. An NE CA issues certificates to NE\'s for communication between NEs
and between NE and SEGs within the responsible domain i.e. Zb interface. The
TLS client CA of the domain issues certificates to the TLS clients in that
domain that need to establish TLS connections with TLS servers in other
domains. The TLS server CA of the domain issues certificates to the TLS
servers in that domain that need to establish TLS connections with TLS clients
in other domains. The Interconnection CA of the domain issues certificates to
the SEG CAs, TLS client CA or TLS server CA, of other domains with which the
operator's SEGs and TLS entities have interconnection. This specification
describes the profile for the various certificates that are needed. Also a
method for creating the cross-certificates is described.
In general, all of the certificates shall be based on the Internet X.509
certificate profile [14].
#### 5.1.1.1 NDS/IP case
In the following, the architecture for issuing IPsec certificates using SEG
CAs is described.
The SEG CA shall issue certificates for SEGs that implement the Za interface.
When SEG of the security domain A establishes a secure connection with the SEG
of the domain B, they shall be able to authenticate each other. The mutual
authentication is checked using the certificates the SEG CAs issued for the
SEGs. When an interconnect agreement is established between the domains, the
Interconnection CA cross-certifies the SEG CA of the peer operator. The
created cross-certificates need only to be configured locally to each domain.
The cross-certificate, which Interconnection CA of security domain A created
for the SEG CA of security domain B, shall be available for the domain A SEG
which provides the Za interface towards domain B. Equally the corresponding
certificate, which the Interconnection CA of the security domain B created for
the SEG CA of security domain A, shall be available for the domain B SEG which
provides Za interface towards domain A.
The general architecture for IPsec certificate based authentication of SEGs
and NEs is illustrated in Figure 2.
NOTE 1: A potential NE CA~A~ has not been depicted in the Figure 2, in order
not to overload it.
Figure 2: Trust validation path in the context of NDS/IP
After cross-certification, the SEGa is able to verify the path: SEGb -> SEG
CA~B~ -> Interconnection CA~A~. Only the certificate of the Interconnection
CA~A~ in domain A needs to be trusted by entities in security domain A.
Equally the SEGb is able to verify the path: SEGa -> SEG CA~A~ ->
Interconnection CA~B~. The path is verifiable in domain B, because the path
terminates to a trusted certificate (Interconnection CA~B~ of the security
domain B in this case).
The Interconnection CA signs the second certificate in the path. For example,
in domain A, the certificate for SEG CA B is signed by the Interconnection CA
of domain A when the cross-certification is done.
#### 5.1.1.2 TLS case
In the following, the architecture for issuing TLS certificates using TLS CAs
is described.
The TLS client CA shall issue certificates for TLS clients in its domain.
Similarly the TLS server CA shall issue certificates for TLS servers in its
domain. When a TLS entity of the security domain A establishes a secure
connection with a TLS entity of the domain B, they shall be able to
authenticate each other. The mutual authentication is checked using the
certificates the TLS client/server CAs issued for the TLS entities. When an
interconnect agreement is established between the domains, the Interconnection
CA cross-certifies the TLS client/server CAs of the peer operator. The created
cross-certificates need only to be configured locally to each domain. The
cross-certificate, which Interconnection CA of security domain A created for
the TLS client/server CAs of security domain B, shall be available for the
domain A TLS entities which need to communicate with domain B. Equally the
corresponding certificate, which the Interconnection CA of the security domain
B created for the TLS client/server CAs of security domain A, shall be
available for the domain B TLS entities which need to communicate with domain
A.
The general architecture for authentication of TLS entities is illustrated in
Figure 2a.
Figure 2a: Trust validation path in the context of TLS
After cross-certification, the TLS client ~A~ is able to verify the path: TLS
server ~B~ -> TLS server CA~B~ -> Interconnection CA~A~. Only the certificate
of the Interconnection CA~A~ in domain A needs to be trusted by entities in
security domain A.
Equally the TLS server ~B~ is able to verify the path: TLS client ~A~ -> TLS
client CA~A~ -> Interconnection CA~B~. The path is verifiable in domain B,
because the path terminates to a trusted certificate (Interconnection CA~B~ of
the security domain B in this case).
The Interconnection CA signs the second certificate in the path. For example,
in domain A, the certificates for TLS server CA B and TLS client CA B are
signed by the Interconnection CA of domain A when the cross-certification is
done.
## 5.2 Use cases
### 5.2.1 Operator Registration: Creation of interconnect agreement
SEGs or TLS entities of two different security domains need to establish a
secure connection, when the operators make an interconnect agreement. The
first technical step in creating the interconnect agreement between domains is
the creation of cross-certificates by the Interconnection CAs of the two
domains.
Inter-operator cross-certification can be done using different protocols, but
the certification authority shall support the PKCS#10 method for certificate
requests as specified in RFC 2986 [2]. The SEG CA, TLS client CA and TLS
server CA create a PKCS#10 certificate request, and send it to the other
operator\'s Interconnection CA. The method for transferring the PKCS#10
request is not specified, but the transfer method shall be secure. The PKCS#10
can be transferred e.g. HTTPS, in a flash drive, or be send in a signed email.
The PKCS#10 request contains the public key of the authority and the name of
the authority requesting the cross-certificate. When the Interconnection CA
accepts the request, a new cross-certificate is created for the requesting CA.
The Interconnection CA shall make the new cross-certificate available to SEGs
and TLS entities in its own domain that need to use it. Cross-certificates on
the other domain\'s SEG CA\'s are stored in a local CR (Certificate
Repository) which all SEGs that need to communicate with the other domains
shall access using LDAP as specified in RFC 2252 [5]. Cross-certificates on
TLS client CAs and TLS server CAs are made available to TLS entities, e.g. by
storing them in a file of trusted CAs on the TLS entity, or by storing them in
a local CR (Certificate Repository) which all TLS entities that need to
communicate with the other domain shall access e.g. using LDAP as specified in
RFC 2252 [5].
The cross-certification is a manual operation, and thus PKCS#10 is a suitable
solution for the interconnect agreement.
Creation of an interconnect agreement only involves use of the private keys of
the Interconnection CAs. There is no need for the operators to use the private
keys of their respective SEG CAs, TLS client CAs or TLS server CAs in forming
an interconnect agreement.
When creating the new cross-certificate, the Interconnection CA should use
basic constraint extension (according to section 4.2.1.9 of RFC 5280 [14]) and
set the path length to zero. This inhibits the new cross-certificate to be
used in signing new CA certificates. The validity of the certificate should be
set sufficiently long. The cross-certification process needs to be done again
when the validity of the cross-certificate is ending.
When the new cross-certificate is available to the SEG, all that needs to be
configured in the SEG is the DNS name or IP address of the peering SEG
gateway. The authentication can be done based on the created cross-
certificates.
When the new cross-certificate is available to a TLS entity, it allows that
TLS entity to authenticate TLS entities in the peering network. Authentication
is done based on the created cross-certificates.
The certificate hierarchy in the case of two peering operators is illustrated
in Figure 3.
Figure 3: Certificate Hierarchy
### 5.2.2 Establishment of secure communications
#### 5.2.2.1 NDS/IP case
#### 5.2.2.1.1 NDS/IP case for the Za interface
After establishing an interconnect agreement and finishing the required
preliminary certificate management operations as specified in clause 5.2.1,
the operators configure their SEGs for SEG-SEG connection, and the SAs are
established as specified by NDS/IP [1].
In each connection configuration, the remote SEG DNS name or IP address is
specified. Only the local Interconnection CA and SEG CA are configured as
trusted CAs. Because of the cross-certification, any operator whose SEG CA has
been cross-certified can get access using this VPN connection configuration.
The following is the flow of connection negotiation from the point of view of
Operator A\'s SEG (initiator). Operator B\'s SEG (responder) shall behave in a
similar fashion. In case of any failure in following steps, SEG A will treat
this as an error and abort the procedure.
\- During connection initiation, the initiating Operator A\'s SEG A provides
its own SEG certificate and the corresponding digital signature in the
IKE_AUTH exchange for IKEv2;
\- SEG A receives the remote SEG B certificate and signature;
\- SEG A verifies the remote SEG B signature;
\- SEG A checks the validity of the SEG B certificate by a CRL check to
Operator B's CRL databases. If a SEG cannot successfully perform the CRL
check, it shall treat this as an error and abort tunnel establishment;
\- SEG A verifies the SEG B certificate by executing the following actions:
\- SEG A fetches the cross-certificate for Operator B\'s SEG CA from Operator
A\'s Certificate Repository or from a local cache.
\- SEG A checks the validity of the cross-certificate for Operator B\'s SEG CA
by a CRL check to Operator A\'s Interconnection CA CRL database. If a SEG
cannot successfully perform the CRL check, it shall treat this as an error and
abort tunnel establishment;
\- SEG A verifies the cross-certificate for Operator B\'s SEG CA using
Operator A\'s Interconnection CA\'s certificate. Operator A\'s Interconnection
CA\'s certificate shall be verified if the Interconnection CA is not a top-
level CA, otherwise the Interconnection CA\'s public key is implicitly
trusted.
\- SEG A verifies the SEG B certificate using cross-certificate for Operator
B's SEG CA.
When IKEv2 has been initiated, then the IKE_AUTH exchange is now completed.
Now the IKEv2 CREATE_CHILD_SA exchange can be initiated as described in NDS/IP
[1] with PSK authentication.
NOTE: This specification provides authentication of SEGs in an \"end-to-end\"
fashion as regards to interconnect traffic (operator to operator). If NDS/AF
(IKE) authentication were to be used for both access to the transport network
(e.g. GRX) and for the end-to-end interconnect traffic, IPsec mechanisms and
policies such as iterated tunnels or hop-by-hop security would need to be
used. However, it is highlighted that the authentication framework specified
is independent of the underlying IP transport network.
#### 5.2.2.1.2 NDS/IP case for the Zb-interface
In this case there is no need for cross-certification. Both end entity
certificates belong to the same administrative domain and thus authorization
check resolves to the same top level CA.
The following is the flow of connection negotiation from the point of view of
NE-A (initiator). NE-B (or SEG-B) from the same domain (responder) shall
behave in a similar fashion. In case of any failure in following steps, NE A
will treat this as an error and abort the procedure.
\- During connection initiation, the initiating Operator A\'s NE-A provides
its own NE certificate and the corresponding digital signature in the IKE_AUTH
exchange for IKEv2;
\- NE A receives the NE B (or SEG B) certificate and signature;
\- NE A verifies the NE B (or SEG B) signature;
\- NE A checks the validity of the NE B (or SEG B) certificate by a CRL check
to the CRL databases of the same domain. If a NE cannot successfully perform
the CRL check, it shall treat this as an error and abort tunnel establishment;
\- NE A verifies the NE B (or SEG B) certificate using Operator NE CA
certificate.
When IKEv2 has been initiated, then the IKE_AUTH exchange is now completed.
Now the IKEv2 CREATE_CHILD_SA exchange can be initiated as described in NDS/IP
[1] with PSK authentication.
#### 5.2.2.2 TLS case
After establishing a interconnect agreement and finishing the required
preliminary certificate management operations as specified in clause 5.2.1,
the operators configure their TLS entities for secure interconnection. The
exact process for establishing the TLS connections is dependent on the
application protocol and is outside the scope of this specification. However,
the general flow is described in the remainder of this clause.
The local Interconnection CA and TLS client/server CAs are configured as
trusted CAs in the TLS entity typically by storing them in a file of trusted
CAs on the TLS entity. The cross-certificates on the TLS client/server CAs of
the remote operator are also made available to the TLS entity, e.g. by storing
them in a file of trusted CAs on the TLS entity, or by storing them in a local
CR (Certificate Repository) which all TLS entities that need to communicate
with the other domain shall access e.g. using LDAP. Because of the cross-
certification, any operator whose TLS client CA or TLS server CA has been
cross-certified by another operator can establish TLS connections with that
other operator.
The following is the connection establishment from the point of view of a TLS
client in Operator A (TLSa) and a TLS server in Operator B (TLSb). The case
where the TLS client is in Operator B and the TLS server is in Operator A is
treated in a similar fashion. The flow is based on the TLS handshake protocol
as described in RFC 8446 [49]. In case of any failure in following steps, TLSa
or TLSb will treat this as an error and abort the procedure.
\- During connection initiation, the TLSa sends a ClientHello message to TLSb.
TLSb responds with a ServerHello message followed by a Certificate message, an
optional CertificateRequest message, and other additional messages depending
on the TLS version and options. The Certificate message will contain TLSb\'s
certificate (or certificate chain)that was issued by Operator B\'s TLS server
CA. The CertificateRequest message is sent if TLSb wants to authenticate TLSa
using certificates in TLS, TLSa may otherwise be authenticated at a later
stage using the application layer.
\- TLSa receives the messages from TLSb
\- TLSa verifies the received TLS messages using TLSb\'s public key
\- TLSa checks the validity of TLSb\'s certificate by a CRL check to Operator
B's CRL databases. If a TLS peer cannot successfully perform the CRL check, it
shall treat this as an error and abort the TLS handshake
\- TLSa verifies TLSb\'s certificate using the cross-certificate for Operator
B\'s TLS server CA by executing the following actions:
\- TLSa fetches the cross-certificate for Operator B\'s TLS server CA from
Operator A\'s Certificate Repository, from a local cache of the Certificate
Repository on TLSa, or from a local certificate store on TLSa if a separate
Certificate Repository is not used.
\- TLSa checks the validity of the cross-certificate for Operator B\'s TLS
server CA by a CRL check to Operator A\'s Interconnection CA CRL database. If
a TLS peer cannot successfully perform the CRL check, it shall treat this as
an error and abort the TLS handshake;
\- TLSa verifies the cross-certificate for Operator B\'s TLS server CA using
Operator A\'s Interconnection CA\'s certificate if the Interconnection CA is
not a top-level CA, otherwise the Interconnection CA\'s public key is
implicitly trusted.
\- TLSa verifies TLSb's certificate using the cross-certificate for Operator
B's TLS server CA.
\- If TLSb requested a certificate using the CertificateRequest message, then
TLSa responds with a Certificate message followed by a CertificateVerify
message and a Finished message. The Certificate and CertificateVerify messages
are only sent if the Server requests a certificate. If present, the
Certificate message will contain TLSa\'s certificate (or certificate chain)
that was issued by Operator A\'s TLS client CA. The CertificateVerify message
is used to provide explicit verification of a client certificate.
\- TLSb receives the messages from TLSa.
\- If TLSb requested a certificate using the CertificateRequest message, then
TLSb verifies the CertificateVerify message using TLSa's public key.
\- If TLSb requested a certificate using the CertificateRequest message, then
TLSb checks the validity of TLSa\'s certificate by a CRL check to Operator
A\'s CRL databases. If a TLS entity cannot successfully perform both CRL
checks, it shall treat this as an error and abort the TLS handshake.
\- If TLSb requested a certificate using the CertificateRequest message, then
TLSb validates TLSa\'s certificate using the cross-certificate for Operator
A\'s TLS client CA by executing the following actions:
\- TLSb fetches the cross-certificate for Operator A\'s TLS client CA from
Operator B\'s Certificate Repository, from a local cache of the Certificate
Repository on TLSb, or from a local certificate store on TLSb if a separate
Certificate Repository is not used.
\- TLSb checks the validity of the cross-certificate for Operator A\'s TLS
client CA by a CRL check to Operator B\'s Interconnection CA CRL database. If
a TLS entity cannot successfully perform the CRL check, it shall treat this as
an error and abort the TLS handshake
\- TLSb verifies the cross-certificate for Operator A\'s TLS client CA using
Operator B\'s Interconnection CA\'s certificate if the Interconnection CA is
not a top-level CA, otherwise the Interconnection CA\'s public key is
implicitly trusted.
\- TLSb verifies TLSa's certificate using the cross-certificate for Operator
A's TLS client CA.
When both Finished messages has been sent, then the secure communications can
take place over the TLS connection.
### 5.2.3 Operator deregistration: Termination of interconnect agreement
When an interconnect agreement is terminated or due to an urgent service
termination need, all concerned SEG peers shall remove the IPsec SAs using
device-specific management methods, while all concerned TLS entities shall
terminate any ongoing TLS sessions with the peer network and not permit those
sessions to be resumed (e.g. by prohibiting TLS session resumption).
Each concerned operator shall also list the cross-certificate created for the
Interconnection CA, SEG CA, TLS client CA and TLS server CA of the terminated
operator in his own local CRL.
### 5.2.3a Interconnection CA registration
In principle only one Interconnection CA shall be used within the operator\'s
network, but using more than one Interconnection CA is possible (in which case
the public keys of all the operator's interconnection CAs should be installed
in the operator's SEGs or TLS entities). The involved actions in
Interconnection CA registration are those as described in the cross-
certification part of clause 5.2.1: \'Operator Registration: creation of
interconnect agreement\'. Such a situation may exist if the Interconnection CA
functions are to be moved from one responsible organisation to another (e.g.
outsourcing of CA services).
### 5.2.3b Interconnection CA deregistration
If an Interconnection CA is removed from the network, it shall be assured that
all certificates that have been issued by that CA to SEG or TLS CAs, and have
not expired yet, shall be listed in the CRLs.
### 5.2.3c Interconnection CA certification creation
The Interconnection CA certificate may not be the top-level CA of the
operator, which means that the Interconnection CA certificate is not self-
signed. If the Interconnection CA certificate is self-signed then it needs to
be securely transferred to each SEG or TLS entity and stored within secure
memory otherwise it can be managed in the same way as a SEG or TLS entity
certificate.
The Interconnection CA certificate shall have a \'longer\' lifetime than SEG
CA or TLS CA certificates in order to avoid the cross-certification actions
that are needed each time an Interconnection CA certificate has to be renewed.
NOTE: There is no need to involve other operators when creating an
Interconnection CA certificate.
### 5.2.3d Interconnection CA certification revocation
If an Interconnection CA key pair gets compromised then a hacker could use the
keys to issue himself SEG CA or TLS CA certificates which in turn could be
used to issue SEG or TLS entity certificates. Since however the trusted
Interconnection CA certificates are stored locally on the SEG or TLS entity
device or in a dedicated repository (i.e. received Interconnection CA
certificates within the IKE payload or TLS handshake shall not be accepted),
the hacker also needs to compromise the SEG, TLS entity, or the local
repository to be able to set up a secure connection.
Existing secure connections need not be torn down. The old cross-certificates
- and any other certificates - issued by the Interconnection CA shall be taken
out of service by listing them in the Interconnection CA's CRL (provided the
operator still has the key available to sign this CRL) and removing them from
the dedicated repository. If the Interconnection CA certificate is self-signed
then it shall be removed from each of the operator's SEGs and TLS entities. If
the Interconnection CA certificate is issued by a higher level CA of the
operator, then it shall be revoked by this higher level CA.
The operator has to create a new Interconnection CA key pair, perform the
actions as described within clause 5.2.3c for Interconnection CA certification
creation, and perform the actions as described within clause 5.2.1 to generate
new cross-certificates for all his interconnected networks SEG CAs or TLS CAs.
NOTE: There is no need to involve other operators when revoking an
Interconnection CA certificate.
### 5.2.3e Interconnection CA certification renewal
The Interconnection CA certificate has to be renewed before the old
Interconnection CA certificate expires. The renewing of an Interconnection CA
certificate involves repeating the actions as described in clause 5.2.3c. This
should be done before the old certificate expires.
NOTE: There is no need to involve other operators when renewing an
Interconnection CA certificate.
### 5.2.4 SEG/TLS CA registration
In principle only one SEG CA, one TLS client CA and one TLS server CA shall be
used within the operator\'s network, but using more than one of each of these
CAs is possible. The involved actions are those as described in the cross-
certification part of clause 5.2.1: \'Operator Registration: creation of
interconnect agreement\'. Such a situation of having multiple CAs of each type
may exist if the CA functions are to be moved from one responsible
organisation to another (e.g. outsourcing of CA services).
### 5.2.5 SEG/TLS CA deregistration
If a SEG CA or TLS CA is removed from the network, it shall be assured that
the SEG CA or TLS CA certificates and all certificates that have been issued
by the SEG CA or TLS CA to SEGs or TLS entities, and have not expired yet,
shall be listed in CRLs. The cross-certificates that are issued to these SEG
CAs or TLS CAs, and have not expired yet, should also be listed in CRLs.
### 5.2.6 SEG/TLS CA certificate creation
The involved actions are those as described in the cross-certification part of
clause 5.2.1: \'Operator Registration: creation of interconnect agreement\'.
The SEG CA or TLS CA certificate does not have to be the top-level CA of the
operator, which means that the SEG CA or TLS CA certificate is not self-
signed. One option is to sign the operator\'s SEG CA and TLS CAs with the
operator's own Interconnection CA, as this will already be a trust point
established in the operator\'s own SEGs and TLS entities. If the SEG CA or TLS
CA certificates are self-signed then they should be securely transferred to
each of the operator\'s SEGs and TLS entities and stored within secure memory
(see NOTE to clause 7.5).
### 5.2.7 SEG/TLS CA certificate revocation
This compromise is a serious event as it will require all the cross-
certificates issued by other operators\' Interconnection CAs to that SEG CA or
TLS CA to be revoked.
Existing secure connections need not be torn down, unless they were formed
very recently i.e. after the time at which the operator suspects the CA key
became compromised, but before the cross-certificate used to establish the
tunnel was revoked.
It shall be assured that the SEG CA or TLS CA certificates and all
certificates that have been issued by the SEG CA or TLS CA to SEGs or TLS
entities, and have not expired yet, shall be listed in CRLs. The cross-
certificates that are issued to these SEG CAs or TLS CAs, and have not expired
yet, should also be listed in CRLs.
To restore inter-domain interoperability, the operator has to create a new SEG
CA or TLS CA key pair and use it to issue certificates to all the SEGs and TLS
entities in the operator's own domain. The operator shall then provide a
cross-certification request (see clause 5.2.1) for the new SEG CA or TLS CA
key pair to the operators with whom it has interconnect agreements.
It is recommended that operators carefully protect their SEG CA and TLS CA
keys to limit this knock-on effect across the operator community.
### 5.2.8 SEG/TLS CA certificate renewal
The SEG CA and TLS CA certificate has to be renewed before the old SEG CA and
TLS CA certificate expires. The renewing of a SEG CA or TLS CA certificate
involves repeating the actions as described in the cross-certification part of
clause 5.2.1: \'Operator Registration: creation of interconnect agreement\'.
This should be done before the old certificate expires.
### 5.2.9 End entity registration
#### 5.2.9.1 SEG registration
If not already done, a SEG certificate has to be created (see clause 5.2.11
for a description on certificate creation).
If a SEG is added to the network, the policy database of this SEG has to be
configured using device-specific management methods.
Other operators have to be informed of the new SEG: The SEG policy databases
of SEGs in other networks may have to be adapted.
#### 5.2.9.2 TLS client registration
If not already done, a TLS client certificate has to be created (see clause
5.2.11 for a description on certificate creation).
If a TLS client is added to the network, then some local configuration may be
needed to take the new TLS client into use for secure inter-operator
communication. In addition, other operators may need to be informed of the new
TLS client.
#### 5.2.9.3 TLS server registration
If not already done, a TLS server certificate has to be created (see clause
5.2.11 for a description on certificate creation).
If a TLS server is added to the network, then some local configuration may be
needed to take the new TLS server into use for secure inter-operator
communication. In addition, other operators may need to be informed of the new
TLS server.
#### 5.2.9.4 NE registration
If not already done, an NE certificate has to be created (see clause 5.2.11
for a description on certificate creation).
If an NE is added to the network, the policy database of this NE has to be
configured using device-specific management methods.
### 5.2.10 End entity deregistration
#### 5.2.10.1 SEG deregistration
If a SEG is removed from the network, the SAs shall be removed using device-
specific management methods. The operator of the SEG shall have the
certificate of the SEG listed in his CRL. The SPD of the partner network may
have to be adapted.
#### 5.2.10.2 TLS client deregistration
If a TLS client is removed from the network, the TLS connections shall be
terminated using device-specific management methods. The operator of the TLS
client shall have the certificate of the TLS client listed in his CRL.
#### 5.2.10.3 TLS server deregistration
If a TLS server is removed from the network, the TLS connections shall be
terminated using device-specific management methods. The operator of the TLS
server shall have the certificate of the TLS server listed in his CRL.
#### 5.2.10.4 NE deregistration
If a NE is removed from the network, the SAs shall be removed using device-
specific management methods. The operator of the NE shall have the certificate
of the NE listed in his CRL.
### 5.2.11 End entity certificate creation
Using device-specific management methods, the certificate creation shall be
initiated. As specified in section 7.2, either the CMPv2 protocol for
automatic certificate enrolment or manual certificate installation using
PKCS#10 formats can be used. This is an operator decision depending for
example on the number of NEs or SEGs and TLS entities.
### 5.2.12 End entity certificate revocation
If a SEG or TLS entity key pair gets compromised then the existing SAs shall
be removed using device-specific management methods. The operator of the SEG
or TLS entity shall include the revoked certificate in his CRL.
### 5.2.13 End entity certificate renewal
A new NE, SEG or TLS entity certificate needs to be in place before the old
certificate expires. The procedure is similar to the certificate creation and
can be either fully automated by using CMPv2 as specified in section 7.2 or
done manually using PKCS#10 formats. This is an operator decision depending
for example on the number of NEs, SEGs and TLS entities.
### 5.2.14 NE CA deregistration
If an NE CA is removed from the network, it shall be assured that the NE CA
certificate and all certificates that have been issued by the NE CA to the
NEs, and have not expired yet, shall be listed in CRLs.
### 5.2.15 NE CA certification creation
The NE CA certificate does not have to be the top-level CA of the operator,
which means that the NE CA certificate is not self-signed. If the NE CA
certificates are self-signed then they should be securely transferred to each
of the operator\'s NEs and stored within secure memory (see NOTE to clause
7.5).
NOTE: There is no need to involve other operators when creating an NE CA
certificate.
### 5.2.16 NE CA certificate revocation
This serious event will require that all NE certificates needs to be revoked.
Existing intra-security domain security connections need not be torn down,
unless they were formed very recently i.e. after the time at which the
operator suspects the NE CA key became compromised but before the certificate
has been listed as revoked.
It shall be assured that the NE CA certificate and all certificates that have
been issued by the NE CA to NEs, and have not expired yet, shall be listed in
CRLs.
To restore intra-domain security, the operator has to create a new NE CA key
pair and use it to issue certificates to all the NEs in the operator's own
domain.
NOTE: There is no need to involve other operators when revoking an NE CA
certificate.
### 5.2.17 NE CA certificate renewal
The NE CA certificate has to be renewed before the old NE CA certificate
expires.
NOTE: There is no need to involve other operators when renewing an NE CA
certificate.
# 6 Profiling
## 6.1 Certificate profiles
NOTE: The present clause contains the general 3GPP certificate profile. Other
3GPP specifications (e.g. TS 33.203 [9], TS 33.220 [10], etc.) point to the
present clause. Thus parts of the present clause may also apply to devices and
network nodes as specified in other specifications. New specifications using
certificates should refer to this profile with as few exceptions as possible.
The present clause profiles the certificates to be used for NDS/AF. An NDS/AF
component shall not expect any specific behaviour from other entities, based
on certificate fields not specified in this section.
Certificate profiling requirements as contained in this specification have to
be applied in addition to those contained within RFC5280 [14]. In case of
conflicting requirements, the requirements in this specification override and
obsolete the requirements in RFC5280 [14]. This applies for the SEG, NE, the
TLS entity, the SEG CA and the Interconnection CA.
A receiving SEG or TLS entity shall be able to process an extension marked as
critical in the present document.
Before fulfilling any certificate signing request, the NE CA, SEG CA and
Interconnection CA shall make sure that the request suits the profiles defined
in this section. Furthermore, the CAs shall check the Subject\'s
DirectoryString order for consistency, and that the Subject\'s DirectoryString
belongs to its own administrative domain.
NEs, SEGs and TLS entities shall check compliance of certificates with the
NDS/AF profiles and shall only accept compliant certificates.
### 6.1.1 Common rules to all certificates
\- Version 3 certificate according to RFC5280 [14].
\- Hash algorithm for use before signing certificate: SHA-256 shall be
supported, SHA-384 should be supported, MD5, MD2, and SHA-1 shall not be
supported.
NOTE 1: Void.
\- Signature algorithm: RSAEncryption and ecdsa shall be supported.
RSAEncryption is not recommended as it uses PKCS#1v1.5 padding.
\- Public key algorithm: rsaEncryption and id-ecPublicKey shall be supported.
\- Parameters: For ecdsa and id-ecPublicKey, secp256r1 shall be supported.
secp384r1 should be supported.
\- ECDSA is recommended for newly created certificates.
\- For RSA certificates: The public key length shall be at least 2048-bit. A
public key length of at least 4096-bit shall be supported. Public key lengths
of less than 2048-bit shall not be supported. PKCS#1v1.5 padding and key
lengths less than 3072-bits should not be used in certificates that expire
after 2030. RSA public exponent shall be no less than 65537.
\- For ECDSA certificates: Except curve25519, ed25519, and W-25519, elliptic
curve groups of less than 256 bits shall not be supported. A public key length
of at least 384-bit shall be supported.
NOTE 2: Void.
NOTE 3: In practice, certificates often have a long lifetime, for example
about ten years. The use of RSA with PKCS#1v1.5 padding and key lengths less
than 3072-bits is planned to be prohibited by several organisations no later
than 2030.
\- The security level of the public key used to sign the certificate shall be
at least the same as the public keys in the certificate.
\- Subject and issuer name format.
\- (C=\), O=\, CN=\.
Organization and CN shall be in UTF8 format. Note that C is optional element.
or
\- cn=\, (ou=\), dc=\, dc=\. Note that ou
is optional element.
\- CRLs as specified in subclause 6.1a shall be supported for certificate
revocation verification.
\- Certificate extensions which are not mandated by this specification but
which are mentioned within RFC5280 [14] are optional for implementation. If
present, such optional extensions shall be marked as "non critical".
NOTE 3: The above requirement implies that an NE, SEG or TLS entity receiving
such optional extensions marked as "critical" will react with an error
because, according to the introduction to clause 6.1 of the present document,
NEs, SEGs and TLS entities shall only accept compliant certificates.
### 6.1.2 Interconnection CA Certificate profile
In addition to clause 6.1.1, the following requirements apply:
\- Extensions:
\- Optionally non critical authority key identifier;
\- Optionally non critical subject key identifier;
\- Mandatory critical key usage: At least keyCertSign and cRLSign should be
asserted;
\- Mandatory critical basic constraints: CA=True, path length unlimited or at
least 1.
### 6.1.3 SEG Certificate profile
SEG certificates shall be directly signed by the SEG CA in the operator domain
that the SEG belongs to. Any SEG shall use exactly one certificate to identify
itself within the NDS/AF.
In addition to clause 6.1.1 and the provisions of RFC4945 [15], the following
requirements apply:
\- Issuer name is the same as the subject name in the SEG CA certificate.
\- Extensions:
\- Optionally non critical authority key identifier;
\- Optionally non critical subject key identifier;
\- Mandatory non-critical subjectAltName;
\- Mandatory critical key usage: At least digitalSignature or nonRepudiation
bits shall be set;
\- Mandatory non-critical Distribution points: CRL distribution point;
NOTE: Depending on the availability of DNS between peer SEGs, the following
rule is applied:
\- subjectAltName should contain IP address (in case DNS is not available);
\- subjectAltName should contain FQDN (in case DNS is available).
### 6.1.3a TLS entity certificate profile
TLS client certificates shall be directly signed by the TLS client CA in the
operator domain that the TLS client belongs to. TLS server certificates shall
be directly signed by the TLS server CA in the operator domain that the TLS
server belongs to.
In addition to clause 6.1.1, the following requirements apply:
\- For SIP domain certificates, the recommendations in RFC 5922 [21] and RFC
5924 [22] should be followed.
\- Issuer name is the same as the subject name in the TLS CA certificate.
\- Extensions:
\- Optionally non critical authority key identifier;
\- Optionally non critical subject key identifier;
\- Mandatory critical key usage: At least digitalSignature or keyEncipherment
shall be set; According to RFC 8446 [49] keyAgreement shall be set on Diffie-
Hellman certificates;
\- Optional non-critical extended key usage: If present, at least id-kp-
serverAuth shall be set for TLS server certificates, and at least id-kp-
clientAuth shall be set for TLS client certificates;
\- Mandatory non-critical Distribution points: CRL distribution point.
### 6.1.3b NE Certificate profile
NE certificates shall be directly signed by the NE CA in the operator domain
that the NE belongs to. Any NE shall use exactly one certificate to identify
itself within the NDS/AF.
The same requirements as listed in section 6.1.3 apply.
### 6.1.3c SBA Certificate profile
#### 6.1.3c.1 Introduction
Clause 6.1.3c profiles the certificates to be used for 5GC Service Based
Architecture (SBA).
Different TLS entity certificate profile requirements may be applied to intra-
domain and/or inter-domain SBA for NF producers, NF consumers and NRF
instances, Service Communication Proxy (SCP) nodes, and Security Edge
Protection Proxy (SEPP) nodes applicable to 3GPP 5GC roaming. A separate TLS
entity certificate profile is also needed to cover the usage of the
certificates issued by the InterconnectionCA(s) for inter-domain SBA context
for TLS connections between SEPP nodes. Furthermore, separate TLS entity
certificate profile requirements may be applied for Service Communication
Proxy (SCP) needed for 3GPP 5GC SBA Indirect Communication model architectural
Options C and D.
#### 6.1.3c.2 General SBA Certificate profile
The following additions and deviations to the common profiles shall hold for
all SBA-related entities (NFs, SCPs, SEPPs):
\- Signature algorithm: RSAEncryption need not be supported.
\- ECDSA is recommended for TLS entity certificates with 5GC Service Based
Architecture (SBA).
#### 6.1.3c.3 NF Certificate profile
TLS certificates shall be directly signed by the CA in the operator domain
that the entity belongs to.
NOTE: RFC 6125 [52] describes guidelines and procedures for representing and
verifying the identity of application service using X.509 PKIX certificates
with TLS. It mandates use of subjectAltName entries (DNS-ID, SRV-ID, URI-ID,
etc.) over the use of the subject field (CN-ID) where available. Furthermore,
it is stated that a client does not seek a match for a reference identifier of
CN-ID if the presented identifiers include a DNS-ID, SRV-ID, URI-ID, or any
application-specific identifier types supported by the client. Additionally,
CA-browser forum [58] has the following requirement on the CN-ID: if CN-ID is
present, this field contains exactly one entry that is one of the values
contained in the Certificate's subjectAltName extension.
In addition to clause 6.1.1 and the provisions of RFC 5280 [14] the following
table captures the certificate profile for NF:
Table 6.1.3c.3-1: NF TLS Client and Server Certificate Profile
+-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | NF TLS | | | | | | Client and | | | | | | Server | | | | | | Certificate | | | | | | Profile | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | Version | v3 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | Serial | Unique | | | | | Number | Positive | | | | | | Integer in | | | | | | the context | | | | | | of the | | | | | | issuing | | | | | | Root CA and | | | | | | not longer | | | | | | than 20 | | | | | | octets. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | Subject DN | C= | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | | | O= Home | | | | | | Domain Name | | | | | | (e.g., in | | | | | | \ | | | | | | "5gc.mnc\.mcc\.3gppne | | | | | | twork.org\" | | | | | | format) as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause 28.2 | | | | | | of TS | | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | | [55]) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | Validity | 3 years or | | | | | Period | less | | | | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | Signature | See clause | | | | | | 6.1.1 for | | | | | | the list of | | | | | | supported | | | | | | signature | | | | | | algorithms. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | Subject | See clause | | | | | Public Key | 6.1.1 for | | | | | Info | the list of | | | | | | supported | | | | | | public key | | | | | | types. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | Extensions | OID | Mandatory | Criticality | Value | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | keyUsage | {id-ce 15} | TRUE | TRUE | digit | | | | | | alSignature | | | | | | for TLS | | | | | | clients and | | | | | | servers | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | exten | {id-ce 37} | TRUE | FALSE | id-kp | | dedKeyUsage | | | | -clientAuth | | | | | | TLS clients | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | id-kp | | | | | | -serverAuth | | | | | | for TLS | | | | | | servers | | | | | | | | | | | | NF that may | | | | | | be both | | | | | | client and | | | | | | server | | | | | | shall have | | | | | | both OIDs | | | | | | set. | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | authorityKe | {id-ce 35} | TRUE | FALSE | This shall | | yIdentifier | | | | be the same | | | | | | as | | | | | | subjectKe | | | | | | yIdentifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Issuer's | | | | | | c | | | | | | ertificate. | | | | | | CA shall | | | | | | utilitize | | | | | | the method | | | | | | (1) as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 4.2.1.2 of | | | | | | RFC 5280 | | | | | | [14] to | | | | | | generate | | | | | | the value | | | | | | for this | | | | | | extension. | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | subjectKe | {id-ce 14} | FALSE | FALSE | This shall | | yIdentifier | | | | be | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | by the | | | | | | issuing CA | | | | | | utilitizing | | | | | | the method | | | | | | (1) as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 4.2.1.2 of | | | | | | RFC 5280 | | | | | | [14] to | | | | | | generate | | | | | | the value | | | | | | for this | | | | | | extension. | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | cRLDistri | {id-ce 31} | TRUE | FALSE | distri | | butionPoint | | | | butionPoint | | | | | | | | | | | | Ac cording | | | | | | to RFC 5280 | | | | | | [14] this | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | if the CRL | | | | | | is | | | | | | available | | | | | | for | | | | | | retrieval | | | | | | using | | | | | | access | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | and | | | | | | location | | | | | | with LDAP | | | | | | or HTTP | | | | | | URI. | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | sub | {id-ce 17} | TRUE | TRUE | Multiple | | jectAltName | | | | sub | | | | | | jectAltName | | | | | | entries can | | | | | | be used as | | | | | | a sequence, | | | | | | see below | | | | | | for the | | | | | | detailed | | | | | | in | | | | | | structions. | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | nfTypes | {id-pe 34} | TRUE | FALSE | id | | | | | | -pe-nftypes | | | | | | specified | | | | | | in RFC 9310 | | | | | | [60] | | | | | | enables | | | | | | including | | | | | | Network | | | | | | Function | | | | | | types | | | | | | (NFTypes) | | | | | | for the 5G | | | | | | System in | | | | | | X.509 v3 | | | | | | public key | | | | | | ce | | | | | | rtificates. | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | authorit | {id-pe 1} | FALSE | FALSE | id-a | | yInfoAccess | | | | d-caIssuers | | | | | | | | | | | | According | | | | | | to RFC 5280 | | | | | | [14] | | | | | | id-a | | | | | | d-caIssuers | | | | | | describes | | | | | | the | | | | | | referenced | | | | | | description | | | | | | server and | | | | | | the access | | | | | | protocol | | | | | | and | | | | | | location, | | | | | | for | | | | | | example, | | | | | | using one | | | | | | or multiple | | | | | | HTTP and/or | | | | | | LDAP URIs. | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | id-ad-ocsp | | | | | | | | | | | | According | | | | | | to RFC 5280 | | | | | | [14] | | | | | | id-ad-ocsp | | | | | | defines the | | | | | | location of | | | | | | the OCSP | | | | | | responder | | | | | | using HTTP | | | | | | URI. | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+ | TLS feature | {id-pe 24} | FALSE | FALSE | id-pe | | extension | | | | -tlsfeature | | | | | | | | | | | | This can be | | | | | | used | | | | | | according | | | | | | to RFC 7633 | | | | | | [53] to | | | | | | prevent | | | | | | downgrade | | | | | | attacks | | | | | | that are | | | | | | not | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | prevented | | | | | | by the TLS | | | | | | protocol; | | | | | | also to be | | | | | | used with | | | | | | OCSP | | | | | | stapling | | | | | | with TLS | | | | | | server | | | | | | end-entity | | | | | | ce | | | | | | rtificates. | +-------------+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+
With (intra-domain) SBA, the following rules are applied:
\- subjectAltName should (in TLS client and server certificates) contain a
URI-ID with the URI for the NF Instance ID as an URN; this URI-ID shall
contain the nfInstanceID of the Network Function instance using the format of
the NFInstanceId as described in clause 5.3.2 of TS 29.571 [57].
NOTE 1: Since the format of the NF instance ID according to clause 5.3.2 of TS
29.571 [57] is a universally unique identifier (UUID), the URN formed using
the UUID is the string \"urn:uuid:\" followed by a hexadecimal representation
of the UUID. For example, \"urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6\" is
the string representation of the NF Instance ID
\"f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6\" as a URN.
\- subjectAltName should (in TLS server certificates) contain URI-ID with the
HTTPS URI(s) for the apiRoot of a Network Function producer instance for the
NF service API(s) that it provides; using wildcard URIs should be avoided;
\- subjectAltName should (in TLS server certificates) contain DNS-ID with the
FQDN(s) (host DNS name) of the NF service callback URI(s) that a Network
Function consumer instance provides; the rules for using wildcard certificates
in DNS-ID are described in RFC 6125 [51].
\- subjectAltName should (in TLS client certificates) or shall (for TLS server
certificates) contain a DNS-ID with the FQDN (host DNS name) for the Network
Function instance, for example, using the instructions for Network Function
(host DNS) names in FQDN format as used for Network Function producers in
NFProfile and/or in NFService profile according to clause 6.1.6.2 in TS 29.510
[56], and in general as described in clause 28.3 of TS 23.003 [55] (regardless
if DNS is available or not); for AMF, this is the AMF Name as described in
clause 28.3.2.5 of TS 23.003 [55]; for NRF, this is the NRF FQDN as described
in clause 28.3.2.3.2 of TS 23.003 [55]; the rules for using wildcard
certificates in DNS-ID are defined in RFC 6125 [51].
NOTE 2: RFC 7540 [50] mandates using the Server Name Indication (SNI)
extension to TLS with HTTP/2. RFC 6066 [51], which is applicable to TLS 1.2,
defines that currently only server names supported in SNI extension to TLS are
DNS hostnames where \"HostName\" contains the fully qualified DNS hostname
(FQDN) of the TLS server. RFC 6066 [51] also defines that literal IPv4 and
IPv6 addresses are not permitted in \"HostName\". In practice, this means that
at least one subjectAltName attribute with FQDN is to be included in server-
side TLS end-entity certificates.
\- nfTypes shall (in TLS client and server certificates) contain NF type for
the Network Function instance formatted according to RFC 9310 [60] using the
Enumerated NF Type format according to clause 6.1.6.3.3 of TS 29.510 [56].
NOTE 3: Void
\- subjectAltName shall not contain only IP address in TLS server
certificates;
Editor's Note: It is ffs whether subjectAltName contains URI for the NF
Instance ID mandatory or optional in the TLS client and server certificates.
NOTE 4: Void
#### 6.1.3c.4 SCP certificate profile
TLS certificates shall be directly signed by the CA in the operator domain
that the SCP entity belongs to.
The same requirements to the NF certificate profile as listed in clause
6.1.3c.3 apply, except for the following requirements:
\- The following requirement is not applicable: \"subjectAltName should (in
TLS server certificates) contain URI-ID with the HTTPS URI(s) for the apiRoot
of a Network Function producer instance for the NF service API(s) that it
provides; using wildcard URIs should be avoided\";
\- The following requirement is not applicable: \"subjectAltName should (in
TLS server certificates) contain DNS-ID with the FQDN(s) (host DNS name) of
the NF service callback URI(s) that a Network Function consumer instance
provides; the rules for using wildcard certificates in DNS-ID are described in
RFC 6125 [51]\".
#### 6.1.3c.5 SEPP certificate profiles
##### 6.1.3c.5.1 Introduction
The TLS certificate requirements on the SEPP depend on whether the certificate
is used in intra-domain or inter-domain cases.
SEPP intra-domain certificate profile requirements are applied for SEPP when
connecting to other NFs/SCPs/SEPPs in the same operator domain. For example,
it is applied for SEPP when providing the Nsepp_Telescopic_FQDN_Mapping
service to the NFs/SEPPs in the same operator domain.
SEPP inter-domain certificate profile requirements are applied for SEPP when
connecting to SEPPs in other operator domains.
##### 6.1.3c.5.2 SEPP intra-domain certificate profile
TLS certificates used between a SEPP and other NFs/SCPs/SEPPs in the same
operator domain shall be directly signed by the root CA or an intermediate CA
whose certificate has a valid certificate chain up to this root CA in the
operator domain that the SEPP entity belongs to.
The NF certificate profile requirements in clause 6.1.3c.2 and 6.1.3c.3 apply
for SEPP intra-domain certificate profiles.
##### 6.1.3c.5.3 SEPP inter-domain certificate profile
###### 6.1.3c.5.3.0 General
The SEPP inter-domain certificate is used when a SEPP interconnects to other
SEPPs in the different network domain, e.g., a PLMN or a SNPN.
###### 6.1.3c.5.3.1 SEPP inter-domain certificate profile for inter-PLMN
In general, the same requirements to the NF certificate profile as listed in
clause 6.1.3c.2 and 6.1.3c.3 apply for SEPP inter-domain certificate profiles,
except for the the contents of the Subject DN field as well as the
subjectAltName field.
For inter-PLMN domain N32 certificates, the contents of the Subject DN field
as well as the subjectAltName field are specified in GSMA FS.34 [59].
###### 6.1.3c.5.3.2 SEPP inter-domain certificate profile for inter-SNPN
For inter-SNPN domain N32 certificates, the SEPP certificates shall include
all PLMN IDs and Network identifiers (NIDs) identify the SNPN in SAN fields as
DNS name for where it runs the N32 connection, and the subjectAltName field
SHALL be structured as
\.sepp. 5gc.nid\.mnc\.mcc\.3gppnetwork.org
where SEPP-id is the SEPP ID as specified in the TS 33.501 [61], and NID is
the Network Identifier as specified in the TS 23.003 [55].
### 6.1.4 SEG CA certificate profile
In addition to clause 6.1.1, the following requirements apply:
\- Subject name is the same as the issuer name in the SEG certificate;
\- Issuer name depends on the usage of the certificates issued by the SEG CA:
\- if used for interconnections between security domains with different root
CAs the issuer name is the same as the subject name in the Interconnection CA
certificate;
\- if used for connections with elements having the same root CA certificate
installed as used in the domain the SEG CA is located in, the issuer name is
the subject name of either this root CA or an intermediate CA whose
certificate has a valid certificate chain up to this root CA;
\- Extensions:
\- Optionally non critical authority key identifier;
\- Optionally non critical subject key identifier;
\- Mandatory critical key usage: At least keyCertSign and cRLSign, should be
asserted;
\- Mandatory critical basic constraints: CA=True, path length 0.
### 6.1.4a TLS client/server CA certificate profile
In addition to clause 6.1.1, the following requirements apply:
\- Subject name is the same as the issuer name in the TLS entity certificate;
\- Issuer name depends on the usage of the certificates issued by the TLS
client/server CA:
\- if used for interconnections between security domains with different root
CAs the issuer name is the same as the subject name in the Interconnection CA
certificate;
\- if used for connections with elements having the same root CA certificate
installed as used in the domain the TLS client/server CA is located in, the
issuer name is the subject name of either this root CA or an intermediate CA
whose certificate has a valid certificate chain up to this root CA;
\- if used for TLS clients with certificates not issued by an operator CA, the
issuer name is the subject name of either a root CA trusted by the operator or
an intermediate CA whose certificate has a valid certificate chain up to a
root CA trusted by the operator;
\- Extensions:
\- Optionally non critical authority key identifier;
\- Optionally non critical subject key identifier;
\- Mandatory critical key usage: At least keyCertSign and cRLSign, should be
asserted;
\- Mandatory critical basic constraints: CA=True, path length 0.
### 6.1.4b NE CA certificate profile
The same requirements as listed in section 6.1.4 apply except that there is no
restriction in the issuer name.
## 6.1a CRL profile
\- Version 2 CRL according to RFC5280 [14].
\- Hash algorithm for use before signing CRL: SHA-256 shall be supported
SHA-384 should be supported, MD5 MD2, and SHA-1 shall not be supported.
NOTE: Void.
\- Signature algorithm: RSAEncryption and ecdsa shall be supported.
RSAEncryption is not recommended as it uses PKCS#1v1.5 padding.
> \- Parameters: For ecdsa, secp256r1 shall be supported, secp384r1 should be
> supported.
\- ECDSA is recommended for newly created CRLs.
\- The security level of the public key used to sign the CRL shall be at least
the same as the public keys used to sign the revoked certificates.
\- For RSA: The key length shall be at least 2048-bit. A key length of at
least 4096-bit shall be supported. Key lengths of less than 2048-bit shall not
be supported. PKCS#1v1.5 padding and key lengths less than 3072-bits should
not be used in certificates that expire after 2030.
\- For ECDSA: Except curve25519, ed25519, and W-25519, elliptic curve groups
of less than 256 bits shall not be supported. A key length of at least 384-bit
shall be supported.
NOTE 1: In practice, certificates often have a long lifetime, for example
about ten years. The use of RSA with PKCS#1v1.5 padding and key lengths less
than 3072-bits is planned to be prohibited by several organisations no later
than 2030.
CRL retrieval with LDAPv3 [5] shall be supported as the primary method. HTTP
may be used for checking the revocation status of TLS and NE certificates.
## 6.2 IKE negotiation and profiling
For certificate based establishment of IPsec SAs between NDS/IP elements, the
IKE profile in this clause shall be used.
### 6.2.1 Void
### 6.2.1b IKEv2 profile
The following requirements on certificate based IKEv2 authentication in
addition to those specified in NDS/IP [1] shall be applied:
For the IKE_INIT_SA and IKE_AUTH exchanges:
\- Following algorithms shall be supported:
\- Authentication: Method 1 - RSA Digital Signature [42];
\- Implementations shall support signatures that use SHA-256, should support
signatures that use SHA-384, and shall not support signatures that use SHA-1.
Implementations should use SHA-256 as the default hash function when
generating signatures.
\- Usage of Method 1 is not recommended as it uses PKCS#1v1.5 padding.
\- Hash Algorithm Notification [43]
\- Implementations shall support SHA2-256, should support SHA2-384, and shall
not support SHA1.
\- Authentication: Method 14 - Digital Signature [43].
\- Implementations shall support ecdsa-with-sha256 and should support ecdsa-
with-sha384, and should support RSASSA-PSS with SHA-256. Implementations shall
not support sha1WithRSAEncryption, dsa-with-sha1, ecdsa-with-sha1, RSASSA-PSS
with Empty Parameters, and RSASSA-PSS with Default Parameters.
\- The identity of the CERT payload (including the end entity certificate)
shall be used for policy checks;
\- Initiating/responding end entities are required to send certificate
requests in the IKE_INIT_SA exchange for the responder and in the IKE_AUTH
exchange for the initiator;
\- Cross-certificates shall not be sent by the peer end entity as they are
pre-configured in the end entity;
\- The certificates in the certificate payload shall be encoded as type 4
(X.509 Certificate -- Signature);
\- An end entity shall rekey the IKE SA when any used end entity certificate
expires.
NOTE 2: Depending on the availability of DNS between peer end entities, the
following rule is applied:
\- subjectAltName and IKEv2 policy should both contain IP address (in case DNS
is not available);
\- subjectAltName and IKEv2 policy should both contain FQDN (in case DNS is
available).
### 6.2.2 Potential interoperability issues
Some PKI-capable VPN gateways do not support fragmentation of IKE packets,
which becomes an issue when more than one certificate is sent in the
certificate payloads, forcing IKE packet fragmentation. This means that direct
cross-certification or manually importing the peer CA certificate to the local
SEG and trusting it is preferable to bridge CA systems. When IKE is run over
pure IPv6 the typical MTU sizes do not increase and long packets still have to
be fragmented (allowed for end UDP hosts even for IPv6, see Path MTU Discovery
for IPv6 -- RFC 8201 [48), so this is a potential interoperability issue.
Certificate encoding with PKCS#7 is supported by some PKI-capable VPN
gateways, but it shall not be used.
## 6.2a TLS profiling
For 3GPP uses of TLS for inter-operator security, the TLS profile in this
clause shall be used.
### 6.2a.1 TLS profile
The following requirements are mandatory:
\- The TLS server shall always send its own end entity certificate in the
ServerCertificate message;
\- The TLS client shall send its own end entity certificate in the Certificate
message if requested by the TLS server;
\- Cross-certificates shall not be sent by the TLS entities in the TLS
handshake as they are available locally to the TLS entities.
### 6.2a.2 Potential interoperability issues
No general interoperability issues are identified.
## 6.3 Path validation
### 6.3.1 Path validation profiling
\- Validity of certificates received from the peer end entity shall be
verified by CRLs retrieved via the mechanisms specified in section 6.1.1,
based on the CRL Distribution Point in the certificates.
\- Validity of certificates received from the TLS entity shall be verified by
CRLs retrieved via the mechanisms specified in section 6.1.1, based on the CRL
Distribution Point in the certificates.
\- Any NE, SEG or TLS entity shall not validate received certificates from a
peer entity whose validity time has expired, but end the path validation with
a negative result.
\- Any NE, SEG shall not validate received certificates from a peer entity
whose CRL distribution point field is empty, but end the path validation with
a negative result.
\- Certificate validity calculation results shall not be cached in a SEGs or
NEs for longer than the lifetime enforced by the end entity.
\- Certificate validity calculation results shall not be cached in TLS
entities for longer than the TLS connection lifetime.
# 7 Detailed description of architecture and mechanisms
## 7.1 Repositories
During secure connection establishment, each NE, SEG or TLS entity has to
verify the validity of its peer\'s certificate according to clause 5.2.2. Any
certificate could be invalid because it was revoked (and replaced by a new
one) or a NE, SEG, TLS entity or operator has been deregistered.
Consider secure connection establishment between Peer~A~ in network A and
Peer~B~ in network B.
Peer~B~ has to verify that:
a) the cross-certificate of the Peer~A~\'s CA~A~ is still valid;
b) the certificate of Peer~A~ is still valid,
and be able to:
c) fetch the cross-certificate of Peer~A~ CA~A~ (if not found in Peer~A~ \'s
cache or local store).
Peer~A~ performs the same checks from its own perspective.
Check a) can be performed by querying the local CRL. For check b), a CRL of
the Peer~A~\'s CA shall be queried. At this point of time, the secure
connection is not yet available, therefore the public CRL of the Peer~A~\'s CA
shall be accessible without relying on a secure connection.
Figure 4 and Figure 4a illustrate the repositories and the above-mentioned
steps a) -- c). The local Certificate Repository (CR) contains cross-
certificates for SEG CAs and possibly cross-certificates for TLS CAs if these
are not locally stored in the TLS entities. Local CRLs contains SEG CA and TLS
CA cross-certificate revocations, and the public CRL contains revocations of
SEG, TLS entity, SEG CA, and TLS CA certificates, and can be accessed by other
operators.
An operator\'s internal repository may contain the revocations of NE and NE CA
if not contained in the Public CRL repository.
Figure 4: Repositories for NDS/IP to support Za interface
{width="6.222222222222222in" height="5.307638888888889in"}
Figure 5: Repositories for TLS case
Figure 6: Repositories for NDS/IP to support Zb interface
If the SEG CA, TLS CA or Interconnection CA are combined then the public and
local repositories of the CA may be implemented as separate databases or as a
single database which is accessible via two different interfaces. Access to
the \"public\" CRL is public with respect to the interconnecting transport
network (e.g. GRX). The public CRL should be adequately protected (e.g by a
firewall) and the owner of the public CRL may limit access to it according to
his interconnect agreements. Access to a public CRL database does not need to
be secured.
NOTE 1: First it is not necessary to secure access to the CRL database as the
retrieved CRL is integrity protected and contains no confidential information.
Secondly access via an unprotected interface is anyhow necessary in case no
currently valid security association is available to access the public CRL
database.
SEGs shall use LDAP to access the CRL and cross-certificate repositories. TLS
entities shall use LDAP or HTTP to access the CRL repositories. TLS entities
may use LDAP to access the cross-certificate repositories, if the cross
certificates are not stored locally in the TLS entity. NE\'s may use LDAP or
HTTP to access the CRL repositories.
NOTE 2: Interfaces a) and c) for locating the data used to establish secure
communications between operators belong to the scope of NDS/AF (in addition to
public b) interface) as the purpose is to guarantee the interoperability
between different SEGs, TLS entities and repository implementations. The
possible migration to the cross-certification with a Bridge CA would also
require these interfaces to be specified.
## 7.2 Life cycle management
Certificate Management Protocol v2 (CMPv2) [4] shall be the supported protocol
to provide certificate lifecycle management capabilities for SEGs. All SEGs
and SEG CAs shall support initial enrolment by the SEG to the SEG CA via
CMPv2, i.e. receiving a certificate from the SEG CA, and updating the key of
the certificate via CMPv2 before the certificate expires.
Certificate Management Protocol v2 (CMPv2) [4] should be the supported
protocol to provide certificate lifecycle management capabilities for TLS
entities. All TLS entities and TLS CAs should support initial enrolment by the
TLS entity to the TLS CA via CMPv2, i.e. receiving a certificate from the TLS
CA, and updating the key of the certificate via CMPv2 before the certificate
expires.
Certificate Management Protocol v2 (CMPv2) [4] shall be the supported protocol
to provide certificate lifecycle management capabilities for NEs. All NEs and
NE CAs shall support initial enrolment by the NE to the NE CA via CMPv2, i.e.
receiving a certificate from the NE CA, and updating the key of the
certificate via CMPv2 before the certificate expires.
Enrolling a certificate to a SEG, NE or TLS entity is an operation that may be
done more often than inter-operator cross-certifications, thus more automation
could be required by the operator than is possible with a PKCS#10 approach.
However, also manual SEG and NE certificate installation using PKCS#10 formats
shall be supported. It should be also noted that the lifetime of a SEG CA
cross-certificate is considerably longer than the lifetime of a SEG
certificate.
NOTE: CMPv2 is preferred to CMPv1 (specified in obsoleted RFC 2510), because
of the interoperability issues with CMPv1.
## 7.3 Cross-certification
Both operators use the following procedure to create a SEG CA or TLS CA cross-
certificate:
1\. The SEG CA or TLS CA creates a PKCS#10 certificate request, and sends it
to the other operator;
2\. The Interconnection CA receives a similar request from the other operator;
3\. The Interconnection CA accepts the request and creates a new cross-
certificate;
4\. The SEG CA cross-certificate is stored once into the local CR of the
Interconnection CA and LDAP is used to fetch cross-certificates. The TLS CA
cross-certificate may be stored once into the local CR of the Interconnection
CA and LDAP is used to fetch cross-certificates. Alternatively the TLS CA
cross certificate may be locally stored in the TLS entities.
## 7.4 Revoking a SEG/TLS CA cross-certificate
The following procedure is used to revoke a SEG CA cross-certificate:
1\. The cross-certificate is added into the Interconnection CA\'s CRL;
2\. The cross-certificate is removed from the Interconnection CA\'s CR.
The following procedure is used to revoke a TLS CA cross-certificate:
1\. The cross-certificate is added into the Interconnection CA\'s CRL;
2\. If the TLS CA cross certificates are stored in the Interconnection CA\'s
CR, then the cross-certificate is removed.
3\. If the TLS CA cross-certificates are stored locally in the TLS entities,
then the locally stored cross-certificates are deleted in the TLS entities.
## 7.5 Establishing secure connections between NDS/IP end entities using IKE
on the Za interface
Certificate based authentication during the IKEv2 IKE_INIT_SA/IKE_AUTH
exchanges is shown in figure 4 above. The SEGa uses the following procedure to
authenticate SEGb:
1\. SEGa requests SEGb\'s certificate using the CERTREQ payload;
2\. SEGa receives SEGb\'s certificate inside the CERT payload;
3\. SEGa authenticates SEGb (verifies signatures);
4\. SEGa fetches a CRL from the (public) CRL database of SEG CAb if the
locally cached CRL has expired;
5\. SEGa uses this CRL to verify the status of SEGb\'s certificate;
6\. SEGa uses either the locally cached cross-certificate or fetches the
cross-certificate from the (local) Interconnection CAa CR to verify SEGb\'s
certificate;
7\. SEGa fetches a CRL from the (local) Interconnection CAa CRL if the locally
cached CRL has expired;
8\. SEGa uses this CRL to verify the status of the SEG CA cross-certificate;
9\. SEG A verifies the cross-certificate for Operator B\'s SEG CA using
Operator A\'s Interconnection CA\'s certificate. SEGa verifies the status of
the Interconnection CAa certificate if the Interconnection CAa is not a top-
level CA, otherwise Interconnection CAa is implicitly trusted;
NOTE: If the local SEG CA public key is securely installed on every SEG within
an operator\'s domain, then a cross-certificate does not need to be checked
when SEGa and SEGb belong to the same operator\'s domain.
## 7.5a Establishing secure connections using TLS
The procedure for establishing secure connections using TLS is specified in
detail in clause 5.2.2.
## 7.5b Establishing secure connections between NDS/IP entities on the Zb
interface
The procedure for establishing secure connections using NDS/IP on the Zb
interface is specified in detail in clause 5.2.2.
## 7.6 CRL management
NDS/AF compliant SEGs and NEs shall not send an ISAKMP CERTREQ where the
Certificate Type is \"Certificate Revocation List (CRL)\". Receiving NEs and
SEGs may ignore this request as section 6.1.3 specifies that CRLs shall be
retrieved via a CRL distribution point.
The CRL issuer (which is in most cases the CA) shall only issue full CRLs. The
use of delta CRLs is not allowed because of possible interoperability problems
and because in the NDS/AF environment the full CRL is not expected to grow too
large. The full CRL shall only contain revoked certificates applicable for use
within NDS/AF. The CRL issuer shall issue a CRL also in cases that there are
no revoked certificates. A SEG, NE or TLS entity is not obliged to query for a
CRL via the CRL Distribution Point if a cached one is still available and
valid. If no valid cached CRL is available, the NE, SEG or TLS entity shall
fetch a new CRL. If no valid CRL can be fetched, the NE, SEG or TLS entity
shall treat this as an error and cancel tunnel establishment.
# 8 Backward compatibility for NDS/IP NE\'s and SEGs
NDS/IP describes an authentication framework whereby the initial IKEv2
authentication is based on the Pre-shared Secret Key (PSK) authentication
method. NDS/AF describes an optional authentication framework which enables
NDS/IP end entities (NEs and SEGs) to perform the initial IKEv2 authentication
based on signatures. An NDS/AF compliant end entity shall also contain NDS/IP
functionality. However, an NDS/IP compliant end entity need not contain NDS/AF
functionality unless specifically mandated by TS 33.210[1] or any other 3GPP
specification.
Device-specific management has to be used to reconfigure an end entity such
that NDS/AF functionality will be used at the IKE initiator side for the
initial IKE authentication (IKEv2 IKE_INIT_SA/IKE_AUTH exchange). The
transition towards NDS/AF-based authentication may be done on an end entity by
end entity basis. Before the first NDS/AF end entity is taken into use it
shall be assured that all needed NDS/AF functionality like CRs, CRL databases
are available and working. The setting up of a NDS/AF-based IPsec tunnel can
be tested in parallel to the protection of existing traffic using the PSK
authentication method.
A smooth migration may be done in the following way:
\- a NDS/AF end entity shall provide several algorithm proposal\'s during IKE
initial authentication, some based on signature authentication, others based
on the PSK authentication;
\- the responding IKE peer will select PSK authentication method if it does
not support signature authentication methods, but it may select a signature
authentication method if it complies with NDS/AF.
\- the IKE responder policy shall be configured such that the signature
authentication methods shall take precedence over the PSK authentication
method to ensure that it is used as soon as the IKE initiator proposes a
signature authentication method.
In case of migration on the Za-interface between two operators:
If the SEGs of both operators support NDS/AF-based authentication then both
SEG settings may be changed. The pre-shared secrets may then be removed from
the SEGs and the IKE initiator shall only use the RSA signature authentication
method. However, this removal of PSK is not essential as it may be used as a
fallback mechanism. Some care has to be taken that the policy between SEGs of
different operators be coordinated otherwise this may result in failed tunnel
set up. This would be the case if the initiating IKE peer only uses the RSA
signature authentication method and the responding IKE peer only accepts the
PSK authentication method. Furthermore, if the PSK is kept as a fallback
mechanism after the RSA signature authentication method is introduced, then
fallback to PSK should only be allowed if the operator makes a policy change
in the SEGs to allow PSK to be used. The operator may temporarily allow
fallback to PSK if, for example, the SEGs are unable to verify the necessary
certificates because of problems with the PKI. If PSK is kept as a fallback
then it may be necessary to renew the PSK periodically for security reasons,
or if PSK compromise is suspected.
# 9 Certificate enrolment for base stations
## 9.1 General
The clause specifies certificate enrolment mechanisms for backhaul security.
The decision on whether or not to apply the mechanisms is left to other 3GPP
specifications.
## 9.2 Architecture
Figure 7 shows the general deployment architecture for certificate enrolment
of a base station at an operator PKI.
Figure 7: Overview of the security architecture
The base station is pre-provisioned with a public-private key pair by the
vendor, and has the vendor-signed certificate of its public key pre-installed.
As RA/CA, an operator may deploy:
\- either a stand-alone CA implementing a CMPv2 server,
\- or, a CA having delegated certain tasks to an RA, which is in this case
operating the CMPv2 server.
On initial contact to the operator network the base station establishes a
communication channel to the RA/CA of the operator. Using CMPv2 [4] a request
for a certificate is sent to the RA/CA. The network authenticates the messages
from the base station based on the vendor-signed certificate of the base
station and the vendor root certificate pre-installed in the network. The base
station shall check the integrity protection on the messages from the RA/CA
based on the operator root certificate provisioned in the base station. In a
response message the base station receives the operator-signed certificate.
During the execution of the CMPv2 protocol the base station has to
successfully provide a Proof of Possession of the private key associated to
the public key to be certified.
The operator root certificate may be provisioned in the base station prior to
or during the CMPv2 protocol run. The protection of the operator root
certificate during provisioning may be decided by operator security policy. If
an operator root certificate provisioned prior to the CMPv2 protocol run is
available the base station shall use it. Otherwise, the base station shall use
the operator root certificate provisioned during the CMPv2 run. If no operator
root certificate is provisioned at all then the base station shall abort the
procedure.
After enrolment has been performed, the base station can use the operator-
signed certificate to authenticate itself to the SEG of the operator, which is
pre-installed with the operator root certificate. The base station then
authenticates the SEG using the operator root certificate.
NOTE: The authentication towards the SEG is part of the normal usage of IPsec-
based backhaul security according to TS 33.210 [1].
If at later stage of base station deployment the operator wants to renew the
base station certificate, the same procedure will be executed with the old
operator-signed certificate of the base station taking the place of the
vendor-signed certificate in the initial enrolment.
## 9.3 Security Mechanisms
The enrolment of base stations shall use the CMPv2 protocol as specified in
RFC 4210 [4] and RFC 4211 [19]. The proof-of-possession methods as given by
[4] and [19] shall be used.
The profiling of CMPv2 for the purpose of base station enrolment is given in
subclause 9.5 of the present document.
## 9.4 Certificate Profiles
### 9.4.1 General
All certificates used during the enrolment process of base stations shall
follow the requirements given in clause 6 of the present document. Profiling
and exceptions are specified in the following subclauses.
### 9.4.2 Vendor Root CA Certificate
The root certificate of the vendor root CA shall follow the requirements given
in subclause 6.1.2 for interconnection CA certificate profiles, with the
following exceptions:
\- the vendor shall support distribution of certificate revocation
information. The interface to provide revocation data is out of scope of the
present document.
### 9.4.3 Vendor CA Certificate
If the vendor does not sign the base station certificate by its vendor root
CA, the certificate of the CA signing the base station certificates and of any
intermediate vendor CA shall follow the requirements given in subclause 6.1.4
for SEG CA certificate profiles, with the following exceptions:
\- the issuer name shall be the name of any vendor CA, given that the
resulting chain of certificates starting with the base station certificates
leads to the vendor root CA;
\- the path length shall be greater than 0 for the certificate of an
intermediate CA not directly signing the vendor base station certificates;
\- the CRL distribution point extension in the certificate shall be optional;
\- the provisions on distribution of certificate revocation information given
in subclause 9.4.2 shall apply.
### 9.4.4 Vendor Base Station Certificate
The base station certificate signed by a vendor CA shall follow the
requirements given in subclause 6.1.3b for NE certificate profiles, with the
following exceptions:
\- the issuer name is the name of the vendor CA signing the base station
certificate;
\- the subject name shall be a globally unique fully qualified domain name
(FQDN) given by the vendor. The exact definition of this FQDN is left to the
vendor, given that the vendor ensures global uniqueness. The format of the
subject name shall follow subclause 6.1.1 using the variant with an o
attribute and a cn attribute, where the o attribute shall contain the vendor
name, and the cn attribute shall contain the FQDN.
\- the subjectAltName with type dNSName shall contain the same FQDN as the
subject field;
NOTE 1: Availability of DNS is not required for the FQDN in the certificate.
NOTE 2: An example for the vendor base station FQDN is
\.\.com. Note that all labels comply with the
requirements for labels in FQDNs (cf. RFC 1035 [25]). The representation in
the subject field would be \"o=\,
cn=\.\.com\".
\- the provisions on the CRL distribution point extension in the certificate
and on distribution of certificate revocation information given in subclause
9.4.3 shall apply.
### 9.4.5 Operator Root CA Certificate
The root certificate of the operator root CA shall follow the requirements
given in subclause 6.1.2 for interconnection CA certificate profiles.
### 9.4.6 Operator RA/CA Certificate
If operating a standalone CA, the operator may deploy separate private keys
for signing certificates and for signing the CMP messages or he may use one
single private key for both purposes. In consequence the CA may have two or
one certificate(s) being actively utilized in this transaction.
The operator may utilize a CA for signing certificates and delegate operation
of the CMPv2 server to an RA. If RA and CA are different entities, the private
keys as well as the subject names of the certificates used by the CA for
signing base station certificates and by the RA for signing CMP messages are
different.
The CA certificate used for signing certificates shall follow the requirements
given in subclause 6.1.4 for SEG CA certificate profiles, with the following
exception:
\- the issuer name shall be the name of any operator CA, given that the
resulting chain of certificates starting with the CA certificate leads to the
operator root CA.
The RA/CA certificate used for signing CMP messages shall follow the
requirements given in subclause 6.1.3 for SEG certificate profiles, with the
following exceptions:
\- the subject name shall be the same name as used in the \"sender\" field of
the CMPv2 messages;
\- the issuer name shall be the name of any operator CA, given that the
resulting chain of certificates starting with the RA/CA certificate leads to
the operator root CA.
If the operator deploys one single private key for signing of the base station
certificates and for signing of the CMP messages, for the single RA/CA
certificate the same requirements as above for the CA certificate used for
signing certificates apply with the following addition:
\- in addition to the key usage extensions specified in subclause 6.1.4,
mandatory critical key usage extension bit digitalSignature shall be set.
NOTE: According to common security practices, the usage of separate private
keys and certificates for signing of the base station certificates and for
signing of the CMP messages is recommended.
### 9.4.7 Intermediate Operator CA Certificate
If the operator does not sign the RA/CA certificate by its operator root CA
and if the RA/CA certificate(s) are not directly signed by the operator root
CA, the certificate of any intermediate operator CA shall follow the
requirements given in subclause 6.1.4 for SEG CA certificate profiles, with
the following exceptions:
\- the issuer name shall be the name of any operator CA, given that the
resulting chain of certificates starting with the RA/CA certificates leads to
the operator root CA;
\- the path length shall be greater than 0.
### 9.4.8 Operator Base Station Certificate
The base station certificate signed by the operator RA/CA shall follow the
requirements given in subclause 6.1.3b for NE certificate profiles.
Other documents may specify different base station certificate profiles
according to their deployment scenario.
NOTE: The intended usage of the base station certificate may have requirements
different from the usage of NE certificates as specified in the present
document on NDS/AF. Thus the exact profile may depend on other documents
specifying the intended deployment scenario.
## 9.5 CMPv2 Profiling
### 9.5.1 General Requirements
The following requirements shall apply to CMPv2 usage end-to-end between base
station and RA/CA:
\- This CMPv2 profile shall only include certificate request and key update
functions. Revocation processing, PKCS#10 requests and CRL fetches shall not
be part of this CMPv2 profile.
\- For PKI Message Protection, this CMP profile shall only use an asymmetric
algorithm. PasswordBasedMac is not used in the scope of the present document.
\- The base station shall be pre-provisioned with a private/public key pair
(vendor key pair) and with the related vendor base station certificate signed
by a vendor CA.
\- If there is a certificate chain from the base station certificate up to the
vendor root CA, also the intermediate certificates shall be pre-provisioned to
the base station.
\- The base station may be pre-provisioned with the operator root CA
certificate.
\- If the base station is not pre-provisioned with the operator root CA
certificate, then the base station shall take the operator root certificate
from the certificates received in the initialization response. The selection
shall be based on checking which root certificate can be used to validate the
received base station certificate.
NOTE 1: Certificate renewal for operator root certificates is not in scope of
this clause on base station enrolment. Thus it is assumed that the base
station always has a valid operator root certificate available for validation
of key update responses.
\- The RA/CA shall authenticate initialization requests based on signatures
which are validated against the vendor root CA.
\- The RA/CA shall authenticate key update requests based on signatures which
are validated against the operator root CA.
\- The RA/CA shall be configured with the root certificate of the vendor and
with the root certificate of the operator.
\- The RA/CA shall be configured with a RA/CA certificate which is signed
either by the operator root CA or by an intermediate CA under the operator
root CA.
\- If the RA/CA uses different private keys to sign the generated certificates
and the CMPv2 messages, the RA/CA shall be configured with the two related
certificates, i.e. the RA/CA certificate for signing signatures and the RA/CA
certificate for signing CMP messages.
\- If the RA/CA certificate or certificates (two in case separate private keys
are used for signing of certificates and CMP messages) are not signed directly
by the operator root CA, also the certificates of the intermediate CAs shall
be configured into the RA/CA.
\- The hash algorithms used before generating signatures in the protection
field of PKIMessage and for proof-of-possession shall be the same as the hash
algorithms specified in subclause 6.1.1 for certificate signatures. The
signature algorithms shall be the same as that used in the related certificate
profile.
The certificate profiles are specified in subclause 9.4.
NOTE 2: These certificate profiles implicitly specify which algorithms are to
be used for the different signatures for proof-of-possession and PKIMessage
signing specified in the following subclauses.
NOTE 3: Policies within RA/CA governing the generation and issuing of
certificates are not in scope of the present document and left to operator
decision.
### 9.5.2 Profile for the PKIMessage
The following profile shall be applied to the PKIMessage as specified in [4]:
\- The support and usage of the optional protection field of type
PKIProtection is required by this profile. The message-specific private key to
be used in the base station is specified in the subclause 9.5.4 in the
profiling of the single PKI message bodies for requests sent by the base
station. For the RA/CA the RA/CA private key shall be used, or the separate
RA/CA private key for signing CMP messages, if base station certificates and
CMPv2 messages are signed by different private keys.
\- The support of the optional extraCerts field is required by this profile.
The certificates within this field may be ordered in any order. The message-
specific content of this field is specified in the subclause 9.5.4 in the
profiling of the single PKI message bodies.
\- All CMPv2 messages used within this profile shall consist of exactly one
PKIMessage, i.e. the size of the sequence for PKIMessages shall be 1 in all
cases.
### 9.5.3 Profile for the PKIHeader Field
The following profile shall be applied to the PKIHeader field as specified in
[4]:
\- The sender and recipient fields shall contain the identities of the base
station and the RA/CA. These identities shall be identical to the subject name
present in the certificate for the public key whose related private key is
used to sign the PKIMessage.
NOTE: The subject name of RA/CA needs to be available before the CMPv2 run.
The base station can obtain this subject name of RA/CA before the CMPv2 run
via e.g., Initial IP Autoconfiguration procedure specified in TS 32.508[32]
and TS 32.509[33].
\- As the field "protection" of PKIMessage is mandatory, also the field
"protectionAlg" of PKIHeader is mandatory. The protectionAlg shall be of type
MSG_SIG_ALG. The signature algorithm shall be based upon the algorithm
contained in the algorithm field of the SubjectPublicKeyInfo field of the
signer's certificate (belonging to the base station or the RA/CA). The hash
algorithm used before signing the PKIMessage shall follow the same
specification as given for usage before certificate signing in clause 6.1.1 of
the present document.
\- The usage of the transactionID field is mandatory. The recommended
procedures for handling of the transactionID given in [4] shall be followed.
The base station shall set this field to a random number that is at least 8
bytes long for the first message and use the same random number in any
subsequent message in the transaction.
\- The usage of the senderNonce and the recipNonce fields is mandatory. The
length of the fields as recommended in [4] shall be used. The recipNonce in
the very first message in the transaction should be set to 0 by the sender and
shall be disregarded by the recipient of the message.
### 9.5.4 Profile for the PKIBody Field
#### 9.5.4.1 General
The base station certificate enrolment shall support the following CMPv2 PKI
message bodies:
\- Initialization Request (ir)
\- Initialization Response (ip)
\- Key Update Request (kur)
\- Key Update Response (kup)
\- Confirmation (pkiconf)
\- Certificate confirm (certconf)
Profiles for the single message bodies above are given in the subclauses
below. If no specific profile is given, the provisions of [4] and [19] apply.
#### 9.5.4.2 Initialization Request
The Initialization Request as specified in IETF RFC 4210 [4] shall contain
exactly one CertReqMessages as specified in IETF RFC 4210 [4] and IETF RFC
4211 [19], i.e. the size of the sequence for CertReqMessages shall be 1 in all
cases.
The following profile shall be applied to the CertReqMessage field and its
sub-fields:
\- The subject field of the CertTemplate shall contain the suggested name of
the base station if the base station has knowledge of it. Otherwise it shall
be omitted.
\- The publicKey field of the CertTemplate shall be mandatory and shall
contain the public key of the base station to be certified by the RA/CA. The
private/public key pair may be pre-provisioned to the base station, or
generated inside the base station for the CMPv2 protocol run. The format of
this field shall follow IETF RFC 5280 [14].
NOTE 1: IETF RFC 3280 as referenced by IETF RFC 4211 [19] for the format of
the publicKey field is obsolete. The present document generally references the
follow-up IETF RFC 5280 [14].
\- The CertReqMessage shall contain a POP field of type ProofOfPossession. The
POP field shall contain a signature field of type POPOSigningKey. The
algorithmIdentifier field of the POPOSigningKey field shall contain the
signing algorithm which is used by the base station to produce the Proof-of-
Possession value, i.e. the signature within POPOSigningKey field.
\- If the poposkInput field of type POPOSigningKeyInput within POPOSigningKey
field is used, the sender field within POPOSigningKeyInput shall be mandatory
and shall contain the identity of the base station as given by the vendor of
the base station and contained in the vendor-provided base station
certificate.
NOTE 2: According to IETF RFC 4211 [19], the poposkInput field is mandatory if
either the subject field or the publicKey field of the CertTemplate field is
omitted.
NOTE 3: According to IETF RFC 4211 [19], the sender field of
POPOSigningKeyInput is used only if an authenticated identity has been
established by the sender. The present document assumes that the sender (i.e.
base station) has a valid pre-provisioned vendor-signed certificate and
therefore the sender's identity is considered authenticated and established.
The PKIMessage sent by the base station shall be signed by the vendor provided
private key.
The extraCerts field of the PKIMessage carrying the initialization request
shall be mandatory and shall contain the base station certificate provided by
the vendor. If the base station certificate is not signed by the vendor root
CA, also the intermediate certificates for the chain up to the vendor root
certificate shall be included in the extraCerts field.
#### 9.5.4.3 Initialization Response
The Initialization Response as specified in [4] shall contain exactly one
generated base station certificate, i.e. the size of the sequence for
CertResponse shall be 1 in all cases.
The following profile shall be applied to the CertRepMessage field and its
sub-fields:
\- The generated certificate shall be transferred to the base station in the
certifiedKeyPair field of the CertResponse field. The transfer shall not be
encrypted (i.e. the certificate field in CertorEncCert shall be mandatory).
The extraCerts field of the PKIMessage carrying the initialization response
shall be mandatory and shall contain the operator root certificate and the
RA/CA certificate (or certificates if separate private keys are used for
signing of certificates and CMP messages). If the RA/CA certificate(s) are not
signed by the operator root CA, also the intermediate certificates for the
chain(s) up to the operator root certificate shall be included in the
extraCerts field.
#### 9.5.4.4 Key Update Request and Key Update Response
The structure and content of these messages is identical to initialization
requests and responses, thus the profiling given in the previous subclauses
for Initialization Request and Initialization Response apply equally, with the
following exceptions:
\- The PKIMessage sent by the base station shall be signed with the private
key which is related to the last received operator provided base station
certificate. The extraCertsField shall be mandatory and shall contain the base
station certificate related to the private key used for signing the
PKIMessage. Any intermediate CA certificates shall also be included, if the
base station certificate is not signed directly by a root CA.
\- The PKIMessage carrying the key update response should not contain the
operator root certificate in the extraCerts field.
#### 9.5.4.5 Certificate Confirm Request and Confirmation Response
Initialization responses and key update responses shall always be followed by
a Certificate Confirm request and Confirmation response message exchange.
The PKIMessage sent by the base station shall be signed by the same private
key which was used in the preceding initialization request or key update
request.
The extraCerts field of the PKIMessage carrying the Certificate Confirm
request and Confirmation response shall be omitted.
## 9.6 CMPv2 Transport
Transport of CMPv2 messages between end entities (network elements) and RA/CA
shall be done using HTTP-based protocol as specified in IETF RFC 6712 [18] ,
with the exception that support for TLS is not mandated.
Support is mandatory for communication initiated by the end entities where
every CMP request triggers a CMP response message from the CA or RA. Support
for RA/CA initiated HTTP requests (i.e. announcements) is not mandatory.
> NOTE: CMP provides built-in integrity protection and authentication. For
> optional usage of HTTP over TLS (HTTPS) according to RFC 2818 [20] or
> virtual private networks see IETF RFC 6712 [18].
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
###### ## Annex B (informative): Decision for the simple trust model
# B.1 Introduction
In order to document the decision for the \"simple trust model\", which
requires manual cross-certification, this section discusses technical
advantages and disadvantages of two basic approaches to providing inter-
operator trust for purposes of roaming traffic protection, namely **cross-
certification** and a **Bridge CA**. The Bridge CA is an extension of the
cross-certification approach, and identified as one of the recommendable
solutions for providing inter-operator trust in NDS/AF feasibility study (TR
33.810). Taking into account the current state of PKI software and the general
need for simple solutions when there is a choice, the cross-certification
without a Bridge CA was chosen for the NDS/AF TS. This Annex discusses the
background motivation for such direction.
The direct cross-certification without Bridge CA model is associated strongly
with the current practice in the Internet IPsec world, where each IPsec
connection is configured with a list of trusted CAs, and anyone with a
certificate that has a trust path that can be followed up to such trusted CA
(trust anchor) is allowed access. In this model, cross-certification is done
at the time the roaming agreement is made. This is called the \"**simple trust
model**.\"
The Bridge CA model assumes that all operators wishing to establish a roaming
agreement with other operators will first get certified by the Bridge CA for
purposes of identification by other operators. This is a necessary preliminary
step. Next, when the roaming agreement is done, the operators will configure
their IPsec tunnels, with information about which one of the identifiable
operators (who have a certificate issued by the Bridge CA) can use that
tunnel. This is called the \"**extended trust model** \", or \"separated trust
and access control.\"
This Annex does not discuss the benefits of certificates vs. Pre-Shared Keys.
The benefit of cross-certification vs. the explicit listing of roaming peer
CAs includes the easier evolution path to a possible eventual Bridge CA model.
# B.2 Requirements for trust model in NDS/AF
The following is a list of requirements for the trust model for NDS/AF:
_A. Simplicity and ease of deployment_. PKI brings many benefits when a large
number of operators need to tunnel traffic in a mesh configuration, but its
adoption should not be hindered by an unnecessarily complex technical
solution. The required technical and legal operations necessary for exchanging
traffic with another operator should be as easy and straightforward as
possible;
_B. Compatibility with existing standards._ Unless there are explicit
requirements why existing PKI standards should be extended to accommodate 3GPP
environment, the 3GPP specifications should be accommodated to the existing
standards. This allows best choice of equipment for operators and allows
interoperability with non-3GPP environments;
_C. Usable by both GRX and non_ -_GRX operators._ Both operators making use of
GRX providers and those without (using leased lines or even the public
Internet), should be able to make use of NDS/AF measures to exchange traffic
securely.
# B.3 Cross-certification approaches
## B.3.1 Manual Cross-certification
The trust model of manual cross-certification is characterized by the clause:
\"Trust nobody unless explicitly allowed\". Issuing a certificate for the
authority to be trusted creates the allowances. The manual cross-certification
is easy to understand. Also the security of this depends only on the decisions
done locally.
## B.3.2 Cross-certification with a Bridge CA
The trust model of bridge-CA can be characterized by the clauses:
\- \"Trust everybody that the Bridge-CA trusts unless explicitly denied\".
Explicit denials are handled by writing the restrictions (in the form of name
constraints) to the certificate issued to the bridge.
\- \"Trust everybody listed in the certificate which I issued to the bridge\".
Explicit allowances are listed in the certificate issued to the bridge (in the
form of name constraints).
Name constraint is a rarely used extension for X.509 certificates. In essence
it is a clause that says who to trust or who not to trust based on names on
certificates. The fact that they are relative rarely used and the fact that
there is so little official documentation about them is a risk. Name
constraints also require that there is some organization doing registration of
names in order to avoid name collisions.
# B.4 Issues with the Bridge CA approach
## B.4.1 Need for nameConstraint support in certificates or strong legal
bindings and auditing
If no precautions are taken, it is possible that an operator (M) whose SEG CA
has been signed by the Bridge CA (= certified by the Bridge), creates
certificates that resemble another operator\'s (A) certificates, letting M
access to operator (B)\'s network, even without authorization.
Let\'s say operator B has the following configuration for access to her
subnetwork reserved for handling roaming traffic:
\- Local-Subnetwork = some ipv6 subnetwork address;
\- TrustedCA\'s = BridgeCA;
\- AllowedCertificateSubject = O=Operator A or O=Operator C or O=Operator D.
NOTE: The IP addresses of the remote SEGs are not limited, as authentication
is done based on certificates, and all trusted operators are allowed similar
access. If different foreign operators would require to access different
subnetworks, there would be several configuration blocks like the above, with
the IP addresses appropriately specified.
Such \"AllowedCertificateSubject\" feature (the term name is imaginary) is
widely supported by PKI-capable IPsec devices.
If Operator M used certificates of the following form for her certificates,
she would not be allowed in:
\- Subject: CN=SEG 1, O=Operator M;
\- Signer: CN=SEG CA, O=Operator M.
However, she can fabricate certificates of the following form:
\- Subject: CN=SEG 1, O=Operator A;
\- Signer: CN=SEG CA, O=Operator M.
Using such certificates would allow full but illegitimate access to Operator
B\'s network revealed for use by Operator A.
Now, there are the following possibilities to circumvent the problem:
1\. checking also the Signer name when authenticating foreign operators,
either by a) a proprietary \"AllowedCertificateSigner\" property or b) support
for nameConstraints in the Bridge CA certificate issued to operator M;
2\. establishing strong legal bindings and auditing that would discourage
Operator M from such illegitimate fabrication of Operator A certificates.
The problem with solution 1.a is that such \"AllowedCertificateSigner\" is not
commonly supported by current PKI end-entity products, being in conflict with
requirement B.
The problem with solution 1.b is that such \"nameConstraints\" attribute in
certificates is not commonly supported by current PKI CA or end-entity
products, being in conflict with requirement B.
The problem with solution 2 is that first of all, an organization willing to
run a Bridge CA has to be found before any pair of operators can exchange
roaming traffic with NDS/AF mechanisms. Next, there shall be established
paperwork and auditing procedures to make sure that the exploit described here
can be detected. This is in conflict with requirement A. Also, the
illegitimate act described could not be technically prevented beforehand.
If name constraints are used, every time a new roaming agreement is made, each
operator shall update the certificate they issue for the Bridge, adding the
new roaming partner\'s name into the certificate. From the point of view of
one operator, the number of new certificate signing operations is the same
whether a Bridge CA or a direct cross-certification model is in use.
## B.4.2 Preventing name collisions
If name constraints are used to prevent the additional \"bureaucracy\"
involved with the Bridge CA, the names written into the certificate need to be
registered with a third party to prevent two operators accidentally or on
purpose using the same name in their certificates. This is in conflict with
requirement B.
## B.4.3 Two redundant steps required for establishing trust
As described in the introduction, with the \"extended trust model\", each
operator shall first be certified by the bridge (authentication), and then as
the second step, enumerate the trusted operators when configuring the IPsec
tunnel (access control).
For the Bridge CA model to work, there is a need for organization that all the
other parties involved can trust - and the trust shall be transitive! If you
trust the bridge, you shall also trust the other organizations joining to the
bridge via the cross-certification. If Operator A and the Bridge CA cross-
certify with each other, Operator A will automatically trust every other
certified operator to obey the rules. And this trust is not related to the
roaming traffic tunnel; the tunnel has to be configured independently of the
PKI.
So even if configuring new certificates in the SEGs is avoided when cross-
certification is used, the roaming information shall be configured and
maintained in the SEG some other way. And the hard part: How the trust
provided by the PKI and the roaming agreements is combined, because clearly in
this case PKI provided trust is not the same as roaming agreements.
Two steps would be needed:
1\. building \"trust\" through Bridge CA => authenticating the peer SEG;
2\. specify in the tunnel configuration which peering SEGs can be trusted.
If the cross-certification is done without a Bridge CA, the steps can be
combined into one. What is the additional value of the PKI provided trust
(step 1), if the peering SEGs have to be restricted in any case?
## B.4.4 Long certificate chains connected with IKE implementation issues
If Bridge CA is used, a SEG CA certificate has to be sent in the certificate
payload in addition to the local end entity (SEG) certificate. This leads in
Ethernet environments to the fragmentation of the IKE packet, which some
current IKE implementations do not support. It is a problem in the
implementation, not the protocol. Even in IPv6, the IKE UDP packets need to be
fragmented, posing a potential interoperability problem. Clearly it is not a
solution to use a different protocol, but instead the current implementations
should be fixed. Still, taking into account requirement B, it is safer to
avoid the problem altogether by not forcing the fragmentation of IKE packets
by not using a Bridge CA.
## B.4.5 Lack of existing relevant Bridge CA experiences
The Federal PKI in the USA is an example deployment where a Bridge CA is used
to connect together CAs of the various federal agencies. It seems to be
however the only documented one of its kind, and is connected with very heavy
policy documentation and obviously heavy auditing practices, even within one
organization, the federal government. The bridge approach is warranted in the
case, because they want to automatically check whether some entity has legal
rights to sign some document. The number of entities doing cross-domain PKI
validation can be several millions, and it is impossible for one validating
entity to keep count of individual signers.
In 3G roaming, the situation is in many ways different. When a new operator is
born, the other ones do not automatically want to exchange roaming traffic
with the new one, but a legal agreement with that operator and a technical
tunnel establishment shall be done. In Federal PKI, the situation is the
opposite: nothing should need to be done and still be able to trust the other.
In the Federal PKI, the paperwork and processes make name constraints in
certificates unnecessary, and IKE is supposedly not used together with the
Bridge CA.
# B.5 Feasibility of the direct cross-certification approach
This chapter discusses the direct cross-certification, i.e. manual cross-
certification approach, where operators are doing the cross-certification
operation only when agreeing to set up a tunnel with another operator. This
tunnel setup is a legal and technical operation in any case, so it is feasible
to do also the cross-certification at this time, removing the need for the
initial step to cross-certify with the Bridge CA.
There is no technical difference regarding the feasibility of direct cross-
certification or Bridge CA in the context of GRX or non-GRX environment. GRX
might be one possible choice for providing the Bridge CA services.
## B.5.1 Benefits of direct cross-certification
The benefits of the direct cross-certification is that as a mechanism it is
well known, supported widely by current PKI products and there even exists an
evolution path to a Bridge CA solution if the products come to support it
adequately, a Bridge CA is established, and the number of operators becomes so
large to warrant the use of the Bridge CA technology. Bridge CA uses the
cross-certification mechanisms in any case.
The tunnel configuration would look like the following:
\- Local-Subnetwork = some ipv6 subnetwork address;
\- TrustedCA\'s = LocalCA.
The information of which operator is allowed access is implicit in the direct
cross-certifications that have been done by the LocalCA, thus authentication
and access control are tightly connected. If different foreign operators need
to access different subnetworks, there would be separate tunnel configurations
with SEG IP address for each, including an \"AllowedCertificateSubject\"
limitation. The \"AllowedCertificateSigner\" limitation is not needed as
necessary in this model (compared to the bridge CA model), since the set of
operators which can be authenticated are only the ones, that have previously
been agreed to trust when doing the direct cross-certification. In the bridge
CA case, the set of operators which can be authenticated includes all
operators who have joined to the bridge.
## B.5.2 Memory and processing power requirements
In case of direct cross-certification, each operator shall store the
certificates issued for the other operators locally. They could be stored in
the SEG devices, or then in a common repository.
Memory and processing power requirement are not an issue.
## B.5.3 Shortcomings
As discussed in the previous section, the Bridge CA approach saves memory or
storage space in SEGs, because all the other operators SEG CA certificates do
not need to be stored with other operators. Just the Bridge CA certificate
would be stored, and other certificates retrieved during IKE negotiation.
## B.5.4 Possible evolution path to a Bridge CA
If needed, it is possible to take the Bridge CA into use gradually, given that
the support by PKI products becomes reality. From one operator\'s point of
view, the bridge CA would be like any other operator so far, and a cross-
certification would be made, but additionally the name constraints in the
certificate issued for the Bridge CA should be updated every time a new
roaming agreement is made.
###### ## Annex C (informative): Decision for the CRL repository access
protocol for SEGs
In order to document the decision for the protocol for SEGs to access CRL
repositories, this section summarises technical advantages and disadvantages
of the two candidates.
**[LDAP]{.underline}**
\+ implemented by all PKI products (unless purely manual)
\+ scalability
\+ flexibility (integration possibility to other systems, automatic public key
retrieval possibility)
\- complexity
**[HTTP]{.underline}**
\+ simple
\- not supported by all PKI products (although widely supported)
LDAP was chosen as the more future-proof protocol. Although more complex than
HTTP, LDAP is well established amongst PKI vendors and operators.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Decision for storing the cross-certificates
in CR
In order to document the decision for storing the cross-certificates in
Certificate Repository, fetching those with LDAP and caching them in SEGs,
this section summarises technical advantages and disadvantages of the three
alternatives.
The following table summarizes differences between alternatives:
Table D.1
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Issue | A) | B) | C) | | | Cros | Cros | Cros | | | s-certificates | s-certificates | s-certificates | | | are stored | are stored | are stored | | | into SEGs: | into CRs: | into CRs and | | | | | cached in SEGs | | | | | upon usage: | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1) | The | The | The | | Initialization | cro | cro | cro | | issues: | ss-certificate | ss-certificate | ss-certificate | | storing the | is _initially_ | is _initially_ | is _initially_ | | cro | stored in | stored in CR. | stored in CR. | | ss-certificate | several | | | | during the | places, that | Pros: The | Pros and cons | | cross | is, into _all_ | handling is | as in B). | | -certification | SEGs | fully | | | | (estimated | standardized. | | | | number is | Certificate is | | | | between 2 and | initially | | | | 10). | copied in one | | | | | place only. | | | | Pros: - | The operator | | | | | should have | | | | Cons: | the repository | | | | Certificate is | anyway (due to | | | | initially | CRL handling). | | | | copied in | | | | | several | Cons: - | | | | places. SEGs | | | | | from different | | | | | manufacturers | | | | | may have other | | | | | O&M interfaces | | | | | to handle the | | | | | certificates. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 2) Usage | Pros: No extra | Pros: - | Pros & cons: | | issues: | latency | | as in B) at | | latency during | | Cons: More | the first | | the IKE Phase | Cons: - | latency caused | time, and as | | 1 | | by extra LDAP | in A) at | | | | query (the | subsequent | | | | cro | times | | | | ss-certificate | | | | | is queried) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3) Cleanup | Pros: - | Pros: The | Pros: - | | issues: | | cro | | | removing the | Cons: The | ss-certificate | Cons: The | | cro | cro | is removed | cro | | ss-certificate | ss-certificate | from one | ss-certificate | | | is removed | single place | is removed | | | from several | only | from _both_ CR | | | places, that | | _and_ each | | | is, from _all_ | Cons: - | SEG. | | | SEGs | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE: this | | | | | functionality | | | | | is needed only | | | | | to be able to | | | | | revoke | | | | | cros | | | | | s-certificates | | | | | before the | | | | | next CRL gets | | | | | published. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 4) Security | Pros: No | Pros: - | Pros: Single | | issues | single point | | point of | | | of failure | Cons: CR | failure partly | | | exists. | represents a | mitigated | | | | single point | | | | Cons: - | of failure | Cons: - | | | | suitable for | | | | | an attacker, | | | | | e.g. to submit | | | | | a denial of | | | | | service attack | | | | | by breaking | | | | | the | | | | | communication | | | | | at the CR. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
**[Analysis:]{.underline}**
\- Alternative B) requires one additional LDAP query in every IKE Phase 1
negotiation and will introduce new error cases
\- Latency of LDAP: information from LDAP to local disk is cached and
populating it takes some time, but in practice this time is not significant.
\- The benefit of alternative B) and C) compared to alternative A) is easier
management, that is, storing and removing the certificate in/from one single
place only.
**Conclusion:** alternative C) is the most feasible choice, because it
combines good points of alternatives A) and B).
###### ## Annex E (informative): TLS protocol profile
The TLS protocol profiles are located in TS 33.210 [1].
###### ## Annex F (informative): Manual handling of TLS certificates
# F.0 General
The purpose of this annex is to provide alternative guidelines for TLS
certificate handling in case of the absence of the authentication framework
for TLS certificates.
Within this Annex following abbreviations are used: CA~A~ is the certification
authority in A\'s network and CA~B~ is the certification authority in B\'s
network. Cert~A~ is the certificate of A and Cert~B~ is the certificate of B.
I~A~ is the set of identifiers that A may use for identification towards B.
T~B~ is the set of peers trusted by B.
# F.1 TLS certificate enrolment
Mutual authentication in TLS is achieved based on public key technology and
certificates. Both TLS peers A and B need to contain a certificate store and
there shall be at least one certification authority CA that can issue
certificates within the security domains in with A and B are part of. Cert~A~
contains the set I~A~ of A\'s identifiers. Each identifier is in the form of
fully qualified domain name (FQDN). Similarly, B\'s certificate is Cert~B~.
The certificates in the store of B define the group T~B~ of peers trusted by
B. There are several options for creation and enrolment of certificates, three
of which are described below.
1\. In one option there is a certification authority, CA~B~, only in the
network of B. CA~B~ issues a certificate Cert~B~ to B and a certificate
Cert~A~ to A. The certificates are delivered from CA~B~ to A and B in a secure
way \"out of band\". Both A and B then add their peer into the group of their
trusted peers by inserting that peer\'s certificate into the certificate
store: A inserts Cert~B~ into A\'s certificate store and B inserts Cert~A~
into B\'s certificate store. This insertion is typically manual and the
details depend on the implementation of the management interface to the
certificate store.
2\. In another option both A\'s and B\'s networks contain certification
authorities, CA~B~ and CA~A~, respectively. CA~B~ issues a certificate Cert~B~
to B and CA~A~ issues a certificate Cert~A~ to A. The certificates are
delivered from CA~B~ to A and from CA~A~ to B in a secure way \"out of band\".
Both A and B then add their peer into the group of their trusted peers by
inserting that peer's certificate into the certificate store: A inserts
Cert~B~ into A\'s certificate store and B inserts Cert~A~ into B\'s
certificate store.
3\. In a third option the CA certificates of both sides are exchanged: the
certificate of CA~B~ is delivered to A and the certificate of CA~A~ is
delivered to B in a secure way \"out of band\"\', inserted to the certificate
store, and marked trusted. The validation of Cert~A~ and Cert~B,~ that are
exchanged during TLS handshake, is based on the presence of the corresponding
CA certificates in the certificate store.
NOTE: In options 1 and 2 the need for certification authority can be avoided
if the peers generate self signed certificates and exchange them in a secure
way, \"out of band\". Also, instead of certificates themselves, certificate
fingerprints can be exchanged \"out of band\" in those options.
# F.2 TLS Certificate revocation
In the absence of PKI-revocation interfaces, certificate revocation needs to
be performed manually. The revocation operation involves the removal of A from
the group T~B~ of peers trusted by B. In the first two enrolment options
described above the revocation happens by B removing the certificate of A,
Cert~A~, from its certificate store. This removal can be done manually. In the
third option the certificate of A, Cert~A~, is not in B\'s certificate store.
For that reason B has to have a way to check the validity of Cert~A~ with the
issuer of the certificate (also in the first two enrolment options the amount
of manual maintenance operations will decrease if B can check the validity of
Cert~A~ with the issuer of the certificate). This check may be done by using
Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) RFC 6960 [47 or by using Certificate
Revocation Lists (CRLs) RFC 5280 [14] published by the issuer of Cert~A~.
###### ## Annex G (informative): Example CMPv2 message flow for initial
enrolment
The purpose of this annex is to provide an overview how the initial enrolment
of a base station may be executed.
The message flow for an initial enrolment of a base station to the RA/CA is
shown in Figure 8 below. The text below the figure gives a description of this
message flow. Precondition for this message flow is that the base station
contains the vendor provided private/public key pair and is pre-provisioned
with the related base station certificate signed by a vendor CA. If there is a
certificate chain up to the vendor root CA, also the intermediate certificates
are pre-provisioned to the base station. The RA/CA is configured with the root
certificate of the vendor and its own certificate(s). The exchanged messages
are protected by setting the PKIHeader fields \"protection\" and
\"protectionAlg\". Example of protectionAlg is set to the value {1 2 840 11359
1 1 11} (sha256With RSAEncrypt) when RSA and SHA-256 is used.
Figure 8: Example message flow for initial base station enrolment
1\. The base station discovers the RA/CA address.
2\. The base station generates the private/public key pair to be enrolled in
the operator CA, if this is not pre-provisioned.
3\. The base station generates the Initialization Request (ir). The CertReqMsg
inside ir specifies the requested certificate. If the suggested identity is
known to the base station, it includes this in the subject field. To provide
proof of possession the base station generates the signature for the
POPOSigningKey field of the CertReqMsg using the private key related to the
public key to be certified by the RA/CA. The base station signs the ir using
the vendor provided private key, and includes the digital signature in the
PKIMessage. Its own vendor signed certificate and any intermediate
certificates are included in the extraCerts field of the PKIMessage carrying
the ir.
4\. The base station sends the signed ir message to the RA/CA.
5\. The RA/CA verifies the digital signature on the ir message against the
vendor root certificate using the certificate(s) sent by the base station. The
RA/CA also verifies the proof of the possession of the private key for the
requested certificate.
6\. The RA/CA generates the certificate for base station. If the suggested
identity of the base station is not included in the ir message, the RA/CA
determines the suggested identity of the base station, e.g. based on the
vendor provided identity of the base station contained in the base station
certificate.
NOTE: The procedures for determination of the base station identity used by
the operator are not in scope of the present document. According to [4], the
RA/CA can replace a suggested identity sent by the base station with another
identity based on local information.
7\. The RA/CA generates an Initialization Response (ip) which includes the
issued certificate and uses the same certReqId value as in the Initialization
Request. The RA/CA signs the ip with the RA/CA private key (or the private key
for signing CMP messages, if separate), and includes the signature, the RA/CA
certificate(s) and the operator root certificate in the PKIMessage. The
appropriate certificate chains for authenticating the RA/CA certificate(s) are
included in the PKIMessage.
8\. The RA/CA sends the signed ip to the base station.
9\. If the operator root certificate is not pre-provisioned to the base
station, the base station extracts the operator root certificate from the
PKIMessage. The base station authenticates the PKIMessage using the RA/CA
certificate and installs the base station certificate on success.
10\. The base station creates and signs the CertificateConfirm (certconf)
message. The CertficateConfirm message uses the same certReqId value as in the
Initialization Request.
11\. The base station sends the PKIMessage that includes the signed
CertificateConfirm to the RA/CA.
12\. The RA/CA authenticates the PKI Message that includes the
CertificateConfirm.
13\. The RA/CA creates and signs a Confirmation message (pkiconf).
14\. The RA/CA sends the signed PKIMessage including the pkiconf message to
the base station.
15\. The base station authenticates the pkiconf message.
###### ## Annex H (informative): Guidance on eNB certificate enrolment in MOCN
LTE RAN sharing
3GPP TS 23.251 [31] defines two basic models for network sharing, namely the
Gateway Core Network (GWCN) configuration and the Multi-Operator Core Network
(MOCN) configuration. 3GPP TS 23.251 [31] does not guide on SEG placement in
the architecture. In some LTE RAN sharing deployments according to the MOCN
configuration, the eNB may need to connect not only to SEGs deployed by the
hosting operator but also to SEGs deployed by participating operators. These
SEGs are equipped with certificates issued by the RAs/CAs of the operators to
which they belong.
The shared eNB is provisioned with the root certificate of the hosting
operator's CA and an eNB certificate issued by the hosting operator's CA after
the successful certificate enrolment procedure specified in clause 9 of the
present document has been performed successfully. An IPsec security
association between the eNB and the SEG of hosting operator can be set up and
a link with an OAM entity can then be established. It is assumed that the
shared eNB is managed by a single O&M entity controlled by the hosting
operator.
The issue addressed in this Annex is when an IPsec security association
between the eNB and the SEG of a participating operator is wanted. This cannot
succeed because neither the shared eNB nor the SEG of the participating
operator can verify the certificate held by the other entity unless additional
steps are taken. Two solutions can be used to solve this issue.
**Solution 1**
The shared eNB can be provisioned with the root certificates of the
participating operators' CAs by the OAM entity managing the eNB. Consequently
the eNB can verify the certificates of the SEGs of the participating
operators.
The SEGs of participating operators can be provisioned with the root
certificate of the hosting operator's CA so that the SEGs of participating
operators can verify the shared eNB certificate issued by the hosting
operator. Consequently the shared eNB and the SEGs of the participating
operators can set up IPsec security associations between them.
**Solution 2**
The shared eNB can be provisioned with the necessary participating operators'
RA/CA information (e.g., address of the participating operators' RAs/CAs, root
certificates of the participating operators' RAs/CAs, etc) by the OAM entity
managing the eNB . The shared eNB can then perform the certificate enrolment
procedure specified in clause 9 with every participating operator RA/CA. The
shared eNB can get the root certificates of the participating operators' CA
and the eNB certificate issued by the participating operators' RA/CA.
Consequently the shared eNB and the SEGs of the participating operators can
set up IPsec security associations between them.
#