# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
With Common IMS it has become possible to use IMS over a wide variety of
access networks. These access networks provide security of varying strengths,
or, in some cases, no security at all. It is therefore desirable to have a
standard for IMS media plane security, which provides uniform protection of
IMS media against eavesdropping and undetected modification across access
networks. Furthermore, media transport in the core network, although generally
less vulnerable than in the access network, may also be realised in varying
ways with different guarantees of protection. It is therefore also desirable
to have a standard for IMS media plane security, which guarantees protection
of IMS media against eavesdropping and undetected modification in an end-to-
end (e2e) fashion between two terminal devices.
# 1 Scope
The present document presents IMS media plane security for RTP and MSRP based
media as well as security for BFCP as used in IMS conferencing. The security
mechanisms are designed to meet the following three main objectives:
  1. to provide security for media usable across all access networks
  2. to provide an end-to-end (e2e) media security solution for RTP based media to satisfy major user categories
  3. to provide end-to-end (e2e) media security for important user groups like enterprises, National Security and Public Safety (NSPS) organizations and different government authorities who may have weaker trust in the inherent IMS security and/or may desire to provide their own key management service.
The media plane security for RTP based media is based on the well established
protocol SRTP. Key management solutions for SRTP are defined in this
specification.
The media plane security for MSRP, used in session-based messaging, is based
on TLS. TLS is also used to protect BFCP. Key management solutions for MSRP
and BFCP security are defined in this specification.
Two normative Annexes to the present document address IMS media plane security
for immediate messaging and conferencing, respectively. The media plane
security for session-based messaging is addressed in the main body of this
specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"3G Security; Access security for IP-based services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network domain security; IP network layer
security\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
bootstrapping architecture\".
[7] IETF RFC 1035: \"DOMAIN NAMES - IMPLEMENTATION AND SPECIFICATION\".
[8] IETF RFC 2616: \"Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1\".
[9] IETF RFC 3711: \"The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\".
[10] IETF RFC 3550: \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications\".
[11] IETF RFC 3830: \"MIKEY: Multimedia Internet KEYing\".
[12] IETF RFC 4567: \"Key Management Extensions for Session Description
Protocol (SDP) and Real Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP)\".
[13] IETF RFC 4568: \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Security Descriptions
for Media Streams\".
[14] IETF RFC 6043: \"MIKEY-TICKET: Ticket-Based Modes of Key Distribution in
Multimedia Internet KEYing (MIKEY)\".
[15] IETF RFC 4771: \"Integrity Transform Carrying Roll-Over Counter for the
Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\".
[16] Otway, D. and Rees, O. 1987: \"Efficient and timely mutual
authentication.\"  _SIGOPS Oper. Syst. Rev._ 21, 1 (Jan. 1987), 8-10.
[17] IETF RFC 4566: \"SDP: Session Description Protocol\".
[18] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 24.109: \"**Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and network application
function interface (Ua); Protocol details** \".
[20] 3GPP TS 29.162: \"Interworking between the IM CN subsystem and IP
networks \".
[21] IETF RFC 4975: \"The Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)\".
[22] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[23] IETF RFC 4582: \"The Binary Floor Control Protocol (BFCP)\".
[24] IETF RFC 6714: \"Connection Establishment for Media Anchoring (CEMA) for
the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP)".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM), Core Network
(CN) subsystem\".
[26] IETF RFC 4575: \"A Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Event Package for
Conference State\".
[27] GSM Association, Rich Communication Suite 5.1 Advanced Communications
Services and Client Specification, Version 1.0, August 2012.
[28] 3GPP TS 24.247: \"Messaging service using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[29] IETF RFC 5365: \"Multiple-Recipient MESSAGE Requests in the Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[30] IETF RFC 5751: \"Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME)
Version 3.2 Message Specification\".
[31] IETF RFC 5652: \"Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)\".
[32] IETF RFC 5083: \" Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) Authenticated-
Enveloped-Data Content Type\".
[33] IETF RFC 3565: \"Use of the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) Encryption
Algorithm in Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS)\".
[34] ITU-T recommendation T.38 (09/2010): \"Procedures for real-time Group 3
facsimile communication over IP networks\".
> [35] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia telephony;
> Media handling and interaction\".
>
> [36] IETF RFC 6347: \"Datagram Transport Layer Security Version 1.2\".
>
> [37] IETF RFC 7325:\"UDP Transport Layer (UDPTL) over Datagram Transport
> Layer Security (DTLS)\".
>
> [38] IETF RFC 5246: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
> 1.2\".
>
> [39] IETF RFC 8826: \"Security Considerations for WebRTC\".
>
> [40] IETF RFC 5763: \"Framework for Establishing a Secure Real-time
> Transport Protocol (SRTP) Security Context Using Datagram Transport Layer
> Security (DTLS)\".
[41] IETF RFC 5764: \"Datagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS) Extension to
Establish Keys for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\".
[42] IETF RFC 8832: \" WebRTC Data Channel Establishment Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**End-to-access edge security:** This term refers to media protection
extending between an IMS UE and the first IMS core network node in the media
path without being terminated by any intermediary.
**End-to-end security:** This term refers to media protection extending
between two IMS UEs without being terminated by any intermediary.
**IMS User Equipment:** User equipment used for IMS media communications over
access networks. Use of such equipment for IMS media communications over any
3GPP access network shall require presence of a UICC.
**KMS User Identity: A** KMS user identity is derived from a user\'s public
SIP-URI and it is the NAI-part of the SIP URI.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
e2ae End-to-access edge
e2e End-to-end
GW Gateway
IMS-ALG IMS Application Level Gateway
IMS UE IMS User Equipment
KMS Key Management Service
MIKEY Multimedia Internet KEYing
NAF Network Application Function
TEK Traffic Encryption Key
TGK TEK Generation Key
TLS Transport Layer Security
# 4 IMS media plane security overview
## 4.1 Introduction
### 4.1.1 General
IMS media plane security for RTP is composed of two more or less independent
key management solutions. The first solution, SDES, is for e2ae and for e2e
media protection. The solution relies on the security of the SIP
infrastructure and in particular on SIP signalling security.
The second solution is for e2e protection and aims for high security,
independent of the signalling and transport network. It is based on use of a
Key Management Service (KMS) and a ticket concept. The security offered is
anchored in the KMS including the functionality used for user authentication
and key generation towards the KMS.
Irrespectively of key management solution used, SRTP [9] is used as the
security protocol to protect RTP based traffic. Specifically, the key(s)
provided by this specification are used as the so called SRTP master key.
TLS is used to protect MSRP based traffic. Key management for e2ae protection
of MSRP relies on exchanging certificates and transmission of the fingerprints
of these certificates over SDP. E2e protection can be achieved through the
same KMS and ticket concept that is used for RTP traffic. The established key
is used to setup a TLS-PSK tunnel between the two parties.
Editor´s Note: Using the certificate fingerprint mechanism to provide e2e
protection is ffs
### 4.1.2 Overview of key management solutions for IMS media plane security
#### 4.1.2.1 SDES based solution
SDES (Session Description Protocol Security Descriptions for Media Streams,
cf. RFC 4568 [13]), is a simple key management protocol for media streams,
which are to be secured by means of SRTP [9]. SDES defines a Session
Description Protocol (SDP) RFC 4566 [17] cryptographic attribute for unicast
media streams. The attribute describes a cryptographic key and other
parameters that serve to configure security for a unicast media stream in
either a single message or a roundtrip exchange. The attribute can be used
with a variety of SDP media transports, and RFC 4568 [13] defines how to use
it for the SRTP unicast media streams. The SDP crypto attribute requires the
services of a data security protocol to secure the SDP message. For the use of
SDES in IMS, the SIP signalling security mechanisms defined for IMS shall be
used, for more details cf. clause 5.5.
SDES basically works as follows: when an offerer A and an answerer B establish
a SIP session they exchange cryptographic keys for protection of the ensuing
exchange of media with SRTP. A includes the key, by which the media sent from
A to B is protected, in a SIP message to B, and B responds with a SIP message
including a second key, by which the media sent from B to A is protected.
In this specification, SDES is used for two modes of operation: e2ae mode and
e2e mode. For the e2ae mode, SDES is run between an IMS UE and a SIP edge
proxy, i.e. a P-CSCF (IMS-ALG). In the originating network, he P-CSCF (IMS-
ALG) evaluates and subsequently deletes SDES cryptographic attributes that are
passed to it from the IMS UE in SIP messages, and creates SDES cryptographic
attributes and passes them to the IMS UE in SIP messages. This is done
similarly in the terminating network. The resulting SRTP session is then
established between the IMS UE and the media node controlled by the P-CSCF
(IMS-ALG), i.e. the IMS Access Gateway (GW). This means that, for the e2ae
mode, media is protected only over the access part of the network. The purpose
of the e2ae mode is to provide access protection, i.e. guarantee protection of
IMS media against eavesdropping and undetected modification in a uniform
manner across heterogeneous access networks with various strengths of link
layer protection. Access protection on the originating side is provided
independently of access protection on the terminating side.
For the e2e mode, SDES is run between two IMS UEs, and the resulting SRTP
session is then established between the two IMS UEs. This e2e media plane
security solution should be suitable for anyone for whom the security level,
with which SIP signalling messages are protected, is sufficient.
When used in e2e mode SDES has minor requirements on the network
infrastructure. When used in e2aemode, the requirements on the network
infrastructure can be seen from clause 4.2.2.
Wordings like "e2e security using SDES" as used in the following refer to
security for RTP based media, as SDES does only apply to protecting RTP.
#### 4.1.2.2 KMS based solution
The KMS based solution is an e2e security solution which protects media from
one IMS UE all the way to another IMS UE not allowing any network entity
access to plaintext media. It is designed to rely on a well defined and
limited set of entities that have to be trusted, simplifying the task of
evaluation and assessment of offered security level.
This solution is based on use of a KMS and a \"ticket\" concept. A high level
and simplified description of the solution is as follows: The initiator of a
call requests keys and a ticket from the KMS. The ticket contains the keys in
a protected format. The initiator then sends the ticket to the recipient. The
recipient presents the ticket to the KMS and the KMS returns the keys on which
the media security shall be based. All these message exchanges are
authenticated and sensitive parts are encrypted. The solution is based on
MIKEY-TICKET [14].
Users served by different KMS\'s may establish connections with media plane
security enabled, provided that the operators of the KMS\'s have a cooperation
agreement and that the operators have established a secure and authenticated
channel for message exchange between the KMS\'s.
The KMS based solution allows implementation of per user policies regarding
use of secure connections in general and key handling in particular. System
specific policies can easily be defined and enforced by the KMS. Access to the
KMS is granted based on user authentication and authorization. User
authentication may be based on GBA [6] with the KMS taking the role of a NAF.
The KMS based solution specified here also solves the so called forking
problem as it includes a mechanism which gives each individual recipient end-
point in a forking scenario a unique key. These end-point unique keys cannot
be recreated by any other end-point (except for the initiator) and in
particular not any other end-point to which the call was forked. At the same
time the solution offers SIP security independent mutual identity verification
of caller and answering user.
This KMS based solution includes three features aiming to off-load the KMS
from receiving ticket requests. The first feature is that tickets may be
reused. This means that a user may request a ticket for another user and then
for a specified time period use this ticket to protect calls to the other
user. The second feature is that it is possible to generate tickets that can
be used to establish secure connections to any user in a defined set of users.
Such tickets are called group tickets. The third feature is that, if allowed
by the local policy, the initiator may create tickets by itself, without
contacting the KMS. This feature is supported by MIKEY-TICKET [14] and mimics
the signalling flows of the Otway-Rees protocol [16].
Note that use of tickets combining these three features may significantly
reduce the number of ticket requests that the KMS has to handle. Note also
that the use of tickets carrying keys will allow a design of the KMS with no
requirements to hold per user state.
#### 4.1.2.3 Certificate fingerprints based solution for TLS
Key management solution for e2ae protection of MSRP based media is based on
the cipher suites and session keys negotiated via the TLS handshake between
the UE and the IMS Access Gateway (GW). The TLS record protocol secures the
actual media. Mutual authentication during the TLS handshake is achieved using
certificates, with the certificate fingerprints being transmitted using the
SDP fingerprint attribute in the SDP offer-answer exchange between the UE and
the P-CSCF (IMS ALG).
This approach is specified in RFC 4975 [21]. \"TCP/TLS/MSRP\" is used as the
protocol identifier in the m-line of the SDP, and the \"a=fingerprint\"
attribute is used to provide the fingerprint of the certificate.
TLS profile considerations discussed in annex M of this specification shall be
followed to support IMS media plane security.
## 4.2 IMS media plane security architecture
### 4.2.1 General
This clause describes the impact of IMS media plane security on the IMS
architecture. Three cases need to be distinguished. The IMS UEs are impacted
in all three cases. The network impact varies with the cases.
1\. E2ae security: here the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG), the IMS Access GW, and the Iq
interface between them are impacted.
2\. E2e security using SDES: minor impact on the network infrastructure (see
TS 29.162 [20] for details).
> 3\. E2e security using KMS: here, the network infrastructure needs to be
> enhanced with a Key Management Server, which, in turn, relies on a GBA [6]
> infrastructure, or an infrastructure to provide corresponding services, to
> be in place. Otherwise, there is minor impact on the network infrastructure
> (see TS 29.162 [20] for details).
A pre-requisite for support of e2e security is that media packets are
forwarded transparently by any nodes present in the media path (SRTP packets
in case of secure RTP and TLS packets in case of secure MSRP). This implies
that transcoding of RTP streams is no longer possible.
These prerequisites apply irrespective of whether the SRTP session was
established by means of SDES or KMS.
NOTE: The lawful interception architecture is outside the scope of this TS.
### 4.2.2 E2ae security
For e2ae security, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall always include the IMS Access GW
in the media path even if the involvement of the IMS Access GW would otherwise
not be needed, e.g. if traffic was to be routed only between two terminals in
the same IMS domain.
The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) needs to be enhanced to be able to terminate the key
management protocol (SDES for SRTP and TLS for MSRP), as well as handle
indications, which are specific to e2ae security and are inserted in SIP
messages. The IMS Access GW needs to be enhanced to be able to terminate SRTP
streams and TLS protecting MSRP. The Iq interface between P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) and
IMS Access GW needs to be enhanced to be able to transport parameters related
to the management of SRTP and TLS cryptographic contexts. There is no impact
on other parts of the network infrastructure. This is depicted in Figure 1.
Details can be found in clauses 6.2.1.3, 7.2.1 and 7.3.1.
Figure 1: IMS signalling and media plane entities relevant to e2ae security
### 4.2.3 E2e security using SDES
When used in e2e mode SDES has minor requirements on the network
infrastructure, see clause 4.2.1.
### 4.2.4 E2e security using KMS
The objective of the KMS based solution is to establish e2e media plane
security between IMS UE\'s.
A simple network model of the entities involved in the key management for the
KMS based solution is shown in Figure 2. The architecture follows the Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA) [6]. GBA is used for KMS user authentication
and establishment of a shared key for protection of message exchanges over Ua.
NOTE: Instead of GBA other systems offering corresponding services can be
used. The used system has to provide user authentication, a shared security
association between KMS and IMS UE and an identity for the security
association which can be used to reference the security association. The
security association can also define the user associated KMS user identities
(see 6.2.3.2). The system can be based on any type of user credentials deemed
to be secure enough for the intended application relying on the media plane
security.
The IMS UE\'s may be served by different KMS\'s, e.g. when they belong to
different IMS operator domains. Therefore, a new reference point, Zk, for
message exchange between two KMS\'s is introduced. Zk is used when one KMS
gets a request to resolve a ticket which only can be resolved by another KMS.
The end-points using Zk shall be mutually authenticated and messages shall be
integrity and confidentiality protected.
The media plane interface and the SIP signalling interface (Gm) is not shown
in the reference model as these interfaces are in principle not changed. The
required new functionality is implemented by modifications in SIP/SDP.
Figure 2: Reference model for key management for the KMS based solution
Further information on entities and reference points in the reference model is
given in the following list:
\- For HSS definitions refer to [2].
\- For GBA and BSF definitions including the Zh, Zn and Ub reference points
refer to TS 33.220 [6].
\- For how to secure Zh and Zn also refer to TS 33.220 [6].
\- The KMS acts as a NAF when GBA is used for user authentication and
establishment of a key shared between the KMS and an IMS UE.
\- Reference point Ua uses HTTP [8] for transport of MIKEY-TICKET [14]
messages. The procedures are defined in Annex A.
\- Protocol details for reference points Ua and Ub are provided in TS 24.109
[19].
\- Reference point Zk also uses HTTP [8] for transport of MIKEY-TICKET [14]
messages. The procedures are according to Annex A with the restriction that
Request-URI only can contain \"requesttype\" equal to \"ticketresolve".
Network domain Security [5] shall be used for authentication of endpoints and
protection of messages.
# 5 IMS media plane security features
## 5.1 General
The support for IMS media plane security mechanisms and procedures is optional
in IMS UEs and its support in the IMS core network is also optional.
For the protection of real-time traffic, an IMS UE may support SDES based
media plane security mechanisms and/or KMS based media plane security
mechanism. When an IMS UE supports SDES media plane security mechanisms it
shall support procedures for e2ae IMS media plane security and it may support
e2e IMS media plane security.
For e2ae protection of MSRP, an IMS UE may support the TLS based media plane
security mechanism as defined in section 4.1.2.3.
For e2e protection of MSRP, an IMS UE may support the KMS based media plane
security mechanism.
## 5.2 Media integrity protection
The support for IMS media integrity protection is mandatory in an IMS UE
supporting IMS media plane security and mandatory in IMS core network elements
(i.e., IMS Access Gateway) supporting SDES based and/or TLS (MSRP) e2ae IMS
media plane security.
The use of IMS media integrity protection for RTP is optional, except that
RTCP shall be integrity protected using SRTCP, in accordance with RFC 3711
[9].
The use of IMS media integrity protection for MSRP is optional.
## 5.3 Media confidentiality protection
The support for IMS media confidentiality protection is mandatory in an IMS UE
supporting media plane security and mandatory in IMS core network elements
(i.e., IMS Access Gateway) supporting e2ae IMS media plane security.
When IMS media plane security is used, SRTP transforms with null encryption
should not be used.
When TLS is used for IMS media plane security TLS profile considerations
discussed in annex M of this specification shall be followed.
## 5.4 Authentication and authorization
### 5.4.1 Authentication and authorization for e2ae protection
E2ae security implies that no other IMS core network nodes, apart from P-CSCF
(IMS-ALG) and IMS Access GW will terminate IMS media security.
The IMS UE and the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) rely on SIP signalling security to
authenticate each other. This is consistent with the fact that the security of
the use of SDES and the TLS based solutions entirely rely on SIP signalling
security, cf. clause 5.5.
The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) on the terminating side tells the IMS UE by an explicit
indication, cf. clause 7.3.1, that e2ae security is provided, i.e. that the
IMS UE shares the media keys with the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) and not with some other
entity. For the originating side see Note 3 in clause 7.2.1. Provided the IMS
UE trusts SIP signalling security it can rely on this explicit indication for
the following reasons: the IMS UE knows from registration that the P-CSCF
(IMS-ALG) is capable of e2ae security, and that such a P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) will
remove any such indication if inserted by another party, cf. clauses 7.2.1 and
7.3.1.
In the SDES solution the IMS UE and the IMS Access GW authenticate each other
by means of implicit key authentication: the IMS UE believes that only the IMS
Access GW can have the media keys to protect the media because it trusts the
P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) to give the keys only to the IMS Access GW. Similarly, the
IMS Access GW trusts the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) that the keys are shared only with
this IMS UE.
In the TLS solution, mutual authentication between the IMS UE and the IMS
Access GW relies on secure transport of certificate fingerprints using SIP
signalling integrity protection. If the fingerprints of the certificates used
for the TLS handshake match the fingerprints transmitted via SIP signalling,
then the TLS endpoints can be sure that TLS is really established between the
nodes that exchanged the SIP signalling.
The IMS UE implicitly authorizes the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) and the IMS Access GW to
perform e2ae security by indicating support for e2ae security during the
registration in line with the IMS UE's policy, cf. clause 7.1.
Conversely, an IMS UE is always authorized to participate in e2ae security if
the network policy allows e2ae security, cf. clause 7.1.
### 5.4.2 Authentication and authorization for e2e protection using SDES
The originating IMS UE and the terminating IMS UE rely on SIP signalling
security to authenticate each other. This is consistent with the fact that the
security of the use of SDES entirely relies on SIP signalling security, cf.
clause 5.5.
In particular, under the assumption of secure SIP signalling, the originating
IMS UE can be assured that the media key it sent reaches only the intended
recipient of the SIP messages, except in forking or re-targeting situations
where also the endpoints to which the call is forked or re-targeted will see
the media key sent by the originating IMS UE. The terminating IMS UE gets
different degrees of assurance about the identity of the originating IMS UE it
shares a key with, depending on whether the originating IMS UE resides in the
same trust domain or not. If it does then the network can assert the sender's
identity to the terminating IMS UE, otherwise there will be no such assurance.
Furthermore, if both the originating and the terminating IMS UE are in IMS
they know from the absence of indications relating to e2ae security that no
IMS network node terminates IMS media security. If one of the UEs is outside
the IMS there will be no such assurance.
The originating and the terminating IMS UE implicitly authorize each other to
engage in e2e security by sending SDES crypto attributes to each other. Also,
in case the originating IMS user chooses anonymity for a session, the
terminating IMS UE will not learn the originating user's identity, and vice
versa, in case the terminating IMS user chooses anonymity for a session, the
originating IMS UE will not learn the terminating user's identity.
In forking and re-targeting scenarios, when the IMS user that finally
terminates the session chooses anonymity, the originating IMS user may have no
indication to which terminating IMS user the session has been established or
even whether the call has been forked or re-targeted at all.
NOTE: An IMS UE can apply certain policies to enhance security in forking and
re-targeting scenarios. For example, an IMS UE receiving an answer to an
INVITE can check the P-Asserted-Identity field to verify whether the answering
user is the called one, and if this is not the case, cancel the current
session (and possibly establish a new session directly with the answering
user, using new keys). Moreover, an IMS UE can alert the user in case the user
has triggered the establishment of a media session using e2e security but the
identity of the answering party is not asserted to the IMS UE.
### 5.4.3 Authentication and authorization for e2e protection using KMS
User authentication and authorization shall be performed as described in
Clause 6.2.3.
The KMS can perform policy control regarding e.g. who is allowed to set up
connections with secured media to whom. Other ticket features defined in
MIKEY-TICKET [14] such as reuse of tickets, forking key generation and
terminating side authentication can also be controlled by the KMS.
Authorization of ticket requests to the KMS is based on an authenticated user
identity carried in the request message. The user may request a specific type
of ticket but the KMS can control the actual settings in the issued ticket.
When the terminating side requests the KMS to resolve a ticket and return the
keys to be used, the KMS checks that the terminating user is authorized to
resolve the ticket. This authorization is based on information about allowed
recipients carried in the ticket and the authenticated identity of the
requesting user carried in the request message.
When user authentication is based on GBA, the IMS UE uses its GBA B-TID [6] as
authenticated identifier. The NAF-key identified by the B-TID is used for
protection of the message exchange.
Mutual authentication between initiating and terminating users is achieved
based on trust in the KMS. The terminating side will be assured of the
initiating IMS UE identity as its KMS UID, defined in clause 6.2.3.2, will be
included in the ticket and ticket integrity will be verified by the KMS and
reported back to the requestor. The initiator will get assurance about the
identity of the terminating user when receiving the TRANSFER_RESP message. The
response message will include a KMS UID representing the entity requesting the
KMS to resolve the ticket. The response message is authenticated with a key
guaranteeing the authenticity of the KMS UID.
As the KMS based solution only provides e2e security there is no need for
control and policing regarding the scope of media protection.
If there is a need in the network to detect that KMS based security solution
is used it can be done by inspecting the SDP parts of the SIP signalling, in
particular the SDP attribute a=key-mgmt which if present indicates use of
MIKEY-TICKET [14] and implicitly then use of the KMS based IMS media plane
security functionality.
## 5.5 Security properties of key management, distribution and derivation
### 5.5.1 General security properties for protection using SDES
**SDES requires SIP messages carrying SDES crypto attributes to be secured as
SDES provides no security mechanism of its own. Under the assumption that the
protocol for securing media, SRTP, is secure the use of SDES provides the same
level of security for IMS media where media protection is applied as provided
for SIP signalling. In other words, the user may place the same degree of
trust in media security as in signalling security.**
**In IMS, SIP messages are secured in a hop-by-hop fashion. Several
alternatives are available for securing SIP messages between the** IMS **UE
and the P-CSCF** (IMS-ALG)**. In particular, IPsec and TLS, as defined in TS
33.203 [4] are specified in 3GPP. Within the IMS core network, security is
provided by IPsec or TLS, cf. clause 6.2.**
**Outside the IMS, at least hop-by-hop TLS as in RFC 3261 is likely to be
supported. IMS has no control over how non-IMS SIP providers secure the
interfaces between their SIP proxies. This makes SDES appear less secure in a
non-IMS environment. On the other hand, service level agreements may give
sufficient assurance here.**
**On the SIP proxies, the keys transported with SDES become visible in
plaintext. Therefore, compromise of these proxies will allow not only
signalling security, but also media security, to be compromised.** However, it
should be noted that, even if media security was not applied at all, the
proxies would need to be protected anyway to secure SIP signalling for its own
sake as SIP signalling security is an important requirement for operators and
users. **Therefore, the SIP proxies may be assumed to be trusted for this
purpose anyhow.**
### 5.5.2 Additional security properties for e2ae protection using SDES
For **the e2ae case, there are additional security properties.**
**The trust in all SIP proxies in the signalling path is required for SDES**.
However, assuming that strong SIP signalling security, e.g. TLS or IPsec, is
used between IMS UE and P-CSCF (IMS-ALG), this difference plays no role for
the case of e2ae protection as explained below.
By definition of e2ae protection, the media keys must be available in the
P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) and IMS Access GW in the clear, irrespective of the key
management scheme used. And by the assumption of strong SIP signalling
security and the fact that there is no SIP proxy between the IMS UE and the
P-CSCF (IMS-ALG), no attacker can obtain the media keys by eavesdropping on
the interface between the IMS UE and the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) nor any intermediate
SIP proxy, again irrespective of the key management scheme used. Therefore,
the attacks relating to compromised intermediate signalling nodes that may
apply to the use of SDES for e2e security do not apply to the use of SDES for
e2ae security.
When SDES is used for e2ae protection then, in addition to SIP signalling
security, also the Iq interface for signalling between the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG),
and the media node terminating SRTP towards the UE, i.e. the IMS Access GW,
needs to be secured, cf. clause 6.2.1.3.
### 5.5.3 Security properties for e2e protection using KMS
Key management, distribution and derivation shall be performed as described in
Clause 6.2.3. It is performed in accordance with MIKEY-TICKET [14]. In
particular the key derivation functions of MIKEY in RFC 3830 [11] are reused.
MIKEY-TICKET [14] extends the concepts from MIKEY in RFC 3830 [11] to cover
ticket based key management. The basic exchanges between a user and the KMS
used in this specification are security-wise modelled after MIKEY PSK and
exhibit the same security properties. These exchanges are performed over HTTP
[8] and the security is based on the message security offered by MIKEY-TICKET
[14].
The ticket transfer exchange is also modelled after MIKEY PSK but instead of
directly using shared keys for message protection and protection of TGKs/TEKs,
these keys are carried in the ticket and made available to the users from the
KMS. Assuming that the KMS is secure this will render this exchange the same
security properties as MIKEY PSK.
Access to KMS is a single source of failure in the system and depending on
service requirements, back-up solutions should be considered. It would be
possible to replicate the KMS functionality and e.g. use multiple addresses
for access.
The KMS and the BSF are critical components in the system and their
availability should be protected. Measures to protect against denial of
service attacks should be installed.
### 5.5.4 Security properties for e2ae protection using TLS
Based on secure mutual authentication leveraged by the integrity protection of
the SIP signalling messages (cf. clause 5.4.1), TLS provides secure derivation
of session keys to protect the media.
Similarly as for e2ae protection using SDES, in addition to SIP signalling
security, also the Iq interface for signalling between the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG),
and the media node terminating MSRP/TLS towards the UE, i.e. the IMS Access
GW, needs to be secured, cf. clause 6.2.1.3.
TLS profile considerations discussed in annex M of this specification shall be
followed to support IMS media plane security.
# 6 Security mechanisms
## 6.1 Media security mechanisms
### 6.1.1 Media security mechanisms for real-time traffic
In this specification, protection for real-time traffic means protection for
IMS traffic using the Real-Time Transport Protocol (RTP) or the RTP Control
Protocol (RTCP), cf. RFC 3550 [10].
The integrity and confidentiality protection for IMS traffic using RTP shall
be achieved by using the Secure Real-Time Transport Protocol (SRTP), RFC 3711
[9]. The integrity and confidentiality protection for IMS traffic using RTCP
shall be achieved by using the Secure RTCP protocol (SRTCP), RFC 3711 [9].
A compliant implementation shall support the default transforms and key
derivation functions defined in SRTP [9] Additional transforms and key
derivation functions may be supported. Annex C provides further profiling of
SRTP for compliant implementations.
Key management mechanisms for SRTP and SRTCP, as used in this specification,
are described in clause 6.2. The key management mechanisms shall provide SRTP
master key(s) and master salt(s).
### 6.1.2 Media security mechanisms for session based messaging (MSRP)
In this specification, protection for session based messaging means protection
for IMS traffic using the Message Session Relay Protocol (MSRP) as defined in
RFC 4975 [21] and RFC 6714 [24].
The integrity and confidentiality protection for IMS traffic using MSRP is
achieved by TLS protection.
Key management mechanisms for MSRP, as used in this specification, are
described in clause 6.2.
## 6.2 Key management mechanisms for media protection
### 6.2.1 Key management mechanisms for e2ae protection
#### 6.2.1.1 Endpoints for e2ae protection
The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall handle signalling related to e2ae protection. In
particular, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall terminate the key management protocol
and communicate the agreed security context parameters to the IMS Access GW
over the Iq interface.
The IMS Access GW shall terminate the protocol for media confidentiality and
integrity protection towards the UE as requested by the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG). The
IMS Access GW shall send unprotected packets to and receive unprotected
packets from the network, unless other protection mechanisms have been
configured to be used in the direction towards the network according to the
policies of the operator.
For IMS real-time traffic, the IMS Access GW shall send SRTP and SRTCP packets
to and receive SRTP and SRTCP packets from the UE as requested by the P-CSCF
(IMS-ALG). The IMS Access GW shall send RTP and RTCP packets to and receive
RTP and RTCP packets from the network.
For IMS session based messaging traffic, the IMS Access GW shall send TLS
protected MSRP packets to and accept TLS protected MSRP packets from the
served UE as requested by the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG). The IMS Access GW shall send
MSRP packets to and accept MSRP packets from the network -- whether these
packets are specifically protected by TLS is up to the policies of the
operator.
NOTE: From the IMS access gateway in the direction towards the network, plain
TCP may be used on the next hops, assuming that the interfaces are protected
e.g. using IPsec or physical protection. Optionally, TLS may be used. The IMS
access gateway relays between the TLS connection towards the originating IMS
UE and the connection in the direction towards the terminating IMS UE. Usage
of TLS from the IMS access gateway towards the network is not covered by this
specification.
For the definition of the IMS Access GW cf. TS 23.228 [3].
#### 6.2.1.2 Key management protocol for e2ae protection
The key management protocol for e2ae protection for real-time traffic shall be
the SDP Security Descriptions (SDES) as defined in [13].
The secure use of the SDP crypto attribute defined in SDES requires the
services of a data security protocol to secure the SDP message. For the use of
SDES in IMS, these security services are provided by the SIP signalling
security mechanisms applied between the UE and the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) as defined
in TS 33.203 [4]. SIP messages between the UE and the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall
be confidentiality-protected either by the confidentiality mechanisms of IPsec
or TLS as defined in TS 33.203 [4], or by confidentiality provided by the
underlying access network.
The key management mechanism for e2ae protection of MSRP traffic shall be
based on certificates and the transmission of certificate fingerprints as
defined in RFC 4975 [21].
#### 6.2.1.3 Functional extension of the Iq interface for e2ae protection
#### 6.2.1.3.1 Functional extension of the Iq interface for e2ae protection
for RTP
For each RTP media stream to be set-up, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall send the
parameters contained in two specific SDES crypto attributes, cf. RFC 4568
[13], over the Iq interface to the IMS Access GW. On the originating side of
the session, these are the SDES crypto attribute selected by the P-CSCF (IMS-
ALG) from the ones received from the IMS UE in the SDP Offer and the SDES
crypto attribute generated and inserted by the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) in the SDP
Answer sent to IMS UE, cf. clause 7.2.1. On the terminating side of the
session, these are the SDES crypto attribute selected by the UE from the ones
generated and inserted by the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) in the SDP Offer sent to IMS UE
and the SDES crypto attribute received from the IMS UE in the SDP Answer, cf.
clause 7.3.1. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall send the parameters contained in an
SDES crypto attribute over Iq in such a way that the IMS Access GW is able to
uniquely associate the SDES crypto attribute with a media stream.
The IMS Access GW shall, upon reception of an SDES crypto attribute, establish
an SRTP security context (as described in RFC 4568 [13] and RFC 3711 [9]) and
be prepared to convert RTP packets to SRTP packets and vice versa, using the
corresponding SRTP security contexts, and send the packets to the UE or
receive them from the UE, as described in clause 7.
The confidentiality of the keys sent over the Iq interface is required. The Iq
interface shall be protected by NDS/IP [5]. If cryptographic protection is
applied to the Iq interface then encryption shall be used.
NOTE: If the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) and IMS Access GW are located in the same
security domain then cryptographic protection is not mandated by NDS/IP. From
TS 33.210 [5]: \"The Zb-interface is located between SEGs and NEs and between
NEs within the same security domain. The Zb-interface is optional for
implementation.\"
#### 6.2.1.3.2 Functional extension of the Iq interface for e2ae protection
for MSRP
For each MSRP media stream to be set-up with e2ae security the P-CSCF (IMS-
ALG) shall send the certificate fingerprint received from the IMS UE over the
Iq interface to the IMS Access GW in a way that the IMS Access GW is able to
uniquely associate the fingerprint with a media stream.
Vice versa, for each MSRP media stream to be set-up with e2ae security IMS
Access GW shall send the fingerprint of its certificate over the Iq interface
to the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) in a way that the IMS Access GW is able to uniquely
associate the fingerprint with a media stream.
For protection of session based messaging traffic, the IMS Access GW shall,
upon reception of a certificate fingerprint, use the certificate fingerprint
(as described in RFC 4975 [xx]) to verify the establishment of the TLS session
to belong to the served user. When the TLS session has been established, the
IMS Access GW shall be prepared to convert unprotected MSRP packets to
protected MSRP packets and vice versa and send the packets to the UE or
receive them from the UE, as described in clause 7.
The integrity of the fingerprints sent over the Iq interface is required. The
Iq interface shall be protected by NDS/IP [5]. If cryptographic protection is
applied to the Iq interface then integrity protection shall be used. (See also
NOTE in 6.2.1.3.1.)
### 6.2.2 Key management mechanisms for e2e protection using SDES
SDP Security Descriptions (SDES) as defined in [13] may be used for key
management for e2e protection for real-time traffic.
The secure use of the SDP crypto attribute defined in SDES requires the
services of a data security protocol to secure the SDP message. For the use of
SDES in IMS, these security services are provided by the SIP signalling
security mechanisms applied between the UE and the P-CSCF as defined in TS
33.203 [4] and between IMS core network elements as defined in TS 33.210 [5]
and, for the optional use of TLS, in TS 33.203 [4]. SIP messages between the
UE and the P-CSCF shall be confidentiality-protected either by the
confidentiality mechanisms of IPsec or TLS as defined in TS 33.203 [4], or by
confidentiality provided by the underlying access network. SIP messages
between IMS core network elements shall be confidentiality-protected by the
confidentiality mechanisms of IPsec or TLS as defined in TS 33.210 [5] and TS
33.203 [4] respectively, or by confidentiality provided by the underlying core
network.
NOTE: e2e protection using the key management mechanism described above may
also be achieved between an IMS UE and a non-IMS SIP terminal. It is true also
for this case that the services of a data security protocol to secure the SDP
message are required. However, the means to provide such services in a non-IMS
network are outside the scope of this specification.
### 6.2.3 Key management mechanisms for e2e protection using KMS
#### 6.2.3.1 General
The KMS based security mechanism may be used for e2e protection of both real-
time traffic and session based messaging (MSRP),
The key management mechanisms are defined by MIKEY-TICKET [14] and the
profiling of tickets and procedures as given in this specification. Annex D
specifies the default implementation of KMS based IMS media plane security and
use of GBA for user authentication and establishment of a shared key between
KMS and IMS UE.
MIKEY-TICKET [14] contains up to three message exchanges. The first exchange
is called Ticket Request and is between the initiating user and the KMS. The
second exchange is called Ticket Transfer and is between initiating and
terminating users. The third exchange is called Ticket Resolve and is between
the terminating user and the KMS. The exchanges and the messages in the
exchanges are illustrated in Figure 3. In MIKEY-TICKET [14] the three parties
involved in the message exchanges are called Initiator, KMS and Responder,
respectively.
Depending on the KMS policy, some message exchanges may be omitted. For
example, if the KMS policy indicates that the initiator generates the ticket
without the assistance of KMS (MIKEY-TICKET mode 3, cf. [14]), the Ticket
Request message exchange, i.e. the REQUEST_INIT and REQUEST_RESP messages will
be omitted.
Figure 3: MIKEY-TICKET message exchanges
#### 6.2.3.2 KMS user and user group identities
Users of the KMS based security solution shall have at least one public SIP-
URI formatted identity. The NAI part (username\@domain) of this identity is
used for user identification and authentication in the key management system.
This identity is called the KMS UID.
KMS UIDs are used to identify the user to which a ticket is issued and the
allowed recipients of the ticket, i.e. the (set of) user(s) which are allowed
to resolve the ticket and receive the associated keys. This information is
included in the ticket.
User groups for key management purposes can be defined by wild-carding of KMS
user identities. The character ? (question mark) is used as the wild card
character and matches zero or more occurrences of arbitrary characters. A
string formatted as a KMS UID and which includes at least one occurrence of
the wild card character is called a KMS user group identity. The KMS user
group identity ?.department\@company.example thus defines the group of users
that have a KMS user identity matching the wild-carded string and the group
would include e.g. user1.department\@company.example and
user2.department\@company.example. Another example is the group of all users
which would be designated as ?@? or just ?. By appropriate assignment of
public IMS UIDs varying group structures can be implemented.
#### 6.2.3.3 IMS UE local policies
The use of the KMS based security solution is at the users\' discretion; its
use may be controlled by a local policy in the IMS UE and the functionality
may be access protected by e.g. a password. The local policy may also control
if and when reusable tickets are allowed, if and when group tickets shall be
requested and which group a ticket shall be issued for. Furthermore, it may
define under which conditions a received ticket shall be accepted. The local
policy in the IMS UE should be in agreement with the global policy applied by
the KMS.
Local policies may also control how and when warning messages are issued to
the user.
#### 6.2.3.4 Ticket data
##### 6.2.3.4.1 Ticket format
The ticket format used in KMS based IMS media plane security is according to
the base ticket format in MIKEY-TICKET [14] with the profiling defined in
Annex D.
MIKEY-TICKET [14] defines a Ticket Type value (2) for 3GPP usage. Subtypes and
versions of this ticket type are defined by 3GPP and shall be specified in
this specification, clause 6.2.3.4.2.
##### 6.2.3.4.2 Allocation of ticket subtype and version for ticket type 2
Table 1: Allocation of ticket subtype and versions values
* * *
Subtype Version Defined in 0 0 Reserved 1 1 Annex D in this specification
* * *
####
#### 6.2.3.5 Authentication of public identities in REQUEST_INIT and
RESOLVE_INIT
When the KMS receives a REQUEST_INIT or RESOLVE_INIT request, the KMS must
verify that the user issuing the request is authorized to do so. This
verification is based on authentication of the requesting user's KMS UID.
When GBA is used, the user issuing the request is identified according to GBA
procedures by the GBA B-TID carried in the request message to the KMS. The KMS
uses the B-TID to request the the NAF-Key used to protect the request and USS
information containing a list of all IMPUs, which are associated with the
user. The KMS then uses the list of IMPUs to derive all KMS UIDs associated
with the requesting user. The KMS verifies that the KMS UID carried in the
request is one of the derived identities. For RESOLVE_INIT, the KMS verifies
that among the derived KMS UIDs, there is at least one (may not be the one
carried in the request) matching the allowed recipient(s) identity in the
ticket.
If a caller requests a ticket based on the identity of the expected responder,
the call will most likely fail if the IMS network decides to divert the call
to another destination. To handle call diversion it is recommended to set the
allowed recipient in tickets to the wildcarded identity ?@?. This doesn't
affect the security of the solution since keys returned by the KMS are always
forked based on the resolver's identity.
When an alternative system for KMS user authentication and key establishment
is used it shall provide authentication of the requesting user's KMS UID.
#### 6.2.3.6 Authentication of terminating user identity
In IMS media plane security MIKEY-TICKET shall use key forking (see MIKEY-
TICKET [14]) for authentication of terminating users. Key forking will provide
authentication of terminating user identity. The TRANSFER_RESP message shall
contain a KMS UID associated with the terminating user. The response message
is authenticated with a key guaranteeing the authenticity of the KMS user
identity.
#### 6.2.3.7 Reusable tickets
Reusable tickets are allowed and their use is controlled by KMS and IMS UE
local policies.
A ticket can be issued as a reusable ticket. That a ticket is reusable has two
meanings. For the user that requested the ticket, it means that the user can
use the same ticket for setting up multiple calls with the intended recipient,
usually within a specified time period. For the ticket recipient, it means
that the ticket identity and the associated keys can be stored so that the
recipient does not have to request keys from the KMS each time the ticket is
received. It is however not required that reusable tickets are stored. Local
policy may e.g. for capacity limited devices determine not to store such
tickets. It is always allowed to resolve the ticket at the time the ticket is
received.
Tickets that are not reusable shall be resolved when received at the
terminating side.
#### 6.2.3.8 Signalling between KMSs
Users served by different KMSs (KMS_I, KMS_R) may establish connections that
provide e2e security provided that the KMSs cooperate and that there is a
trust relation between them. The KMSs shall be mutually authenticated and the
signalling between them shall be integrity and confidentiality protected. If
KMS_R cannot resolve a ticket, but has a trust relation with KMS_I that can
resolve the ticket, KMS_R initiates a new ticket resolve exchange with KMS_I.
The response message from KMS_I is then re-encoded by KMS_R and forwarded to
the responder as described in Annex B. The message exchange shall be done as
described in Section 10 of [14]. The exchanges and the messages in the
exchanges are illustrated in Figure 4. Note that this introduces a hop-by-hop
trust chain as only KMS_R authenticates the user (responder) and KMS_I will
have to trust KMS_R.
Figure 4: MIKEY-TICKET message exchanges between KMSs
# 7 Security association set-up procedures for media protection
## 7.1 IMS UE registration procedures
### 7.1.1 Indication of support for e2ae security for RTP based media
The IMS UE performs an IMS registration according to 3GPP TS 23.228 [3], with
modifications as described in the following. When performing the registration,
an IMS UE supporting the mechanisms required for e2ae protection according to
this specification shall include an indication \"e2ae-security supported by
UE\" in the initial REGISTER message unless the IMS UE's policy dictates
otherwise.
When receiving indication \"e2ae-security supported by UE\" in the initial
REGISTER message from the IMS UE the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall store it.
When the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) is capable of supporting the mechanisms required for
e2ae protection according to this specification, and the network policy is to
prefer e2ae protection for this registration, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall
include an indication \"e2ae-security supported by network\" in a message to
the IMS UE during registration. The IMS UE shall store this indication for use
with originating session set-up procedures.
NOTE 1: The names \"e2ae-security supported by UE\" and \"e2ae-security
supported by network\" of the above indications are just placeholders for the
purposes of this specification. Their syntax is defined in the corresponding
stage 3 specification. These names refer to the RTP case only. Separate names
for MSRP and BFCP are introduced from Rel-12 onwards, cf. clause 7.1.2 and
Annex G of the present document.
NOTE 2: The network policy regarding e2ae protection could differ e.g.
depending on the type of access network. Therefore, the policy may depend on
the registration. This does not imply that the network policy depends on the
individual subscription.
When an IMS UE initiates a session and both the IMS UE and the P-CSCF (IMS-
ALG) have indicated support of e2ae security for RTP, then the IMS UE shall
secure all RTP media streams, either e2ae or e2e. When a P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) on
the terminating side receives an INVITE for an RTP stream and the P-CSCF (IMS-
ALG) and the terminating IMS UE have indicated support of e2ae security for
RTP, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall secure all unprotected RTP streams towards the
terminating IMS UE. A request for e2ae security from an IMS UE is only allowed
if both the IMS UE and P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) have indicated support of e2ae
security. On the terminating side, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) is only allowed to
initiate e2ae security if both IMS UE and P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) have indicated
support of e2ae security.
NOTE 3: A session may contain a mixture of protected (e2ae and/or e2e) and
unprotected media streams/sessions.
### 7.1.2 Indication of support for e2ae security for MSRP
Support for e2ae security for MSRP is indicated during registration in the
same way as for RTP based media, cf. clause 7.1.1. It is done independently
from the indication of support for e2ae security for RTP based media, and uses
its own indications\" e2ae- security for MSRP supported by the UE\" and\"
e2ae-security for MSRP supported by the network\" (the syntax is to be defined
in the corresponding stage 3 specification).
NOTE1: The policies of the IMS UE and the network concerning the use of e2ae
security for MSRP are independent from the policies concerning the use of e2ae
security for RTP based media.
NOTE2: For compatibility with RCS 5.1, t he indication of support for e2ae
security during registration is not a necessary prerequisite for the use of
e2ae security, but it helps to avoid certain error cases, cf. Clause 7.2.1 and
Clause 7.3.1.
## 7.2 IMS UE originating procedures
### 7.2.1 IMS UE originating procedures for e2ae
Figure 5 shows the originating session set-up procedures for one or more media
stream(s) using e2ae security.
NOTE: The procedures shown in the figure apply to users located in their home
service area. The same concepts apply to roaming users.
Figure 5: Originating call flow for e2ae case
The IMS UE A performs an IMS originating session set-up according to 3GPP TS
23.228 [3], with modifications as described in the following. If both IMS UE
and network indicated support for e2ae security for RTP based traffic during
registration, then the IMS UE shall request e2ae security for RTP media
streams to be established as described in this clause, unless the IMS UE
initiates a procedure for e2e security for a RTP media stream. If both IMS UE
and network indicated support for e2ae security for MSRP during registration,
then the IMS UE shall request e2ae security for MSRP media streams to be
established as described in this clause, unless the IMS UE initiates a
procedure for e2e security for an MSRP media stream.
The originating procedures for establishing media streams with e2e security
are described in clauses 7.2.2 (for RTP only) and 7.2.3 of this specification.
The IMS UE may learn of a preference for e2e security for a particular session
or media stream by explicit user action via the user interface or by the
security policy implemented on the IMS UE.
The procedure in the above figure for requesting e2ae security for a media
stream is now described step-by-step.
1\. IMS UE A sends an SDP Offer for a media stream containing cryptographic
information, together with an indication \"e2ae-security requested by UE\", to
the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG).
> For e2ae protection of RTP the cryptographic information contained in the
> SDP Offer consists of one or more SDES crypto attributes, each of these
> containing at least one master key K11, and other security context
> parameters chosen by IMS UE A in accordance with RFC 4568 [13]. The optional
> key lifetime field shall be omitted.
NOTE 1: The omission of the key lifetime field is, according to RFC 4568 [13],
a way to implicitly signal the default values for the key lifetime as defined
in RFC 3711 [9]. The default values are 2\^48 SRTP packets and 2\^31 SRTCP
packets
For e2ae protection of MSRP the cryptographic information contained in the SDP
Offer consists of the fingerprint of the certificate of IMS UE A in accordance
to RFC 4975 [21].
2\. For each media stream that uses transport "RTP/SAVP", "RTP/SAVPF" or
"TCP/TLS/MSRP", the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) checks for the presence of the indication
\"e2ae-security requested by UE\".
If the indication is present and the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) indicated support of
e2ae-security for the respective protocol (RTP and/or MSRP) during
registration, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) allocates the required resources, includes
the IMS Access GW in the media path and proceeds as specified in this clause.
If the indication is not present for an SRTP media stream the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG)
proceeds for this media stream as described in clause 7.2.2 or clause 7.2.3 of
the present specification.
If the indication is not present for an MSRP media stream offered with
transport "TCP/TLS/MSRP", the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) should proceed for this media
stream as described in clause 7.2.3 of the present specification or in TS
23.228 [3] and skip the further steps in the present subclause. If
compatibility with RCS 5.1 [27] is desired, a P-CSCF may, based on local
policy, allocate the required resources, include the IMS Access GW in the
media path and proceed as specified in this clause.
NOTE 1a: According to the above, an operator can choose to terminate TLS in
the IMS Access GW according to the following steps for all media streams that
are signalled in SIP INVITE messages with transport TCP/TLS/MSRP and a
certificate fingerprint attribute, even if the UE did not indicate support for
e2ae security during registration and did not indicate usage of e2ae security
for the respective media streams in the INVITE. This can lead to session
failures for pre-Rel-12 IMS UEs or non-IMS UEs due to a mismatch of security
parameters sent by the network and expected by the UE, but on the other hand,
it will ensure compatibility with RCS 5.1 [27], which specifies that TLS for
MSRP is always terminated in the network. It is therefore advantageous that
IMS UEs compliant to the present specification use indications if they want to
establish e2ae security for MSRP rather than relying on the network to
terminate TLS even if no indication is present.
NOTE 2: The inclusion of the IMS Access GW in the media path is required for
the purposes of e2ae security even if it was not required otherwise.
NOTE 2a: If an indication for e2ae security for a media stream is present in
an SDP offer but the support for e2ae security for the respective protocol was
not successfully established during registration then this is an error case.
3\. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) modifies the SDP offer before sending it towards the
S-CSCF.
> For e2ae protection of RTP, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) changes the transport from
> SRTP to RTP in the SDP Offer, selects one SDES crypto attribute and removes
> all received SDES crypto attributes and the indication \"e2ae-security
> requested by UE\" from the SDP Offer
>
> For e2ae protection of MSRP, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall change the transport
> from "TCP/TLS/MSRP" to "TCP/MSRP" in the SDP Offer (cf., however, NOTE 4),
> stores the received fingerprint of the IMS UE A certificate and removes it
> as well as the indication \"e2ae-security requested by UE\" from the
> description of the media stream in the SDP Offer if present.
The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) then sends the changed SDP offer towards the S-CSCF.
4\. The S-CSCF performs the required procedures according to TS 23.228 [3] and
forwards the SDP Offer to the terminating network.
5\. The S-CSCF receives the SDP Answer from the terminating network.
6\. The S-CSCF forwards the SDP Answer to the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG).
7\. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) and the IMS Access GW exchangethe cryptographic
information.
> For e2ae protection of RTP this requires that the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) creates
> one SDES crypto attribute, containing at least one master key K12, and other
> security context parameters chosen by the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) in accordance
> with RFC 4568 [13], for protecting the RTP media stream towards IMS UE A
> between the IMS Access GW and IMS UE A. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) communicates
> the parameters contained in the SDES crypto attribute selected in step 3 as
> well as those in the SDES crypto attribute created in step 7 to the IMS
> Access GW. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) instructs the IMS Access GW to check
> integrity / decrypt the media stream arriving from IMS UE A using K11 (and
> possibly further master keys), to integrity protect / encrypt the media
> stream arriving from the terminating network using K12 (and possibly further
> master keys), and to set the key lifetime to the default values as defined
> in RFC 3711 [9].
For e2ae protection of MSRP the cryptographic information communicated by the
P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) to the IMS Access GW consists of the fingerprint of the UE´s
certificate in accordance to RFC 4975 [21]. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) instructs the
IMS Access GW to verify during the subsequent TLS handshake with the IMS UE
(see step 9) that the fingerprint of the certificate passed by the IMS UE
during this TLS handshake matches the fingerprint passed by the P-CSCF (IMS-
ALG) to the IMS Access GW. In turn, the IMS Access GW communicates the
fingerprint of the certificate it is going to use for setting up protection
for this media stream to the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG).
  1. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) modifies the SDP Answer before sending it to > the IMS UE A.
> For e2ae protection of RTP, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall change the transport
> from RTP to SRTP in the SDP Answer and includes the SDES crypto attribute
> created in step 7. The optional key lifetime field shall be omitted.
>
> For e2ae protection of MSRP, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall set the transport to
> "TCP/TLS/MSRP" , remove any fingerprint attributes in the SDP Answer, if
> present, and include the fingerprint of the IMS Access GW´s certificate in
> accordance to RFC 4975 [21].
>
> The P-CSCF (IMA-ALG) then sends the updated SDP Answer to IMS UE A. After
> receiving this message IMS UE A completes the media security setup.
NOTE 3: The IMS UE can deduce that e2ae security is used from two facts:
first, that the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) indicated its support for e2ae security
during registration, and second, that the IMS UE requested e2ae-security in
the SDP Offer.
9\. In case of RTP, when the full session setup has been completed, and media
can be sent, the protected media stream is sent between IMS UE A and the IMS
Access GW. IMS UE A integrity protects / encrypts and checks integrity /
decrypts the media stream sent to and received from the network. The IMS
Access GW checks integrity / decrypts the media stream arriving from IMS UE A
before passing it on towards the terminating network. The IMS Access GW
integrity protects / encrypts the media stream arriving from the terminating
network before passing it on to IMS UE A.
> In case of MSRP, when the full session setup has been completed, the TCP and
> TLS connection shall be established between the IMS UE and the IMS Access
> GW. When subsequently media are sent from or to the IMS UE, the IMS Access
> GW performs the required TLS specific cryptographic operations on the media.
NOTE 4: In case cryptographic protection is also used in the core network, the
IMS Access GW will also perform the necessary functions for this additional
cryptographic protection. A network may have for example the policy to use TLS
for MSRP also inside the core network. In this case, when e2ae security is
used, TLS has to be established also from the IMS Access GW towards the core
network. This may require enhancements to the procedure described above but is
outside of the scope of this specification.
### 7.2.2 IMS UE originating procedures for e2e using SDES
Figure 6 shows the originating call set-up procedures for one RTP media stream
using SDES based e2e security.
NOTE 1: The procedures shown in the figure apply to users located in their
home service area. The same concepts apply to roaming users.
NOTE 2: E2e protected RTP sessions and/or media streams are set-up without
IMS-ALG support, which means that such sessions can be set-up in networks not
providing the IMS-ALG functionality in the P-CSCF.
Figure 6: Originating call flow for e2e case using SDES
The IMS UE performs an IMS originating session set-up according to 3GPP TS
23.228 [3], with modifications as described in the following. The IMS UE may
learn of a preference for e2e-security for a particular RTP media
stream/session using a particular key management protocol by explicit user
action via the user interface or by the security policy implemented on the IMS
UE.
NOTE 3: The procedure described here is the same as for legacy UEs not fully
conforming to this specification, which can also use SDES to establish e2e
security.
The procedure in the above figure is now described step-by-step.
1\. IMS UE A sends an SDP Offer for an SRTP stream containing one or more SDES
crypto attributes to the P-CSCF. Each of these SDES crypto attributes contains
at least one master key K1, and other security context parameters chosen by
IMS UE A in accordance with RFC 4568 [13]. IMS UE A does not include any
indication regarding the required security scope, i.e. e2e security or e2ae
security.
2\. If the P-CSCF supports e2ae security, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) checks for the
presence of the indication \"e2ae-security requested by UE\". As the
indication is not present, the P-CSCF forwards the SDP offer towards the
S-CSCF. If an indication is present the P-CSCF proceeds as described in clause
7.2.1 of this specification.
3\. The S-CSCF performs the required procedures according to TS 23.228 [3] and
forwards the SDP Offer to the terminating network.
4\. The S-CSCF receives the SDP Answer from the terminating network containing
one SDES crypto attribute with at least one master key K2, and other security
context parameters chosen by IMS UE B in accordance with RFC 4568 [13].
5\. The S-CSCF forwards the SDP Answer to the P-CSCF.
6\. The P-CSCF forwards the SDP Answer to IMS UE A. After receiving this
message IMS UE A completes the media security setup.
7\. When the full session setup has been completed, and media can be sent, the
protected RTP media stream is sent between IMS UE A and IMS UE B. IMS UE A
integrity protects / encr ypts the media stream sent towards IMS UE B using
key K1 (and possibly further master keys) from the crypto attribute selected
by IMS UE B and checks integrity / decrypts the media stream arriving from IMS
UE B using key K2 (and possibly further master keys).
### 7.2.3 IMS UE originating procedures for e2e using KMS
Figure 7 shows the originating call set-up procedures for one RTP or one MSRP
session using KMS based security.
NOTE 1: The procedures shown in the figure apply to users located in their
home service area. The same concepts apply to roaming users.
NOTE 2: E2e protected RTP or MSRP sessions are set-up without IMS-ALG support,
which means that such sessions can be set-up in networks not providing the
IMS-ALG functionality in the P-CSCF.
Figure 7: Originating call flow for e2e case using KMS
The IMS UE performs an IMS originating session set-up according to 3GPP TS
23.228 [3], with modifications as described in the following. The IMS UE may
learn of a preference for e2e-security for a particular session using a
particular key management protocol by explicit user action via the user
interface or by the security policy implemented on the IMS UE. KMS
interactions are described in clause 6.2.3.1. Details of the KMS based key
management are given in Annex B.
The procedure in the above figure is now described step-by-step.
1\. Depending on KMS and local policy, the IMS UE A will either interact with
the KMS to obtain keys and a MIKEY-TICKET Ticket usable for IMS UE B, or it
will create the ticket by itself. In the latter case, MIKEY-TICKET [14] mode 3
is used, and IMS UE A will then perform all key and ticket generation
functions otherwise performed by the KMS. The ticket is protected with a key,
e.g. a NAF-key that the IMS UE shares with the KMS.
2\. IMS UE A sends an SDP offer for an RTP or MSRP session containing a MIKEY-
TICKET offer for IMS UE B to the P-CSCF.
3\. If the P-CSCF supports e2ae security, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) checks for the
presence of the indication \"e2ae-security requested by UE\". As the
indication is not present, the P-CSCF forwards the SDP offer towards the
S-CSCF.
4\. The S-CSCF performs the required procedures according to TS 23.228 [3] and
forwards the SDP offer to the terminating network.
5\. The S-CSCF receives the SDP answer from the terminating network containing
a MIKEY-TICKET response.
6\. The S-CSCF forwards the SDP answer to the P-CSCF.
7\. The P-CSCF forwards the SDP answer to IMS UE A. After receiving this
message the IMS UE A checks that the responder is authorized before completing
the media security setup.
8\. IMS UE-A derives the media session keys and initiates the media plane
security. For an RTP session this means sending and receiving SRT(C)P streams
and for an MSRP session this means setting up a TLS-PSK tunnel to protect the
MSRP messages
## 7.3 UE terminating procedures
### 7.3.1 UE terminating procedures for e2ae
Figure 8 shows the terminating session set-up procedures for one or more media
stream using e2ae security.
NOTE 1: The procedures shown in the figure apply to users located in their
home service area. The same concepts apply to roaming users.
Figure 8: Terminating call flow for e2ae case
The IMS UE performs an IMS terminating session set-up according to 3GPP TS
23.228 [3], with modifications as described in the following. If both IMS UE
and network indicated support for e2ae-security for RTP based traffic during
registration and the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) receives an SDP Offer for an RTP media
stream using transport "RTP/AVP" or "RTP/AVPF" (i.e. no SRTP) from the S-CSCF,
then the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall establish e2ae-security for the RTP media
stream as described in this clause. If both IMS UE and network indicated
support for e2ae-security for MSRP during registration and the P-CSCF (IMS-
ALG) receives an SDP Offer for an MSRP media stream using transport "TCP/MSRP"
(i.e. no TLS) from the S-CSCF, then the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) shall establish e2ae-
security for the MSRP media stream as described in this clause.
NOTE 2: The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) will not establish e2ae security for RTP based
media if the SDP offer received from the S-CSCF indicates that e2e security is
being offered, cf. clauses 7.3.2 and 7.3.3 for the establishment of e2e
security on the terminating side.
The procedure in the above figure is now described step-by-step.
1\. The S-CSCF in the terminating network receives an SDP Offer for an RTP
media stream with transport "RTP/AVP" or "RTP/AVPF" or an MSRP stream with
transport "TCP/MSRP" from the originating network.
2\. The S-CSCF performs the required procedures according to TS 23.228 [3] and
forwards the SDP Offer for the media stream to the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG).
3\. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) checks the media streams in the SDP Offer.
> For each RTP media stream offered with transport "RTP/AVP" or "RTP/AVPF", if
> ,both the IMS UE and the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) indicated support of e2ae-security
> during registration the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) proceeds for this media stream as
> described in the present clause and allocates the required resources and
> includes the IMS Access GW in the media path. For each RTP media stream
> offered with transport "RTP/AVP" or "RTP/AVPF" where this is not the case
> the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) continues as described for a call without IMS media
> plane security.
>
> For each RTP media stream offered with transport "RTP/SAVP" or "RTP/SAVPF",
> the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) proceeds as described in clause 7.3.2 or 7.3.3.
For each MSRP media stream offered with transport "TCP/MSRP",
\- ;if both the IMS UE and P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) indicated support for e2ae-
security for MSRP during registration, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) proceeds for this
media stream as described in this clause and allocates the required resources,
includes the IMS Access GW in the media path for establishing the TLS towards
the IMS UE and retrieves from the IMS Access GW the fingerprint of the
certificate the IMS Access GW is going to use for setting up security for this
media stream
\- if not both the IMS UE and P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) indicated support for e2ae-
security for MSRP during registration, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) should continue as
described for media streams without IMS media plane security. If compatibility
with RCS 5.1 [27] is desired, a P-CS CF may, based on local policy, proceed
for this media stream as described in the preceding paragraph.
> For each MSRP media stream offered with transport "TCP/TLS/MSRP" the P-CSCF
> (IMS-ALG) should proceed as specified in clause 7.3.3 of the present
> specification or in TS 23.228 [3] or may, depending on its local policy,
> terminate TLS and proceed as specified in this clause. .
NOTE 2a: According to the above, an operator can choose to set up e2ae
security for terminating MSRP media streams according to the following steps
for all MSRP media streams that would otherwise not be protected by TLS, even
if the UE did not indicate support for e2ae security during registration. This
can lead to session failures for pre-Rel-12 IMS UEs or non-IMS UEs that do not
support MSRP over TLS with self-signed certificates and the exchange of
certificate fingerprints, but on the other hand, it will ensure compatibility
with RCS 5.1 [27], which recommends to always use e2ae security for MSRP on
the terminating leg. Furthermore, an operator can choose to always terminate
TLS when offered from the originating side, but this again can lead to session
failures due to a mismatch of security parameters sent by the network and
expected by the UE..
NOTE 3: The inclusion of the IMS Access GW in the media path is required for
the purposes of e2ae security even if it was not required otherwise.
4\. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) modifies the SDP Offer before sending it to the IMS
UE B.
> For e2ae protection of RTP the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) changes the transport from
> RTP to SRTP in the SDP Offer, includes one or more SDES crypto attributes,
> as well as an indication that e2ae security is offered by the network. Each
> of these SDES crypto attributes contains at least one master key K21, and
> other security context parameters chosen by the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) in
> accordance with RFC 4568 [13]. The optional key lifetime field shall be
> omitted.
>
> For e2ae protection of an MSRP media stream the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) sets the
> transport to "TCP/TLS/MSRP" in the SDP Offer, removes any fingerprint
> attributes for this media stream and include the fingerprint of the IMS
> Access GW´s certificate in accordance to RFC 4975 [21] as well as an
> indication that e2ae security is offered by the network.
>
> The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) then sends the updated SDP Offer to IMS UE B.
5\. IMS UE B replies with an SDP Answer for a secured media stream.
> For e2ae protection of SRTP, the IMS UE B includes in the SDP Answer one of
> the received SDES crypto attributes containing at least one master key K22,
> and other security context parameters chosen by IMS UE B in accordance with
> RFC 4568 [13]. The optional key lifetime field shall be omitted.
>
> For e2ae protection of MSRP, the IMS UE B includes in the SDP Answer the
> fingerprint of the UE´s certificate in accordance to RFC 4975 [21].
6\. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) communicates the cryptographic information contained
in the SDP Answer to the IMS Access GW.
> For e2ae protection of RTP, this includes the parameters contained in the
> SDES crypto attribute selected by IMS UE B in step 5 as well as those in the
> SDES crypto attribute sent by IMS UE B in step 5 to the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG).
> The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) instructs the IMS Access GW to check integrity /
> decrypt the media stream arriving from IMS UE B using K22 (and possibly
> further master keys), to integrity protect / encrypt the media stream
> arriving from the originating network using K21 (and possibly further master
> keys), and to set the key lifetime to the default values as defined in RFC
> 3711 [9].
>
> For e2ae protection of MSRP, the cryptographic information communicated to
> the IMS Access GW consists on the fingerprint of the IMS UE B certificate in
> accordance to RFC 4975 [21 The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) instructs the IMS Access GW
> to verify during the subsequent TLS handshake with the IMS UE (see step 9)
> that the fingerprint of the certificate passed by the IMS UE during this TLS
> handshake matches the fingerprint passed by the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) to the IMS
> Access GW.].
7\. The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) modifies the SDP Answer before sending it to the
S-CSCF.
> For e2ae protection of SRTP, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) changes the transport from
> SRTP to RTP in the SDP Answer and removes the SDES crypto attribute.
>
> For e2ae protection of MSRP, the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) changes the transport from
> "TCP/TLS/MSRP" to "TCP/MSRP" in the SDP Answe r (cf., however, NOTE 4) .
> Further, it removes the fingerprint of the IMS UE B certificate.
>
> The P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) then sends the SDP Answer to the S-CSCF.
8\. The S-CSCF forwards the SDP Answer towards the originating network.
9\. In case of RTP, when the full session setup has been completed, and media
can be sent, the protected media streams are sent between the IMS UE B and IMS
Access GW. IMS UE B integrity protects / encrypts and integrity check /
decrypts the media streams sent to and received from the network. The IMS
Access GW integrity checks / decrypts the media stream arriving from IMS UE B
before passing it on towards the originating network. The IMS Access GW
integrity protects / encrypts the media stream arriving from the originating
network before passing it on to IMS UE B.
A P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) supporting e2ae-security shall remove any indication
\"e2ae-security offered by network\" if inserted in a SIP message by another
party.
> In case of MSRP, when the full session setup has been completed, the TCP and
> TLS connection shall be established between the IMS UE and the IMS Access
> GW. When subsequently media are sent from or to the IMS UE, the IMS Access
> GW performs the required TLS specific cryptographic operations on the media.
NOTE 4: A network may have the policy to use TLS for MSRP also inside the core
network. So TLS from the direction of the core network may be terminated at
the IMS Access GW. This may require enhancements to the procedure described
above but is outside of the scope of this specification.
NOTE 5: It is left to stage 3 specifications whether the IMS UE takes the role
of TLS client or TLS server. These alternatives are equivalent from a security
point of view.
### 7.3.2 IMS UE terminating procedures for e2e using SDES
Figure 9 shows the terminating call set-up procedures for one RTP media stream
using e2e security.
NOTE 1: The procedures shown in the figure apply to users located in their
home service area. The same concepts apply to roaming users.
NOTE 2: E2e protected RTP sessions and/or media streams are set-up without
IMS-ALG support, which means that such sessions can be set-up in networks not
providing the IMS-ALG functionality in the P-CSCF.
Figure 9: Terminating call flow for e2e case using SDES
The IMS UE performs an IMS terminating session set-up according to 3GPP TS
23.228 [3], with modifications as described in the following.
NOTE 3: The procedure described here is the same as for legacy UEs not fully
conforming to this specification, which may also use SDES to establish e2e
security.
The procedure in the above figure is now described step-by-step.
1\. The S-CSCF in the terminating network receives an SDP Offer for an SRTP
media stream including one or more SDES crypto attributes from the originating
network. Each of these SDES crypto attributes contains at least one master key
K1, and other security context parameters chosen by IMS UE A in accordance
with RFC 4568 [13].
2\. The S-CSCF performs the required procedures according to TS 23.228 [3] and
forwards the SDP Offer for the SRTP media stream to the P-CSCF.
3\. The P-CSCF forwards the SDP Offer for the SRTP media stream to IMS UE B.
4\. IMS UE B selects one of the received SDES crypto attributes, and then
replies with an SDP Answer for an SRTP media stream, including one SDES crypto
attribute with at least one master key K2, and other security context
parameters chosen by IMS UE B in accordance with RFC 4568 [13]. 5. The P-CSCF
forwards the SDP Answer to the S-CSCF.
6\. The S-CSCF forwards the SDP Answer towards the originating network.
7\. When the full session setup has been completed, and media can be sent, the
protected RTP media stream is sent between IMS UE A and IMS UE B. IMS UE B
integrity protects / encrypts the RTP media stream sent towards IMS UE A using
key K2 (and possibly further master keys) and checks integrity / decrypts the
RTP media stream arriving from IMS UE A using key K1 (and possibly further
master keys) from the crypto attribute selected by IMS UE B.
### 7.3.3 IMS UE terminating procedures for e2e using KMS
Figure 10 shows the terminating call set-up procedures for one RTP or one MSRP
session using KMS based security.
NOTE 1: The procedures shown in the figure apply to users located in their
home service area. The same concepts apply to roaming users.
NOTE 2: E2e protected RTP or MSRP sessions are set-up without IMS-ALG support,
which means that such sessions can be set-up in networks not providing the
IMS-ALG functionality in the P-CSCF.
Figure 10: Terminating call flow for e2e case using KMS
An IMS terminating session set-up according to 3GPP TS 23.228 [3] is
performed, with modifications as described in the following. KMS interactions
are described in clause 6.2.3.1. Details of the KMS based key management are
given in Annex B.
The procedure in the above figure is now described step-by-step.
1\. The S-CSCF in the terminating network receives an SDP offer for an RTP or
MSRP session containing a MIKEY-TICKET offer.
2\. The S-CSCF performs the required procedures according to TS 23.228 [3] and
forwards the SDP offer to the P-CSCF.
3\. The P-CSCF forwards the SDP offer to IMS UE B.
4\. IMS UE B checks if it is authorized to resolve the ticket and if that is
the case IMS UE B interacts with the KMS to resolve the ticket and receive
keys.
5\. IMS UE B replies with an SDP answer for an RTP or MSRP session, including
a MIKEY-TICKET response.
6\. The P-CSCF forwards the SDP answer to the S-CSCF.
7\. The S-CSCF forwards the SDP answer towards the originating network.
IMS UE-B derives the media session keys and initiates the media plane
security. For an RTP session this means sending and receiving SRT(C)P streams
and for an MSRP session this means setting up a TLS-PSK tunnel to protect the
MSRP messages.
## 7.4 Session update procedures
When session update is performed, and there is a need for updating the media
security context (e.g., re-keying), new security context shall be included. If
the media security context does not need to be updated (e.g., the session
update is due to media on hold), the previously sent security context shall be
included in accordance to the offer answer procedures (see also TS 24.229
[18]).This means in particular that when an unchanged security context is
received there shall be no re-initialization of the media plane protection.
Media security context update is not used with e2ae security.
## 7.5 Handling of emergency calls
E2ae security procedures according to clause 7.2.1 shall be applied to an
emergency call set-up if and only if the registration procedure according to
clause 7.1 has shown that both, IMS UE and network, support e2ae security. E2e
security shall not be applied to emergency calls.
###### ## Annex A (Normative): HTTP based key management messages
# A.1 General aspects
This annex specifies the HTTP based key management procedures between the KMS
and the UE. It defines the following HTTP based procedures:
\- KMS Ticket Request
\- KMS Ticket Resolve
The KMS Ticket Resolve procedure shall also be used between KMSs when one KMS
gets a request to resolve a ticket that can only be resolved by another KMS.
The Ua security protocol identifier used for GBA NAF-Key generation shall be
as defined in TS 33.220 [6].
# A.2 Key management procedures
The IMS UE shall send the requests to the KMS in the message-body of a HTTP
POST request. The Request-URI shall indicate the type of the message. Upon
successful request, KMS shall return indication of success.
The IMS UE populates the HTTP POST request as follows:
\- the HTTP version shall be 1.1 which is specified in RFC 2616 [8];
\- the Request-URI shall contain an URI parameter \"requesttype\" that shall
be set to \"ticketrequest" or \"ticketresolve", i.e. Request-URI takes the
form of \"/keymanagement?requesttype=ticketrequest\";
\- the header field Host shall contain the full KMS URI (e.g.
kms.operator.example:1234);
\- the header field Content-Type shall be the MIME type of the payload, i.e.
\"application/mikey\". The MIME type is specified in RFC 3830 [11];
\- the message-body shall contain a base64 encoded MIKEY-TICKET message.
Either a REQUEST_INIT or a RESOLVE_INIT message corresponding to the
requesttype parameter in the Request-URI. The MIKEY-TICKET messages are
specified in [14].
\- the IMS UE may add additional URI parameters to the Request-URI;
\- the IMS UE may add additional header fields;
The IMS UE sends the HTTP POST to the KMS. The KMS checks that the HTTP POST
is valid, and extracts the request for further processing.
> POST /keymanagement?requesttype=ticketrequest HTTP/1.1\ Host:
> kms.operator.example:1234\ Content-Type: application/mikey\ Content-Length:
> 127\ User-Agent: KMSAgent; Release-9 3gpp-gba\ From:
> alice\@operator.example\ Date: Fri, 31 Dec 1999 23:59:59 GMT\ \
> Mgj4hyruihyu8568dfg543...
After processing, the KMS shall return the HTTP 200 OK to the IMS UE.
The KMS shall populate HTTP response as follows:
\- the status code shall be 200 OK;
\- the header field Content-Type shall be the MIME type of the payload, i.e.
\"application/mikey\". The MIME type is specified in RFC 3830 [11];
\- the message-body shall contain a base64 encoded MIKEY-TICKET message.
Either a REQUEST_RESP or a RESOLVE_RESP message corresponding to the MIKEY-
TICKET message in the HTTP POST, or a Error message specifying the error that
occurred. The MIKEY-TICKET response messages are specified in [14] and the
Error message is specified in RFC 3830 [11].
\- the KMS may add additional header fields;
The KMS shall send the HTTP response to the IMS UE. The IMS UE shall check
that the HTTP response is valid.
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK\ Date: Fri, 31 Dec 1999 23:59:59 GMT\ Content-Type:
> application/mikey\ Content-Length: 235\ \ Mgj4hyruihyu8568dfg543...
# A.3 Error situations
The HTTP procedures may not be successful for multiple reasons. The error
cases are indicated by using 4xx and 5xx HTTP Status Codes as defined in RFC
2616 [8]. The 4xx status code indicates that the IMS UE seems to have erred,
and the 5xx status code indicates that the KMS is aware that it has erred.
###### ## Annex B (Normative): KMS based key management
# B.1 UE originating procedures
## B.1.1 Preconditions
The following preconditions are assumed:
\- The IMS UE is configured with the address to the KMS, which it shall use
for ticket requests.\ The KMS address is in the form of a Fully Qualified
Domain Name as defined in IETF RFC 1035 [7]
\- The IMS UE is configured with GBA protocol identifier to use for MIKEY-
TICKET [14] message exchange.
\- The IMS UE has performed a GBA bootstrap and holds a valid B-TID and Ks.
\- The IMS UE has derived the NAF-key for the KMS, which it shall use for
ticket request
## B.1.2 Procedures
The originating call set-up procedure is described in clause 7.2.3.
Interactions with the KMS are described in clause 6.2.3.1.
The detailed originating procedures are described in the following steps
1\. The initiator evaluates the local policy held in the IMS UE for calling
the intended user. If the local policy determines that a fresh ticket
generated by the KMS should be used then the processing continues at step 3.
If the local policy determines that the IMS UE shall generate a fresh ticket
then the IMS UE generates the ticket and the processing continues at step 10.
> When an IMS UE generates a ticket the NAF-Key shall be used as ticket
> protection key (TPK), see Annex D.4.
2\. The initiator searches its local store of reusable tickets. If a reusable
ticket is found having the intended recipient as an allowed recipient, and
which also fulfils all other required ticket properties, then this ticket
shall be reused. Next processing step is step 10.
3\. The initiator prepares a REQUEST_INIT_PSK message as described in MIKEY-
TICKET [14]. The payloads are generated according to the local policy for
ticket requests. The IDRpsk payload is populated with the B-TID and the NAF-
key is used as the pre-shared key for protection of the message.
4\. The message is sent to the KMS over HTTP, as defined in Annex A.
5\. The KMS receives the message. The KMS processes the message as defined in
MIKEY-TICKET [14]. The KMS retrieves the B-TID and request the NAF-Key and
related USS information from the BSF containing a list of all IMPUs associated
with the requestor. Based on the NAF-Key, the KMS verifies the authenticity of
the message. If the verification fails, the KMS returns an appropriate error
message.
6\. The KMS verifies that one of the IMPUs in the received USS matches, after
transformation into a KMS UID format, the KMS UID is included in the ticket
request as the identity of the initiator. If there is no match the processing
is terminated and an appropriate error message is returned.
7\. The KMS checks the requested ticket policy against its policy for the
requesting user and requested allowed recipients. The KMS modifies the
requested policy as needed or if that is not possible or allowed, it
terminates processing and sends and appropriate error message.
8\. The KMS generates the REQUEST_RESP message according to MIKEY-TICKET [14]
and sends it as a response over HTTP, see Annex A, to the initiator.
9\. The initiator receives the REQUEST_RESP message and checks the response
according to MIKEY-TICKET [14]. The initiator also checks if the policy has
been changed and if so, verifies that it still fulfils the requirements for
the call. If the ticket is a reusable ticket then it is stored in the local
store of reusable tickets together with the corresponding keys retrieved from
the REQUEST_RESP message.
> 10\. The initiator generates the TRANSFER_INIT message according to MIKEY-
> TICKET [14]. The identities of the initiator and the responder in the
> message shall be the KMS UIDs derived from the URI\'s in the To: and From:
> fields in the INVITE.
>
> In the RTP case, the number of Crypto Sessions included in the TRANSFER_INIT
> message should match the number of RTP streams (both incoming and outgoing)
> as described in RFC 4567 [12]. The protocol type in the Crypto Session shall
> be set to SRTP.
>
> In the MSRP case, a single Crypto Session is included in the TRANSFER_INIT
> message as described in Annex X.3. The protocol type in the Crypto Session
> shall be set to TLS.\ \ The initiator prepares the media security offer in
> the SDP part of the INVITE according to local policies and this
> specification. It inserts the TRANSFER_INIT message according to RFC 4567
> [12]
11\. The initiator receives the TRANSFER-RESP message in the SDP part of a 200
OK or an 18x provisional response. It verifies the message according to MIKEY-
TICKET [14] and then verifies that the authenticated identity of the recipient
corresponds to the policy for the call. Depending on local policy different
types of user warnings may be generated if the returned identity differs from
what is expected.
12\. The initiator derives the media session keys and initiates the media
plane security. For an RTP session this means sending and receiving SRT(C)P
streams and for an MSRP session this means setting up a TLS-PSK tunnel to
protect the MSRP messages.
# B.2 UE terminating procedures
## B.2.1 General
The terminating call set-up procedure is described in clause 7.3.3.
Interactions with the KMS are described in clause 6.2.3.1.
## B.2.2 Procedures for the case with one KMS domain
### B.2.2.1 Preconditions
The following preconditions are assumed:
\- The IMS UE is configured with the address to the KMS it shall use for
ticket resolve. The KMS address is in the form of a Fully Qualified Domain
Name as defined in IETF RFC 1035 [7].
\- The IMS UE is configured with GBA protocol identifier to use for MIKEY-
TICKET [14] message exchange.
\- The IMS UE has performed a GBA bootstrap and holds a valid B-TID and Ks.
\- The IMS UE has derived the NAF-key for the KMS it shall use for ticket
resolve.
### B.2.2.2 Procedures
The detailed terminating procedures for the case when both initiator and
responder have trust relations with a common KMS are described in the
following steps
1\. The responder receives the TRANSFER_INIT message and makes an initial
verification of the message by verifying that payloads are in accordance with
the responders receive policy. In particular, the responder checks that the
identity of the issuer of the ticket corresponds to the sender of the
TRANSFER_INIT. As the keys used to protect the message are based on the
content of the ticket no check of the authenticity of the message can be
made.\ \ If the ticket is marked as reusable, and the Ticket Resolve exchange
is not indicated as mandatory, the responder searches his local store of
reusable tickets. If a match is found the next processing step is step 10.
2\. The responder prepares a RESOLVE_INIT_PSK message as described in MIKEY-
TICKET [14]. The payloads are generated according to the local policy for
ticket resolve requests. The IDRpsk payload is populated with the B-TID and
the NAF-key is used as the pre-shared key for protection of the message.
3\. The message is sent to the KMS over HTTP, as defined in Annex A.
4\. The KMS receives the message. The KMS processes the message as defined in
MIKEY-TICKET [14]. The KMS retrieves the B-TID and request the NAF-Key and
related USS information from the BSF. The USS contains a list of all IMPUs
associated with the requestor. Based on the NAF-Key, the KMS verifies the
authenticity of the message. If the verification fails, the KMS returns an
appropriate error message.
5\. The KMS verifies that one of the IMPUs in the received USS matches, after
transformation into a KMS UID format, a legitimate recipient according to the
ticket (policy). If there is no match the processing is terminated and an
appropriate error message is returned.
6\. The KMS checks the received ticket policy against its policy for the
requesting user and initiator and if there is a usage conflict the processing
is terminated and an appropriate error message is returned.
7\. The KMS generates the RESOLVE_RESP message according to MIKEY-TICKET [14]
and sends it as a response over HTTP, as defined in Annex A, to the responder.
8\. The responder receives the RESOLVE_RESP message and checks it according to
MIKEY-TICKET [14]. If the ticket was a reusable ticket then it is stored in
the local store of reusable tickets together with the corresponding keys
retrieved from the RESOLVE_RESP message.
9\. The responder generates the TRANSFER_RESP message according to MIKEY-
TICKET [14]. The responder prepares the media security response in the SDP
part of the 200 OK or 18x provisional answer according to local policies and
this specification. It inserts the TRANSFER_RESP message according to RFC 4567
[12]
10\. The responder derives the media session keys and initiates the media
plane security. For an RTP session this means sending and receiving SRT(C)P
streams and for an MSRP session this means setting up a TLS-PSK tunnel to
protect the MSRP messages.
## B.2.3 Procedures for the case with two KMS domains
### B.2.3.1 Preconditions
The following preconditions are assumed:
\- The IMS UE is configured with the address to the KMS, KMS_R, it shall use
for ticket resolve. The KMS address is in the form of a Fully Qualified Domain
Name as defined in IETF RFC 1035 [7].
\- The IMS UE is configured with GBA protocol identifier to use for MIKEY-
TICKET [14] message exchange.
\- The IMS UE has performed a GBA bootstrap and holds a valid B-TID and Ks.
\- The IMS UE has derived the NAF-key for the KMS it shall use for ticket
resolve.
\- The ticket is issued by another KMS, KMS_I, with which KMS_R has a trust
relation. Message origin authentication, and integrity and confidentiality
protection between KMS_R and KMS_I is based on NDS/IP [5], see 4.2.4.
Confidentiality protection is mandated (over Za) because keys are transported
in the clear over Zk. Confidentiality protection may be achieved by
cryptographic or other means
### B.2.3.2 Procedures
The detailed terminating procedures for the case when the initiator has a
trust relation with different KMSs are described in the following steps
> 1-5. The steps 1 to 5 are identical to steps 1--5 in clause B.2.2.2.2 with
> KMS replaced by KMS_R
>
> 6\. KMS_R prepares a new RESOLVE_INIT_PSK message as described in MIKEY-
> TICKET [14]. If the IDRr payload in the received RESOLV_INIT_PSK message
> matched a legitimate recipient (step 5) it is reused in the new
> RESPOLVE_INIT_PSK, otherwise KMS_R inserts a matching KMS UID as IDRr. The
> TICKET payload is reused. The message is not integrity protected.
>
> 7 The message is sent to KMS_I over HTTP, as defined in ANNEX A.
NOTE: The address of KMS which can resolve the ticket is included in the
Ticket.Policy Payload, subpayload IDRkms, cf. MIKEY-TICKET [14].
> 8\. KMS_I verifies the message and that it comes from a trusted source
> (based on the NDS/IP protection).
>
> 9\. KMS_I checks the received ticket policy against its policy for the
> requesting user and initiator and if there is a usage conflict the
> processing is terminated and an appropriate error message is returned.
>
> 10\. KMS_I generates a RESOLVE_RESP message and sends it as a response over
> HTTP to KMS_R. The RESOLVE_RESP message itself is not protected, i.e. there
> is no integrity protection and the KEMAC is not enciphered.
>
> 11\. KMS_R receives the RESOLVE_RESP message and checks its integrity and
> source (based on the NDS/IP protection).
>
> 12\. KMS_R prepares a new protected RESOLVE_RESP reusing the payloads from
> KMS_I. The KEMAC is enciphered and the message is integrity protected. KMS_R
> sends the message to the responder over HTTP according to Annex A
>
> 13-14. The steps 13 and 14 are identical to steps 9 and 10 in clause
> B.2.2.2.2.
###### ## Annex C (Normative): SRTP profiling for IMS media plane security
An IMS UE and IMS core network entity capable of supporting IMS media plane
security (SDES and/or KMS based)
> \- Shall support all mandatory features defined in RFC 3711 [9] except that
> it does not have to support key derivation rates different from zero (KDR
> \<> 0).
>
> \- May support RFC 4771, \"Integrity Transform Carrying Roll-Over Counter
> for the Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\" [RFC 4771] for SDES
> based media plane security. RFC 4771 shall be supported and used for KMS
> based media plane security RFC 4771 defines functionality that is essential
> to simplify late entry in group communications and broadcasting sessions.
###### ## Annex D (Normative): MIKEY-TICKET profile for IMS media plane
security
# D.1 Scope
The profiling given in this Annex is with respect to MIKEY-TICKET [14]. The
profiling is for the default implementation of KMS based IMS media plane
security using GBA for user authentication and establishment of a shared key
between KMS and IMS UE.
The profiling is based on what is needed to support SRTP as defined in RFC
3711 [9] and enhancements in terms of new SRTP transforms using 256 bit keys.
# D.2 General
A KMS based IMS media plane security default implementation:
\- Shall support MIKEY-TICKET Mode 1 and Mode 3 (cf. clause 4.1.1 in [14]).
\- Does not have to support REQUEST_INIT_PK and RESOLVE_INIT_PK, i.e. it does
not have to support public key based exchanges.
\- Shall use the recommended payload order for all messages in the exchanges.
\- Shall not add any extra payloads.
# D. 2A Keys, RANDs and algorithms
A KMS based IMS media plane security default implementation:
\- Shall support use of keys of length 128 and 256 bit.
\- Shall support use of RANDs of length 128 and 256 bit.
\- Shall support the PRFs MIKEY-1 and PRF-HMAC-SHA-256 in all HDR and TP
payloads.
\- Shall for KEMAC protection support AES-CM-128 and AES-CM-256 encryption
algorithms and the NULL authentication algorithm.
\- Shall support HMAC-SHA-1-160 and HMAC-SHA-256-256 as authentication
algorithm in V payloads.
# D.3 Exchanges
## D.3.1 Ticket Request
A KMS based IMS media plane security default implementation:
\- Shall support timestamp of type NTP-UTC-32 and COUNTER.
\- Shall populate payloads in REQUEST_INIT_PSK as defined here:
\- IDRi: shall contain the Initiator's KMS user identity.
\- IDRkms: optional, URI for target KMS.
\- TP: must specify (IDRr), i.e. the intended recipients of the requested
ticket. IDRapp shall be set to\"IMS-MEDIASEC\". In order to be able to handle
call diversion (CDIV) scenarios, it is recommended to use the wildcarded
identity ?@?.
\- IDRpsk: B-TID.
\- Shall populate payloads in REQUEST_RESP_PSK as defined here:
\- IDRkms: optional, URI for responding KMS.
## D.3.2 Ticket Transfer
A KMS based IMS media plane security default implementation:
\- Shall support timestamp of type NTP-UTC-32.
\- Shall use CSB ID map type of type GENERIC-ID.
\- Shall populate payloads in TRANSFER_INIT as defined here:
\- IDRi: shall be present. Contains initiator\'s KMS UID.
\- IDRr: shall be present. Contains KMS UID or KMS group identity.
\- Shall populate payloads in TRANSFER_RESP as defined here:
> \- RANDRr: shall be present.
>
> \- RANDRkms: shall be present (used in key forking).
>
> \- IDRr: shall be present (used in key forking).
## D.3.3 Ticket Resolve
A KMS based IMS media plane security default implementation:
\- Shall support timestamp of type NTP-UTC-32 and COUNTER.
\- Shall populate payloads in RESOLVE_INIT_PSK as defined here:
\- IDRr: shall contain the Responder's KMS UID.
\- IDRkms: optional, URI.
\- IDRpsk: shall contain B-TID.
\- Shall populate payloads in RESOLVE_RESP_PSK as defined here:
\- IDRkms: optional, URI.
\- RANDRkms: shall be present (used in key forking).
# D.4 Profiling of tickets
The default ticket for KMS based IMS media plane security
\- Shall support use of keys of length 128 and 256 bit.
\- Shall support use of RANDs of length 128 and 256 bit.
\- Shall for KEMAC protection support AES-CM-128 and AES-CM-256 as encryption
algorithm and the NULL Authentication algorithm.
\- Shall support HMAC-SHA-1-160 and HMAC-SHA-256-256 as authentication
algorithm in V payloads.
\- Shall support timestamps of type NTP-UTC-32.
The TP payload (section 6.10 in [14]) in the default ticket for KMS based IMS
media plane security shall be populated as defined here:
\- Has ticket type value 2 (defined in MIKEY-TICKET).
\- Has subtype value 0 (zero) and version value 0 (zero).
\- E flag shall have value 1 due to forking.
\- F flag shall have value 1 due to forking.
\- G flag shall have value 1.
\- H flag shall have value 1.
\- I flag shall have value 1 prescribing forking.
\- L flag shall have value 0.
\- M flag shall have value 0.
\- N flag shall have value 1 prescribing that no extensions are used.
\- O flag shall have value 1 prescribing that no extensions are used.
\- All sub-payloads specified shall be present.
The ticket data of the Ticket payload (Appendix A in [14]) in the default
ticket for KMS based IMS media plane security shall be populated as defined
here:
\- THDR: the first 48bits of the THDR Data shall contain a globally unique
identifier of the issuing KMS.
\- IDRpsk: shall contain B-TID if the ticket is generated by the initiator. If
the KMS generates the ticket it is implementation specific.
###### ## Annex E (normative): Profiling of SDES
The present Annex contains a complete list of parameters that may be contained
in an SDES crypto attribute, according to RFC 4568.
The following short-hand notation is used:
\- "mandatory / optional to support / use" means: "This parameter shall / may
be supported / used in implementations conforming to 3GPP specifications."
The default use is that the sender omits the parameters that are optional to
use.
**CRYPTOGRAPHIC ALGORITHMS**
**cryptosuite:** mandatory to support and use
In addition to mandating the support and use of the parameter "cryptosuite" in
an SDES crypto attribute, the cryptosuite "AES_CM_128_HMAC_SHA1_80", as
defined in RFC 4568, is mandatory to support.
**\"KEY PARAMETERS\" (ONE OR MORE TIMES):**
**key** : mandatory to support and use
**salt** : mandatory to support and use
**key lifetime** : optional to support and use for e2e security, shall not be
used for e2ae security (cf. clauses 7.2.1 and 7.3.1 of this specification).
**Master Key Index** (MKI): optional to support, mandatory to use if more than
one set of key parameters is contained in the crypto attribute, otherwise
optional to use. If only one master key is used, an MKI is not recommended to
be used.
**NOTE** : It is not guaranteed that implementations support more than one
master key per crypto attribute. If only one master key is used, an MKI has no
function as it adds to the SRT(C)P packet overhead.
**Length of MKI field: optional to support, mandatory to support if MKI is
supported, mandatory to use if MKI is used.**
**\"SESSION PARAMETERS\"**
**key derivation rate** : optional to support and use
**UNENCRYPTED_SRTP** : mandatory to support and optional to use
**UNENCRYPTED_SRTCP** : mandatory to support and optional to use
**UNAUTHENTICATED_SRTP** : mandatory to support and optional to use
**NOTE** : The flags "UNENCRYPTED_SRTP" and "UNENCRYPTED_SRTCP**"** may be
useful when regulations do not permit encryption, but authentication is still
desired. The flag "**UNAUTHENTICATED_SRTP** " may be useful to reduce the
packet size for e.g. voice traffic where integrity protection may not be
needed, cf. the situation on 3GPP radio interfaces over which user data are
not integrity-protected.
**forward error correction order** : not applicable
**key parameters for the FEC stream** : optional to support and use
**window size hint** : optional to support and use
###### ## Annex F (normative): IMS media plane security for immediate
messaging
# F.1 General aspects
> \
# F.2 Security for immediate messaging based on SIP signalling security
Security for immediate messaging based on IMS signalling security shall be
provided by the SIP signalling protection mechanisms specified in TS 33.203
[4].
NOTE1: The usage of the "P-Asserted-Identity" header provides secure
identification of the sender of a message by the receiver, unless the sender
has chosen to hide its identity, in which case the receiver will not learn the
sender's identity.
NOTE2: SIP messages between the UE and the P-CSCF (IMS-ALG) can be
confidentiality-protected either by the confidentiality mechanisms of IPsec or
TLS as defined in TS 33.203 [4], or by confidentiality provided by the
underlying access network, according to clause 6.2.1.2 of the present
specification. The IMS UE is aware of the established protection mechanism,
but the P-CSCF takes the final decision.
NOTE3: The IMS UE can be aware of the protection mechanism for immediate
messaging on the first hop only, and there is no way for the IMS UE to ensure
the use of protection mechanisms on further hops. Moreover, nodes in the IMS
core (in particular the P- and S-CSCF) will have access to the cleartext
message content.
NOTE4: Application servers may be used for storing instant messages for a user
that is currently not registered or for distributing instant messages to
multiple recipients. In this solution, such application servers have access to
the message content and must be trusted.
# F.3 Security for immediate messaging based on MIKEY-TICKET
## F.3.1 UE sends a SIP MESSAGE
A UE prepares a protected SIP message as described in TS 24.247 [28], with the
difference that S/MIME is applied for content protection. Here S/MIME refers
to the pre-shared-key variant of S/MIME defined in Annex I of this TS, and not
the RFC 5751 [30] definition of S/MIME. This variant of S/MIME encrypts and
authenticates the MIME content using a symmetric key that is transported
inside a TRANSFER_INIT message. An example of a protected MESSAGE is shown
below.
> MESSAGE sip:user2\@domain.com SIP/2.0\ Via: SIP/2.0/TCP
> user1pc.domain.com;branch=z9hG4bK776sgdkse\ Max-Forwards: 70\ From:
> sip:user1@domain.com;tag=49583\ To: sip:user2@domain.com\ Call-ID:
> asd88asd77a@1.2.3.4\ CSeq: 1 MESSAGE\ Content-Type:
> multipart/mixed;boundary=\"boundary1\"\ Content-Length: \
>
> \--boundary1\ Content-Type: application/mikey\ Content-Transfer-Encoding:
> base64\ \ \
>
> \--boundary1\ Content-Type: application/pkcs7-mime;\ smime-type=auth-
> enveloped-data;\ name=smime.p7m\ Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64\ Content-
> Disposition: attachment; filename=smime.p7m\ \
> ***********************************************************\ * Content-Type:
> text/plain *\ * *\ * All your base are belong to us. *\
> ***********************************************************
The UE must ensure that the TICKET inside the TRANSFER_INIT is resolvable by
all the intended recipients. Typically, the intended recipient is the URI
indicated in the To header field of the request. This is true when:
\- The message is sent to another user using an IMPU in the To header field.
The UEs registered under that IMPU are the intended recipients of the content.
\- The message is sent to a list server using a PSI (Public Service Identity)
in the To header field. The PSI is the intended recipient even though it is
not the final recipient. This is because the list server hosting the PSI must
be able to re-encrypt the content before forwarding it (it is assumed that
neither the sending UE nor the KMS knows the members of the list). From the
KMS perspective the PSI is seen as one of the list server's identities.
The only case when the URI in the To header field is not the intended
recipient of the content is when:
\- The message is sent to a list server and a URI list is included in the
message body. The URIs in the URI list are the intended recipients of the
content but not necessarily the list server. Since the sending UE knows the
identities of the final recipients the list server does not have to re-encrypt
the content before forwarding it. If the list server is not included as an
intended recipient the URI list must be sent un-protected or protected
separately using an additional S/MIME entity.
For efficiency reasons the sender may want to re-use a TICKET in several SIP
MESSAGEs sent to the same or different users. This is possible as long as all
recipients were listed as authorized resolvers in the ticket request. It is
important to be aware though that specifying a very wide group of resolvers
may impact security.
Proof-of-origin (or non-repudiation) can be provided by the sender by adding
the extension payload described in Annex D to the TRANSFER_INIT message. The
extension payload contains a copy of the MAC calculated over the MIME entity
and since the origin of the TRANSFER_INIT message is guaranteed, the origin of
the MIME entity is guaranteed as well. The downside of providing proof-of-
origin is that that the receiver has to do a ticket resolve against the KMS
for every message that it receives.
## F.3.2 UE receives a SIP MESSAGE
Upon receipt of a protected SIP MESSAGE, the UE extracts the key in the
TRANSFER_INIT and hands both the key and the protected content over to S/MIME.
S/MIME in turn uses the key to verify the integrity and decrypt the content.
The UE also checks if the sender identity reported back by S/MIME matches the
identity contained in the From header field. In case the identities differ,
the S/MIME identity takes precedence and must be displayed to the user. As
described above, this may happen when a list server re-encrypts the content
but leaves the From header field intact. The same thing happens when a list
server adds its own protected content to a forwarded message (for example the
identities of the other recipients). Otherwise the handling is as described in
TS 24.247 [28].
Deferred delivery with MIKEY-TICKET can be accommodated by using a replay
cache for TRANSFER_INIT messages which does not enforce any message age
restriction (this is not required either by MIKEY [11]), The replay cache
would accept a new entry as long as the cache is not full or if the entry is
more recent than the oldest entry (determined from the message timestamp). If
the cache is full and the oldest entry is older, the oldest entry is deleted
and the new entry is inserted. Furthermore, the size of the cache must be
adjusted according to the expected message intensity and the offline time
(i.e. the period during which the UE is unreachable). The AS can also reduce
the likelihood that a valid message gets rejected by delivering all the
deferred messages in order, starting with the oldest one. However, even with
the increased cache size, in case of high volume of messages or extended
offline time the UE may run out of memory and has to start dropping messages.
## F.3.2 List server forwards a SIP MESSAGE to multiple recipients using a PSI
A protected SIP MESSAGE that includes a PSI in the request URI is forwarded by
the list server to all the entries in the associated URI list as specified in
TS 24.247 [28]. The only difference is that the protected content in the
incoming message must be re-encrypted before it is copied to the outgoing
message. When the list server decrypts the content it must verify that the
sender identity reported by S/MIME matches the identity in the To header field
of the incoming message. Provided the verification is successful, the list
server re-encrypts the content and sets the MIKEY-TICKET in the TRANSFER_INIT
to be resolvable by all the entries in the predefined URI list. The re-
encrypted content is then copied to all of the outgoing messages.
## F.3.2 List server forwards a SIP MESSAGE to multiple recipients using a
URI-list
A protected SIP MESSAGE with a URI-list included in the multipart body is
forwarded by the list server to all the entries in the list as specified TS
24.247 [28]. There is no need to re-encrypt the protected content since the
TICKET inside the TRANSFER_INIT is resolvable by the final recipients. Note
that the list server forwards both the S/MIME content and the TRANSFER_INIT
message.
If the list server includes a URI-list in the outgoing SIP message, as
described in RFC 5365 [29], it should be protected using S/MIME. It is
recommended to encrypt the URI-list once and copy it to all the outgoing
messages by using a TICKET that is resolvable by all the recipients.
> \
###### ## Annex G (normative): IMS media plane security for conferencing
# G.1 General aspects
A conference server may send and receive cryptographically protected media
streams to and from participants as specified in clauses G.2 and G.3. In doing
so, the conference server shall use individual keys per participant (and per
media stream).
NOTE: This means the conference server does not use group keys. This way, a
participant is only able to decrypt media sent to him during his presence in
the conference (but not media sent out by the media server to other
participants, e.g. before the participant joined or after he left the
conference).
Once the conference URI has been created, the participants (including the
conference creator himself) join the conference using one of the methods
specified in TS 24.147 [25]:
\- The participant sends a SIP INVITE directly to the conference URI (how the
participant learns of the SIP URI is out of scope)
\- The conference creator or conference focus sends a SIP REFER to participant
which triggers the participant to send a SIP INVITE to the conference URI
\- The conference creator instructs the conference focus (either via SIP REFER
or via the external interface) to send a SIP INVITE to the participant
Regardless of the method chosen the end result is always that a SIP INVITE is
sent from the participant to the conference URI or vice versa. From a media
security perspective, this situation is no different from a point-to-point
call between two UEs.
The conference creator or a conference participant may subscribe to the
conference event package as described in RFC 4575 [26] using the stored
conference URI. Whenever there is a change to the conference state the
subscription service will notify the subscribers by sending a NOTIFY request.
# G.2 Security for conferencing based on SIP signalling security
Two cases are considered in this subclause: e2ae security between UE and IMS
Access GW and e2e security between UE and conference server.
_e2ae security:_
When participating in conferences, IMS UEs may use e2ae security for RTP based
traffic and/or for MSRP, as specified in the main body of the present
document, and/or for BFCP, as specified in the following.
For BFCP that may be used in conferences, e2ae security shall be supported in
the same way as for MSRP, as specified in the main body of the present
document. The only differences are:
> 1) e2ae security for BFCP uses individual indications \"e2ae-security for
> BFCP supported by the UE\" and \"e2ae-security for BFCP supported by the
> network\" during registration (the syntax is to be defined in the
> corresponding stage 3 specification); compare clause 7.1.2 .
>
> 2) In the SDP, security for a BFCP media stream is specified by using the
> transport "TCP/TLS/BFCP",
NOTE 1: Application of e2ae security for RTP, MSRP and/or BFCP is not visible
to the conference server, which has therefore no assurance on how the
communication is secured over the access networks. The conference server
itself is assumed to be an MRF that is part of the IMS core network.
Protection of the interfaces of the conference server to other entities of the
IMS core can therefore rely on the security provided inside the IMS core (e.g.
by means of IPsec).
_e2e security:_
The conference server may support e2e security using SDES for RTP based media
between IMS UE and conference server as specified in clauses 7.2.2 and 7.3.2
of the present document. Usage of this type of security by the conference
server, i.e. accepting it when offered in incoming SDP offers (dial-in case)
and offering it in outgoing SDP offers (dial-out case) is subject to the
policies of the conference server.
NOTE 2: e2e security between IMS UE and conference server does not imply e2e
security between two IMS UEs.
It is outside the scope of the solution in the present clause whether the
conference server supports TLS for MSRP according to RFC 4975 [21] and/or for
BFCP according to RFC 4582 [23].
NOTE 3: The conference server can request TLS for MSRP and/or for BFCP in SDP
offers it sends in outgoing SDP offers (dial-out case) and accept and perform
TLS when it is specified in incoming SDP offers (dial-in case). This depends
on the policies of the conference server. If the conference server is
configured not to use TLS, then MSRP and/or BFCP can still be protected by TLS
over the access network between an IMS Access GW and a participant according
to clause 7 and/ or the present clause of the present document, if the
participant and the network have negotiated using this protection over the
access network.
NOTE 4: When the conference server uses SRTP/SDES for RTP based media, it has
no assurance where this protection is terminated and how the communication is
secured on the subsequent hops.
By means of the "P-Asserted-Identity" header, the conference server has
assurance about the identity of the participants. A conference server may
reject users trying to dial-in anonymously. In the dial-out case, by means of
re-targeting an INVITE by the conference server may be answered by a user
different from the invited user. The conference server may cancel the
invitation of a participant if this participant's identity is not revealed, or
if the participant is not allowed to join the conference according to the
conference policies.
# G.3 Security for conferencing based on MIKEY-TICKET
## G.3.1 Conference creation and policy control
The KMS based conferencing solution relies on an external interface between
the conference creator and the AS/MRFC for creating and managing conferences.
The interface should enable the conference creator to create new conference
URIs, set and update the list of authorized conference participants, and
change other conference settings. It may also be possible to allow other
conference participants to change the conference policy. The interface is not
considered part of IMS and will not be standardized. It would typically be
implemented as a web page or as a specific application on the UE.
Figure Y1: Conference creation and policy control via external interface
## G.3.2 User joining a secure conference
RTP and MSRP traffic shall be protected using MIKEY-TICKET in the same way as
specified in Clause 7.2.3 and 7.3.3. The only difference being that one of the
UEs is replaced by the conference focus. BFCP traffic shall be protected in
the same way as MSRP traffic, i.e. using a TLS tunnel established with MIKEY-
TICKET. In the SDP, security for BFCP is specified by using the transport
"TCP/TLS/BFCP".
The conference focus shall verify that the UE identity (KMS UID) specified in
the MIKEY-TICKET exchange is authorized to join the conference.
## G.3.3 Subscribing to conference event package
Upon receipt of a SUBSCRIBE request, the conference notification service shall
verify that the sender is an authorized conference participant and, provided
the verification is successful, establish the subscription to the conference
state information. The state information carried in NOTIFY requests shall be
confidentiality and integrity protected using the pre-shared key variant of
S/MIME as described in Annex I.
NOTE: S/MIME offers only limited protection to the conference state
information. An attacker will still be able to delay, re-order or delete state
information carried in the NOTIFYrequests. This could for example lead to a
situation where conference participants incorrectly believe that a certain
user has not yet joined the conference.
###### ## Annex H (normative): Setup of TLS-PSK using MIKEY-TICKET
Although MIKEY-TICKET [14] only specifies how to establish key data and
algorithm settings for the SRTP protocol, it can easily be extended to carry
the security parameters needed for setting up almost any kind of security
protocol. This Annex describes how MIKEY-TICKET is used to establish a PSK to
be used in a TLS-PSK handshake.
# H.1 The TLS Prot Type
A Crypto Session (CS) in MIKEY-TICKET defines a security association for a
specific security protocol, and contains all the required security parameters,
such as key data and algorithm settings. Each CS is represented by an entry in
the CS ID map info field of the HDR payload. Such an entry has the following
format (assuming the GENERIC-ID map type is used):
> 0 1 2 3
>
> 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
>
> +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
>
> ! CS ID ! Prot type !S! #P ! Ps (OPTIONAL) \~
>
> +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
>
> ! Session Data Length ! Session Data (OPTIONAL) \~
>
> +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
>
> ! SPI Length ! SPI (OPTIONAL) \~
>
> +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
  * CS ID (8 bits): defines the CS ID to be used for the crypto session
  * Prot Type (8 bits): defines the security protocol to be used for the crypto session. Shall be set to TLS.
  * S (1 bit): flag that MAY be used by the Session Data. This flag is not used for the Prot Type TLS. The value must be set to \'0\', but shall be ignored by the receiver.
  * #P (7 bits): indicates the number of security policies provided for the crypto session. For the Prot Type TLS, this value shall be set to 0. No security policy is required since negotiation of parameters is included in the TLS handshake.
  * Ps (variable length): lists the policies for the crypto session. Since #P=0 for the Prot Type TLS, this field is omitted.
  * Session Data Length (16 bits): the length of Session Data (in bytes). For the Prot Type TLS, the length shall be set to 0 as no additional session data is required.
  * Session Data (variable length): contains session data for the crypto session. Since length is 0 for the Prot Type TLS, this field is omitted.
  * SPI Length (8 bits): the length of SPI (in bytes). For the Prot Type TLS, the length can be set arbtrarily.
  * SPI (variable length): the SPI corresponding to the session key to be used for the crypto session. The SPI identifies a specific TGK/GTGK that is used to derive the TEK for the crypto session (the SPI could also identify a TEK directly).
> Editor's note: Setting #P=0 in both the init and response message is not
> allowed according to RFC 6043. There are two possible ways to get around
> this problem. Either we ignore the restriction in RFC 6043 (which really
> doesn\'t matter) or we specify a dummy Security Policy for TLS which does
> not contain any values.
>
> Editor's note: The Prot Type TLS must be registered with IANA and the value
> is therefore TBD.
# H.2 Establishing a TLS connection
A CS with Prot Type TLS contains the necessary parameters to perform a TLS-PSK
handshake and establish a TLS connection over a reliable transport association
(such as a TCP connection). It is assumed that the transport association can
be used to identify the CS (e.g. a TCP connection maps to a certain m line in
the SDP which in turn maps to a CS). The parameters that need to be input to
the TLS implementation are the following:
  * TLS client/server role: the role of each peer is negotiated by means outside of MIKEY-TICKET (e.g. as part of the establishment of the transport association in SDP). Typically, the client (server) in the transport protocol assumes the role of client (server) in the TLS protocol.
  * The TLS ciphersuites shall be of type TLS_PSK and TLS shall be profiled as specified in TS 33.310 Annex E [AA] with the exception that ciphersuites using Diffie-Hellman shall not be used.
  * PSK identity: this value is not used. The PSK identity is set to the empty string by the client and is ignored by the server.
  * PSK identity hint: this value is not used. The identity hint is an optional value provided by the server in the server hello message.
  * PSK: The PSK is the TEK associated with the CS. The SPI in the CS points to a TGK or GTGK from which the TEK is derived using the CS ID (and some other parameters). The SPI could also point to a TEK directly.
# H.3 Usage with SDP
The TLS CS defined above can be used to establish a TLS connection using the
PSK-TLS ciphersuite. The only piece missing is to show how an m-line using a
protocol of the form X/TLS/Y (e.g., TCP/TLS/MSRP or TCP/TLS/BFCP) is mapped to
such a CS.
RFC 5246 describes how the key-mgmt attribute is used to perform a MIKEY-
TICKET exchange in SDP and how an m-line can be mapped to set of SRTP CSs (one
for each SSRC). If the key-mgmt attribute is used at session level then the
MIKEY-TICKET exchange contains CSs for all the m-lines in the SDP and the
mapping is based on the order of the m-lines. If the key-mgmt attribute is
used at the media level then the CSB only contains the CSs for that m-line.
Mixing of session and media level attributes is allowed by 5246 but the
expected behaviour is not well defined. Another restriction is that the
offerer must know how many SSRCs that the answerer will use for a particular
m-line.
The mapping between an X/TLS/Y m-line and a TLS CS is done in the same way as
the mapping between and SRTP m-line and a set of SRTP CSs. The only difference
is that there is exactly one CS per m-line.
###### ## Annex I (normative): Pre-shared key MIME protection
Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME), defined in IETF RFC
5751 [30], is a standard for encryption and signing of MIME encoded data.
S/MIME uses Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS), defined in IETF RFC 5652 [31],
to cryptographically protect MIME entities. Unfortunately, S/MIME was designed
for public key cryptography and does not specify how a MIME entity can be
encrypted and authenticated using a pre-shared key. However, extending S/MIME
to support symmetric crypto is not a major issue since CMS already defines the
necessary message constructs and algorithms.
# I.1 The smime-type parameter
**S/MIME** defines the application/pkcs7-mime media type that is used to carry
different types of CMS content types. Information about the applied security
and the CMS content type (EnvelopedData, SignedData, CompressedData) can be
indicated via the optional \"smime-type\" parameter. To add support for pre-
shared key MIME protection an additional smime-type parameter is defined:
Table I.1: smime-type (addition)
* * *
Name CMS Type Inner Content auth-enveloped-data AuthEnvelopedData id-data
* * *
Editor's note: Whether we can continue using the MIME type
application/pkcs7-mime when the new smime-type parameter is introduced is FFS.
It might be necessary to register a new MIME type application/X with IANA (in
the vendor tree where vendor is 3GPP). The new MIME type would have the same
semantics as application/pkcs7-mime but would also include the smime-type
auth-enveloped-data.
# I.2 The Auth-Enveloped S/MIME type
## I.2.1 General
AuthEnvelopedData is a CMS type defined in IETF RFC 5083 [32] and is intended
to be used with authenticated encryption modes, such as AES-CCM and AES-GCM.
These algorithms allow arbitrary data to be both authenticated and encrypted
using a single key. IMS clients compliant with this this specification must
support the authenticated encryption algorithms in Table I.2.
Table I.2: Authenticated encryption algorithms
* * *
Algorithm name Key size AES-CCM 128, 256 AES-GCM 128, 256
* * *
The content-authenticated-encryption key is generated at random and is sent
alongside the protected data in the RecipientInfo field of AuthEnvelopedData.
The format of this field varies depending on the key management technique. IMS
clients implementing this specificiation must support the KEKRecipientInfo
type where the content-authenticated-encryption key is encrypted using a
previously distributed symmetric key. Table I.3 shows the key encryption
algorithms that the IMS client must support (see RFC 3565 [33]).
Table I.3: Key encryption algorithms
* * *
Algorithm name Key size AES-WRAP 128, 256
* * *
The data to protect (a MIME entity) shall be prepared as in standard S/MIME
before it is passed on to CMS for encryption and authentication. The encrypted
data shall be included in the EncryptedContent field and the ContentType shall
be set to id-data (i.e., the plaintext is treated as arbitrary octet data by
CMS).
## I.2.2 Creating an Auth-Enveloped message
This Clause describes how a MIME entity is protected using the auth-envoloped
S/MIME type. With the exception of the second step, the process is identical
to the creation of an Enveloped-Only message in S/MIME [30].
a) The MIME entity to be protected is prepared according to Section 3.1 in
**S/MIME [30].**
b) The MIME entity and other required data is processed into a CMS object of
type AuthEnvelopedData. The key for the desired content-authenticated-
encryption algorithm is generated at random and is sent encrypted in a
KEKRecipientInfo. The previously distributed key encryption key is identified
via a KEK identifier.
c) The AuthEnvelopedData object is wrapped in a CMS ContentInfo object.
d) The ContentInfo object is inserted into an application/pkcs7-mime MIME
entity.
The smime-type parameter for auth-enveloped messages is \"auth-enveloped-
data\". The file extension for this type of message is \".p7m\". An example
message is shown below.
> Content-Type: application/pkcs7-mime;\ smime-type=auth-enveloped-data;\
> name=smime.p7m\ Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64\ Content-Disposition:
> attachment; filename=smime.p7m
>
> ***********************************************************\ * Content-Type:
> text/plain *\ * *\ * All your base are belong to us. *\
> ***********************************************************
# I.3 Transferring KEK using MIKEY-TICKET
MIKEY-TICKET shall be used to transfer the S/MIME key encryption key (KEK) to
the remote recipient. The KEK shall be included in a TRANSFER_INIT message
which in turn shall be added to the SIP message using the application/mikey
media type.
The KEK (which corresponds to a TEK in MIKEY-TICKET) is identified by its SPI
and shall be derived from the TGK carried inside the TICKET payload of the
TRANSFER_INIT message.
In order to ensure that the receiver has access to the KEK when the S/MIME
message is processed, it is recommended to send the TRANSFER_INIT message and
S/MIME message in the same SIP message. As shown in the example below, this
can be appomplished by using the multipart/mixed media type and including the
TRANSFER_INIT message at the top.
> Content-Type: multipart/mixed;boundary=\"boundary1\"\ Content-Length:
> \\ \ \--boundary1\ Content-Type: application/mikey\ Content-
> Transfer-Encoding: base64\ \ \
>
> \--boundary1--\ Content-Type: application/pkcs7-mime;\ smime-type=auth-
> enveloped-data;\ name=smime.p7m\ Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64\ Content-
> Disposition: attachment; filename=smime.p7m
>
> ***********************************************************\ * Content-Type:
> text/plain *\ * *\ * All your base are belong to us. *\
> ***********************************************************
By default a KEK shall only be used once. This together with the fact that
TRANSFER_INIT messages are replayed protected imply that the S/MIME message is
replayed protected as well. Other types of security policies are outside the
scope of this document.
Optionally, proof-of-origin (or non-repudiation) can be achieved by adding the
extension payload defined in Annex X to the TRANSFER_INIT message and
including a copy of the MAC value calculated over the MIME entity. Since the
origin of the TRANSFER_INIT message can be guaranteed (Initiator Data in the
TICKET payload is authenticated with a key known only to the sender and the
KMS), the origin of the MIME entity can be guaranteed as well. The downside of
providing non-repudiation is that the receiver has to do a ticket resolve
against the KMS for every message that it receives (there is no point of
caching the results of a ticket resolve since the TICKET payload always
changes).
# I.4 MIKEY-TICKET profile for pre-shared key MIME protection
The MIKEY-TICKET profile for pre-shared key MIME protection is the same as the
profile for IMS Media Plane security (see Annex D) except for a few minor
differences. These differences are explained below.
The Ticket Request exchange is unchanged except that IDRapp in the Ticket
Policy (TP) payload shall be set to the string \"PSK/MIME\".
The Ticket Transfer exchange is half-roundtrip and consists only of the
TRANSFER_INIT message. This message is constructed as in IMS Media Plane
security, except for the following changes:
\- The HDR payload shall contain a single Crypto Session (CS) of type
PSK/MIME. A CS of this type has no associated Security Policy (#P=0) and no
Session Data. The CS SPI field shall be set to the SPI of the TGK carried in
the TICKET (see below). Furthermore, as no answer is expected, the V flag in
the HDR payload shall be set to 0.
The extension payload defined in Annex X must be included if proof-of-origin
is required for the MIME entity. The value of the extension payload is the MAC
calculated in the authenticated encryption algorithm. Note that proof-of-
origin requires that Initiator Data is included in the TICKET payload which in
turn requires that forking is enabled (I flag in the Ticket Policy is set to
1).
The Ticket Resolve exchange is unchanged
Tickets are generated in the same way as in the IMS Media Plane security
profile except for the changes indicated below.
\- The F flag shall be set to 0 indicating that TRANSFER_RESP should not be
sent
\- The G shall be set to 0 indicating that the Responder should not generate
RANDRr
\- The I shall be set to 0 (no-forking) unless proof-of-origin is required for
the MIME entity
\- The KEMAC payload in the TICKET shall contain a single TGK with the SPI
field set to the value of S/MIME key encryption key identifier. No salt or key
validity period shall be included.
Editor's note: No Security Policy is required for a CS of type PSK/MIME since
all the algorithms, key lengths, etc are specified by S/MIME. However, it is
currently unclear if it is allowed to omit the Security Policy payload (#P=0)
from a TRANSFER_INIT message.
Editor's note: Proof-of-origin requires that Initiator Data is included in the
TICKET payload which in turn requires that forking is enabled. However,
forking was originally intended to be used in the cases where the responder is
able to send a TRANSFER_RESPONSE, and the MIKEY-TICKET was written with this
in mind. It might be therefore be necessary to add some text explaining why
forking still works.
Editor's Note: This Annex was added to enable other clauses to refer to it. It
will be filled with text later.
###### ## Annex J (normative): IANA considerations
# J.1 IANA assignments
**This clause defines several new values for the namespace Prot Type defined
in IETF RFC 3830 [11]. IANA is requested to record the assignments in Table X
to the namespace Prot Type in the MIKEY payload registry. The Prot Types can
be used by any MIKEY mode.**
Table J: Prot Type (Additions)
* * *
Type Value Comments TLS TBD1 TLS-PSK
PSK S/MIME TBD2 See Annex I
Application Specific TBD3 Application Specific
* * *
**TLS: This Prot Type provides a pre-shared key (TEK) to be used in pre-shared
key ciphersuites for (D)TLS as specified in Annex H.**
**PSK S/MIME: This Prot Type provides a pre-shared key (TEK) to be used to
protect MIME content as specified in Annex I.**
**Application Specific: This Prot Type provides pre-shared key(s) to be used
in an application specific security protocol. Security policies (SP payloads)
shall not be associated with the Crypto Session (CS).**
Editor's note: The values TBD1, TBD2, and TBD3 will later be replaced with
values assigned by IANA.
###### ## Annex K (normative): MIKEY general extension payload for message
proof-of-origin
This clause specifies a new MIKEY General Extension Payload to provide proof-
of-origin for an arbitrary message. It is intended to be used together with
the pre-shared key MIME protection defined in Annex I where the MAC of the
MIME entity is copied to a TRANSFER_INIT message. Since the origin of the
TRANSFER_INIT message is guaranteed, the origin of the MIME entity will be
guaranteed as well (the receiver compares the MAC value of the MIME entity to
the MAC value in the extension payload).
# K.1 Payload format
The 3GPP IMS MSG PROOF-OF-ORIGIN Type (Type TBD) formats the MIKEY General
Extension payload as follows:
0 1 2 3
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
! Next Payload ! Type ! Length !
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
! 3GPP IMS MSG PROOF-OF-ORIGIN Data(variable length) \~
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
\- Next Payload and Length are defined in Section 6.15 of MIKEY [11]
\- Type (8 bits) identifies the type of the General Extension Payload (see
Section 6.15 of MIKEY [11]). This Annex adds a new type. It specifies the use
of Type TBD for 3GPP IMS MSG PROOF-OF-ORIGIN.
\- 3GPP IMS MSG PROOF-OF-ORIGIN Data (variable length): contains the data
whose origin needs to be asserted. The interpretation of the data is
application/context specific (data could for example be the hash of a much
longer message, where the hash algorithm is defined by the
application/context)
Editor's note: The 3GPP IMS MSG PROOF-OF-ORIGIN type must be registered with
IANA
###### ## Annex L (normative): IMS media plane security for T.38 fax
# L.1 Introduction
The transmission of fax over IP networks is specified in the ITU-T
recommendation T.38 [34] and uses either TCP or UDP for transport. T.38 allows
transmission of fax over IP networks in real time and allows interworking with
the legacy PSTN T.30 fax protocol. For the TCP transport, IFP (Internet Fax
Protocol) is encapsulated in TPKT. For the UDP transport, IFP data is
encapsulated in either UDPTL (UDP Transport Layer) or RTP. The purpose of
UDPTL and RTP is to provide sequence numbering and packet redundancy (to cope
with packet loss).
UDPTL (UDP Transport Layer) is the predominant means for transporting T.38.
For IMS, a profile of T.38 fax is specified in Annex L of TS 26.114 [35]. This
profile only supports UDPTL/UDP transport. The packet structure for UDPTL
based T.38 fax is shown in Figure L-1.
Figure L--1: Packet structure for UDPTL based T.38 fax transmission [34]
A T.38 fax call is established in SIP/SDP similar to how an audio or messaging
session is established. Figure L-2 shows how the SDP media line is constructed
in case of UDPTL/UDP transport.
> m=image 49170 udptl t38
>
> a=...
Figure L-2: Example SDP offer forT.38 fax transmission using UDPTL/UDP
transport\ (non-relevant parts of the SDP offer have been excluded)
# L.2 Use cases
As fax has a special legal status in many countries and enjoys continuing
support, specification of secure fax is important. As most faxes are still
connected to PSTN, the primary use case is seen as a fax call between an IMS
UE and a PSTN/CS fax terminal. In order to support this use case media
protection needs to start at the IMS UE and be terminated before or at the
PSTN GW. Fax calls between two IMS UEs is another possibility but is not as
common, and in this case there exist other alternatives like attaching the fax
in an email or instant message using ITU-T recommendation T.37.
# L.3 e2ae security for T.38 fax using DTLS
T.38 fax using UDPTL/UDP transport shall be secured e2ae between IMS UE and
IMS-AGW by usage of DTLS (IETF RFC 6347 [36]). The transport protocol
identifier \"UDP/TLS/UDPTL\" and the usage of UDPTL over DTLS are defined in
IETF RFC 7345 [37].
The solution leverages IMS control plane security by using self-signed
certificates and exchanging the certificate fingerprints via SIP/SDP. Usage of
the \"P-Asserted-Identity\" header provides secure identification of the other
endpoint. The solution is almost identical to MSRP e2ae security specified in
this document, but uses DTLS instead of TLS for confidentiality and integrity
protection.
Support for e2ae security for T.38 shall be indicated during registration in
the same way as specified for RTP and MSRP based media. The indication shall
be be done independently from the indication of support for e2ae security for
RTP or MSRP based media, and shall use its own indications \"e2ae-security for
T.38 supported by the UE\" and \"e2ae-security for T.38 supported by the
network\" (the syntax is to be defined in the corresponding stage 3
specification).
The originating IMS UE shall set the transport identifier to \"UDP/TLS/UDPTL\"
and include the SDP fingerprint attribute in the SDP offer. Moreover, the IMS
UE adds an SDP attribute \"e2ae-security requested by UE\" indicating the
request for e2ae security to the description of the T.38 fax call. The network
shall insert the IMS access gateway into the media path and properly terminate
DTLS, using its own certificate (the fingerprint of this certificate is
returned to the originating IMS UE in the SDP answer). From the IMS access
gateway in the direction towards the terminating IMS UE, plain UDP may be used
on the next hops, assuming that the interfaces are protected.
###### ## Annex M (normative): TLS profile for IMS media plane security
# M.1 General
TLS shall be supported as specified in annex E of 3GPP TS 33.310 [22] with the
additions/modifications outlined below Since DTLS is based on TLS and
functions more or less in an identical way, the same option shall be applied
to both DTLS and TLS. In the rare cases where there is a difference, this will
be pointed out. .
TLS cipher suites without encryption should not be used;
Pre-shared keys shall not be used for e2ae media security. E2ae media security
shall be based on the cipher suites and session keys negotiated via the TLS
handshake.
Editor\'s note: TLS certificate profile and validation is missing. A starting
point is TS 33.203, O.5.
###### ## Annex N (normative): IMS media plane security interworking for
WebRTC access to IMS
# N.1 General
This annex describes the additional IMS media plane security features that are
necessary to support WebRTC IMS Clients access to IMS.
# N.2 Media security for RTP
## N.2.1 General
According to IETF RFC 8826 [39], all RTP traffic generated or received by a
WebRTC client must be protected with SRTP, using DTLS-SRTP [40, 41] as the key
management protocol. This means that if a WebRTC IMS Client is supposed to be
able to communicate with existing IMS endpoints (e.g. IMS UE or PSTN GW),
DTLS-SRTP and SRTP must be terminated at an intermediate node.
This clause describes the additional procedures and interface extensions
required to support end-to-access-edge (e2ae) security for RTP using DTLS-SRTP
and SRTP.
## N.2.2 e2ae security for RTP using DTLS-SRTP
E2ae protection of RTP using DTLS-SRTP is similar to e2ae protection of MSRP
using TLS/TCP and the session establishment procedures are therefore largely
the same. In both cases certificate fingerprints need to be exchanged over SDP
and the media has to be anchored in IMS by inserting a gateway on the media
path. Similarly as for e2ae protection using SDES and TLS, the signalling path
between the WebRTC IMS Client and the eP-CSCF needs to be secured.
Figure N.2.2-1 shows the originating procedure for e2ae protection of RTP
using DTLS-SRTP. The terminating procedure is similar and is not shown here.
Note that no assumption is made on the interface between the WebRTC IMS client
and the eP-CSCF except that it is SDP based and integrity protected.
Since only e2ae security is supported at the moment, the WebRTC IMS Client is
required to include the indication \"e2ae-security requested by UE\" in every
offer it creates.
It is assumed that the eP-CSCF is aware of the fact the IMS UE is a WebRTC IMS
Client and automatically applies e2ae security for terminating calls.
Therefore, unlike the existing e2ae security for RTP and MSRP, there is no
need for the IMS UE to explicitly indicate support of e2ae security during
registration.
NOTE: In this release, DTLS-SRTP is only intended to be used by WebRTC IMS
Clients. Use of DTLS-SRTP by other types of IMS UEs may be studied in future
releases.
The DTLS-SRTP profile to use is described in Annex O of this document.
{width="4.979861111111111in" height="4.971527777777778in"}
Figure N.2.2-1: E2ae protection of RTP based on DTLS-SRTP
# N.3 Media security for WebRTC data channels
## N.3.1 General
This clause describes how end-to-access-edge (e2ae) security is achieved for
WebRTC Data Channels (see IETF RFC 8832 [42]).
WebRTC-compatible browsers use SCTP over DTLS as transport protocol for peer-
to-peer data. A WebRTC Data Channel is defined as two unidirectional SCTP
streams, one in each direction, which are managed together as a single entity
(see IETF RFC 8832 [42]). The application protocol which runs on top of the
WebRTC Data Channel is not specified and the JavaScript is free to implement
any protocol it requires.
The application protocols that a WebRTC IMS Client may need to support are
MSRP, BFCP, T.140, and T.38.
Figure N.3.1-1 shows the common protocol stack and the required protocol
translation. The transport protocol that the IMS-AGW applies on the remote
side (marked X in the figure) depends on the application protocol. For MSRP
and BFCP X=TCP, for T.140 X=RTP/UDP, and for T.38 X=UDPTL/UDP. In general the
IMS-AGW will forward the application protocol messages transparently. The only
exception is MSRP messages which contain IP address information and therefore
needs to re-written by the IMS-AGW. This can however be avoided if both
endpoint support the MSRP CEMA extension [24].
T.140 (real-time text) and T.38 (fax) are included here for sake of
completeness. These are legacy protocols and are not expected to be commonly
used.
Editor's Note: The final list of supported application protocols (e.g., MSRP,
BFCP, T.140, and T.38) is to be decided by CT groups.
{width="5.052083333333333in" height="1.6965277777777779in"}
Figure N.3.1-1: Protocol stack for WebRTC Data Channels
## N.3.2 e2ae security for WebRTC data channels
E2ae security for WebRTC Data Channels is achieved in the same way as e2ae
security for MSRP over TLS/TCP. In both cases certificate fingerprints need to
be exchanged over SDP and the media has to be anchored in IMS by inserting a
gateway on the media path. To ensure the integrity of the certificate
fingerprint the signalling path is assumed to be protected.
Figure N.3.2-1 shows the originating procedure for e2ae protection of WebRTC
Data Channels. The terminating procedure is similar and is not shown here.
Note that no assumptions are made on the interface between the WebRTC IMS
Client and eP-CSCF except that it SDP based and integrity protected.
Since only e2ae security is supported at the moment, the WebRTC IMS Client is
required to include the indication \"e2ae-security requested by UE\" in every
offer it creates.
It is assumed that the eP-CSCF is aware of the fact the IMS UE is a WebRTC IMS
Client and automatically applies e2ae security for terminating calls.
Therefore, unlike the existing e2ae security for MSRP over TLS/TCP, there is
no need for the IMS UE to indicate support of e2ae security during
registration.
{width="5.183333333333334in" height="5.674305555555556in"}
Figure N.3.2-1: E2ae protection of WebRTC Data Channels
NOTE 1: The method for negotiating the application protocol (e.g. MSRP) and
configuring the WebRTC Data Channel (e.g. setting stream identifiers, choosing
between reliable or unrealiable transmission, etc) is defined in the
corresponding stage 3 specification.
NOTE 2: From a security perspective, it is safe to multiplex several WebRTC
Data Channels (e.g. one for MSRP and one for BFCP) on top of a single SCTP
association and DTLS connection. However, there may be other, non-security
related reasons that prevent this option.
###### ## Annex O (normative): Profiling of DTLS-SRTP
The present Annex contains a list of parameters that may be contained in the
use_srtp extension in the DTLS extended client hello, according to RFC 5764
[41]. The rest of the DTLS profile is as defined in Annex M of this document.
**SRTP Protection Profiles:**
The SRTP protection profile \"AES_CM_128_HMAC_SHA1_80\", as defined in RFC
5763, is mandatory to support. Support of other protection profiles is
optional.
**SRTP Master Key Identifier (MKI):**
Optional to use and support. Since a DTLS-SRTP handshake results in single
SRTP master key, an endpoint has at most one active master key at any point in
time. MKI signalling is therefore typically not required (the major exception
would be if the peers perform frequent re-keying) and is not recommended.
#