# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains requirements and test cases that are specific to
the NEF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of General Security
Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of the requirements
and test cases given there, as well as specifying requirements and test cases
unique to the NEF network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501 (Release 15): \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G
system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.122: \" Security aspects of Common API Framework (CAPIF) for
3GPP northbound APIs\".
[5] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CAPIF Common API Framework for 3GPP northbound APIs
NEF Network Exposure Function
# 4 NEF-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
NEF specific security requirements include both requirements derived from NEF-
specific security functional requirements as well as security requirements
derived from threats specific to NEF as described in TR 33.926 [5]. Generic
security requirements and test cases common to other network product classes
have been captured in TS 33.117 [6] and are not repeated in the present
document.
## 4.2 NEF-specific security functional adaptations of requirements and
related test cases
### 4.2.0 Introduction
The present clause describes the security functional requirements and the
corresponding test cases for NEF network product class. The proposed security
requirements are classified in two groups:
\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 [2] and detailed in
clause 4.2.2.
\- General security functional requirements which include requirements not
already addressed in TS 33.501 [2] but whose support is also important to
ensure that NEF conforms to a common security baseline detailed in clause
4.2.3.
### 4.2.1 Void
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the NEF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
#### 4.2.2.0 General
The general approach in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2.1 and all the requirements
and test cases in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2.2 related to SBA/SBI aspect apply
to the NEF network product class.
#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the NEF deriving from 3GPP
specifications -- TS 33.501 [2]
4.2.2.1.1 Authentication on application function
_Requirement Name:_ Authentication on application function
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.9.2.3, and clause 12.2
_Requirement Description:_ \"Mutual authentication between the NEF and
Application Function shall be supported\" as specified in TS 33.501 [2],
clause 5.9.2.3. \"For authentication between NEF and an Application Function
that resides outside the 3GPP operator domain, mutual authentication based on
client and server certificates shall be performed between the NEF and AF using
TLS\" and \"Certificate based authentication shall follow the profiles given
in 3GPP TS 33.210 [3], clause 6.2.\" as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause
12.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [5], clause I.2.2.1, No authentication on
application function
_**Test Case** :_
**Test Name:** TC_CP_AUTH_AF_NEF
**Purpose:** To verify that the NEF can authenticate application function and
establish TLS connection towards the application server with certificate based
authentication, and may authenticate application function and establish TLS
connection towards the application server with pre-shared key based
authentication.
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The NEF network product shall be connected in emulated/real network
environments.
\- In order to establish TLS connections to the NEF network product, the
application function shall offer a feature that is supported by the NEF
network product, including protocol version and combination of cryptographic
algorithms.
\- The application function and the NEF network product shall support
certificate based authentication, and may support pre-shared key based
authentication.
\- If the NEF network product does not support CAPIF as specified in clause
6.2.5.1 in TS 23.501 [3], the certificates or the pre-shared key shall be
provisioned in the NEF network product.
\- If the NEF network product supports CAPIF, the certificates or the pre-
shared key shall be provisioned in the CAPIF core function, the CAPIF core
function shall be able to select appropriate authentication method as defined
in the sub-clause 6.5.2 in TS 33.122 [4].
**Execution Steps:**
1\. If certificate based authentication is used, provision correct certificate
on the application function, if pre-shared key based authentication is used,
provision same pre-shared key on the application function.
2\. The application function shall initiate establishment of TLS connection
towards the NEF network product, and check whether a TLS connection is
established successfully.
3\. If certificate based authentication is used, provision incorrect
certificate on the application function, if pre-shared key based
authentication is used, provision different pre-shared key on the application
function.
4\. The application function shall initiate establishment of TLS connection
towards the NEF network product, and check whether no new TLS connection is
established.
**Expected Results:**
Only one TLS connection is established at step 2.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
4.2.2.1.2 Authorization on northbound APIs
_Requirement Name:_ Authorization on application function
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 12.4
_Requirement Description:_ \"The NEF shall authorize the requests from
Application Function using OAuth-based authorization mechanism, the specific
authorization mechanisms shall follow the provisions given in RFC 6749 [43]\"
as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 12.4.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [5], clause I.2.2.2, No authorization on
northbound APIs
_**Test Case** :_
**Test Name:** TC_CP_AUTHOR_AF_NEF
**Purpose:** To verify that the NEF can authorize application function.
**Pre-Condition:**
\- The NEF network product shall be connected in emulated/real network
environments.
\- The application function and the NEF network product shall support OAuth-
based authorization mechanism.
\- An authorization server (e.g. NRF, or CAPIF core function) that supports
OAuth2 protocol to authorize NEF northbound APIs using the \"Client
Credentials\" authorization grant has been deployed.
\- The TLS connection between the NEF network product and the application
function has been established.
\- The authorization server is configured to grant the application function to
access a northbound API of the NEF network product, called NEF northbound API
A.
**Execution Steps:**
Test 1: without token:
1\. The application function invokes Obtain_Authorization service towards the
authorization server to get a token from the authorization server for
accessing the NEF northbound API A.
2\. The application function invokes NEF northbound API A.
3\. The tester triggers the application function to invoke another northbound
API of the NEF network product, called NEF northbound API B, without token.
Test 2: With incorrect token:
1\. The application function invokes Obtain_Authorization service towards the
authorization server to get a token from the authorization server for
accessing the NEF northbound API A.
2\. The application function invokes NEF northbound API A.
3\. The tester triggers the application function to invoke the NEF northbound
API B with a fake token.
**Expected Results:**
The invoking of NEF northbound API A succeeds, while the invoking of NEF
northbound API B fails.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [6].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [6].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [6].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [6].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [6].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [6].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117 [6].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [6].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [6].
### 4.2.4 Operating Systems
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [6].
### 4.2.5 Web Servers
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [6].
### 4.2.6 Network Devices
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 [6].
### 4.2.7 Void
## 4.3 NEF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The requirements proposed hereafter (with the relative test cases) aim to
securing NEF by reducing its surface of vulnerability. In particular, the
identified requirements aim to ensure that all the default configurations of
NEF (including operating system software, firmware and applications) are
appropriately set.
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [6].
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [6].
### 4.3.4 Web servers
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [6].
### 4.3.5 Network devices
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 [6].
### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 of TS 33.117 [6].
## 4.4 NEF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
There are no NEF-specific additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 [6].
#