# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases that are
specific to the AMF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of
General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of
the requirements and test cases given there, as well as specifying
requirements and test cases unique to the AMF network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501 (Release 15): \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G
system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.501: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 AMF-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
AMF specific security requirements include both requirements derived from AMF-
specific security functional requirements in relevant specifications as well
as security requirements introduced in the present document derived from the
threats specific to AMF as described in TR 33.926 [6].
## 4.2 AMF-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and
related test cases.
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The present clause describes the security functional requirements and the
corresponding test cases for AMF network product class. The proposed security
requirements are classified in two groups:
\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 [2] and detailed in
clause 4.2.2.
\- General security functional requirements which include requirements not
already addressed in TS 33.501 [2] but whose support is also important to
ensure that AMF conforms to a common security baseline detailed in clause
4.2.3.
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the AMF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
#### 4.2.2.0 General
The general approach in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2.1 and all the requirements
and test cases in TS 33.117 [3] clause 4.2.2.2 related to SBA/SBI aspect apply
to the AMF network product class.
#### 4.2.2.1 Authentication and key agreement procedure
##### 4.2.2.1.1 Synchronization failure handling
_Requirement Name_ : Synchronization failure handling
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.3.3.2
_Requirement Description_ : \"Upon receiving an authentication failure message
with synchronisation failure (AUTS) from the UE, the SEAF sends an
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message with a \"synchronisation
failure indication\" to the AUSF.
An SEAF will not react to unsolicited \"synchronisation failure indication\"
messages from the UE.
The SEAF does not send new authentication requests to the UE before having
received the response to its Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request
message with a \"_synchronisation failure indication_ \" from the AUSF (or
before it is timed out).\"
as specified in TS 33.501[2], clause 6.1.3.3.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.2.1, Resynchronization
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_SYNC_FAIL_SEAF_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that synchronization failure is correctly handled by the SEAF/AMF.
**Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with UE and AUSF. The UE and the AUSF may be simulated.
\- AMF network product is connected in emulated/real network environment.
**Execution Steps**
Test A:
1) The UE sends an authentication failure message to the SEAF/AMF with
_synchronisation failure_ (AUTS).
2) The SEAF/AMF sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message
with a \"_synchronisation failure indication_ \" to the AUSF.
3) The AUSF sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message to
the SEAF/AMF immediately after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF, to
make sure the SEAF/AMF will receive the response before timeout.
Test B:
1) The UE sends an authentication failure message to the SEAF/AMF with
_synchronisation failure_ (AUTS).
2) The SEAF/AMF sends a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message
with a \"_synchronisation failure indication_ \" to the AUSF.
3) The AUSF does not send a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response
message to the SEAF/AMF before timeout.
**Expected Results:**
Before receiving Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message from the
AUSF and before the timer for receiving Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate
Response message runs out,
For Test B, the SEAF/AMF does not send any new authentication request to the
UE.
For Test A, the SEAF/AMF may initiate new authentication towards the UE.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
##### 4.2.2.1.2 RES* verification failure handling
_Requirement Name_ : RES* verification failure handling
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.3.2.2
_Requirement Description_ :
\"The SEAF shall proceed with step 10 in Figure 6.1.3.2-1 and after receiving
the Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request message from the AUSF in step
12 in Figure 6.1.3.2-1, proceed as described below:
\- if the AUSF has indicated in the Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate
Response message to the SEAF that the verification of the RES* was not
successful in the AUSF, or
\- if the verification of the RES* was not successful in the SEAF,
then the SEAF shall either reject the authentication by sending an
Authentication Reject to the UE if the SUCI was used by the UE in the initial
NAS message or the SEAF/AMF shall initiate an Identification procedure with
the UE if the 5G-GUTI was used by the UE in the initial NAS message to
retrieve the SUCI and an additional authentication attempt may be initiated.
Also, if the SEAF does not receive any Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate
Request message from the AUSF as expected, then the SEAF shall either reject
the authentication to the UE or initiate an Identification procedure with the
UE.\"
As specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.1.3.2.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.2.3, RES* verification failure
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_RES*_VERIFICATION_FAILURE
**Purpose:**
1) Verify that the SEAF/AMF correctly handles RES* verification failure
detected in the SEAF/AMF or/and in the AUSF, when the SUCI is included in the
initial NAS message.
2) Verify that the SEAF/AMF correctly handles RES* verification failure
detected in the SEAF/AMF or/and in the AUSF, when the 5G-GUTI is included in
the initial NAS message.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
> **Pre-Conditions:**
>
> Test environment with UE and AUSF. The UE and the AUSF may be simulated.
>
> **Execution Steps**
>
> A. Test Case 1
1) The UE sends RR with SUCI to the SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the
SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the authentication, i.e. to send
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE, after receiving the Authentication Request message from the
SEAF/AMF under test, returns an incorrect RES* to the SEAF/AMF under test in
the NAS Authentication Response message, which will trigger the AMF to compute
HRES*, compare HRES* with HXRES* and send an authentication request to the
AUSF. The tester captures the value of RES* in the request.
4) The AUSF returns to the AMF under test the indication of RES* verification
failure.
> B. Test Case 2
1) The UE sends RR with a 5G-GUTI to the SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the
SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the authentication, i.e. to send
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE, after receiving the Authentication Request message from the
SEAF/AMF under test, returns an incorrect RES* to the SEAF/AMF in the NAS
Authentication Response message, which will trigger the AMF to compute HRES*
and compare HRES* with HXRES*, and send an authentication request to the AUSF.
The tester captures the value of RES* in the request.
4) The AUSF returns to the AMF under test an indication of RES* verification
failure.
> C. Test Case 3
1) The UE sends RR with SUCI to the SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the
SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the authentication, i.e. to send
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE returns RES* to the SEAF/AMF under test in the NAS Authentication
Response message, which will trigger the AMF to compute HRES*, compare HRES*
with HXRES*, and send to the received RES* to the AUSF.
4) The AUSF returns to the AMF under test an indication of RES* verification
failure.
> D Test Case 4
1) The UE sends RR with 5G-GUTI to the SEAF/AMF under test, to trigger the
SEAF/AMF under test to initiate the authentication, i.e. to send
Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Request to the AUSF.
2) The AUSF, after receiving the request from the SEAF/AMF under test,
responds with a Nausf_UEAuthentication_Authenticate Response message with an
authentication vector to the SEAF/AMF under test.
3) The UE returns RES* to the SEAF/AMF under test in the NAS Authentication
Response message, which will trigger the AMF to compute HRES*, compare HRES*
with HXRES*, and send to the received RES* to the AUSF.
4) The AUSF returns to the AMF under test an indication of RES* verification
failure.
**Expected Results:**
For test case 1 and 3, the SEAF/AMF rejects the authentication by sending an
Authentication Reject to the UE.
For test case 2 and 4, the SEAF/AMF initiates an Identification procedure with
the UE to retrieve the SUCI.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
#### 4.2.2.2 Void
#### 4.2.2.3 Security mode command procedure
##### 4.2.2.3.1 Replay protection of NAS signalling messages
_Requirement Name:_ Replay protection of NAS signalling messages
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.5.1.
_Requirement Description:_ \"AMF shall support replay protection of NAS
signalling messages between UE and AMF on N1 interface.\" as specified in TS
33.501 [2], clause 5.5.1.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.3.1, Bidding Down
_Test case:_
**Test Name:** TC_NAS_REPLAY_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that the NAS signalling messages are replay protected by AMF over N1
interface between UE and AMF.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
**Pre-Condition:**
\- AMF network product is connected in emulated/real network environment.
\- Tester shall have access to the NAS signalling packets sent between UE and
AMF over N1 interface.
\- Tester shall ensure that integrity protection algorithm other than NIA0 is
used.
**Execution Steps:**
1\. The tester shall capture the NAS SMC procedure taking place between UE and
AMF over N1 interface using any network analyser.
2\. The tester shall filter the NAS Security Mode Complete message by using a
filter.
3\. The tester shall check for the NAS SQN of filtered NAS Security Mode
Complete message and using any packet crafting tool the tester shall create a
NAS Security Mode Complete message containing same NAS SQN of the filtered NAS
Security Mode Complete message or the tester shall replay the captured NAS
signalling packets.
4\. Tester shall check whether the replayed NAS signalling packets were
processed by the AMF by capturing over N1interface to see if any corresponding
response message is received from the AMF.
5\. Tester shall confirm that AMF provides replay protection by
dropping/ignoring the replayed packet if no corresponding response is sent by
the AMF to the replayed packet.
6\. Tester shall verify from the result that if the crafted NAS Security Mode
Complete message or replayed NAS signalling messages are not processed by the
AMF when the N1 interface is replay protected
**Expected Results:**
The NAS signalling messages sent between UE and AMF over N1 interface are
replay protected.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
##### 4.2.2.3.2 NAS NULL integrity protection
_Requirement Name_ : NAS NULL integrity protection
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.5.2
_Requirement Description_ : \"NIA0 shall be disabled in AMF in the deployments
where support of unauthenticated emergency session is not a regulatory
requirement.\" as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 5.5.2
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.3.3, NAS NULL integrity
protection
_Test Case:_
**Test Name:** TC_NAS_NULL_INT_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that NAS NULL integrity protection algorithm is used correctly.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with a UE. The UE may be simulated.
The UE was successfully authenticated.
The vendor shall provide documentation describing how NIA0 is disabled and
enabled in the AMF.
**Execution Steps**
1\. The AMF derives the K~AMF~ and NAS signalling keys after successful
authentication of the UE.
2\. The AMF sends the NAS Security Mode Command message to the UE containing
the selected NAS algorithms.
**Expected Results:**
The integrity algorithm selected by the AMF in NAS SMC message is different
from NIA0.
The NAS Security Mode Command message is integrity protected by the AMF.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
##### 4.2.2.3.3 NAS integrity algorithm selection and use
_Requirement Name_ : NAS integrity algorithm selection and use
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.1
_Requirement Description_ : \"The AMF shall then initiate a NAS security mode
command procedure, and include the chosen algorithm and UE security
capabilities (to detect modification of the UE security capabilities by an
attacker) in the message to the UE (see sub-clause 6.7.2 of the present
document). The AMF shall select the NAS algorithm which have the highest
priority according to the ordered lists.\" as specified in TS 33.501 [2],
clause 5.5.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.3.2, NAS integrity selection
and use
_Test Case:_
**Test Name:** TC_NAS_INT_SELECTION_USE_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that the AMF selects the NAS integrity algorithm which has the highest
priority according to the ordered list of supported integrity algorithms and
is contained in the 5G security capabilities supported by the UE.
Verify that the selected NAS security algorithm is being used.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with a UE containing its 5G security capabilities, AUSF and
UDM. The UE, AUSF and UDM may be simulated.
The list of ordered NAS integrity algorithms are configured on the AMF under
test.
**Execution Steps:**
> 1) The UE sends a Registration Request with Initial Registration type to the
> AMF unders test.
>
> 2) The tester filters the Security Mode Command and Security Mode Complete
> messages.
>
> 3) The tester examines the selected integrity algorithm in the SMC against
> the list of ordered NAS integrity algorithm and the 5G security capabilities
> supported by the UE. The tester examines the MAC verification of the
> Security Mode Complete at the AMF under test.
**Expected Results:**
The selected integrity algorithm has the highest priority according to the
list of ordered NAS integrity algorithm and is contained in the UE 5G security
capabilities.
The MAC verification of the Security Mode Complete message is successful.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Logs and communication flow saved in a .pcap file.
#### 4.2.2.4 Security in intra-RAT mobility
##### 4.2.2.4.1 Bidding down prevention in Xn-handover
_Requirement Name_ : Bidding down prevention in Xn-handovers
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.3.1
_Requirement Description_ : \"In the Path-Switch message, the target gNB shall
send the UE\'s 5G security capabilities received from the source gNB to the
AMF. The AMF shall verify that the UE\'s 5G security capabilities received
from the target gNB are the same as the UE\'s 5G security capabilities that
the AMF has locally stored. If there is a mismatch, the AMF shall send its
locally stored 5G security capabilities of the UE to the target gNB in the
Path-Switch Acknowledge message. The AMF shall support logging capabilities
for this event and may take additional measures, such as raising an alarm.\"
as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.3.1.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.4.1, Bidding down on Xn-
Handover
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_BIDDING_DOWN_XN_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that bidding down is prevented by the AMF under test in Xn handovers.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with (source and target) gNBs may be simulated.
The AMF under test is configured with the UE's security context for the UE.
The AMF under test is configured to log UE security capability mismatch.
**Execution Steps**
The tester sends 5G security capabilities for the UE, different from the ones
stored in the AMF, to the AMF under test using a Path-Switch message.
**Expected Results:**
The tester captures the Path-Switch Acknowledge message sent by AMF under test
to the target gNB, which includes the locally stored 5G security capabilities
in the AMF under test for that UE.
The tester verifies that a log entry showing the capability mismatch is
logged.
**Expected format of evidence**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
##### 4.2.2.4.2 NAS protection algorithm selection in AMF change
_Requirement Name_ : NAS protection algorithm selection in AMF change
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.1.2
_Requirement Description_ : \"If the change of the AMF at N2-Handover or
mobility registration update results in the change of algorithm to be used for
establishing NAS security, the target AMF shall indicate the selected
algorithm to the UE as defined in Clause 6.9.2.3.3 for N2-Handover (i.e.,
using NAS Container) and Clause 6.9.3 for mobility registration update (i.e.,
using NAS SMC). The AMF shall select the NAS algorithm which has the highest
priority according to the ordered lists (see sub-clause 6.7.1.1 of the present
document).\"
as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.7.1.2.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.4.2, NAS integrity protection
algorithm selection in AMF change
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_NAS_ALG_AMF_CHANGE _AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that NAS protection algorithms are selected correctly.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with source gNB, target gNB and source AMF. Source and target
gNBs and source AMF may be simulated.
**Execution Steps**
Test case 1: N2-Handover
> The AMF under test receives the UE security capabilities and the NAS
> algorithms used by the source AMF from the source AMF. The AMF under test
> selects the NAS algorithms which have the highest priority according to the
> ordered lists. The lists are configured such that the algorithms selected by
> the AMF under test are different from the ones received from the source AMF.
Test case 2: Mobility registration update
> The AMF under test receives the UE security capabilities and the NAS
> algorithms used by the source AMF from the source AMF. The AMF under test
> selects the NAS algorithms which have the highest priority according to the
> ordered lists. The lists are configured such that the algorithms selected by
> the AMF under test are different from the ones received from the source AMF.
**Expected Results:**
For Test case 1, the tester captures the NASC of the NGAP HANDOVER REQUEST
message sent by the AMF under test to the gNB, which includes the chosen
algorithm.
For Test case 2, the AMF under test initiates a NAS security mode command
procedure and includes the chosen algorithms.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
#### 4.2.2.5 5G-GUTI allocation
##### 4.2.2.5.1 5G-GUTI allocation
_Requirement Name_ : 5G-GUTI allocation
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.12.3
_Requirement Description_ : \"A new 5G-GUTI shall be sent to a UE only after a
successful activation of NAS security. The 5G-GUTI is defined in TS 23.003
[4].
Upon receiving Registration Request message of type \"initial registration\"
or \"mobility registration update\" from a UE, the AMF shall send a new
5G-GUTI to the UE during the registration procedure.
Upon receiving Registration Request message of type \"periodic registration
update\" from a UE, the AMF should send a new 5G-GUTI to the UE during the
registration procedure.
Upon receiving Service Request message sent by the UE in response to a Paging
message, the AMF shall send a new 5G-GUTI to the UE. This new 5G-GUTI shall be
sent before the current NAS signalling connection is released.
NOTE 1: It is left to implementation to re-assign 5G-GUTI more frequently than
in cases mentioned above.
NOTE 2: It is left to implementation to generate 5G-GUTI containing 5G-TMSI
that uniquely identifies the UE within the AMF.\"
as specified in TS 33.501 [2], clause 6.12.3.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.7.1, Failure to allocate new
5G-GUTI
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_5G_GUTI_ALLOCATION _AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that a new 5G-GUTI is allocated by the AMF under test in these
scenarios accordingly.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with a UE. The UE may be simulated.
Tester has access to the NAS signalling packets sent over N1 interface.
Tester has the knowledge of the UE's security context used for protecting the
Registration Request of type \"mobility registration update\" and Service
Request, including the old 5G-GUTI, ngKSI, UE NR security capability, NAS
security context. And the tester shall configure the UE's security context on
the AMF under test.
**Execution Steps**
> Test case 1:
>
> Upon receiving Registration Request message of type \"initial registration\"
> from a UE, the AMF sends a new 5G-GUTI to the UE during the registration
> procedure.
>
> Test case 2:
>
> Upon receiving Registration Request message of type \"mobility registration
> update\" from a UE, the AMF sends a new 5G-GUTI to the UE during the
> registration procedure.
>
> Test case 3:
>
> Upon receiving Service Request message sent by the UE in response to a
> Paging message, the AMF sends a new 5G-GUTI to the UE.
**Expected Results:**
For Test case 1, 2, 3, the tester retrieves a new 5G-GUTI by accessing the NAS
signalling packets sent by the AMF under test over N1 interface during
registration procedure.
For Test case 1, 2, 3, the NAS message encapsulating the new 5G-GUTI is
confidentiality and integrity protected by the AMF under test using the NAS
security context, which is same as the UE's NAS security context.
The new 5G-GUTI is different from the old 5G-GUTI.
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
#### 4.2.2.6 Security in registration procedure
##### 4.2.2.6.1 Invalid or unacceptable UE security capabilities handling
_Requirement Name_ : Invalid or unacceptable UE security capabilities handling
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 24.501 [5], clause 5.5.1.2.8
_Requirement Description_ :\"
_..._
_i) UE security capabilities invalid or unacceptable_
_If the REGISTRATION REQUEST message is received with invalid or unacceptable
UE security capabilities (e.g. no 5GS encryption algorithms (all bits zero),
no 5GS integrity algorithms (all bits zero), mandatory 5GS encryption
algorithms not supported or mandatory 5GS integrity algorithms not supported,
etc.), the AMF shall return a REGISTRATION REJECT message_.\"
as specified in TS 24.501 [5], clause 5.5.1.2.8.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause K.2.6.1, Invalid or unacceptable
UE security capabilities
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_UE_SEC_CAP_HANDLING_AMF
**Purpose:**
Verify that UE security capabilities invalid or unacceptable are not accepted
by the AMF under test in registration procedure.
**Pre-Conditions:**
Test environment with (target) UE, which may be simulated.
The tester configures invalid/unacceptable UE security capabilities (no 5GS
encryption algorithms (all bits zero), no 5GS integrity algorithms (all bits
zero), mandatory 5GS encryption algorithms not supported or mandatory 5GS
integrity algorithms not supported) on the UE.
**Execution Steps**
The UE sends UE security capabilities to the AMF under test using registration
request message.
**Expected Results:**
The tester captures the Registration reject message sent by AMF under test to
the UE.
**Expected format of evidence**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., Screenshot containing the
operational results.
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [3].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.4 Operating Systems
There are no AMF -specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.2.5 Web Servers
There are no AMF -specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [3]
### 4.2.6 Network Devices
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
## 4.3 AMF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The present clause contains AMF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements
and related test cases.
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.4 Web servers
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.5 Network devices
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 of TS 33.117 [3].
### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 [3].
## 4.4 AMF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
There are no AMF-specific additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 [3].
#