# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document. In the present document, modal verbs have the
following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains objectives, requirements and test cases that are
specific to the NRF network product class. It refers to the Catalogue of
General Security Assurance Requirements and formulates specific adaptions of
the requirements and test cases given there, as well as specifying
requirements and test cases unique to the NRF network product class.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 33.117: \"Catalogue of general security assurance
> requirements\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 33.501 v15: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G
> system\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 29.510: \"5G System; Network function repository services; Stage
> 3\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TR 33.926: \"Security Assurance Specification (SCAS) threats and
> critical assets in 3GPP network product classes\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
NF Network Function
NRF Network Repository Function
# 4 NRF-specific security requirements and related test cases
## 4.1 Introduction
NRF specific security requirements include both requirements derived from NRF-
specific security functional requirements in relevant specifications as well
as the security requirements introduced in the present document derived from
the threats specific to NRF as described in TR 33.926 [6].
## 4.2 NRF-specific adaptations of security functional requirements and
related test cases
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The present clause describes the security functional requirements and the
corresponding test cases for NRF network product class. The proposed security
requirements are classified in two groups:
\- Security functional requirements derived from TS 33.501 [3] and detailed in
clause 4.2.2.
\- General security functional requirements which include requirements not
already addressed in TS 33.501 [3] but whose support is also important to
ensure that NRF conforms to a common security baseline detailed in clause
4.2.3.
### 4.2.2 Security functional requirements on the NRF deriving from 3GPP
specifications and related test cases
#### 4.2.2.1 Security functional requirements on the NRF deriving from 3GPP
specifications -- general approach
In addition to the requirements and test cases in TS 33.117 [2], clause 4.2.2,
a NRF shall satisfy the following:
It is assumed for the purpose of the present SCAS that a NRF conforms to all
mandatory security-related provisions pertaining to a NRF in:
\- 3GPP TS 33.501 [3]: \"Security architecture procedures for 5G system\";
\- other 3GPP specifications that make reference to TS 33.501 [3] or are
referred to from TS 33.501 [3].
Security procedures pertaining to a NRF are typically embedded in NF
discovery/registration/access token request procedures and are hence assumed
to be tested together with them.
#### 4.2.2.2 NF discovery procedure
##### 4.2.2.2.1 NF discovery authorization for specific slice
_Requirement Name_ : NF discovery authorization for specific slice
_Requirement Reference:_ TS 33.501 [3], clause 5.9.2.1, TS 23.502 [4], clause
4.17.4, and TS 29.510 [5], clause 6.2.3.2.3.1.
_Requirement Description_ :
\"NRF shall be able to ensure that NF Discovery and registration requests are
authorized\" as specified in TS 33.501 [3], clause 5.9.2.1.
\"The NRF authorizes the Nnrf_NFDiscovery_Request. Based on the profile of the
expected NF/NF service and the type of the NF service consumer, the NRF
determines whether the NF service consumer is allowed to discover the expected
NF instance(s). If the expected NF instance(s) or NF service instance(s) are
deployed in a certain network slice, NRF authorizes the discovery request
according to the discovery configuration of the Network Slice, e.g. the
expected NF instance(s) are only discoverable by the NF in the same network
slice\".
as specified in TS 23.502 [4], clause 4.17.4.
\"If included, the requester-snssais IE shall contain the list of S-NSSAI of
the requester NF. The NRF shall use this to return only those NF profiles of
NF Instances allowing to be discovered from the slice(s) identified by this
IE, according to the \"allowedNssais\" list in the NF Profile and NF Service\"
as specified in TS 29.510 [5], clause 6.2.3.2.3.1.
_Threat References_ : TR 33.926 [6], clause H.2.2.1, No slice specific
authorization for NF discovery
_Test Case_ :
**Test Name:** TC_DISC_AUTHORIZATION_SLICE_NRF
**Purpose:**
Verify that the NRF under test does not authorize slice specific discovery
request for the NF instance which is not part of the requested slice,
according to the slice specific discovery configuration of the requested NF
instance.
**Procedure and execution steps:**
> **Pre-Conditions:**
\- Test environment with the NF1 and NF2, which may be simulated.
\- The NF2 is configured with a list of S-NSSAI, which contains slice A but
not slice B.
\- The NF1 is configured as a NF instance belonging to slice B and is
connected in emulated/real network environment.
\- The NF1 and NF2 is successfully authenticated with the NRF under test.
> **Execution Steps**
1\. The NF2 registers at the NRF under test with a list of S-NSSAI.
2\. The NF1 sends an Nnrf_NFDiscovery_Request to the NRF under test with the
expected service name of NF2, NF type of the expected NF2.
> 3\. The NRF under test determines that NF2 instance only allows discovery
> from NFs belonging to slice A, according to the \"allowedNssais\" list
> stored in NF2 Profile.
**Expected Results:**
The NRF under test returns a response with \"403 Forbidden\" status code, as
specified in clause 5.3.2.2.2 of TS 29.510 [5].
**Expected format of evidence:**
Evidence suitable for the interface, e.g., evidence can be presented in the
form of screenshot/screen-capture.
### 4.2.3 Technical Baseline
#### 4.2.3.1 Introduction
The present clause provides baseline technical requirements.
#### 4.2.3.2 Protecting data and information
##### 4.2.3.2.1 Protecting data and information -- general
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.1 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.2 Protecting data and information -- unauthorized viewing
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.3 Protecting data and information in storage
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.4 Protecting data and information in transfer
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
##### 4.2.3.2.5 Logging access to personal data
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.3 Protecting availability and integrity
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.4 Authentication and authorization
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.5 Protecting sessions
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
#### 4.2.3.6 Logging
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.3.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.4 Operating Systems
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.5 Web Servers
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.2.6 Network Devices
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.2.6 of TS 33.117 [2].
## 4.3 NRF-specific adaptations of hardening requirements and related test
cases
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The requirements proposed hereafter (with the relative test cases) aim to
securing NRF by reducing its surface of vulnerability. In particular, the
identified requirements aim to ensure that all the default configurations of
NRF (including operating system software, firmware and applications) are
appropriately set.
### 4.3.2 Technical baseline
All text from TS 33.117, clause 4.3.2 also applies to NRFs. There are no NRF-
specific adaptations or additions to clause 4.3.2 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.3 Operating systems
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.3.3 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.4 Web servers
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.3.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.5 Network devices
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.3.5 of TS 33.117 [2].
### 4.3.6 Network functions in service-based architecture
There are no NRF-specific additions to clause 4.3.6 in TS 33.117 [2].
## 4.4 NRF-specific adaptations of basic vulnerability testing requirements
and related test cases
All text from TS 33.117, clause 4.4 also applies to NRFs. There are no NRF-
specific adaptations or additions to clause 4.4 of TS 33.117 [2].
#