# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the security aspects for the 5G system to
facilitate vehicular communications for Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services.
The architecture for these V2X services is described in TS 23.287 [2], which
is based on the service requirements defined in TS 22.185 [3] and TS 22.186
[4].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services; Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Service requirements for enhanced V2X scenarios\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.185: \"Security aspect for LTE support of Vehicle-to-Everything
(V2X) services\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.587: \"Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services in 5G System (5GS);
Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 38.323: \"NR; Packet Data Convergence Protocol (PDCP)
specification\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
Void
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core
NR New Radio (5G)
NRPEK NR PC5 Encryption Key
NRPIK NR PC5 Integrity Key
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
# 4 Overview of advanced V2X security architecture
## 4.1 General
The V2X architecture is described in TS 23.287 [2] which describes V2X
communication over both the Uu reference point supported by E-UTRA connected
to 5GC and/or NR connected to 5GC and PC5 reference point supported by E-UTRA
and/or NR. The NR based PC5 reference point supports unicast, groupcast and
broadcast modes (see TS 23.287 [2]).
The security for PC5 reference point supported by E-UTRA is given in TS 33.185
[5]. The security for the other cases is given in the present document.
# 5 Security for V2X over NR based PC5 reference point
## 5.1 General
This clause contains the security and privacy requirements and specifies
procedures that can achieve the requirements for V2X over NR based PC5
reference point except those for PC5 over E-UTRA which are given in TS 33.185
[5].
## 5.2 Common security
### 5.2.1 General
This clause describes the security requirements and the procedures that are
commonly applied for the all kinds of communication modes, i.e. unicast mode,
groupcast mode and broadcast mode, which the NR based PC5 reference point
supports.
### 5.2.2 Requirements
#### 5.2.2.1 Requirements for Cross-RAT control authorization indication
The 5G System shall provide means to manage the cross-RAT PC5 control
authorization.
### 5.2.3 Procedures
#### 5.2.3.1 Cross-RAT PC5 control authorization indication
The procedures for the cross-RAT PC5 control authorization indication are
specified in TS 23.287 [2] clause 6.5.
## 5.3 Security for unicast mode
### 5.3.1 General
This clause describes the security requirements and the procedures that can be
specifically applied for the NR based PC5 unicast mode.
### 5.3.2 Requirements
#### 5.3.2.1 Requirements for securing the PC5 unicast link
The initiating UE shall establish a different security context for each
receiving UE during the PC5 unicast link establishment if the security is
activated.
PC5 unicast link security establishment between the initiating UE and each
receiving UE shall be protected from man-in-the-middle attacks.
The system shall support confidentiality protection, integrity protection and
replay protection of the user plane data of PC5 unicast.
The system shall support confidentiality protection, integrity protection and
replay protection of signalling for PC5 unicast link.
The system shall support means of configuring the signalling and user plane
security policies to UEs for a particular PC5 unicast link.
Signalling plane protection of the PC5 unicast link for a V2X service shall
align with the PC5 signalling security policies of the communicating UEs.
User plane protection of the PC5 unicast link for a V2X service shall align
with the PC5 user plane security policies of the communicating UEs.
#### 5.3.2.2 Identity privacy requirements for the PC5 unicast link
The 5G System should provide means for mitigating trackability attacks on a UE
during PC5 unicast communications.
The 5G System should provide means for mitigating link ability attacks on a UE
during PC5 unicast communications.
NOTE: The 5G system provides means for mitigating trackability and link
ability if security of the connection is activated.
### 5.3.3 Procedures
#### 5.3.3.1 Securing the PC5 unicast link
##### 5.3.3.1.1 General
The NR based PC5 unicast communication procedures are described in TS 23.287
[2]. Clause 5.3.3.1 details how the security for this communication is
established and used.
##### 5.3.3.1.2 Overview
##### 5.3.3.1.2.0 Security Context {#security-context .H6}
The UE establishes a security context for each unicast link. The security
context includes K~NRP-sess~, NRPEK (if applicable), NRPIK, the chosen
confidentiality (if applicable) and integrity algorithms, and PDCP counters
used with each bearer. The UE updates the security context associated to the
unicast link when the unicast link is rekeyed. The UE deletes the security
context associated to a unicast link once the unicast link is released.
##### 5.3.3.1.2.1 Key hierarchy {#key-hierarchy .H6}
PC5 unicast link uses 4 different layers of keying material as shown in figure
5.3.3.1.2.1-1.
Figure 5.3.3.1.2.1-1: Key Hierarchy for PC5 unicast link
The different layers of keys are the following:
\- Long term credentials: These are the credentials that are provisioned into
the UE(s) and form the root of the security of the PC5 unicast link. The
credentials may include symmetric key(s) or public/private key pair depending
on the particular use case. Authentication signalling (see clause 5.3.3.1.3.2)
is exchanged between the UEs to derive the K~NRP~.
\- K~NRP~: This is a 256-bit root key that is shared between the two entities
that communicating using NR PC5 unicast link. It may be refreshed by re-
running the authentication signalling using the long-term credentials. Nonces
are exchanged between the UEs and used with the K~NRP~ to generate a K~NRP-
sess~ (the next layer of keys). K~NRP~ may be kept even when the UEs have no
active unicast communication session between them. The 32-bit K~NRP~ ID is
used to identify K~NRP.~
\- K~NRP-sess~: This is the 256-bit key that is derived by UE from K~NRP~ and
is used derive keys that to protect the transfer of data between the UEs. The
K~NRP-sess~ is derived per unicast link. During activated unicast
communication session between the UEs, the K~NRP-sess~ may be refreshed by
running the rekeying procedure. The actual keys (see next bullet) that are
used in the confidentiality and integrity algorithms are derived directly from
K~NRP-sess~. The 16-bit K~NRP-sess~ ID identifies the K~NRP-sess~.
NOTE 1: A K~NRP-sess~ ID with a zero value indicates that no security is used
and hence the UEs do not assign an all zero value of K~NRP-sess~ ID when
creating a security context.
\- NRPEK and NRPIK: The NR PC5 Encryption Key (NRPEK) and NR PC5 Integrity Key
(NRPIK) are used in the chosen confidentiality and integrity algorithms
respectively for protecting PC5-S signalling, PC5 RRC signalling, and PC5 user
plane data. They are derived from K~NRP-sess~ and are refreshed automatically
every time K~NRP-sess~ is changed.
NOTE 2: Whether the above keys (i.e. K~NRP~, K~NRP-sess~, NRPEK and NRPIK) are
derived is based on the result of the security activation for the signalling
security.
NOTE 3: K~NRP~ is used to derive the keys for a security context for a unicast
link established between a pair of UEs and could be used to derive keys for
additional links established between a certain pair of UEs. The K~NRP~ and its
accompanying K~NRP~ ID values are not part of the security context for a
unicast link and do not have to be deleted after unicast link release.
##### 5.3.3.1.2.2 Security states {#security-states .H6}
A UE may be in one of the three different security states with respect to
another UE as follows:
\- Provisioned-security: This is where a UE just has its own long term keys.
\- Partial-security: This is where a UE has recently communicated with another
UE and still has the K~NRP~ that it used with the other UE, but no other
derived keys.
\- Full-security: This is where a UE is actually communicating with another UE
and has K~NRP~, and a security context per unicast link (see clause
5.3.3.1.2.0). Within a security context, the NRPEK and the chosen
confidentiality algorithm may not exist if both signalling and user plane
confidentiality are inactivated.
Once a UE ends its unicast communication session with another UE in Full-
security state, it shall delete K~NRP-sess~, NRPEK, and NRPIK, the choice of
algorithms and the counters, and may also delete K~NRP~.
##### 5.3.3.1.2.3 High level flows for the security establishment {#high-
level-flows-for-the-security-establishment .H6}
Figure 5.3.3.1.2.3-1 provides a high-level flow of a UE establishing a
connection with other UE(s).
Figure 5.3.3.1.2.3-1: High-level flow of connection establishment
The flow proceeds as follow:
1\. UE_1 sends a Direct Communication Request. This message may be received by
multiple UEs.
2a/3a/4a. UE_2a chooses to respond to the message and may initiate the Direct
Auth and Key Establishment procedure (if needed based clause 5.3.3.1.3) to
generate the key K~NRP~. UE_2a then runs the Direct Security Mode Command
procedure with UE_1 to continue the connection establishment procedures. If
this is successful, UE_2a sends the Direct Communication Accept message.
2b. UE_2b chooses not to respond the UE_1
2c/3c/4c. UE_2c responds to UE_1 using the same sequence of messages as UE_2a.
When each responder decides to activate signalling integrity protection and/or
signalling confidentiality protection, each responder establishes a different
security context with UE_1 that is not known to the other UEs, i.e. the
security context used between UE_1 and UE_2a is not known to UE_2b and UE_2c.
The Direct Communication Request is always sent unprotected and only contains
enough information for a secure connection to be established with the other
UE. Any information UE_1 needs to send to the other UEs in order to establish
the connection is included in the Direct Security Mode Complete message (sent
as part of the Direct Security Mode procedure, see TS 23.287 [2]) from UE_1 as
this message is both confidentiality and integrity protected under the
condition of activated non-NULL signalling confidentiality protection of the
link.
##### 5.3.3.1.3 Key establishment procedures
##### 5.3.3.1.3.1 General {#general-5 .H6}
Clause 5.3.3.1.3 provides the details on the establishment of K~NRP~. The key
establishment procedures in clause 5.3.3.1.3.1 and 5.3.3.1.3.2 shall be
skipped if the receiving UE decides to not activate the signalling integrity
protection of this PC5 unicast link. The long-term credentials and associated
authentication method that are used to establish the keys used to protect the
PC5 unicast link may either be specified in 3GPP specification or be a method
described outside of 3GPP specifications. In the latter case, it is not
practical for all cases to specify the signalling in individual IEs on the NR
PC5 interface for all these applications, hence all the authentication is
specified to be carried in a generic container (called Key_Est_Info in the
following clause) on the NR PC5 interface. This allows, for example, an
application to change the authentication method without affecting the NR PC5
interface.
##### 5.3.3.1.3.2 Key establishment {#key-establishment .H6}
At each step of the flow (and the possible multiple times that step 2 can be
run), the Key_Est_Info contains the different data that is required for key
establishment. Such data is transparent to the PC5 layer, i.e. the PC5 layer
does not need to understand the content of Key_Est_info.
NOTE: The endpoint in the UEs that understands the contents of Key_Est_Info
may be an application on the UEs. Between the PC5 layer and the application
layer on the vehicles, the information contained in Key_Est_Info can be passed
in an implementation-specific manner, e.g. as one block or several IEs.
Figure 5.3.3.1.3.2-1 shows the message flows for establishing security at PC5
using the key established at the layer above PC5. The need for both steps 2a
and 2b (and the number of times both steps 2a and step 2b are run) depends on
the authentication method being used.
Figure 5.3.3.1.3.2-1: Message flow for the establishment of PC5 security key
using a generic container
The steps are as follows and apply to establishment of the initial key or
rekeying:
1\. In the case, UE_1 determines it needs to establish a PC5 connection with
another UE, UE_1 sends the Direct Communication Request message and this
message is received by UE_2. In case of rekeying an existing connection with
UE_2, UE_1 shall send a Direct Rekeying Request message to UE_2 instead of
Direct Communication Request. The Direct Communication Request message shall
include the Key_Est_Info unless UE_1\'s signalling integrity security policy
is NOT NEEDED. In the former case, the message may include Key_Est_Info. The
Direct Rekeying Request message shall include Key_Est_Info unless the Null
integrity algorithm is currently in use.
2\. This step is optional and may be run multiple times depending on the
authentication method used.
a. UE_2 shall send a Direct Auth and Key Establish message including the
Key_Est_Info to UE_1.
b. UE_1 shall send respond with a Direct Auth and Key Establish Response
message including the Key_Est_Info to UE_2.
3\. In case the UE_2 decides to activate the signalling integrity protection,
UE_2 shall calculate (if not already done) K~NRP~. UE_2 shall send a Direct
Security Mode Command messages to UE_1. These messages may include
Key_Est_Info if need by the authentication method being used and shall contain
MSB of K~NRP~ ID unless the Null integrity algorithm is selected by UE_2. The
MSB of K~NRP~ ID are chosen so that they uniquely identify K~NRP~ at UE_2.
4\. On receiving the Direct Security Mode Command, UE_1 shall calculate (if
not already done) K~NRP~ based on Key_Est_Info (if provided). UE_1 shall
execute the following procedures unless the Null integrity algorithm is
selected by UE_2: UE_1 shall choose the LSB of K~NRP~ ID so that they uniquely
identify K~NRP~ at UE_1. UE_1 shall form K~NRP~ ID from the received MSB of
K~NRP~ ID and its chosen LSB of K~NRP~ ID and shall store the complete K~NRP~
ID with K~NRP~.
UE_1 shall send a Direct Security Mode Complete message to UE_2 which shall
contain the LSB of K~NRP~ ID. UE_2 shall form K~NRP~ ID from its chosen MSB of
K~NRP~ ID and the received LSB of K~NRP~ ID and shall store the complete
K~NRP~ ID with K~NRP~.
##### 5.3.3.1.4 Security establishment procedures
##### 5.3.3.1.4.1 General {#general-6 .H6}
Clause 5.3.3.1.4.2 describes the security policy and how the UEs handle the
policy. There are two different cases when an overall security context may be
established; to set up a new connection and to re-key an ongoing connection.
These cases are described in clauses 5.3.3.1.4.3 and 5.3.3.1.4.4 respectively.
Clause 5.3.3.1.4.5 describes the establishment of security for a user plane
bearer.
##### 5.3.3.1.4.2 Security policy {#security-policy .H6}
##### 5.3.3.1.4.2.1 General {#general-7 .H6}
The PC5 unicast link shall support activation or deactivation of security
based on the security policy similar to Uu, as defined in TS 33.501[6]. The
security policy shall be provisioned for PC5 unicast link as well, as detailed
in clause 5.3.3.1.4.2.2 of the present document and handled as detailed in
clause 5.3.3.1.4.2.3 of the present document.
##### 5.3.3.1.4.2.2 Procedure for security policy provisioning for PC5 unicast
link {#procedure-for-security-policy-provisioning-for-pc5-unicast-link .H6}
For selectively activating or deactivation the security of the PC5 unicast
link, the PCF may provision the security policy per V2X service, during
service authorization and information provisioning procedure as defined in TS
23.287 [2].
##### 5.3.3.1.4.2.3 Security policy handling {#security-policy-handling .H6}
For a NR PC5 unicast link, the UE shall be provisioned with the following:
\- The list of V2X services, e.g. PSIDs or ITS-AIDs of the V2X applications,
with Geographical Area(s) and their security policy which indicates the
following:
\- Signalling integrity protection: REQUIRED/PREFERRED/NOT NEEDED
\- Signalling confidentiality protection: REQUIRED/PREFERRED/NOT NEEDED
\- User plane integrity protection: REQUIRED/PREFERRED/NOT NEEDED
\- User plane confidentiality protection: REQUIRED/PREFERRED/NOT NEEDED
NOTE 1: No integrity protection on signalling traffic enables services that do
not require security.
> NOTE 2: Ensuring that only a connection with security is used for a V2X
> service is guaranteed if the signalling integrity security policy of at
> least one of the UEs for that V2X service is set to REQUIRED. It is
> recommended to set this security policy to REQUIRED in order to guarantee
> security protection.
NOTE 3: While some V2X applications are similar to Emergency Services and may
require similar security policies handling, such V2X applications are outside
of the scope of 3GPP.
REQUIRED means the UE shall only accept the connection if a non-NULL
confidentiality or integrity algorithm is used for protection of the traffic.
NOT NEEDED means that the UE shall only establish a connection with no
security.
PREFFERED means that the UE may try to establish security but may will accept
the connection with no security. One use of PREFERRED is to enable a security
policy to be changed without updating all UEs at once.
The handling of signalling security policy proceeds as follows:
\- At initial connection, the initiating UE includes its signalling security
policy in the Direct Communication Request message. The receiving UE(s) takes
this into account when deciding whether to accept or reject the request and
when deciding the agreed security policy to be sent back in the Direct
Security Mode Command message. The initiating UE can reject the Direct
Security Mode Command if the algorithm choice does not match its policy (see
clause 5.3.3.1.4.3 for full details of the handling).
All the UP data of PC5 unicast link shall have the same security.
The handling of the user plane security policy proceeds with the following
sequence:
a) At initial connection, the UE that sent the Direct Communications Request
shall include the user plane security policy for the service in the Direct
Security Mode Complete message.
b) If the signalling confidentiality protection is not activated, then UEs
shall treat their user plane confidentiality policy for the V2X service for
this connection as NOT NEEDED and the receiving UE shall set confidentiality
for the user plane to off. The receiving UE may accept the Direct
Communication Request and the response message (i.e. Direct Communication
Accept) shall include the configuration of not activating (i.e. set to off)
the user plane confidentiality protection.
c) The receiving UE shall reject the Direct Communication Request when the
following cases occur: 1) if the received user plane security policy had
either confidentiality/integrity set to NOT NEEDED and its own corresponding
policy is set to REQUIRED or, 2) if the received user plane security policy
had either confidentiality/integrity set to REQUIRED and its own corresponding
policy is set to NOT NEEDED.
d) Otherwise, the receiving UE may accept the Direct Communication Request and
the response message (i.e. Direct Communication Accept) shall include the
configuration of user plane confidentiality protection based on the agreed
user plane security policy, set as follows:
1) User plane confidentiality protection set to off if the received user plane
security policy had either confidentiality set to NOT NEEDED and/or its own
user plane security policy for the service is set to NOT NEEDED; or
2) User plane confidentiality protection set to on if the received user plane
security policy had either confidentiality set to REQUIRED and/or its own user
plane security policy for the service its own corresponding policy is set to
REQUIRED; or
3) User plane confidentiality protection set to off or on otherwise (i.e. when
both the received user plane security policy and its own user plane security
policy for the service had the confidentiality set to PREFERRED).
User plane integrity protection set following the same rules as
confidentiality protection but based on the received and its own user plane
integrity protection policy for the service.
NOTE: When both UE's signalling and the user plane security policies are
PREFERRED, the receiving UE sets the confidentiality and/or integrity
protection to on. There might be UE constraints limiting the enablement of
confidentiality and/or integrity protection, e.g. UE hardware platform
resource constraints/limitations.
Due to the purpose of adding a new V2X service to an existing PC5 unicast
link, if the signalling and user plane security policies of the new V2X
service are satisfied by the security in use for the PC5 unicast link, the
initiating UE shall send the Link Modification Request to the receiving UE.
The receiving UE shall reject the Link Modification Request if the security in
use for the PC5 unicast link does not match the signalling and user plane
security policies of the new V2X service.
The V2X layer of the UE shall pass the security configurations to its AS
layer. The security configurations are mutually agreed by both sides\' UEs,
including the configuration of confidentiality and integrity protection.
##### 5.3.3.1.4.3 Security establishment during connection set-up {#security-
establishment-during-connection-set-up .H6}
The clause describes how security is established during connection set-up. The
signalling flow is shown in figure 5.3.3.1.4.3-1.
Figure 5.3.3.1.4.3-1: Security establishment at connection set-up
1\. UE_1 has sent a Direct Communication Request to UE_2. This message shall
include UE_1\'s security capabilities (the list of algorithms that UE_1 will
accept for this connection) and UE_1\'s signalling security policy. The UE_1
shall also include Nonce_1 (for session key K~NRP-sess~ generation), and the
most significant 8-bits of the K~NRP-sess~ ID in this message if UE_1\'s
signalling integrity protection policy is either \"REQUIRED\" or
\"PREFERRED\". The most significant 8-bits of the K~NRP-sess~ ID shall be
chosen such that UE_1 will be able to locally identify a security context that
is created by this procedure using the K~NRP-sess~ ID. The message may also
include a K~NRP~ ID if the UE_1 has an existing K~NRP~ for the UE that it is
trying to communicate with. The absence of the K~NRP~ ID parameter indicates
that UE_1 does not have a K~NRP~ for UE_2. The message also contains
Key_Est_Info (see clause 5.3.3.1.3.2).
2\. UE_2 shall reject the Direct Communication Request if UE_1\'s signalling
security policy is \"NOT NEEDED\" while UE_2\'s security policy is
\"REQUIRED\". UE_2 shall also reject the Direct Communication Request if
UE_1\'s signalling security policy is \"REQUIRED\" while UE_2\'s security
policy is \"NOT NEEDED\". UE_2 may initiate a Direct Authentication and Key
Establishment procedure with UE_1. This is mandatory if the UE_2 does not have
the K~NRP~ and K~NRP~ ID pair indicated in step 1, and signalling is needed to
establish the keys for the particular use case. If the Direct Authentication
and Key Establishment procedure is initiated, the two UEs authenticate each
other using the information exchanged in Key_Est_Info, where the used
authentication method is application-specific. (See clause 5.3.3.1.3.2).
During Direct Authentication and Key Establishment procedure, either of the
UE's may reject the authentication procedure.
3\. UE_2 shall send the Direct Security Mode Command message to UE_1. This
message shall only contain the MSB of K~NRP~ ID unless the Null integrity
algorithm is selected by UE_2 and optionally Key_Est_Info if a fresh K~NRP~ is
to be generated (see clause 5.3.3.1.3). UE_2 shall include the Chosen_algs
parameter to include the selected integrity and confidentiality algorithm.
Non-Null security algorithm in the Chosen_algs indicates the corresponding
security protection is activated and the security algorithm the UEs will use
to protect the data in the message. Null security algorithm in the Chosen_algs
indicates the corresponding security protection is unprotected. The
Chosen_algs may only indicate the use of the NULL integrity algorithm if
UE_2\'s signalling integrity security policy is either NOT NEEDED or
PREFERRED. UE_2 shall also return the UE_1\'s security capabilities and
UE_1\'s signalling security policy to provide protection against bidding down
attacks. In the case that the NULL integrity algorithm is chosen, the NULL
confidentiality algorithm shall also be chosen and UE_2 shall set the K~NRP-
sess~ ID of this security context to the all zero value.
The following procedures in step 3 shall only be executed if the UE_2 decides
to at least activate the integrity security protection for this connection:
UE_2 shall also include Nonce_2 to allow a session key to be calculated, as
well as the least significant 8-bits of K~NRP-sess~ ID in the messages. These
bits are chosen so that UE_2 will be able to locally identify a security
context that is created by this procedure. UE_2 shall calculate K~NRP-Sess~
from K~NRP~ and both Nonce_1 and Nonce_2 (see clause A.3) and then derive the
confidentiality (if applicable) and integrity keys based on the chosen
algorithms (clause A.2). The lower layer shall be provided with the new
security context and indication(s) to signal that the Direct Security Mode
Command message needs integrity protection with the new security context and
the signalling messages can be received using the new security context. The
confidentiality key, NRPEK, shall be derived in this step if and only if
signalling confidentiality protection is activated for this connection. The
integrity protection key, NRPIK, shall be derived in this step if and only if
signalling integrity protection is activated for this connection. UE_2 shall
integrity protect the Direct Security Mode Command before sending it to UE_1.
UE_2 is then ready to receive signalling and messages protected with the new
security context. UE_2 shall form the K~NRP-sess~ ID from the most significant
bits it received in step1 and least significant bits it sent in step3.
4\. On receiving the Direct Security Mode Command, the UE_1 shall first check
the Chosen_algs and shall accept the NULL integrity algorithm only if its
security policy for signalling integrity protection is either NOT NEEDED or
PREFERRED. Then UE_1 shall check the returned UE_1\'s security capabilities
and UE_1\'s signalling security to avoid bidding down attacks if the NULL
integrity algorithm is selected for signalling integrity protection. If the
above check passes, UE_1 shall send an unprotected Direct Security Mode
Complete message to UE_2. UE_1 shall set the K~NRP-sess~ ID of this security
context to the all zero value.
Under the condition of non-NULL integrity algorithm indicated in the
Chosen_algs, UE_1 shall first check that the received LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID is
unique by checking that it has not been sent by another UE responding to this
Direct Communication Request i.e. such that resulting K~NRP-sess~ ID is not
already being used for another link. If the LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID is not
unique, then UE_1 shall respond with a Direct Security Mode Reject message
including a cause value to specify that the LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID is not
unique. The peer UE-2 receiving a Direct Security Mode Reject message shall
inspect the cause value and, if the cause is related to the session identifier
uniqueness then, the UE-2 shall generate a new LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID and reply
to UE-1 again (i.e., UE-2 shall send a Direct Security Mode Command message
with the new LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID). UE_2 shall associate the new LSB of
K~NRP-sess~ ID with the security context that is created in step 3. UE-2 shall
erase the former LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID from its memory. On receiving this new
Direct Security Mode Command, UE_1 shall process the message from the start of
step 4.
If the LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID is unique, UE_1 shall calculate K~NRP-sess~ and
the confidentiality key (if applicable) and integrity key in the same way as
UE_2. The confidentiality key, NRPEK, shall be derived in this step if and
only if the Chosen_algs includes non-NULL confidentiality algorithm. The
integrity protection key, NRPIK, shall be derived in this step if and only if
signalling integrity protection is activated for this connection. UE_1 shall
check that the returned UE_1 security capabilities and UE_1\'s signalling
security policy are the same as those it sent in step 1. UE_1 shall also check
the integrity protection on the message. If both these checks pass, then UE_1
creates a security context to be associated with the K~NRP-sess~ ID. UE_1 is
ready to send and receive signalling and message with the new security
context. The lower layer shall be provided with the new security context and
indication to signal that signalling starting with the Direct Security Mode
Complete needs protection with new security context and the signalling
messages can be received using the new security context. UE_1 shall send
integrity protected and confidentiality protected (if applicable) Direct
Security Mode Complete message to UE_2. UE_1 shall form the K~NRP-sess~ ID
from the most significant bits it sent in step1 and least significant bits it
received in step3. K~NRP-sess~ ID is used to locally identify the security
context that is created by this procedure.
5\. If the Chosen_algs in step 3 includes non-NULL integrity algorithm, UE_2
checks the integrity protection on the received Direct Security Mode Complete.
If this passes, UE_2 is now ready to send signalling message and send and
receive user plane traffic protected with the new security context. UE_2 shall
send integrity protected and confidentiality (if applicable) protected Direct
Communication Accept message to UE_1 with the new security context. The lower
layer shall be provided with an indication before sending Direct Communication
Accept message to indicate that the signalling message starting with the
Direct Communication Accept is protected with the new security context and an
indication after sending Direct Communication Accept message to indicate that
the user plane traffic is protected with the new security context. UE_2
deletes any old security context it has for UE_1.
6\. After receiving the Direct Communication Accept message, the lower layer
of UE_1 shall be provided with an indication of activation of the PC5 unicast
user plane security protection for the PC5 unicast link (if applicable). UE_1
is now ready to send and receive user plane traffic protected with the new
security context. UE_1 deletes any old security context it has for UE_2.
##### 5.3.3.1.4.4 Security establishment during re-keying {#security-
establishment-during-re-keying .H6}
By rekeying, the UEs ensure fresh session keys K~NRP-sess~ are used.
Optionally the rekeying can also enforce refresh of K~NRP~. Either UE may
rekey the connection at any time. This shall be done before the counter for a
PDCP bearer repeats with the current keys. A rekeying operation shall refresh
the K~NRP-sess~ and NRPEK and NRPIK, and may refresh K~NRP~. There is no
benefit in running the rekeying procedure if the NULL integrity algorithm is
in use, hence it is recommended not to trigger it when using the NULL
integrity algorithm. A rekeying operation follows the flows given in figure
5.3.3.1.4.4-1.
NOTE: The rekeying procedure is not required from security point of view if
the connection is unprotected.
Figure 5.3.3.1.4.4-1: Security establishment during rekeying
1\. UE_1 sends a Direct Rekey Request to UE_2. This message shall include UE_1
security capabilities (the list of algorithms that UE_1 will accept for this
connection). In addition, if a non-Null integrity algorithm is in use, the
message shall include Nonce_1 (for session key generation) and the most
significant 8-bits of the K~NRP-sess~ ID. These bits are chosen such that UE_1
will be able to locally identify a security context that is created by this
procedure. The message may also include a Re-auth Flag if UE_1 wants to rekey
K~NRP~. The message also contains Key_Est_Info (see clause 5.3.3.1.3.2).
2\. UE_2 may initiate a Direct Auth Key Establish procedure with UE_1. This is
mandatory if UE_1 included the Re-auth Flag and signalling is needed to
establish K~NRP.~
3\. This step is the same as step 3 in clause 5.3.3.1.4.3 except the following
differences: the chosen integrity algorithm shall only be NULL if and only if
the NULL integrity algorithm is currently in use, the chosen confidentiality
algorithm shall only be NULL if and only if the NULL confidentiality algorithm
is currently in use and UE_1\'s signalling security policy is not included in
this message. UE_2 is then ready to receive both signalling and user plane
traffic protected with the new security context. The lower layer shall be
provided with an indication that the new security context can be used to
receive protected user plane traffic in addition to the indication(s) from
step 3 in clause 5.3.3.1.4.3.
4\. This step is the same as step 4 in clause 5.3.3.1.4.3 except the following
differences:the UE_1 shall only accept the NULL integrity algorithm if and
only if the NULL integrity algorithm is currently in use, UE_1 shall only
accept the NULL confidentiality algorithm if and only if the NULL
confidentiality algorithm is currently in use, and UE_1 does not check the
returned signalling security policy (as it is not sent in this case). UE_2 is
then ready to both send and receive both signalling and user plane traffic
protected with the new security context. The lower layer shall receive an
indication that the new security context shall be used to send and can be used
to receive protected user plane traffic after the Direct Security Mode
Complete message has been sent in addition to the indications given in step 4.
5\. This step is the same as step 5 in clause 5.3.3.1.4.3 except the following
changes: the Direct Communication Accept message is replaced by Direct Link
Rekeying Response message. There is no need for the indication to be ready to
receive user plane with the new context as this indication was received at
step 3 but the rest of the indication from step 5 of clause 5.3.3.1.4.3 are
needed.
6\. This step is the same as step 6 in clause 5.3.3.1.4.3 except the
following: the Direct Communication Accept message is replaced by Direct Link
Rekeying Response message. No indication to the AS layer is needed at this
step.
##### 5.3.3.1.4.5 Security establishment for user plane bearers {#security-
establishment-for-user-plane-bearers .H6}
The UEs handle the user plane security policies as described in clauses
5.3.3.1.4.2.3.
The UE initiating the establishment of a user plane bearer shall select an
LCID whose associated value of Bearer for input to the security algorithms
(see clauses 5.3.3.1.5.2 and 5.3.3.1.5.3) has not been used with the current
keys, NRPEK and NRPIK. If this is not possible the UE shall initiate a re-
keying (see clause 5.3.3.1.4.4) before establishing the user plane bearer.
When establishing or re-configuring the user plane bearers, the UEs shall
activate the user plane security for the bearers according to the
configuration of confidentiality and integrity protection received from its
V2X layer. The confidentiality and/or integrity protection algorithms are same
as those selected for protecting the signalling bearers if confidentiality
and/or integrity protection are required for both signalling and user plane.
The user plane confidentiality protection algorithm is the same as the
selected signalling confidentiality algorithm if signalling confidentiality
protection is not activated.
Both UEs shall ensure that the user plane for each V2X service is only sent or
received (e.g. dropped if received on a bearer with incorrect security) on
user plane bearers with the necessary security if security protection of this
link is activated.
##### 5.3.3.1.5 Protection of the PC5 unicast link
##### 5.3.3.1.5.1 General {#general-8 .H6}
Protection for the signalling and user plane data between the UEs is provided
at the PDCP layer. As the security is not preserved through a drop of the
connection, all signalling messages that need to be sent before security is
established for a connection may be sent with no protection. The PC5-S
signalling messages that can be sent and processed unprotected are given in TS
24.587 [8]. Once security is established for a connection all signalling
messages for that connection are sent integrity protected and confidentiality
protected with the chosen algorithms except the Direct Security Mode Command
which is sent integrity protected only.
##### 5.3.3.1.5.2 Integrity protection {#integrity-protection .H6}
UEs shall implement NIA0, 128-NIA1 and 128-NIA2 and may implement 128-NIA3 for
integrity protection of the unicast link. The algorithm identifiers from
clause 5.11.1.2 of TS 33.501 [6] are reused for PC5-S, PC5-RRC, and PC5-U.
These integrity algorithms are as specified in TS 33.501 [6] and are reused
with the following modifications:
\- The key used is NRPIK;
\- Direction is set to 1 for direct link signalling transmitted by the UE that
sent the Direct Security Mode Command for this security context and 0
otherwise;
\- Bearer[0] to Bearer[4] are set to 5 LSB of LCID;
\- COUNT[0] to COUNT[31] are filled with counter value (see clause 6.3.5 of TS
38.323 [9]).
NOTE: The above input parameters do not apply to NIA0 as specified in Annex
D.1 of TS 33.501 [6].
The receiving UE ensures that received protected signalling messages and user
plane data that is integrity protected are not replayed.
##### 5.3.3.1.5.3 Confidentiality protection {#confidentiality-protection .H6}
UEs shall implement NEA0, 128-NEA1 and 128-NEA2 and may implement 128-NEA3 for
ciphering of the unicast link. The algorithm identifiers from clause 5.11.1.1
of TS 33.501 [6] are reused for PC5-S, PC5-RRC, and PC5-U.
These ciphering algorithms are as specified in TS 33.501 [6] and are used with
the following modifications:
\- The key used in NRPEK;
\- Direction is set as for integrity protection (see 5.3.3.1.5.2);
\- Bearer[0] to Bearer[4] are set to 5 LSB of LCID;
\- COUNT[0] to COUNT[31] are filled with counter value.
NOTE: The above input parameters do not apply to NEA0 as specified in Annex
D.1 of TS 33.501 [6].
##### 5.3.3.1.5.4 Content of the PDCP packet {#content-of-the-pdcp-packet .H6}
The Key ID and least significant bits of the counter are carried in the PDCP
header, along with any MAC that is needed for integrity protection if
integrity protection is activated. The key ID is used to signal which security
context is being used and shall be set to K~NRP-sess~ ID. The payload field
and MAC (if required) fields are ciphered if confidentiality protection is
activated.
This is illustrated in Figure 5.3.3.1.5.4-1.
Figure 5.3.3.1.5.4-1: Security parameters in the PDCP header for NR based PC5
unicast mode
#### 5.3.3.2 Identity privacy for the PC5 unicast link
##### 5.3.3.2.1 General
The link identifier update procedure given in TS 23.287 [2] is used to provide
privacy for the identities in the unicast link. This procedure only provides
privacy if a non-NULL confidentiality algorithm is selected. This means the
messages in this procedure are sent confidentiality protected (i.e. using a
non-NULL confidentiality algorithm) and hence the new identities agreed by the
UEs are only known to the involved UEs. A three-way message exchange procedure
is required with this procedure since both UEs need to change their
identifiers during the same procedure and to allow these new values to be
acknowledged before them being used. _This procedure is used to preserve the
privacy for the identities that are seen in the clear for an ongoing unicast
connection._
NOTE: From a security point of view, it is assumed that the link identifier
update procedure is used with a protected connection.
A separate privacy threat that allows to link two subsequent connections is
caused by either the same _K~NRP~ ID_ or same partial _K~NRP~ ID_ value being
sent in the Direct Communication Request message for subsequent connections.
The Layer-2 link release procedure given in TS 23.287 [2] is used to provide
privacy for the _K~NRP~ ID_. The messages in the Layer-2 link release
procedure are always sent protected and hence the new _K~NRP~ ID_ agreed by
the UEs is only known to the involved UEs.
##### 5.3.3.2.2 Procedures
##### 5.3.3.2.2.1 Link identifier update {#link-identifier-update .H6}
Figure 5.3.3.2.2-1 shows the flows for changing the identities of the UEs
involved in PC5 unicast link. The figure only displays the security parameters
(K~NRP-sess~ ID)that are changed and the Layer-2 IDs but not the other
parameters described in TS 23.287 [2].
Figure 5.3.3.2.2.1-1: Link identifier update procedure
The procedure proceeds with the following steps and provides additional
handling on top of what is provided in TS 23.287 [2].
0\. UE_1 and UE_2 are communicating via a unicast link and have established
the security for the link.
1\. UE_1 decides to change its identifiers and sends a Link Identifier Update
Request message to UE_2 (see TS 23.287 [2]). In addition to the changed
identifiers, UE_1 shall include the new MSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID in the Link
Identifier Update Request message. These bits shall be chosen so that they
uniquely identify K~NRP-sess~ at UE_1. The new MSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID shall be
selected randomly.
2\. UE_2 shall choose the new LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID so that they uniquely
identify K~NRP-sess~ at UE_2. The new LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID shall be selected
randomly. UE_2 shall form the new K~NRP-sess~ ID from the MSB received from
UE_1 and the LSB that UE_2 chose. UE_2 shall associate the new K~NRP-sess~ ID
with the updated Layer-2 IDs (see TS 23.287 [2]) and shall use this new K~NRP-
sess~ ID when it uses the updated Layer-2 IDs. In addition to its updated
identifiers, UE_2 shall send the LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID to UE_1 along with the
received MSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID and other identifiers received from UE_1 in the
Link Identifier Update Response message. UE_1 shall check that the returned
MSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID is identical to the one sent in step 1.
3\. UE_1 shall form the new K~NRP-sess~ ID from the LSB received from UE_2 and
the MSB chosen by UE_1 (in step 1). UE_1 shall associate the new K~NRP-sess~
ID with the updated Layer-2 IDs (see TS 23.287 [2]) and shall use this new
K~NRP-sess~ ID when it uses the updated Layer-2 IDs. UE_1 shall send the Link
Identifier Update Ack message to UE_2 including the LSB of K~NRP-sess~ ID and
other identifiers received from UE_2. UE_2 shall check that the returned LSB
of K~NRP-sess~ ID are identical to the one sent in step 2.
##### 5.3.3.2.2.2 Layer-2 link release {#layer-2-link-release .H6}
Figure 5.3.3.2.2.2-2 shows the message flows for changing the _K~NRP~ ID_ of
the UEs involved in PC5 unicast link to remediate the privacy threat for the
_K~NRP~ ID_. This message flow is based on the Layer-2 link release procedure
provided in clause 6.3.3.3 of TS 23.287 [2]. The messages in the Layer-2 link
release procedure are always sent protected and hence the new _K~NRP~ ID_
agreed by the UEs is only known to the involved UEs. The new _K~NRP~ ID is
used on a subsequent unicast link establishment procedure (see clause_
5.3.3.1.4.3)_._
Figure 5.3.3.2.2.2-2: Layer-2 link release procedure
0\. UE_1 and UE_2 have a unicast link established as described in TS 23.287
[2].
1\. UE_1 sends a Disconnect Request message to UE_2 in order to release the
layer-2 link (see TS 23.287 [2]). UE_1 shall include the new MSB of K~NRP~ ID
in the Disconnect Request message. These bits shall be chosen so that they
uniquely identify K~NRP~ at UE_1. The new MSB of K~NRP~ ID shall be selected
randomly.
2\. UE_2 shall choose the new LSB of K~NRP~ ID so that they uniquely identify
K~NRP~ at UE_2. The new LSB of K~NRP~ ID shall be selected randomly. UE_2
shall form the new K~NRP~ ID from the MSB received from UE_1 and the LSB that
UE_2 chose. UE_2 may use this new K~NRP~ ID when it reconnects with UE_1. UE_2
shall send the LSB of K~NRP~ ID to UE_1 in the Disconnect Response message.
Upon reception of the Disconnect Response message, UE_1 shall form the new
K~NRP~ ID from the LSB received from UE_2 and the MSB that was chosen by UE_1
(in step 1). UE_1 may use this new K~NRP~ ID when it reconnects with UE_2.
## 5.4 Security for groupcast mode
### 5.4.1 General
This clause describes the security requirements and the procedures that can be
specifically applied for the groupcast mode over the NR PC5 interface.
### 5.4.2 Requirements
#### 5.4.2.1 Requirements for securing the NR based PC5 groupcast mode
There are no requirements for securing the NR based PC5 reference point for
groupcast mode.
#### 5.4.2.2 Identity privacy requirements for the NR based PC5 groupcast mode
The 5G System shall protect against link ability attacks on Layer-2 ID and IP
address for groupcast mode.
The 5G System shall protect against trackability attacks on Layer-2 ID and IP
address for groupcast mode.
### 5.4.3 Procedures
#### 5.4.3.1 Securing the NR based PC5 groupcast mode
There are no particular procedures defined for securing the NR based PC5
groupcast mode.
#### 5.4.3.2 Identity privacy procedures for the PC5 groupcast mode
The below privacy procedures follow the privacy mechanism defined in TS 33.185
[5] for V2X LTE which is intended to mitigate against the threat of tracking
the UE by an attacker based on its used source identities.
The UE shall change and randomize its source Layer-2 ID and source IP address
including IP prefix (if used) when the V2X application indicates that the
Application Layer ID has changed. The UE may change and randomize its source
Layer-2 ID and source IP address including IP prefix (if used) at other times
(e.g. see clause 5.6.1.1 in TS 23.287 [2]). The UE shall provide an indication
to the V2X application layer whenever the source Layer-2 ID and/or source IP
address are changed.
NOTE: There are no additional procedures defined for privacy of destination
Layer-2 ID in this release.
## 5.5 Security for broadcast mode
### 5.5.1 General
This clause describes the security requirements and the procedures that can be
specifically applied for the broadcast mode over the NR PC5 interface.
### 5.5.2 Requirements
#### 5.5.2.1 Requirements for securing the NR based PC5 broadcast mode
There are no requirements for securing the NR based PC5 reference point for
broadcast mode.
#### 5.5.2.2 Identity privacy requirements for the NR based PC5 broadcast mode
The 5G System shall protect against link ability attacks on Layer-2 ID and IP
address for broadcast mode.
The 5G System shall protect against trackability attacks on Layer-2 ID and IP
address for broadcast mode.
### 5.5.3 Procedures
#### 5.5.3.1 Securing the NR based PC5 broadcast mode
There are no particular procedures defined for securing the NR based PC5
broadcast mode.
#### 5.5.3.2 Identity privacy procedures for the NR based PC5 broadcast mode
These procedures for the privacy of source Layer-2 ID and source IP address
are the same as that given in clause 5.4.3.2 for the source identities in the
UE.
# 6 Security for V2X over Uu reference point
## 6.1 General
This clause contains the security and privacy requirements and procedures that
meet the requirements over Uu connectivity with 5G core network.
## 6.2 Requirements
There are no additional security or privacy requirements for V2X beyond those
given in TS 33.501 [6] for Uu connectivity with 5G core network.
## 6.3 Procedures
There are no additional security or privacy procedures of V2X beyond those
given in TS 33.501 [6] for Uu connectivity with 5G core network.
NOTE: The present document does not provide technical solutions to address any
privacy concerns specific to V2X service that require privacy for a UE being
attached to the network, or that due to the data traversing the network in Uu
mode. However, there are general privacy principles applicable outside of 3GPP
scope; data minimization and user consent if privacy impacting data collection
is unavoidable for providing the V2X service.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Key derivation functions
# A.1 KDF interface and input parameter construction
## A.1.1 General
This annex specifies the use of the Key Derivation Function (KDF) specified in
TS 33.220 [7] for the current specification. This annex specifies how to
construct the input string, S, to the KDF (which is input together with the
relevant key). For each of the distinct usages of the KDF, the input
parameters S are specified below.
## A.1.2 FC value allocations
The FC number space used is controlled by TS 33.220 [7].
# A.2 Calculation of NRPEK and NRPIK
When calculating an NRPIK or NRPEK from K~NRP-sess~, the following parameters
shall be used to form the input S to the KDF that is specified in Annex B of
TS 33.220 [7]:
\- FC = 0x7E
\- P0 = 0x00 if NRPEK is being derived or 0x01 if NRPIK is being derived
\- L0 = length of P0 (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
\- P1 = algorithm identity
\- L1 = length of algorithm identity (i.e. 0x00 0x01)
The algorithm identity shall be set as described in TS 33.501 [6].
The input key shall be the 256-bit K~NRP-sess~.
For an algorithm key of length n bits, where n is less or equal to 256, the n
least significant bits of the 256 bits of the KDF output shall be used as the
algorithm key.
# A.3 Calculation of K~NRP-sess~ from K~NRP~
When calculating K~NRP-sess~ from K~NRP~, the following parameters shall be
used to form the input S to the KDF that is specified in Annex B of TS 33.220
[7]:
\- FC = 0x7F
\- P0 = Nonce_1
\- L0 = length of Nonce_1 (i.e. 0x00 0x10)
\- P1 = Nonce_2
\- L1 = length of Nonce_2 (i.e. 0x00 0x10)
The input key shall be the 256-bit K~NRP~.
#