# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the security features and mechanisms to support
authentication and key management aspects for applications based on
subscription credential(s) in 5G system as defined in TS 33.501 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.222: \"Common API Framework for 3GPP Northbound APIs\".
[6] IETF RFC 7542: \"The Network Access Identifier\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**AKMA subscription data:** The data in the home operator\'s network
indicating whether or not the subscriber is allowed to use AKMA.
**AKMA context: A set of parameters stored in AAnF, including SUPI, K~AKMA~
and A-KID.**
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
A-KID AKMA Key IDentifier
A-TID _AKMA Temporary UE IDentifier_
AAnF AKMA Anchor Function
AF Application Function
AKMA Authentication and Key Management for Applications
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
AUSF AUthentication Server Function
K~AF~ AKMA Application Key
K~AKMA~ AKMA Anchor Key
KDF Key Derivation Function
NEF Network Exposure Function
UDM Unified Data Management
# 4 Architecture for AKMA
## 4.1 Reference model
Figure 4.1-1 shows a fundamental network model of AKMA, as well as the
interfaces between them.
Figure 4.1-1: Fundamental Network Model for AKMA
NOTE: Figure 4.1-1 shows the case where AAnF is deployed as a standalone
function. Deployments can choose to collocate AAnF with AUSF or with NEF
according to operators\' deployment scenarios.
Figure 4.1-2 shows the AKMA architecture using the reference point
representation.
Figure 4.1-2: AKMA Architecture in reference point representation for (a)
internal AFs and (b) external AFs
The AKMA service requires a new logical entity, called the AKMA Anchor
Function (AAnF).
## 4.2 Network elements
### 4.2.1 AAnF
The AAnF is the anchor function in the HPLMN. The AAnF stores the AKMA Anchor
Key (K~AKMA~) for AKMA service, which is received from the AUSF after the UE
completes a successful 5G primary authentication. The AAnF also generates the
key material to be used between the UE and the Application Function (AF) and
maintains UE AKMA contexts.
### 4.2.2 AF
The AF is defined in TS 23.501 [3] with additional functions:
\- AF with the AKMA service enabling requests for AKMA Application Key, called
K~AF,~ from the AAnF using A-KID.
\- AF shall be authenticated and authorized by the operator network before
providing the K~AF~ to the AF.
### 4.2.3 NEF
The NEF is defined in TS 23.501 [3] with additional functions:
\- The NEF enables and authorizes the external AF assessing AKMA service and
forwards the request towards the AAnF.
\- The NEF performs the AAnF selection.
### 4.2.4 AUSF
The AUSF is defined in TS 23.501 [3] with additional functions:
\- AUSF provides the SUPI and AKMA key material (A-KID,K~AKMA~) of the UE to
the AAnF.
### 4.2.5 UDM
The UDM is defined in TS 23.501 [3] with the additional functions:
\- UDM stores AKMA subscription data of the subscriber.
## 4.3 AKMA Service Based Interfaces(SBIs)
### 4.3.0 General
The following interfaces are involved in AKMA network architecture:
**\- Nnef:** Service-based interface exhibited by NEF.
**\- Nudm:** Service-based interface exhibited by UDM.
NOTE 1: UDM services related to AKMA service are defined in TS 33.501 [2]
clause 14.2.2.
**\- Naanf:** Service-based interface exhibited by AAnF.
The AAnF interacts with the AUSF and the AF using Service-based Interfaces.
When the AF is located in the operator\'s network, the AAnF shall use Service-
Based Interface to communicate with the AF directly. When the AF is located
outside the operator\'s network, the NEF shall be used to exchange the
messages between the AF and the AAnF.
### 4.3.1 Void
## 4.4 Security requirements and principles for AKMA
## 4.4.0 General
The following security requirements are applicable to AKMA:
\- AKMA shall reuse the same UE subscription and the same credentials used for
5G access.
\- AKMA shall reuse the 5G primary authentication procedure and methods
specified in TS 33.501 [2] for the sake of implicit authentication for AKMA
services.
\- The SBA interface between the AAnF and the AUSF shall be confidentiality,
integrity and replay protected.
\- The SBA interface between AAnF and AF/NEF shall be confidentiality,
integrity and replay protected.
\- The AKMA Application Key (K~AF~) shall be provided with a maximum lifetime.
NOTE: Roaming aspects are not considered in the present document.
### 4.4.1 Requirements on Ua* reference point
The Ua* reference point is application specific. The generic requirements for
Ua* are:
\- Ua* protocol shall be able to carry AKMA Key Identifier (A-KID);
\- the UE and the AKMA AF shall be able to secure the reference point Ua*
using the AKMA Application Key derived from the AKMA Anchor Key.
NOTE 1: The exact method of securing the reference point Ua* depends on the
application protocol used over reference point Ua*.
NOTE 2: Specifying Ua* protocol identifier is not considered in the present
document.
\- The Ua* protocol shall be able to handle the expiration of K~AF.~
### 4.4.2 Requirements on AKMA Key Identifier (A-KID)
Requirements for AKMA Key Identifier (A-KID) are:
\- A-KID shall be globally unique;
\- A-KID shall be usable as a key identifier in protocols used in the
reference point Ua*;
\- AKMA AF shall be able to identify the AAnF serving the UE from the A-KID.
## 4.5 AKMA reference points
The AKMA architecture reuses the following reference point from the 5GC for
the execution of the primary authentication procedure:
**N1:** Reference point between the UE and the AMF.
**N2:** Reference point between the (R)AN and the AMF.
**N12:** Reference point between AMF and AUSF.
**N13:** Reference point between the UDM and the AUSF.
**N33:** Reference point between NEF and an external AF.
The AKMA architecture defines the following reference points:
**N61** : Reference point between the AAnF and the AUSF.
**N62** : Reference point between the AAnF and an internal AF.
**N63** : Reference point between the AAnF and NEF.
**Ua*** : Reference point between the UE and an AF.
NOTE: The reference point Ua* carries the application protocol, which is
secured using the key material agreed between UE and AAnF as a result of
successful AKMA procedures.
# 5 Key management
## 5.1 AKMA key hierarchy
The key hierarchy (see Figure 5.1-1) includes the following keys: K~AUSF~,
K~AKMA~, K~AF.~ K~AUSF~ is generated by AUSF as specified in clause 6 of TS
33.501 [2].
Keys for AAnF:
\- K~AKMA~ is a key derived by ME and AUSF from K~AUSF~.
Keys for AF:
\- K~AF~ is a key derived by ME and AAnF from K~AKMA~.
K~AKMA~ and K~AF~ are derived according to the procedures of clauses 6.1 and
6.2.
Figure 5.1-1: AKMA Key Hierarchy
## 5.2 AKMA key lifetimes
The K~AKMA~ and A-KID are valid until the next successful primary
authentication is performed (implicit lifetime), in which case the K~AKMA~ and
A-KID are replaced.
AKMA Application Keys K~AF~ shall use explicit lifetimes based on the
operator\'s policy. The lifetime of K~AF~ shall be sent by the AAnF as
described in clauses 6.2 and 6.3. In case that a new AKMA Anchor Key K~AKMA~
is established, the AKMA Application Key K~AF~ can continue to be used until
its lifetime expires. When the K~AF~ lifetime expires, a new AKMA Application
Key is established based on the current AKMA Anchor Key K~AKMA~.
# 6 AKMA Procedures
## 6.1 Deriving AKMA key after primary authentication
There is no separate authentication of the UE to support AKMA functionality.
Instead, AKMA reuses the 5G primary authentication procedure executed e.g.
during the UE Registration to authenticate the UE. A successful 5G primary
authentication results in K~AUSF~ being stored at the AUSF and the UE. Figure
6.1-1 shows the procedure to derive K~AKMA~ after a successful primary
authentication.
Figure 6.1-1: Deriving K~AKMA~ after primary authentication
1) During the primary authentication procedure, the AUSF interacts with the
UDM in order to fetch authentication information such as subscription
credentials (e.g. AKA Authentication vectors) and the authentication method
using the Nudm_UEAuthentication_Get Request service operation.
2) In the response, the UDM may also indicate to the AUSF whether AKMA Anchor
keys need to be generated for the UE.
3) If the AUSF receives the AKMA indication from the UDM, the AUSF shall store
the K~AUSF~ and generate the AKMA Anchor Key (K~AKMA~) and the A-KID from
K~AUSF~ after the primary authentication procedure is successfully completed.
The UE shall generate the AKMA Anchor Key (K~AKMA~) and the A-KID from the
K~AUSF~ before initiating communication with an AKMA Application Function.
4) After AKMA key material is generated, the AUSF shall send the generated
A-KID, and K~AKMA~ to the AAnF together with the SUPI of the UE using the
Naanf_AKMA_KeyRegistration Request service operation. The AAnF shall store the
latest information sent by the AUSF.
NOTE 1: The AUSF need not store any AKMA key material after delivery to the
AAnF.
NOTE 1a: When re-authentication runs, the AUSF generates a new A-KID, and a
new K~AKMA~ and sends the new generated A-KID and K~AKMA~ to the AAnF. After
receiving the new generated A-KID and K~AKMA~, the AAnF deletes the old A-KID
and K~AKMA~ and stores the new generated A-KID and K~AKMA~.
5) The AAnF sends the response to the AUSF using the
Naanf_AKMA_AnchorKey_Register Response service operation.
A-KID identifies the K~AKMA~ key of the UE.
A-KID shall be in NAI format as specified in clause 2.2 of IETF RFC 7542 [6],
i.e. username\@realm. The username part shall include the Routing Identifier
and the A-TID (_AKMA Temporary UE Identifier_), and the realm part shall
include Home Network Identifier.
The A-TID shall be derived from K~AUSF~ as specified in Annex A.3.
NOTE 2: The chance of A-TID collision is not zero but practically low as the
A-TID derivation is based on KDF specified in Annex B of TS 33.220 [4]. The
detection of A-TID collision as well as potential handling of collision is not
addressed in the present document.
K~AKMA~ shall be derived from K~AUSF~ as specified in Annex A.2. Since K~AKMA~
and A-TID in A-KID are both derived from K~AUSF~ based on primary
authentication run, the K~AKMA~ and A-KID can only be refreshed by a new
successful primary authentication.
## 6.2 Deriving AKMA Application Key for a specific AF
Figure 6.2-1 shows the procedure used by the AF to request application
function specific AKMA keys from the AAnF, when the AF is located inside the
operator\'s network.
Figure 6.2-1: K~AF~ generation from K~AKMA~
Before communication between the UE and the AKMA AF can start, the UE and the
AKMA AF needs to know whether to use AKMA. This knowledge is implicit to the
specific application on the UE and the AKMA AF or indicated by the AKMA AF to
the UE (see clause 6.5).
1\. The UE shall generate the AKMA Anchor Key (K~AKMA~) and the A-KID from the
K~AUSF~ before initiating communication with an AKMA Application Function.
When the UE initiates communication with the AKMA AF, it shall include the
derived A-KID (see clause 6.1) in the Application Session Establishment
request message.
2\. If the AF does not have an active context associated with the A-KID, then
the AF sends a Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get request to AAnF with the A-KID to
request the K~AF~ for the UE. The AF also includes its identity (AF_ID) in the
request.
AF_ID consists of the FQDN of the AF and the Ua* security protocol identifier.
The latter parameter identifies the security protocol that the AF will use
with the UE.
The AAnF shall check whether the AAnF can provide the service to the AF based
on the configured local policy or based on the authorization information or
policy provided by the NRF using the AF_ID. If it succeeds, the following
procedures are executed. Otherwise, the AAnF shall reject the procedure.
The AAnF shall verify whether the subscriber is authorized to use AKMA based
on the presence of the UE specific K~AKMA~ key identified by the A-KID.
If K~AKMA~ is present in AAnF, the AAnF shall continue with step 3.
If K~AKMA~ is not present in the AAnF, the AAnF shall continue with step 4
with an error response.
3\. The AAnF derives the AKMA Application Key (K~AF~) from K~AKMA~ if it does
not already have K~AF~.
The key derivation of K~AF~ shall be performed as specified in Annex A.4.
4\. The AAnF sends Naanf_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get response to the AF with K~AF~
and the K~AF~ expiration time.
5\. The AF sends the Application Session Establishment Response to the UE. If
the information in step 4 indicates failure of AKMA key request, the AF shall
reject the Application Session Establishment by including a failure cause.
Afterwards, UE may trigger a new Application Session Establishment request
with the latest A-KID to the AKMA AF.
## 6.3 AKMA Application Key request via NEF
Figure 6.3-1 shows the procedure used by the AF to request K~AF~ from the AAnF
via NEF, when the AF is located outside the operator\'s network.
Figure 6.3-1: AKMA Application Key request via NEF
1\. When the AF is about to request AKMA Application Key for the UE from the
AAnF, e.g. when UE initiates application session establishment request as in
clause 6.2, the AF discovers the HPLMN of the UE based on the A-KID and sends
the request towards the AAnF via NEF service API. The request shall include
the A-KID and the AF_ID.
NOTE: In the case of architecture without CAPIF support, the AF is locally
configured with the API termination points for the service. In the case of
architecture with CAPIF support, the AF obtains the service API information
from the CAPIF core function via the Availability of service APIs event
notification or Service Discover Response as specified in TS 23.222 [5].
2\. If the AF is authorized by the NEF to request K~AF~, the NEF discovers and
selects an AAnF based on local configuration or via NRF in the same way as the
AF selects the AAnF in clause 6.2.
3\. The NEF forwards the K~AF~ request to the selected AAnF.
4\. The AAnF generates the K~AF~ as specified in clause 6.2 and sends the
response to the NEF with the K~AF~, the K~AF~ expiration time (K~AF~exptime)
and potentially other parameters.
5\. The NEF forwards the response to the AF.
Editor\'s Note: Whether other parameters are to be returned to the AF via NEF
is FFS.
## 6.4 AKMA key change
### 6.4.1 K~AKMA~ re-keying
K~AKMA~ shall be re-keyed by running a successful primary authentication as
described in clause 6.1.
### 6.4.2 K~AF~ re-keying
The K~AF~ re-keying depends on the lifetime of the K~AF~ and may be trigged by
the AF, which means that when a new K~AKMA~ is derived, the K~AF~ will not be
re-keyed automatically.
When the lifetime of K~AF~ expires, the AF may reject UE's access to the AF or
refresh the K~AF~ as description in clause 6.4.3 based on its policy. If there
has been a change of K~AUSF~ (e.g., due to a successful run of primary
authentication), the UE may re-try accessing the AF by using the A-KID derived
from the new K~AUSF~ .
### 6.4.3 K~AF~ refresh
Ua* protocol may support refresh of K~AF~. If the Ua* protocol supports
refresh of K~AF~, the AF may refresh the K~AF~ at any time using the Ua*
protocol.
## 6.5 Initiation of AKMA
In case when the UE does not know to use AKMA for a service, then the
following procedure shown in figure 6.5-1 applies.
{width="2.716666666666667in" height="1.85in"}
Figure 6.5-1: Initiation of AKMA
1\. The UE may start communication over reference point Ua* with the AF with
or without any AKMA-related parameters.
2\. If the AF requires the use of shared keys obtained by means of the AKMA,
but the request from UE does not include AKMA-related parameters, the AF
replies with an AKMA initiation message. The form of this initiation message
may depend on the particular reference point Ua*.
In case the UE knows to use AKMA for a service, then it directly initiates the
procedure in clause 6.2.
# 7 Security related services
## 7.1 Services provided by AAnF
### 7.1.1 General
The following table shows the AAnF Services and AAnF Service Operations.
Table 7.1.1-1: List of AAnF Services
+--------------+---------------------+------------------+---------------------+ | Service Name | Service Operations | Operation | Example Consumer(s) | | | | | | | | | Semantics | | +==============+=====================+==================+=====================+ | Naanf_AKMA | AnchorKey_Register | Request/Response | AUSF | +--------------+---------------------+------------------+---------------------+ | | ApplicationKey_Get | Request/Response | AF, NEF | +--------------+---------------------+------------------+---------------------+
### 7.1.2 Naanf_AKMA_AnchorKey_Register service operation
**Service operation name:** Naanf_AKMA_AnchorKey_Register.
**Description:** The NF consumer requests the AAnF to store the AKMA related
key material.
**Input, Required:** SUPI, A-KID, K~AKMA~
**Input, Optional:** None.
**Output, Required:** None.
**Output, Optional:** None.
## 7.2 Void
## 7.3 Services provided by NEF
### 7.3.1 General
The NEF exposes AKMA Application Key derivation service to the requester NF.
The following table shows the NEF Services and NEF Service Operations related
to AKMA service.
Table 7.1.1-1: List of AAnF Services
+--------------+---------------------+------------------+---------------------+ | Service Name | Service Operations | Operation | Example Consumer(s) | | | | | | | | | Semantics | | +==============+=====================+==================+=====================+ | Nnef_AKMA | ApplicationKey_Get | Request/Response | AF | +--------------+---------------------+------------------+---------------------+
### 7.3.2 Nnef_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Getservice operation
**Service operation name:** Nnef_AKMA_ApplicationKey_Get.
**Description:** The NF consumer requests the NEF to provide AF related key
material.
**Input, Required:** A-KID, AF_ID
**Input, Optional:** None.
**Output, Required:** K~AF~, K~AF~ expiration time.
**Output, Optional:** None.
## 7.4 Services provided by UDM
UDM services related to AKMA service are defined in TS 33.501 [2] clause
14.2.2.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Key derivation functions
# A.1 KDF interface and input parameter construction
## A.1.1 General
All key derivations for AKMA shall be performed using the key derivation
function (KDF) specified in Annex B.2.2 of TS 33.220 [4].
This clause specifies how to construct the input string, S, and the input key,
KEY, for each distinct use of the KDF. Note that \"KEY\" is denoted \"Key\" in
TS 33.220 [4].
## A.1.2 FC value allocations
The FC number space used is controlled by TS 33.220 [4], FC values allocated
for the present document are in the range of 0x80 -- 0x82.
# A.2 K~AKMA~ derivation function
When deriving a K~AKMA~ from K~AUSF~, the following parameters shall be used
to form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0x80;
\- P0 = \"AKMA\";
\- L0 = length of \"AKMA\"; (i.e. 0x00 0x04)
\- P1 = SUPI;
\- L1 = length of SUPI.
The input key KEY shall be K~AUSF~.
SUPI shall be have the same value as parameter P0 in Annex A.7.0 of TS 33.501
[2].
# A.3 A-TID derivation function
When deriving the A-TID from K~AUSF~, the following parameters shall be used
to form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0x81;
\- P0 = \"A-TID\";
\- L0 = length of \"A-TID\"; (i.e. 0x00 0x05)
\- P1 = SUPI;
\- L1 = length of SUPI.
The input key KEY shall be K~AUSF~.
SUPI shall be have the same value as parameter P0 in Annex A.7.0 of TS 33.501
[2].
# A.4 K~AF~ derivation function
When deriving a K~AF~ from K~AKMA~, the following parameters shall be used to
form the input S to the KDF:
\- FC = 0x82;
\- P0 =AF_ID;
\- L0 = length of AF_ID
The input key KEY shall be K~AKMA~.
AF_ID is constructed as follows:
AF_ID = FQDN of the AF \|\| Ua* security protocol identifier, where the Ua*
security protocol identifier is specified as Ua security protocol identifier
in Annex H of TS 33.220 [4].
#