# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
3GPP TS 22.011 [2] defines a new service to provide Restricted Local Operator
Services (RLOS) for unauthenticated UEs. The present document is a study of
the security aspects of this service.
# 1 Scope
The present document will examine potential security and privacy threat
scenarios enabled by PARLOS, evaluate whether solutions need to be found for
these and, if required, identify security solutions and approaches which can
mitigate the identified security and privacy threat scenarios while meeting
the US regulatory obligations spelled out in the referenced regulations. The
present document will make recommendations on the solutions considered.
The present document will consider user notification regarding security and
privacy risks when using PARLOS.
The present document will consider the applicability of external security and
privacy standards (e.g. Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard) to
PARLOS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; service principles\".
[4] 3GPP TR 22.820 \"Study on Provision of Access to Restricted Local Operator
Services by Unauthenticated UEs; Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
RLOS Restricted Local Operator Service
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Summary
Work on RLOS service definition and requirements for unauthenticated UEs
(PARLOS) driven primarily by US regulatory obligations to support manual
roaming has been completed in [2], [3] and [4]. Meeting this US regulatory
obligation add security risks and potential vulnerabilities to devices and
networks supporting RLOS.
The ability to provide access to such local services has been available to
U.S. operators on a proprietary basis on CS legacy networks. However, the wide
deployment of LTE and corresponding introduction of VoLTE creates regulatory
obligations on US operators for a standardized mechanism to allow a UE to
access these services via LTE and NR (e.g., dialling a particular digit
string, accessing a captive portal) without necessarily being successfully
authenticated for access.
## 4.2 Manual roaming in operation
Manual roaming, an FCC obligation on US operators was first established in
1981, enhanced in 1994 and revisited without modification several times since.
In summary, manual roaming is a requirement that US networks need to provide
basic outbound only voice calling for users with a UE which is technically
capable of connecting to a network\'s base stations (e.g. supporting the same
bandclass), when there is no roaming agreement with the home network operator
In terms of the usage of this service in the US, some measure of the scale is
over 23 million call attempts/month (276 million/year).
As a practical matter, while the US FCC regulations only applies to
subscribers of US networks without domestic roaming agreements, it is
currently not possible to distinguish other devices not covered by the
regulation, manual roaming service is generally made available to all
unauthenticated devices without distinction.
This service is also provided in Canada but the Canadian manual roaming
regulatory framework has not been identified.
## 4.3 Manual roaming service
The following high-level flow describes the typical manual roaming service for
most US networks\' support of manual roaming.
1) The UE is unauthenticated and not registered in a US network, but is
technically capable of connecting to the network\'s base station.
2) The user attempts to make a call.
3) The UE attempts to attach to a network as part of the call attempt but
fails authentication.
4) The network verifies that the call is not an emergency call (911).
5) The network then forwards the call to the manual roaming service
provider\'s IVR without further analysis of any signalling such as dialled
digits.
6) The user interacts with the manual roaming service provider\'s IVR to
provide financial payment information such as a prepaid account or a credit
card.
7) After the financial information has been validated by the IVR, the call is
placed to the desired number by the IVR (re-originated).
8) After the call is completed, the call is disconnected. If the user wants to
make additional calls, the payment information needs to be re-entered.
Manual roaming only supports outbound calls, not inbound calls. This is the
major difference between manual roaming and operator provided or operator
supported pre-paid service.
## 4.4 Manual roaming implications for RLOS
The following list are specific aspects of manual roaming which apply to RLOS:
1) Only outbound initiated communication needs to be supported.
2) There is no need to send any 3GPP subscriber, user or device identities to
the manual roaming service platform.
3) The service is on a per session or per call basis and needs to be re-
established for subsequent sessions.
4) User interactions with manual roaming service IVR platform and manual
roaming calling is outside the scope of RLOS. RLOS only provides the means to
access the manual roaming service. In many cases the user interaction will be
external to the 3GPP network.
5) Business or financial risks of providing manual roaming is outside the
scope of RLOS. Rather these risks are handled by their manual roaming service
platform.
Since manual roaming is a separate business and financial transaction separate
from and not based on the user\'s subscription status with any operator,
issues of IMEI blacklisting is only applicable based on RLOS operator
implementation and home network operator service restrictions is not
applicable. It should be noted as well, that manual roaming only provides
outbound calling, a limited subset of voice services.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause details the key issues identified for security aspects related to
the PARLOS service. Each key issue defines the background to the issue,
defines the threats related to the issue and proposes requirements that
resolve the key issue.
## 5.2 Key issue #1: Establishing temporary security for PARLOS session
### 5.2.0 Introduction
When a UE requests a PARLOS connection to a PLMN, the UE may be
unauthenticated or in limited service state. When the UE is in unauthenticated
or in limited service state, the serving PLMN will fail to obtain credentials
for the UE from the HSS and establishing regular NAS and AS context may not be
possible. Without establishing the NAS and AS security context, the PLMN may
not be able to secure the NAS and AS communication. Hence for UEs connecting
to PARLOS portal, normal procedure for establishing NAS and AS security is not
possible. Please note that, if the UE is successfully authenticated and if the
network has established NAS and AS security context, the UE will not get
connected to the PARLOS portal for services.
To enable services entered via PARLOS, the serving PLMN may request the user
certain personal information like Name of the user, Address of the user or
location of the user where service is required. For some services, the serving
PLMN may request the user Credit card information to charge for the services
also. Without adequate protection if these personal information is
transferred, eavesdroppers will be able to overhear the communication and get
hold of the personal data of the user. In many countries transfer of personal
data over unprotected communication links are legally prohibited too.
Hence transfer of this personal information over unprotected communication
links is a security threat in offering PARLOS services. This needs to be
addressed for UEs before providing PARLOS services. A temporary security
context needs to be established for UEs connecting to the PRALOS portal before
PARLOS services are enabled.
### 5.2.1 Potential security threat
If the PARLOS service session is not secured, with confidentiality and
integrity protection it is possible that sensitive personal data of the user,
such as name, address, credit card information may be stolen by eaves-
droppers.
### 5.2.2 Potential security requirements
At the minimum it shall be possible for the network and the UE to establish
end to end security at the application layer while providing PARLOS services.
The UE and the MME shall integrity and confidentiality protect the NAS
signalling for PARLOS services.
The UE and the eNB shall integrity and confidentiality protect the AS
signalling for PARLOS services.
## 5.3 Key Issue #2: Support for Unauthenticated UEs access to RLOS using EPC
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
A large number of malicious and unauthenticated UEs with RLOS connection could
deplete network resources in EPS network by incurring additional signalling
and generating traffic.
### 5.3.2 Potential Security threats
The attacker can launch DoS attack on EPS network by simply introducing many
malicious UEs to initiate RLOS access to the network.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
## 5.4 Key Issue #3: Authorization of use of PARLOS service.
### 5.4.1 Key issue details
When a user currently attaches to a 4G or 5G network, it is clear that the
serving network was authorized by the home network. However, if network
authorization were to be skipped, it could enable unauthorized networks to
provide service to the user. This enables the unauthorized network to become a
man in the middle to any service that is being offered.
Setting up an unauthorized network is as easy as setting up a fake base
station with a network in a box that broadcasts the ability to perform RLOS,
while at the same time ensuring that the victims cannot attach to a real
network, e.g. by jamming the existing cells. This attack would not be limited
to the regions that require manual roaming but could be performed anywhere.
### 5.4.2 Potential Security threats
An unauthorized network could exploit its man in the middle position:
\- The UE is required to obtain user consent for the use of PARLOS based
services. If the security risks are not sufficiently explained to the user as
part of this interaction, the user is likely to be unaware of the PARLOS based
service security implications. The man in the middle could take advantage of
this and accept the PDN session attempt and gain access to the complete
communication.
\- If the man in the middle is operating where the user expects to be making a
manual roaming call, the man in the middle could collect payment information
and other information from users.
### 5.4.3 Potential security requirements
UE shall set up RLOS sessions only with authorized networks.
NOTE: User interaction is one possible solution to user awareness.
## 5.5 Key Issue #4: User awareness of use of PARLOS service.
### 5.5.1 Key issue details
When a user currently attaches to a 4G or 5G network, the user or application
on the UE can rely on the serving network to be authorized by the home
network. However, if network authorization were to be skipped, it could enable
unauthorized networks to provide service to the user. This enables the
unauthorized network to become a man in the middle to any service that is
being offered.
The user needs to be aware that different security guarantees apply, e.g. the
confidentiality and integrity of the communication are not given to the same
degree as in regular service usage. Furthermore, not even the serving network
name can be trusted.
NOTE: Narrowband devices are not allowed to access RLOS services.
### 5.5.2 Potential Security threats
\- The UE is required to obtain user consent for the use of PARLOS based
services. However, the serving network name cannot be trusted. If users are
not aware of existence of PARLOS services the user is likely to be unaware of
the risks of using PARLOS based service. The man in the middle could take
advantage of this and accept the PDN session attempt and gain access to the
complete communication.
\- RLOS service could be offered by a non-trustworthy network under a false
name. This could damage the reputation of the network name.
### 5.5.3 Potential security requirements
UE shall not accept PARLOS service unless the service is offered by operators
with a MCC present on a whitelist in the ME.
UE shall not access PARLOS service unless either of the following conditions
are true:
\- No USIM is present; or
\- A USIM is present and the MCC of the IMSI configured in the USIM is present
on a whitelist in the ME.
NOTE: User interaction is one possible solution to user awareness.
## 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1 AS and NAS security for RLOS services
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the AS and NAS requirements of the key issue #1
\"Establishing temporary security for PARLOS session\".
The ME sends an Attach request for RLOS service and then exchanges public keys
with the MME in order to secure the NAS signalling. The MME generates a
temporary K~ASME~ for the ME and provides it securely to the ME. Both sides
continue as with a normal setup, e.g. deriving the NAS keys and AS keys as in
normal mode of operation based on the temporary K~ASME~. The MME needs the
ability to generate a public/private key for securing the new NAS messages for
the key exchange procedure and the MME needs to generate a temporary KASME for
the ME for normal key derivation. The ME is able to generate a public/private
key for securing the NAS signalling messages.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
#### 6.1.2.1 PARLOS Procedure
The ME may be preconfigured with certificates so that the MME is able to
authenticate the ME in order to protect against active attacks. If the ME is
not preconfigured with PARLOS credentials, then the ME generates a public key
on its own, which is used together with the RLOS indication in the ATTACH
request and to secure the new temporary root key K~ASMEtemp~.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="4.8125in"}
Figure 6.1.2.1-1: PARLOS security call flow
1\. The ME performs PLMN selection for RLOS and perform RLOS (i.e.
unauthenticated) attach to this PLMN. The ME sends a NAS ATTACH request
message to the MME including an RLOS indication and the ME\'s Public Key
K~MEpub~.
2\. Based on the RLOS indication, the MME generates then a temporary
K~ASMEtemp~ for the ME as the new master key for K~NAS~ and K~eNB~.
3\. The MME sends a NAS Security Mode Command to the ME with the K~ASMEtemp~,
encrypted with the ME public key.
4\. This new symmetric temporary K~ASME~ is used to derive the other keys
(K~NAS~, K~eNB~, K~RRC~) in the ME and MME for encryption and integrity
protection as in normal operation. NAS encryption can be changed at this point
to the newly generated K~NAS~.
5\. The ME sends a NAS Security Mode Complete to the MME, encrypted with
K~NAS~
6\. The MME performs a bearer setup procedure for RLOS towards SGW and PGW.
7\. The MME sends a AS Security Mode Command with K~eNB~ to the eNB.
8\. ME and eNB derive the AS keys K~RRCenc~ and K~RRCint~ as well as K~UPenc~.
9\. The eNB sends a AS Security Mode Complete to the MME. Now ciphering on the
radio interface is enabled.
10\. The MME sends an ATTACH accept to the ME (secured with K~NAS~), the ME is
now attached for RLOS.
Editor\'s Note: It is ffs how to address active attacks if no credentials are
pre-provisioned in the ME. The system impact, especially on the ME, for
certificate based authentication is ffs.
#### 6.1.2.2 Key Hierarchy for PARLOS
{width="4.822916666666667in" height="3.220833333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.2.2-1: PARLOS key hierarchy
The key hierarchy for PARLOS is the same as for normal operation, only the
root key K~ASMEtemp~ is generated by the MME and sent encrypted to the ME in
the NAS SMC.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
This contribution provides some proposed text from the evaluation of
solution#1 of the PARLOS TR [1].
The solution relies on the UE providing a public key to the network which is
used by the network to encrypt a K~ASME~ that will be used in normal way to
protect the traffic between the UE and network.
The solution provides confidentiality and integrity protection for the NAS and
AS signalling against passive attacks, but not against active attacks.
The first observation to make is that the proposal protects against passive
attacks, i.e. if the attacker is only eavesdropping on the data between the UE
and network it will not be possible for the attacker to decrypt the traffic.
Such a benefit could be gained by merely exchanging randomly generated K~AMF~
in the clear in one of the initial messages if the attacker does not get these
initial messages.
An attacker cannot force the UE to accept a RLOS call as such a call needs to
be initiated by the UE.
The proposal is vulnerable to active attacks. The attacker may simply be a
false base station and route RLOS call to the real network so that RLOS call
setup completes successfully (note: this is necessary given that there is some
authentication between the UE and RLOS server). The attacker continues to be a
man-in-the- middle for the call. Alternatively, the attacker can act like a
man-in-the-middle during call set-up and be aware of the K~ASME~ that is
agreed by the UE and network. This would be achieved by acting like a false
base station to the UE and a UE to the network. The real network would then
pass the key onto the attacker\'s UE which could then passed onto the real UE.
The attacker could then allow the rest of the call to proceed between the real
UE and network as it has the keys, e.g. by getting the UE handed over to a
real cell.
To minimize the time, an attacker needs to act like a false base station: an
attacker passively monitors the initial messages in RLOS calls and then acts
like a false base station to get the user to re-attach via the false base
station after getting the call to drop.
The impact of the UE and MME of this solution are quite high in terms of the
need to support public key cryptography. The gain of such an overall impact is
to force the attacker to use simple man-in-the-middle active attacks as
opposed to just passive attacks.
Application layer security is always possible but depends on the
implementation of the service. The standardization of such application layer
security for RLOS service is outside the scope of 3GPP. Due to the lack of
such standardized mechanism, the security of RLOS service cannot be ensured.
## 6.2 Solution #2 AS and NAS security based on the emergency call procedures
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the AS and NAS requirements of the key issue #1
\"Establishing temporary security for PARLOS session\" and key issue #2
\"Support for Unauthenticated UEs access to RLOS using EPC\".
The solution uses the emergency call procedures to enable the ME to establish
a connection to the RLOS server.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
The solution proposes that a RLOS call is treated similar to an
unauthenticated emergency call with the following difference:
\- The UE initiates an RLOS call using an appropriate user interface, by which
the user chooses or is aware of the country and network the call is made on.
The UE may choose to warn or restrict the RLOS calls to only countries where
it is permitted by law.- The UE indicates that it wishes to make a RLOS call
rather than an emergency call in the NAS signalling to the network and will
only accept a RLOS call when it has initiated the call.
\- The network that supports an establishment of the RLOS session connects the
UE to the RLOS server rather than making a connection to the emergency service
infrastructure.
Just like in an unauthenticated emergency call, the NULL ciphering and NULL
integrity algorithms will be chosen as no keys are shared between the ME and
network. This means that there is no protection of the user plane or
signalling of the RLOS call with this solution.
It is assumed that there will be some application layer security between the
ME and RLOS server.
In terms of protecting the network against DoS attack, the network could
deploy similar mechanism as the one used to protect against DoS attacks with
unauthenticated emergency calls, e.g. dedicated MMEs or limiting the number of
simultaneous calls.
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses key issue #1 by establishing security contexts using
the NULL algorithms and hence there is no protection of the traffic over the
air at the network layer. This solution has little implementation impact as
such a solution is already supported on UE and in the network (where
regulatory requirements mandate the support of unauthenticated emergency
calls). RLOS calls using this solution is already deployed in some countries,
where it is mandated to support.
The establishment of an RLOS call may be unauthenticated, and in such a case,
it is not possible for the UE to authenticate the network. Even though the
RLOS call is always initiated by the UE, an attacker may use application layer
interactions to trick the user into initiating an RLOS call to a network under
attacker\'s control. Note that such application layer attacks could be
possible even if the UE is able to authenticate the network (e.g., an attacker
can trick the user to make a call to the attacker and act as a man-in-the
middle for the call). Such application layer attacks cannot be protected at
the 3GPP network layer.
Application layer security for RLOS is always possible but depends on the
implementation of the service. The standardization of such application layer
security for RLOS service is outside the scope of 3GPP. Due to the lack of
such standardized mechanism, the security of RLOS service cannot be ensured.
The solution addresses key issue #2 by using existing techniques on the
network to prevent DoS attacks (such techniques needs to deal with cases of
unprotected connections to the 3GPP network where the regulatory requirements
mandate the support of unauthenticated emergency calls).
6.3 Solution #3 Network Authorization in RLOS
6.3.1 Introduction
This solution provides enhancements needed for Solution #2 (AS and NAS
security based on the emergency call procedures) to address key issue # 3
(Authorization of use of PARLOS service) and key issue #4 (User awareness of
use of PARLOS service).
6.3.2 Solution details
In this solution, Solution #2 is enhanced with UE based mechanisms to protect
against the fact that there is no authentication of the network for RLOS
connection. A UE that supports RLOS shall implement the following mechanisms:
1) Only certain applications (e.g., phone application) on the ME need to
trigger establishment of RLOS connection. The ME shall enforce access control
on applications that are authorized to trigger establishment of RLOS
connection. Applications on the ME that are not explicitly authorized (e.g.,
messaging app) shall not be allowed to trigger establishment of RLOS
connection.
2) A user confirmation shall be requested before the ME triggers RLOS
connection establishment procedures. As part of the user confirmation, the
user shall be warned of the security risk due to the lack of lack of network
authentication in solution #2.
3) An attacker may spoof the network name of an operator who is not required
to provide RLOS service or advertise RLOS service. This attack is mitigated by
requiring the ME to maintain a white list of MCCs where RLOS is supported. The
ME shall check that the MCC of the network name that advertises RLOS service
is present in the white list before initiating RLOS connection.
4) An operator who is not required to provide RLOS service may want to protect
their subscribers (i.e., ones with a valid USIM) against a man-in-the middle
attack, where the attacker forces the UE into limited service state and tricks
the users into triggering an RLOS connection. This attack is mitigated by
requiring that the ME check that the MCC of the IMSI configured in the USIM is
in the whitelist. If a valid USIM is present, the ME shall check that the MCC
part of the IMSI configured in the USIM is present in the whitelist before
initiating RLOS connection.
6.3.3 Evaluation
Requiring the UE to enforce access control on applications (Enhancement #1)
protects against the threat of an attacker using application layer
interactions to trick the user into making an RLOS connection.
Mandating user confirmation, along with the warning of security risk before
establishment of each RLOS connection (Enhancement #2) ensures that the user
is made aware of the security risks of using RLOS.
Requiring the UE to maintain a white list of MCCs where RLOS is supported and
verify that the MCC of the network that advertises RLOS is present in the
white list (Enhancement #3) ensures that an attacker cannot use the network
name of an operator from a country where RLOS is not used.
Requiring that the ME check that the MCC of the IMSI configured on the USIM is
present in the whitelist (Enhancement #4) protects an operator subscriber
against a man-in-the middle attack where the attacker forces the UE into
limited service state and tricks the user into triggering an RLOS connection.
# 7 Conclusions
It is clear that support of RLOS increases the security risks for the PLMNs
which choose to support it as demonstrated by the limited strength of the
solutions contained in this specification to address the various potential
security threats identified in this specification. Some operators may have
regulatory obligations to support RLOS which may limit the range of
implementation choices that they are able to consider. Other operators who
have the option not to support RLOS likewise have concerns of limiting RLOS in
their networks, even limiting UE initiation of RLOS requests in their PLMN.
This study has identified that an approach which identifies RLOS calls from
unauthenticated UEs in a fashion similar to emergency call procedures
(solution #2 described above) is the only practical approach available, allows
for reuse of some emergency call procedures related to unauthenticated UEs.
However, emergency calls for unauthenticated UEs only support a very limited
set of capabilities to deal with security risks identified in this study.
In the light of this, additional capabilities associated with RLOS have been
identified in this study which allow further restrictions of the use of RLOS
to PLMNs supporting RLOS while limiting even the initiation of PARLOS service
requests in PLMNs not supporting RLOS as identified in solution #3. Therefore,
it is concluded that solution #3 is chosen as the way forward for normative
work as a new Annex in TS 33.401 [5].
#