# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
**The present document:**
\- Investigates and identifies the security key issues for meeting the low
latency requirement.
\- Investigates and identifies the security key issues for meeting the ultra-
high reliability requirement.
\- Provides potential security requirements to address the identified security
issues.
\- Provides the potential security solutions to support URLLC services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.725 \"Study on enhancement of Ultra-Reliable Low-Latency
Communication (URLLC) support in the 5G Core network\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.501 \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System\".
[6] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[7] 3GPP TS 33.310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[8] IETF RFC 4303: \"IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 37.340: \"NR; Multi-connectivity; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.503: \"Policy and charging control framework for the 5G System
(5GS); Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DC Dual Connectivity
MCG Master Cell Group
MgNB Master gNB
MN Master Node
NG-RAN Next Generation-RAN
NR New Radio
NR-DC NR-NR Dual Connectivity
PDU Packet Data Unit
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
SCG Secondary Cell Group
SgNB Secondary gNB
S-RAN Secondary RAN
SN Secondary Node
UP User Plane
URLLC Ultra-Reliable Low-Latency Communication
# 4 Security aspects of 5G URLLC
The 5GS defined in TS 23.501 [4] is used as the baseline network architecture
for 5G URLLC. URLLC needs to support both high reliability and low latency. In
order to ensure the high reliability, redundant transmission in 5GS is
supported on multiple user plane data paths, something that can hardly be
achieved by single path on user plane. Accordingly, the applicable security
mechanisms for supporting redundant transmission cover all aspect of the
communication, including PDU session establishment, handover etc. As for low
latency aspect, the other important requirements for URLLC as described in TR
23.725 [2] include QoS Monitoring to assist URLLC service and optimization for
handover procedure, both of which are addressed. The security considerations
in this case are covered as well. Moreover, additional security aspects of
control plane or user plane optimizations for ensuring the high reliability
and reducing latency are also considered together during the whole study and
are reflected in the present document.
# 5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Security for redundant transmission
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
This key issue addresses the security aspects of key issue #1: Supporting high
reliability by redundant transmission in user plane in TR 23.725 [2].
According to the TR 23.725 [2], in order to ensure the high reliability which
can hardly be achieved by single path on user plane, redundant data
transmission in 5GS may be supported. In this case it is important to study
how to ensure that these redundant transmissions are secure enough. From
security perspective, repeated user plane data transmission may introduce new
security risks. Redundant transmission, where the data is duplicated at the
source and sent to the destination over two different paths, may increase the
security risk when the two received transmissions are not identical.
Therefore, the receiver cannot know which of the transmissions is correct.
TR 23.725 [2] recommends solution #1 \"Redundant user plane paths based on
dual connectivity\" and solution #4 \"Supporting redundant data transmission
via single UPF and single RAN node\" to resolve key issue #1 in TR 23.725 [2].
Solution #1 is based upon the Dual Connectivity (DC) feature. Two PDU sessions
will be established in this solution for redundant data transmission, where
one PDU session uses a MCG bearer via the Master gNB, and the second PDU
session uses a SCG bearer via the Secondary gNB in the user plane. The
architecture is as follows:
Figure 5.1.1-1: Architecture for redundant UP paths for URLLC using Dual
Connectivity
Solution #3 recommends that the redundant packets will be transferred via two
independent N3 tunnels between a single NG-RAN node and the UPF, which are
associated with a single PDU Session, over different transport layer path to
enhance the reliability of service. The NG-RAN node and UPF support the packet
replication and elimination function.
Figure 5.1.1-2: Architecture for Redundant transmission with two N3 tunnels
between the UPF and a single NG-RAN node
### 5.1.2 Security threats
The attacker can monitor the data streams and may identify if a data stream is
re-used. It is possible for the attacker to link two data streams used for
redundant data transmission. The attacker could use such information in its
advantage to mount targeted attacks against radio bearers or N3 tunnels
serving URLLC PDU sessions if the corresponding radio bears or N3 tunnels are
not integrity, encryption and replay protected.
### 5.1.3 Potential Security requirements
The 5G system shall provide an appropriate security method to protect the
redundant transmission.
The system shall provide cryptographic separation for radio bearers serving
redundant transmissions.
The added paths for redundancy shall provide equal level of security compared
to single path.
## 5.2 Key issue #2: Support of security for high reliability by redundant
data transmission in user plane
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
There have been discussions in SA2 on architectural aspect of the 5GS to
support high reliability in the UP by introducing multiple redundant
transmission paths, where the UP bearer is transferred over multiple paths via
2 different gNBs and UPFs (Solution #1, #2). For this redundant UP bearer
transmission, security aspects such as confidentiality protection, integrity
protection, and key handling, need to be considered in SA3.
### 5.2.2 Security threats
Having multiple paths for the UP, in effect, introduces additional threat
surface for attackers to take advantage of. In order to realize high level of
reliability in communication by using redundant UP paths, security of both UP
paths need to be protected equally. Having one of the two UP paths compromised
implies the whole proposition of URLLC collapses. Therefore, appropriate
security solution for redundant transmission via multiple paths in the UP need
to be in place.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
Confidentiality protection over the air shall be supported for UP data via
redundant multiple transmission paths.
Integrity protection over the air shall be supported for UP data via redundant
multiple transmission paths.
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: UP security policy handling for multiple PDU sessions
established for redundant data transmission
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
This key issue addresses the security aspects of key issue #1: Supporting high
reliability by redundant transmission in user plane in SA2 TR 23.725 [2].
According to the SA2 TR 23.725 [2], in order to ensure the high reliability
which can hardly be achieved by single path on user plane, redundant
transmission in 5GS may be supported. Depending on the condition of network
deployment, e.g., which NFs or segments cannot meet the requirements of
reliability, the redundant transmission may be applied on the user plane path
between the UE and the network.
There are several potential solutions in SA2 TR 23.725 [2], where redundant
data transmission in user plane takes different paths.
During the PDU session establishment, the 5G Core Network should determine and
provide the UP security policy for a PDU session to the gNB connected to 5GC
according to TS 23.501 [4] and TS 23.502 [5].
The 5G Core Network may enforce different configurations of UP security
(encryption and integrity protection) in the UP security policy for multiple
PDU sessions established for redundant data transmission.
The UPF or the DN has no knowledge of which UP security policy that has been
applied between the UE and the gNB for the redundant user plane data
transmission that has taken different paths. TR 23.725 [2] recommends solution
#1 \"Redundant user plane paths based on dual connectivity\" to resolve key
issue #1 in TR 23.725 [2]. This solution is based upon the Dual Connectivity
(DC) feature. Two PDU sessions will be established in this solution for
redundant data transmission, where one PDU session uses a MCG bearer via the
Master gNB, and the second PDU session uses a SCG bearer via the Secondary gNB
in the user plane. Based on theses PDU sessions, two independent paths are
setup. UPF1 and UPF 2 are connect to the same Data Network (DN).
Figure 5.3.1-1: Architecture for redundant User Plane paths for URLLC using
Dual Connectivity
### 5.3.2 Security threats
If the attacker knows that integrity protection is enabled on one path but not
on a second path, then the attacker could perform jamming on the first path in
order to prevent the user plane data to be forwarded from the gNB to the UPF,
and at then modify user plane data sent over the second path.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
If encryption of user plane data is enabled between the UE and the gNB on the
first path for a first PDU session, then encryption shall be enabled for
redundant user data transmission over a second path for a second PDU session
as well.
If integrity protection of user plane data is enabled between the UE and the
gNB on the first path for a first PDU session, then integrity protection shall
be enabled for redundant user data transmission over a second path for a
second PDU session as well.
When Dual Connectivity is used, the MgNB shall ensure that the UP security
policy assigned to the MgNB is forwarded and used by the SgNB for the two PDU
Sessions used for redundant data transmission.
## 5.4 Key Issue #4: Security policy for URLLC service
### 5.4.1 Key issue details
The URLLC service scenarios include both the high reliability and low latency
requirements. From security perspective, there is a tight coupling between
ultra-reliable and low latency to maintain the same level of security and be
efficient in doing so at the same time, the former implies need for stringent
security checks, while the latter may imply extremely fast security checks.
Hence, in the URLLC services there may be a need for various security
policies, e.g., for length of key refreshment interval, the recommended length
of keys, etc.
One example of an area where policies may be needed is the User Plane
Security. In 5GS, a new security feature was introduced: the User Plane
Security Policy. The SMF will get User Plane Security Policy during PDU
Session Establishment from UDM and PCF. The SMF generates User Plane Security
Enforcement and transfers it to the RAN. The Release 15 RAN can only apply
integrity protection in low speed (maximum of 64 kbps). For URLLC service with
higher speed than 65 kbps, the RAN cannot fulfil the QoS requirement while
enforcing user plane integrity protection. The confidentiality protection may
additionally bring x ms (e.g. 0.1\~2 ms depending the implementation) delay.
This delay may have negative impact on URLLC services. Having different
policies for different services may help with these issues.
### 5.4.2 Security threats
If the URLLC service is not user plane integrity protected, the user data can
be modified during the transmission. On the other hand, after adding integrity
protection, the delay may be unacceptable for some URLLC services. If service-
specific security policies are not applied, there may be a risk that many
URLLC services have insufficient protection.
### 5.4.3 Potential Security requirements
The 5G system shall provide a user plane security policy mechanism applicable
to URLLC services.
The 5G system shall provide the mechanism for how to enforce User Plane
Security Policy when there are URLLC services in the PDU Session.
The selection of the security policy shall be under network control.
## 5.5 Key Issue #5: Security aspect of low latency handover procedure
### 5.5.1 Key issue details
In order to guarantee low latency to the URLLC services, according to TR
23.725 [2], the optimization of handover procedure is needed. However, the
security handling in handover, e.g. key derivation, security algorithm
selection should be considered at the same time in order to support handover
in URLLC. For URLLC services that require the low latency performance,
security should not be reduced. Optimization of handover procedure in this
case should maintain the same level of security as in other 5G services.
### 5.5.2 Security threats
If the interfaces e.g. N2 are not security protected, then an attacker could
eavesdrop or insert or modify the security key and the security parameters
transferred on the interface.
If the target AMF is compromised and the UE security keys do not have the
property of backward security, then an attacker would be able to decrypt the
previous data exchanged between the UE and the network. If the source AMF is
compromised and the UE security keys do not have the property of forward
security, then an attacker would be able to decrypt the future data exchanged
between the UE and the network.
If the AMF is compromised, it may purposefully bid down the algorithm to a
lower priority algorithm that is fairly easier to crack. This is also
applicable when a MiTM masquerades the connection.
### 5.5.3 Potential Security requirements
The 5G system shall provide the proper security protection for the optimized
URLLC handover procedure.
## 5.6 Key Issue #6: Retaining AS security keys for redundant data
transmission in user plane
### 5.6.1 Key issue details
This key issue addresses the security aspects of key issue #1: Supporting high
reliability by redundant transmission in user plane in SA2 TR 23.725 [2] and
key issue #2: Supporting high reliability by redundant transmission in user
plane.
The flexibility to retain or to change the AS security keys in the gNB in
intra-gNB handover i.e. between cells belonging to the same gNB, was
introduced in 5G system in TS 33.501 [3] Rel-15 clause 6.9.2.3.1.
If AS keys are always refreshed even when not required, then performance in
gNB could be degraded. Refreshing the AS keys have impact on performance as
time delay. To support services with very strict performance requirements,
e.g. low latency or high reliability, would clearly benefit from avoiding
unnecessary AS keys to be refreshed. The gNB should only refresh the AS
security keys when there are security reasons.
URLLC services should be taken into considerations when performing the
configuration of the policy for controlling when to retain or change AS keys
in gNB.
### 5.6.2 Security threats
N/A
### 5.6.3 Potential security requirements
N/A
## 5.7 Key Issue #7: QoS monitoring protection
### 5.7.1 Key issue details
Since the vertical applications may want to be aware of the real time latency,
the 5G E2E QoS monitoring is used to monitor the real time packet delay in 5GC
and 5G-AN. According to TR23.725 [2], it is possible to define the new
procedures and functions on QoS monitoring activation and enforcement. In this
case, these monitoring messages are required to be protected. Furthermore,
whether the related interfaces need to be security protected is also necessary
to be considered.
### 5.7.2 Security threats
In lack of a secure way of protecting the E2E QoS monitoring procedure, an
attacker could perform to modify the packet or message to obtain the incorrect
latency report.
### 5.7.3 Potential Security requirements
The 5G system shall be able to protect the 5G E2E QoS Enforcement procedure
for a service.
## 5.8 Key Issue #8: Acceleration of authentication and key agreement
procedure for low latency
### 5.8.1 Key issue details
NOTE: The re-authentication enhancement is irrelevant to URLLC services which
is for UP traffic.
The R15 authentication and key agreement (AKA) procedure always involves HPLMN
(i.e. AUSF and UDM) to query new AV from HPLMN and authenticate the UE by
HPLMN. The NAS SMC procedure also is a part of the AKA procedure in R15, which
is used to verify K~SEAF~ is generated correctly both in UE and network. It is
less efficient compared to AKA procedure in LTE, but increase security for
home control and identifier privacy.
It needs to be studied that how to enhance the AKA procedure to reduce the
latency to authenticate the UE and setup new security context for the UE
without downgrading the security level of R15 AKA procedure, and which node of
the visited network can be the network endpoint of the enhanced AKA procedure.
### 5.8.2 Security threats
N/A.
### 5.8.3 Potential Security requirements
N/A.
## 5.9 Key Issue #9: Security aspect of low latency Re-authentication
procedure
### 5.9.1 Key issue details
NOTE: The re-authentication enhancement is irrelevant to URLLC services which
is for UP traffic.
In order to guarantee low latency to the URLLC services, according to TR
23.725 [2], a fast re-authentication procedure may be considered. Where the TS
33.501 [3] clause F.1 states that, the fast re-authentication is not supported
in 5GS. In this case, a time consuming authentication procedure need to be
invoked for every registration request from a UE irrespective of their
previous authentication with a same network. This may have a significant
impact over the URLLC services.
Time consuming authentication procedure irrespective of a UE\'s previous
authentication may lead to URLLC service failure.
### 5.9.2 Security threats
No security threat.
### 5.9.3 Potential security requirements
TBA.
## 5.10 Key Issue #10: UP security performance for low latency
### 5.10.1 Key issue details
The low latency service has extreme requirements on UP data transmitting
delay. Without security, data transmitting is very quick using nowadays
technology. Introducing of security in UP data transmitting will delay the
data transmitting, but it is a trade-off between performance and security.
The UP path between UE and UPF includes radio interface and N3 interface, and
may include F1 interface (DU-CU case) and Xn (handover case) interface.
In current specification, IPsec protocol may be used to protect above
interfaces. It has been identified that IPsec and TLS/DTLS will slow down the
data forwarding performance significantly, which means UP data transmitting
over above interfaces will be delayed significantly if IPsec is deployed.
It has been identified that security performance on radio interface also is
able to be improved, e.g. by using AES GCM mode.
NOTE: The justification on low latency for UP traffic for URLLC services is
needed.
### 5.10.2 Security threats
TBD.
### 5.10.3 Potential Security requirements
TBD.
# 6 Candidate Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: Security solution for handling UP security policy for
multiple PDU sessions for redundant data transmission
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #3: UP security policy handling for multiple
PDU sessions established for redundant data transmission.
According to TS 23.501 [4] and TS 23.502 [5], the SMF should determine and
provide the UP security policy for a PDU session to the gNB connected to 5GC
during the PDU session establishment procedure.
The UP security policy should indicate whether UP confidentiality and/or UP
integrity protection shall be activated or not for all DRBs belonging to that
PDU session. The UP security policy should be used by gNB to activate UP
confidentiality and/or UP integrity for all DRBs belonging to the PDU session.
According to TS 23.501 [4], the User Plane Security Policy provides the same
level of information than User Plane Security Enforcement information. Once
the User Plane Security Enforcement information is determined at the
establishment of the PDU Session, it is provided to the UE and applies for the
life time of the PDU Session. The User Plane Security Enforcement information
provides the NG-RAN with User Plane security policies for a PDU session. It
indicates:
\- whether UP integrity protection is:
\- Required: for all the traffic on the PDU Session UP integrity protection
shall apply.
\- Preferred: for all the traffic on the PDU Session UP integrity protection
should apply.
\- Not Needed: UP integrity protection shall not apply on the PDU Session.
\- whether UP confidentiality protection is:
\- Required: for all the traffic on the PDU Session UP confidentiality
protection shall apply.
\- Preferred: for all the traffic on the PDU Session UP confidentiality
protection should apply.
\- Not Needed: UP confidentiality shall not apply on the PDU Session.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
The User Plane Security Policy for multiple PDU Sessions used for redundant
data transmission should have the same setting for encryption and for
integrity protection. The gNB should not be allowed to override the UP
Security Policy received from the 5G Core Network. The setting defined in
clause 5.10.3 TS 23.501 [4] should apply with the following modifications:
> \- Encryption:
>
> \- only \"Required\" or \"Not Needed\" is allowed;
>
> \- \"Preferred\" is not allowed:
>
> \- Integrity protection:
>
> \- only \"Required\" or \"Not Needed\" is allowed;
>
> \- \"Preferred\" is not allowed:
In addition, if redundant data transmission is taking place over E-UTRA
(connected to 5GC), then the setting of \"Required\" for Integrity protection
is not allowed.
When Dual Connectivity as described in Figured 5.3.1-1 of the KI #3 is used,
both of the two redundant PDU sessions are initially established via the MgNB.
The SMF shall provide two UP security policies for each of the two redundant
PDU sessions to the MgNB during the PDU sessions establishment procedure, if
SMF recognizes one of the UP security policies is not the same as the other
one, the SMF shall modify the UP security policies to make sure them to be
same.
However, MgNB shall ensure that the two redundant PDU sessions have the same
UP integrity and encryption activation after the MgNB receives UP security
policy and proceeds according to TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.6.1.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
The proposed solution needs to modify the existing UP security policy
definition as specified in TS 23.501 [4] which is provided to the NG-RAN by
SMF for a PDU session. The modification is specific for URLLC services. For DC
architecture used for URLLC service, the solution is applicable if the UP
security policies which are used by Master node and Secondary node for
redundant PDU session transmissions are the same.
Based on above analysis of the proposed solution, the solution is able to meet
the potential security requirements of KI #3.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Retaining AS security keys for redundant data transmission
in user plane
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This solution address Key Issue #6: Retaining AS security keys for redundant
data transmission in user plane
### 6.2.2 Solution details
The flexibility to retain or to change the AS security keys in the gNB in
intra-gNB-CU handover i.e. between cells belonging to the same gNB, was
introduced in 5G system in TS 33.501 [3] clause 6.9.2.3.1 Intra-gNB-CU
handover.
It is proposed to re-use the existing solution as specified in TS 33.501 [3]
clause 6.9.2.3.1 Intra-gNB-CU handover (about the policy for controlling) when
to retain or change AS keys in gNB when URLLC services are used.
When the DC architecture as specified in KI#3 is used for redundant data
transmission data, if the current K~gNB~ in MgNB is changed because of intra-
gNB-CU handover, the MgNB shall update the security key which are used to
protect the two redundant PDU sessions as described in TS 33.501 [3].
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
The proposed solution fulfils the potential security requirements of KI#6.
## 6.3 Solution #3: Security policy handling for redundant data transmission
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue#3 and Key Issue#4 by identifying how to
handle the security policy for redundant transmission. In this solution, it is
assumed that the redundant transmissions are established by two independent
paths which require two RAN nodes and two UPFs to a single UE. This solution
is based on the following architecture (see TR 23.725 [2] v0.4.0 clause 6.1):
Figure 6.3.1-1: redundant transmission architecture
This architecture is based on Dual Connectivity architecture, except that
there are two UPFs.
According to the figure above, if there are two PDU sessions that take two
different user plane paths which are used to transfer the redundant data, the
security policy for the redundant PDU sessions shall be ensured to be the
same.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
If the high-reliability is fulfilled by redundant transmission based on NR-DC
architecture, the following user plane security policy mechanism shall apply:
In case where one of the redundant PDU Session data transmissions is
terminated at the MgNB and the other one is terminated at the SgNB, these two
redundant data transmissions shall have the same UP integrity protection and
ciphering policy. In addition, the MgNB shall inform the SgNB with its UP
integrity protection and encryption activation decision of the PDU Session
which is terminated at MgNB but is redundant with the other PDU Session
terminated at the SgNB.
MgNB shall make the decision on UP encryption protection and integrity
protection according to the UP security policy for these two redundant
transmissions. The MgNB shall inform the SgNB the encryption protection and
integrity protection indications of the transmission terminated at itself via
SgNB Addition/Modification Request message during when the corresponding
redundant transmission is moved to SgNB. At the reception of the indications,
the SgNB shall attempt to comply with the request from MgNB to ensure these
two UP ciphering protection indications are the same.
If the UP security policy indicates UP integrity protection \"Not needed\",
the UP integrity protection shall not be applied on the two redundant PDU
sessions and the MgNB informs the decision to SgNB, in other words, UP
integrity protection shall not be activated for the two redundant PDU
sessions. If the UP security policy indicates UP encryption protection \"Not
needed\", the MgNB shall have the encryption protection either \"off\", and
inform the decision to SgNB. If the UP security policy indicates UP encryption
protection \"preferred\", the MgNB shall have the encryption protection either
\"on\" or \"off\", and inform the decision to SgNB.
Particularly, in case of the MgNB cannot activate UP confidentiality and/or
integrity when the received UP security policy is \"Required\" or
\"Preferred\", the MgNB shall reject establishment of UP resources for the PDU
Session and indicate the decision to the SgNB in order to make sure these two
redundant transmissions have the same UP encryption protection and integrity
protection.
In all cases, the SgNB shall inform the UP integrity protection and encryption
indications to the MgNB in the SgNB Addition/Modification Request
Acknowledgement message. The MgNB shall forward the UP integrity protection
and encryption indications to the UE in RRC Connection Reconfiguration
message.
In addition, if the UP integrity protection and encryption indications for the
PDU session on MgNB is modified or refreshed, the MgNB shall inform SgNB the
new UP integrity protection and encryption indications decision to SgNB in the
SgNB Addition/Modification Request message. The SgNB shall update its handling
of the UP integrity protection and encryption according to the new decisions
received from MgNB. Similarly, if the SgNB is allowed to modify or refresh the
UP integrity protection and encryption indications (e.g. UP integrity can no
longer be supported due to maximum minimum data rate being exceeded), the SgNB
shall also inform MgNB the modification in order to make the two PDU sessions
transferred via MgNB and SgNB to have the same the UP security policy. In both
cases, the MgNB shall inform the new decision to the UE to in RRC Connection
Reconfiguration message to keep the UP security policy on UE and NG-RAN
consistent.
NOTE: In case there is a possibility that the UP integrity protection and
encryption indication status is changed during the session lifetime, the
latest URLLC Radio and System Architecture TR 23.725 [2] needs to be taken
into account.
### 6.3.3 Evaluation
For URLLC PDU Sessions, the UP integrity protection and encryption protection
indications are the same for the redundant PDU Sessions that carry the same
user data is via MgNB and SgNB. This solution fulfils such fundamental
security requirement.
This solution provides comprehensive handling procedures in case that the UP
integrity protection for one of redundant PDU Sessions is different from the
other one which is adopted by the second PDU Session (e.g. UP protection in
MgNB is on while SgNB is off or vice versa). The same procedure is also
applied for encryption protection.
The solution is applicable for the redundant data transmission of URLLC
services based on Dual Connectivity architecture. The solution fulfils the
potential security requirements of KI #3.
## 6.4 Solution #4: Security support for N3 tunnel redundancy
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue#1. If the user data is redundant by means of
two duplicated N3 tunnels to fulfil the high-reliability feature, as
illustrated in figure 6.4.1-1 below, the NDS/IP framework which is used to
secure the network domain interfaces should be reused with the following
precautions.
Figure 6.4.1-1: redundant transmission architecture
This data redundancy architecture supports the redundant transmission based on
two N3 tunnels between a single NG-RAN node and the UPF. In this architecture,
it is assumed that the reliability of NG-RAN node, UPF and CP NFs are high
enough to fulfil the reliability requirement of URLLC services served by these
NFs. For example, due to the deployment environment of backhaul network, the
redundant packets will be transferred between UPF and RAN via two independent
N3 tunnels, which are associated with a single PDU Session, over different
transport layer path to enhance the reliability of service. To be specific,
the NG-RAN node, SMF or UPF provides different routing information in the
tunnel information (e.g. different IP addresses or different Network
Instances) to ensure the two N3 tunnels can be transferred via disjointed
transport layer paths. In addition, these routing information is mapped to
disjointed transport layer paths according to network deployment
configuration. The RAN node and UPF support packet replication and elimination
function as referring to TR 23.725 [2] clause 6.4.
The RAN node and UPF support NDS/IP to ensure the security of the N3
interface. The transport of user data over N3 is integrity, confidentiality
and replay-protected.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
If the IPsec tunnel is used to protect all N3 tunnels between NG-RAN and UPF,
the current mechanism defined in TS 33.501 [3] clause 9.3 and clause 9.1 shall
be reused.
The N3 interface for 5GC and 5G-AN according to NDS/IP is specified in TS
33.210 [6]. Traffic on interfaces carrying control plane signalling can be
both integrity and confidentiality protected according to NDS/IP.
IPsec ESP implementation shall be done according to RFC 4303 [8] as profiled
by TS 33.210 [6]. For IPsec implementation, tunnel mode is mandatory to
support while transport mode is optional.
IKEv2 certificate-based authentication implementation shall be done according
to TS 33.310. The certificates shall be supported according to the profile
described by TS 33.310 [7]. IKEv2 shall be supported conforming to the IKEv2
profile described in TS 33.310 [7].
In order to protect the traffic on the N3 reference point, it is required to
implement IPsec ESP and IKEv2 certificate-based authentication. IPsec is
mandatory to implement on the NG-RAN. On the core network side, a SEG may be
used to terminate the IPsec tunnel.
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
This solution assumes to reuse NDS/IP mechanism as specified in TS 33.210 [6]
to protect the redundant packets which are transferred via two independent N3
tunnels over the N3 interfaces. Due to the deployment environment of backhaul
network, the reliability of single N3 tunnel may not be considered
sufficiently or reliably to support URLLC services. If there is single N3
tunnel between a single NG-RAN mode and the UPF, NDS/IP is already supposed to
be used to protect the N3 interface. Traffic on N3 interface carrying control
plane signalling can be both integrity and confidentiality protected with
NDS/IP. Similarly, NDS/IP is also used for the two redundant N3 tunnels for
the same interface which fulfils the requirements of KI #1.
The solution fulfils the potential security requirement of KI #1.
## 6.5 Solution #5: Security for redundant data transmission
### 6.5.1 Introduction
The solution addresses the Key issues # 1 and #2 in the present document. This
solution also addresses Key issue #1: Supporting high reliability by redundant
transmission in user plane in TR 23.725 [2] and also complies with the related
SA2 conclusions specified in TR 23.725 [2] clause 8.1. Adopting different
security protection for the redundant user planes at the UE for two different
gNBs will increase the computation complexity, drain battery life and impacts
the low latency and reliability requirements of the URLLC services. However,
the potential danger of applying separate security protection out weights the
convenience of using the same security contexts. For example, if the same
security key is used for the two redundant user planes, then having one of the
two UP paths compromised implies that both the two redundant user planes\'
security is compromised. To prevent this situation, it is proposed to use a
scheme in which cryptographic separation is achieved while using the same key
for both of the two redundant user planes, similar to the security procedures
for dual connectivity specified in TS 33.501 [3]. This also results in minimal
impact to the URLLC requirement specific changes.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
The solution proposes that both PDU sessions transferring via two user plane
paths are using the same key based on the SgNB addition procedure of Dual
Connectivity. In this case, the MgNB derives the security key (K~UR~ key) from
the K~gNB~ and provides it to the SgNB in the SgNB Addition request message
over the Xn-C interface between MgNB and SgNB as specified in TS 33.501 [3].
To generate key streams, the MgNB and the SgNB use different input parameters
(for example different bearer ID, PDU session ID) combined with the K~UR~.
This way, the cryptographic separation between the MgNB and the SgNB is
achieved. The SgNB derives its own security context using other input
parameters such as the PDU session information specific to the redundant user
plane path, URLLC identification information and any other required
information along with K~UR~ to the KDF to derive the security context for the
redundant user plane protection. Other input parameters such as the PDU
session information to the redundant user plane data protection will ensure
cryptographic separation between the redundant user plane data. After that,
the MgNB and the SgNB generate their own RRC and UP keys based on K~UR~ and
other parameters different from those used by MgNB (e.g. MgNB can send two
sets of random values and data counter values to the UE for the purpose of
generating different cipher keys and integrity keys in the MgNB and SgNB
respectively) as well as UE side as described in Annex A.8 of TS 33.501 [3]
except that the input key is K~UR~ .This mechanism can prevent attackers from
identifying the related redundant data stream.
During RRC connection establishment between UE and MgNB the K~UR~ is derived
at MgNB, where KgNB, information on URLLC connection and PDU session such as
their identifiers can be input to the KDF (Key Derivation Function) to derive
the key. Random value and data counter value at MgNB, which are sent from MgNB
to UE, can also be input to the KDF. Security is established between UE and
MgNB, where integrity and confidentiality protection for uplink data (from UE
to MgNB) is configured with security keys for URLLC communication. MgNB sends
SgNB addition request for URLLC which includes security key, K~UR~,
information indicating that this request is for URLLC, and security
capabilities for integrity protection and ciphering used for the data from UE.
The security capabilities are the same as the ones used in MgNB.
When two redundant data is transmitting, it is necessary to make separation
between multiple redundant PDU sessions handled between UE and gNB. The K~UR~
key is introduced in this proposal for securing the redundant data
transmission. K~UR~ key gets refreshed for different PDCP counts when there is
a redundant data transmission.
NOTE: K~UR~ key should be the specific key for the URLLC services based on
Dual Connectivity architecture. Particularly, if there are only two redundant
data transmission PDU sessions of multiple PDU sessions, the specific key
K~UR~ key should be used to identify the URLLC services.
Figure 6.5.2-1: Security context derivation procedure
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
The solution fulfils the cryptographic separation requirement of KI #1.
Moreover, the solution fulfils the confidential protection and integrity
protection for radio bears of redundant transmission requirement of KI #2.
In the Dual connectivity architecture in TS 33.501 [3], MN terminated bearers
are protected using the AS keys derived from K~gNB~ and SN terminated bearers
are protected using the AS keys derived from K~SN~. This means the
cryptographic separation for radio bearers serving redundant data transmission
is already satisfied by the dual connectivity architecture.
The solution #5 attempts to achieve the same goal by deriving new keys from
K~UR~ which is derived from K~gNB~ and PDU session parameters as additional
input parameters to KDF. This apparently achieves the cryptographic key
separation between MN terminated bearers and SN terminated bearers for the
redundant data transmission. However, to address the issue of using the same
AS root key at MN and SN (K~UR~), this solution introduces new random
parameters in deriving AS keys both at the MN and SN. This, in effect, mimics
the existing key separation scheme between MN and SN in DC at a different
level of AS key hierarchy (i.e., algorithm key derivation as opposed to AS
root key derivation). Therefore, this additional key handling does not
introduce security gain over existing security solution for DC.
This solution introduces a new key K~UR~ that is common for MN and SN. When SN
changes, the MN may keep using the same K~UR~ and apply new random parameter
to generate a new key stream for the SN. This maintains the cryptographic
separation between the two bearers in the redundant data transmission.
However, this new key stream derivation needs to be performed in addition to
and independent of the existing key derivation in the DC security procedure.
The solution can provide key separation between URLLC PDU sessions and non-
URLLC PDU sessions. However, it incurs additional key management and key
stream generation at the MN/SN and the UE, while the relative advantage over
the existing DC security solution appears to be marginal.
6.6 Solution #6: Dynamic UP security policy control for URLLC service
6.6.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #4: Security policy for URLLC service.
According to TS 23.501 [4] and TS 23.502 [5], the SMF shall provide the UP
security policy to the NG-RAN during the PDU session establishment procedure.
According to TS 23.503 [10], the PCF will authorize the PCC rule and PDU
Session related information for dynamic session management policy control
considering the QoS requirement of the application.
6.6.2 Solution details
The User Plane Security Policy should be authorized by PCF considering RAN
Capability for UP Security Policy enforcement and QoS requirement from
applications. The PCF may further optimized the UP Security Policy, e.g.
changing \"Required\" to \"Not Needed\" or changing \"preferred\" to \"Not
needed\" The PCF will send the optimized UP Security Policy to the SMF during
SM Policy Association Establishment/ Modification as defined in clauses
4.16.4/4.16.5 of TS 23.502 [5] . The SMF determines a User Plane Security
Enforcement information for the user plane of a PDU session based on the
authorised UP Security Policy provided by PCF if dynamic PCC is deployed.
In conclusion, the Session Management related policy control will be updated
as following:
\- Add UP Security Policy information in the PDU Session related policy
information.
\- PCF need to aware the capability on the speed of integrity protection of
the serving RAN node to make PCC decision.
The enforcement of UP Security Policy will be updated as following:
\- SMF needs to report the UP Security Policy (received from subscription
data) to the PCF.
\- SMF determines a User Plane Security Enforcement information based on the
authorised UP Security Policy provided by PCF.
NOTE: The scenario that redundant PDU Sessions with the same user data
transferred via MgNB and SgNB is based on specific deployment. It is assumed
that in this scenario the MgNB and SgNB have the same capability. The PCC
decision from the PCF(s) will be the same with the same input.
6.6.3 Evaluation
TBD
## 6.7 Solution #7: Security for redundant data transmission using Dual
Connectivity
### 6.7.1 Introduction
This security solution address Key Issue #1: 'Security for redundant
transmission\' and Key Issue #2: 'Support of security for high reliability by
redundant data transmission in user plane\' in the present document and the
security solution for Dual Connectivity (DC) specified in TS 33.501 [3] in 5G
Rel-15.
In the recommended SA2 solution #1 in TR 23.725 [2], the UE establishes two
PDU Sessions with the network, one PDU Session spans from the UE via MgNB to
UPF1 acting as the PDU Session Anchor, and the other PDU Session spans from
the UE via SgNB to UPF2 acting as the PDU Session Anchor. Based on these two
PDU Sessions, two independent paths are set up. UPF1 and UPF2 connect to the
same Data Network (DN), even though the traffic via UPF1 and UPF2 may be
routed via different user plane nodes within the DN.
Figure 6.7.1-1: Architecture for redundant User Plane paths for URLLC using
Dual Connectivity
For one PDU Session used for redundant data transmission it is explicitly
requested by Core Network to MgNB that the user plane goes via the MgNB, and
for the other (second) PDU Session used for redundant data transmission it is
explicitly requested by Core Network to MgNB that the user plane goes via the
SgNB using dual connectivity. The MgNB sets up dual connectivity as defined in
TS 37.340 [9] so that the sessions have end to end redundant paths. This
implies that all DRB(s) established for the second PDU Session which should go
via the SgNB will be offloaded to the SgNB by the MgNB. It is important in
this scenario that the same key is not used for the two redundant user planes
(for the first and second PDU sessions). Otherwise if the same key is used for
the two redundant user planes, then if one path is compromised then the second
path is compromised as well. Also, if two different keys are used for the two
redundant user planes (for the first and second PDU sessions) then the
attacker cannot relate the two data streams.
### 6.7.2 Solution details
This solution is a combination of the following two solutions:
\- This solution proposes to re-use the security solution for Dual
Connectivity (DC) specified in TS 33.501 [3] in 5G Rel-15, where the Master
Node (MN) generates the K~SN~ from the K~gNB~ and a SN Counter, and sends the
K~SN~ to the SN over the Xn-C. The SN Counter is used as freshness input into
K~SN~ derivations as described in TS 33.501 [3]. The MN sends the value of the
SN Counter to the UE over the RRC signalling path when it is required to
generate a new K~SN~. The K~SN~ is used to derive further RRC and UP keys that
are used between the UE and SN.
\- This solution proposes in addition, that the handling of the UP security
policy could potentially be handled.
NOTE: How to handle the UP security policy for URLLC services can refer to the
solutions as described in the present document, e.g., solution #1, solution
#3, solution #8.
The dual connectivity procedure with activation of encryption/decryption and
integrity protection follows the steps outlined in the Figure 6.7.2-1.
Figure 6.7.2-1: Security aspects in SN Addition/Modification procedures (MN
initiated)
1) As described in step 1 in clause 6.10.2.1 in TS 33.501 [3] for Dual
Connectivity.
2) As described in step 2 in clause 6.10.2.1 in TS 33.501 [3] for Dual
Connectivity with the following modifications: the handling of the UP security
policy could potentially be handled.
3) As described in step 3 in clause 6.10.2.1 in TS 33.501 [3] for Dual
Connectivity with the following modifications: the handling of the UP security
policy could potentially be handled.
4\. As described in step 4 in clause 6.10.2.1 in TS 33.501 [3] for Dual
Connectivity.
5\. As described in step 5 in clause 6.10.2.1 in TS 33.501 [3] for Dual
Connectivity.
6\. As described in step 6 in clause 6.10.2.1 in TS 33.501 [3] for Dual
Connectivity.
7\. As described in step 7 in clause 6.10.2.1 in TS 33.501 [3] for Dual
Connectivity.
### 6.7.3 Evaluation
Solution #7 addresses Key Issue #1 and Key Issue #2.
The solution proposes the use of the security solution for Dual Connectivity
as a baseline and additionally the use of similar guidelines for the UP
security policy of solution #1.
The solution fulfils all the potential security requirements of KI#1 as (a) it
provides a security method to protect the redundant transmissions by re-using
the security solutions for dual connectivity, (b) it provides cryptographic
separation if radio bearers since it proposes to use different keys for the
protection of the two separate redundant PDU sessions and (c) the each path of
two redundant paths consists of a PDU session with the same security level
compared to a single path. The solution fulfils the potential security
requirements for KI#2 as both confidentiality and integrity protection are
provided for the two redundant PDU sessions.
The advantage of the solution is that it re-uses the procedures for Dual
Connectivity with minimal modifications and as a result it has minimal impact
on the UE, MN and SN.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Handling of UP security activation status and selection of
SN in Dual Connectivity
### 6.8.1 Introduction
This security solution address Key Issue #3: UP security policy handling for
multiple PDU sessions established for redundant data transmission in the
present document and the security solution for Dual Connectivity (DC)
specified in TS 33.501 [3] in 5G Rel-15.
In the recommended SA2 solution #1 in TR 23.725 [2], for one PDU Session it is
explicitly requested by Core Network to Master Node (MN) that the user plane
path goes via the MN, and for the other (second) PDU Session it is explicitly
requested by Core Network to MN that the user plane path goes via the SN using
dual connectivity.
The assumption is that the MN and the SN could be either a gNB or an ng-eNB.
There are some potential issues with using this solution for URLLC services:
**Issue 1:**
If the indication for either **UP integrity protection or UP encryption or
both in the UP security policy enforcement information sent from SMF to the
MN, is set to the value** \"**preferred** \", then **one of the nodes (MN or
SN) may choose a different security activation status compared to the other
node. The result would be that the DRB\'s established for the first PDU
session and the second PDU session will use different security activation
status (for example: UP integrity protection could be activated for one PDU
session but not for the second PDU session).**
**Issue 2:**
In the case the **UP security policy enforcement information sent from SMF to
the MN, does not allow the value** \"**preferred** \" **as described in**
Solution #1 \"Security solution for handling UP security policy for multiple
PDU sessions for redundant data transmission\"**, t** he MN may not know in
advance if the selected SN can comply to the UP security policy **enforcement
information** sent from the MN to the SN, when offloading the DRB\'s for the
second PDU session to the SN. If the SN cannot comply, then the SN would
reject the request from the MN to offload DRB(s) to the SN. In this case the
MN may have already established and activated the DRB\'s with the UE for the
first PDU session.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
This solution proposes to re-use the security solution for Dual Connectivity
(DC) as specified in TS 33.501 [3] in 5G Rel-15, with the following
enhancements for redundant data transmission:
To resolve issue 1 in clause 6.8.1:
\- The MN shall store the applied UP security activation status used for the
DRB\'s established for the first PDU session between the MN and the UE. This
is to avoid that one of the nodes (MN or SN) chooses a different UP security
activation status compared to the other node, for the first and second PDU
sessions. The MN shall ensure that the DRB\'s established between the MN and
the UE for the second PDU uses the same UP security activation status as for
the DRB\'s established for the first PDU. The MN shall provide the same stored
UP security activation status applied for the first PDU session to the SN,
when offloading the DRB\'s for the second PDU session. The SN shall use the
received UP security activation status received from the MN. This would ensure
that the same UP security activation status is applied to all the DRB\'s
established for the first and second PDU session.
Figure 6.8.2-1: Applied UP security activation status for two PDU sessions
used for redundant data transmission using DC
1\. The UE initiates a PDU establishment procedure with the network for a
first PDU session.
2\. The MgNB stores the UP security activation status used for DRB\'s
established between the MgNB and the UE for the first PDU.
3\. The UE initiates a PDU establishment procedure with the network for a
second PDU session.
4\. The MgNB ensures that the DRB\'s established between the MgNB and the UE
for the second PDU uses the same UP security activation status as used for
DRB\'s established for the first PDU with the same UE.
5\. The MgNB establish Dual Connectivity in RAN. The MgNB sends SN
Addition/Modification Request to the SgNB including the stored UP security
activation status. The SgNB determines whether it can comply with the received
UP security activation status for the DRB\'s established with the UE. The SgNB
sends SN Addition/Modification Acknowledge to the MgNB indicating the UP
integrity protection and encryption indications to the MgNB. The MgNB sends
the RRC Connection Reconfiguration Request to the UE instructing it to
configure the new DRBs and/or SRB for the SgNB.
To resolve issue 2 in clause 6.8.1:
\- The MN shall be preconfigured or have access with/to information of the
supported security in the available SN(s) (for example: whether UP integrity
protection is supported in the SN or not). The MN shall take this information
into account when selecting the SN. In case UP integrity is supported, then
such configuration information is not needed.
### 6.8.3 Evaluation
The proposed solution address key issue #3: UP security policy handling for
multiple PDU sessions established for redundant data transmission in the
present document and the security solution for Dual Connectivity (DC)
specified in TS 33.501 [3].
For solution resolving Issue #1: If the indication for either UP integrity
protection or UP encryption or both in the UP security policy enforcement
information sent from SMF to the MN, is set to the value \"preferred\", then
this solution ensures that the two redundant paths have the same UP security
policy setting.
For solution resolving Issue #2: In the case the UP security policy
enforcement information sent from SMF to the MN, does not allow the value
\"preferred\" as described in Solution #1 \"Security solution for handling UP
security policy for multiple PDU sessions for redundant data transmission\",
this solution ensures that the MN knows in advance, even before it has
established and activated the DRB\'s with the UE for the first PDU session,
whether the selected SN can comply to the UP security policy enforcement
information sent from the MN to the SN, when offloading the DRB\'s for the
second PDU session to the SN. For example if UP integrity protection is
\"required\" but SN does not support UP integrity protection.
Based on above analysis of the proposed solutions for resolving Issue #1 and
Issue#2, this solution is able to meet the potential security requirements of
KI #3.
# 7 Conclusions
**Summary for Key issues and corresponding solutions**
The key issues and the corresponding solutions in the present document are
listed in the following table.
Table 7.1
+-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | Key issue | Potential | Potential | | | | security | Solutions | | | | requirements | | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #1 | Security for | 1) The 5G | Solution #4: | | | redundant | system shall | Security | | | transmission | provide an | support for N3 | | | | appropriate | tunnel | | | | security method | redundancy | | | | to protect the | | | | | redundant | Solution #5: | | | | transmission. | Security for | | | | | redundant data | | | | 2) The system | transmission | | | | shall provide | | | | | cryptographic | Solution #7: | | | | separation for | Security for | | | | radio bearers | redundant data | | | | serving | transmission | | | | redundant | using Dual | | | | transmissions. | Connectivity | | | | | | | | | 3) The added | | | | | paths for | | | | | redundancy | | | | | shall provide | | | | | equal level of | | | | | security | | | | | compared to | | | | | single path. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #2 | Support of | 1) | Solution #5: | | | security for | Confidentiality | Security for | | | high | protection over | redundant data | | | reliability by | the air shall | transmission | | | redundant data | be supported | | | | transmission in | for UP data via | Solution #7: | | | user plane | redundant | Security for | | | | multiple | redundant data | | | | transmission | transmission | | | | paths. | using Dual | | | | | Connectivity | | | | 2) Integrity | | | | | protection over | | | | | the air shall | | | | | be supported | | | | | for UP data via | | | | | redundant | | | | | multiple | | | | | transmission | | | | | paths. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #3 | UP security | 1) If | Solution #1: | | | policy handling | encryption of | Security | | | for multiple | user plane data | solution for | | | PDU sessions | is enabled | handling UP | | | established for | between the UE | security policy | | | redundant data | and the gNB on | for multiple | | | transmission | the first path | PDU sessions | | | | for a first PDU | for redundant | | | | session, then | data | | | | encryption | transmission. | | | | shall be | | | | | enabled for | Solution #3: | | | | redundant user | Security policy | | | | data | handling for | | | | transmission | redundant | | | | over a second | transmission | | | | path for a | | | | | second PDU | Solution #8: | | | | session as | Handling of UP | | | | well. | security | | | | | activation | | | | 2) If | status and | | | | integrity | selection of SN | | | | protection of | in Dual | | | | user plane data | Connectivity | | | | is enabled | | | | | between the UE | | | | | and the gNB on | | | | | the first path | | | | | for a first PDU | | | | | session, then | | | | | integrity | | | | | protection | | | | | shall be | | | | | enabled for | | | | | redundant user | | | | | data | | | | | transmission | | | | | over a second | | | | | path for a | | | | | second PDU | | | | | session as | | | | | well. | | | | | | | | | | 3) When Dual | | | | | Connectivity is | | | | | used, the MgNB | | | | | shall ensure | | | | | that the UP | | | | | security policy | | | | | assigned to the | | | | | MgNB is | | | | | forwarded and | | | | | used by the | | | | | SgNB for the | | | | | two PDU | | | | | Sessions used | | | | | for redundant | | | | | data | | | | | transmission. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #4 | Security policy | 1) The 5G | Solution #3: | | | for URLLC | system shall | Security policy | | | service | provide a user | handling for | | | | plane security | redundant | | | | policy | transmission | | | | mechanism | | | | | applicable to | Solution #6: | | | | URLLC services. | Dynamic UP | | | | | security policy | | | | 2) The 5G | control for | | | | system shall | URLLC service | | | | provide the | | | | | mechanism for | | | | | how to enforce | | | | | User Plane | | | | | Security Policy | | | | | when there are | | | | | URLLC services | | | | | in the PDU | | | | | Session. | | | | | | | | | | 3）The | | | | | selection of | | | | | the security | | | | | policy shall be | | | | | under network | | | | | control. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #5 | Security aspect | The 5G system | No solution is | | | of low latency | shall provide | available yet | | | handover | the proper | in the present | | | procedure | security | document. | | | | protection for | | | | | the optimized | | | | | URLLC handover | | | | | procedure. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #6 | Retaining AS | No potential | Solution #2: | | | security keys | security | Retaining AS | | | for redundant | requirement is | security keys | | | data | recommended. | for redundant | | | transmission in | | data | | | user plane | | transmission in | | | | | user plane. | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #7 | QoS monitoring | The 5G system | No solution is | | | protection | shall be able | available yet | | | | to protect the | in the present | | | | 5G E2E QoS | document. | | | | Enforcement | | | | | procedure for a | | | | | service. | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #8 | Acceleration of | No potential | No solution is | | | authentication | security | available yet | | | and key | requirement is | in the present | | | agreement | recommended. | document. | | | procedure for | | | | | low latency | | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #9 | Security aspect | No potential | No solution is | | | of low latency | security | available yet | | | Re | requirement is | in the present | | | -authentication | recommended. | document. | | | procedure | | | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | #10 | UP security | No potential | No solution is | | | performance for | security | available yet | | | low latency | requirement is | in the present | | | | recommended. | document. | +-----------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
## 7.1 Key Issue #1: Security for redundant transmission
For Key Issue #1, it is recommended that the normative work proceed as
follows:
\- Solution #4 is used as the baseline for ensuring that the security
protection in case the redundant traffic is fulfilled by independent N3
tunnels.
\- Solution #7 is used as the baseline to ensure security and cryptographic
separation for the different radio bearers serving redundant transmissions
based on Dual Connectivity architecture. It is agreed that the different UP
integrity keys and UP encryption keys are used for the radio bearers serving
those redundant transmissions.
## 7.2 Key Issue #2: Support of security for high reliability by redundant
data transmission in user plane
For Key Issue #2, it is recommended that solution #7 is taken into account as
the basis for normative work.
## 7.3 Key Issue #3: UP security policy handling for multiple PDU sessions
established for redundant data transmission
For Key Issue #3, it is recommended that the solution #8 is used as the basis
for the normative work to address the issue of UP security policy handling for
multiple PDU sessions established for redundant data transmission.
## 7.4 Key Issue #4: Security policy for URLLC service
For Key Issue #4, the normative work shall proceed as follows:
\- Solution #1 is used as the basis for normative work to address how to
modify the User Plane Security Policy to be specific for URLLC service.
\- It is recommended to take the solution #8 as the basis to address the user
plane security policy aspect of URLLC. (See also the conclusion of Key Issue
#3.)
## 7.6 Key Issue #6: Retaining AS security keys for redundant data
transmission in user plane
For Key Issue #6, it is recommended that solution #2 is used as the basis for
normative work to address how to retain the AS security keys for URLLC
services during the intra-gNB-CU (if the gNB is split into CU and DU) or
intra-gNB handover.
## 7.8 Key Issue #8: Acceleration of authentication and key agreement
procedure for low latency
Authentication and key agreement is essential for network access and shall not
be sacrificed to support low latency communication. The AKA delay is only
incurred during the very initial registration, while user plane key refresh is
quickly performed (e.g., based on the intra-cell handover procedure).
Furthermore, URLLC is for user plane traffic according to TR 23.725 [2], hence
AKA procedure is irrelevant. Therefore, it is concluded that any AKA
optimization is not pursued for URLLC services.
#