# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The scope of the present document is to provide security and privacy analysis
of eV2X system architecture, derive potential security and privacy
requirements, and evaluate security and privacy solutions for protection of
it. The security aspects to be considered are as follows:
\- Security and privacy for new interfaces in 5G eV2X system architecture,
compared to TS 23.285 [2]
\- Security and privacy for eV2X unicast over PC5
\- Security and privacy for eV2X group communication over PC5
\- Other security and privacy issues related to eV2X services, if there is any
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X scenarios; Stage
1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.287: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to support
Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) services\".
[5] 3GPP TR 23.786: \"Study on architecture enhancement for EPS and 5G System
to support advanced V2X services\".
[6] 3GPP TR 33.303: \"Proximity-based Services (ProSe); Security aspects\".
[7] 3GPP TR 23.303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
[8] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[9] 3GPP TR 23.795: \"Study on application layer support for V2X services\".
[10] IETF RFC 6507: \"Elliptic Curve-Based Certificateless Signatures for
Identity-Based Encryption (ECCSI)\".
[11] IETF RFC 6508: \"Sakai-Kasahara Key Encryption (SAKKE).\"
[12] 3GPP TS 33.185: \"Security aspect for LTE support of Vehicle-to-
Everything (V2X) services\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System (5GS)\".
[14] IEEE Std 802.11p: \"Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (WAVE)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Groupcast:** See the definition in TS 23.287 [4].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5GC 5G Core
AF Application Function
AMF Access and Mobility management Function
AS layer Access Stratum layer
DCA Direct Communication Accept
DCR Direct Communication Request
DSM Direct Security Mode
eV2X enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X
ITS Intelligent Transport Systems
ITS-AID ITS Application Identifier
L2 ID Layer 2 Identity
NG Next Generation
NG-RAN Next Generation RAN
NGAP NG Application Protocol
NR New Radio (5G)
PCF Policy Control Function
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU Protocol Data Unit
PSID Provider Service Identifier
RAN Radio Access Network
RAT Radio Access Technology
UDM Unified Data Management
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
# 4 Security Aspects of Advanced V2X Services
Advanced V2X services of 3GPP, in the context of the present document, include
several V2X scenarios such as Vehicles Platooning, Advanced Driving, Extended
Sensors, Remote Driving, Vehicle quality of service Support, and other general
aspects (e.g. interworking), as specified in TS 22.186 [3], with service
requirements. To support them, TS 23.287 [4] provides architectural
enhancements to the 5G system for V2X communications over the reference points
- NR PC5 RAT, LTE PC5 RAT, NR Uu, and E-UTRA Uu (connected to 5GC).
V2X communication over NR based PC5 reference point supports broadcast mode,
groupcast, mode and unicast mode, while V2X communication on E-UTRA based PC5
reference point (connected to EPS) is connectionless, i.e. broadcast mode at
AS layer. In this release, V2X communication over Uu reference point is only
unicast. Architectural reference model is specified in clause 4.2 of TS 23.287
[4], where 5G System architecture applies in general and V3 (PC3) is missing
because PCF takes places the role of configuration and provisioning for UE, in
addition to external V2X application server.
Potential security impact mostly comes from unicast and groupcast mode of
communication over NR PC5, since only broadcast mode is supported over PC5 for
V2X communication in previous releases. Unicast mode over PC5 involves
signalling over control plane in V2X layer and AS layer, and this might need
security protection. Group management for groupcast is handled by application
layer, and it still might need consideration of security and privacy aspects.
However, security for broadcast mode should still be considered based on
changes in the new release. Lastly provisioning of UE configuration for V2X
communication and interworking with EPS may require security consideration,
whether or not existing 5G security can cover it.
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Privacy protection for unicast messages over PC5
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
KI#9 from TR 23.786 [5] is looking at the support of unicast for sensor
sharing over PC5, and more specifically, at how to prevent privacy issues
related to long duration unicast session, e.g. source L2 ID tracking.
The solution#11 [5], adopted as a baseline for normative work, proposes that a
UE updates its peer with its new identifier(s) (e.g. L2 ID) in a Link
Identifier Update Request message, e.g., upon an upper layer trigger or upon
expiry of a timer. The peer acknowledges the change in a Link Identifier
Update Response message. Upon reception of this message both UEs can start
using the new identifier(s).
### 5.1.2 Security threats
An adversary that is capable of connecting and linking L2 identities to a real
or a long-term Application Layer ID will be able to track and trace the
endpoint in space and time. Such trackability and linkability will be an
attack on eV2X endpoint privacy.
### 5.1.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G System shall provide means for mitigating trackability attacks on L2
identities during eV2X unicast communications.
The 5G System shall provide means for mitigating linkability attacks on L2
identities during eV2X unicast communications.
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5.
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
KI#9 from TR 23.786 [5] describes security association establishment for
unicast/multicast for sensor sharing over PC5, and the clause 6.3.3 of TS
23.287 [4] specifies the procedures and the messages for unicast control
signalling.
The Solution #11 [5], adopted as a baseline for normative work, introduces a
new V2X Service oriented L2 link establishment procedure. In this procedure,
the initiating UE broadcasts a Direct Communication Request message specifying
the V2X Service requesting layer 2 link establishment. All UEs receiving this
message and interested in that V2X service reply with a Direct Communication
Accept message have to establish a unicast communication and associated
security association for that unicast link using their L2 ID as the source L2
ID and the initiating UE L2 ID as the destination L2 ID.
Another \"UE Oriented L2 link establishment\" procedure is specified in
Solution#11. In this procedure, the initiating UE broadcasts a Direct
Communication Request message which includes the upper layer identifier of a
peer UE and source L2 ID of the initiating UE. If the peer UE decides to
respond to the request, it replies with a unicast Direct Communication Accept
message using its L2 ID as the source L2 ID and the initiating UE L2 ID as the
destination L2 ID.
It is assumed in Solution #11 Clause 6.11.2.4 TR 23.786 [5] that secure L2
link establishment as defined for ProSe one-to-one communications in TS 33.303
[6] is reused.
The protocol for one-to-one link establishment defined for ProSe in TS 23.303
[7] is based on the initiating UE sending the Direct Communication Request
over unicast message to a peer UE. An adjustment to the L2 secure link
establishment protocol may be needed in order to support the link setup
procedure based on an initial broadcast from the initiating UE.
### 5.2.2 Security threats
An adversary that is capable of breaking into signaling exchange between the
parties during link establishment as defined in the Solution #11 of TR 23.786
[5] can eavesdrop on signalling or subsequent data traffic, attack integrity
of signalling, or usurp the identity of one or more of the participants e.g.
initiating UE or one of the peer UEs. The breach of integrity of some
information delivered through unicast mode control signalling over PC5 could
affect service availability.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
The initiating UE shall establish a different security context for each peer
UEs during the V2X unicast link establishment.
NOTE: The potential requirement above is analogous to the corresponding ProSe
[6] requirement.
V2X unicast link security establishment between the initiating UE and each
peer UE shall be protected from man-in-the-middle attacks.
The system shall support confidentiality and integrity protection of the PC5
user plane.
The system shall support integrity protection of PC5-S Signalling for V2X
unicast.
The system shall support confidentiality protection for the update of link
identifiers.
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: Privacy protection for groupcast messages over PC5
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
KI#9 from TR 23.786 [5] is looking at the support of groupcast for sensor
sharing over PC5, and more specifically, at how to prevent privacy issues
related to long duration groupcast session, e.g. source L2 ID tracking.
NOTE: The definition of groupcast is specified in TS 23.287 [4].
### 5.3.2 Security threats
An adversary that is capable of connecting and linking L2 identities to a real
or a long-term eV2X endpoint identity will be able to track and trace the
endpoint in space and time. Such trackability and linkability will be an
attack on eV2X endpoint privacy.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G System shall provide means for mitigating linkability attacks on L2
identities during eV2X groupcast communications.
The 5G System shall provide means for mitigating trackability attacks on L2
identities during eV2X groupcast communications.
## 5.4 Key Issue #4: Security of identifier conversion in groupcast
communication
### 5.4.1 Key issue details
In TR 23.786 [5], Solution #21 \"Group communication enhancement for NR PC5\"
is selected as the baseline for normative work to address KI #1 \"Support of
eV2X group communication\".
Figure 5.4.1-1: End to end groupcast communication
With reference to Figure 5.4.1-1 as in TR 23.786 [5], the group identifier
provided by the application layer will be converted into the L2 ID. In
addition, it is stated in TR 23.287 [4] that: \"When the group identifier
information is not provided by the V2X application layer, the UE determines
the destination Layer-2 ID based on configuration of the mapping between
service type (e.g. PSID/ITS-AID) and Layer-2 ID\"
This conversion/mapping procedure should be secured in terms of privacy and
traceability. Unless the conversion is carefully performed, the group
membership of specific UEs could be disclosed. For example, attackers might be
able to make an inquiry whether any member of certain group are exists in some
location.
### 5.4.2 Security threats
If the Group ID is not securely converted by the application layer, the
intruder can link back to UE groupcast memberships. Similarly if the mapping
of L2 ID is not securely performed from the V2X services (e.g. PSID/ITS-AID),
the attacker may also link back to the privacy parameters in geographical
area(s) that require privacy support.
### 5.4.3 Potential security requirements
5G system shall ensure that the group IDs conversion to L2 IDs are protected
from linkability and traceability attacks for eV2X groupcast communications.
## 5.5 Key Issue #5: Security for setting up groupcast
### 5.5.1 Key issue details
In TR 23.786 [5], Solution #11 \"Solution for unicast or multicast for eV2X
communication over PC5 reference point\" is selected as the baseline for
normative work to address KI #9 \"Support of unicast/multicast for sensor
sharing over PC5\" in the present document. Solution #11 states that \"The
unicast or groupcast communication may need protection at link layer as
well.\" Clearly security aspect for setting up a unicast or groupcast
communication has not been considered. This key issue is about setting up a
multicast communication securely.
NOTE: In the above clause, the directly quoted text from TR 23.786 [5] uses
the term \"multicast\". However, it means \"groupcast\" as defined in the
subsequent normative specification in TS 23.287 [4].
### 5.5.2 Security threats
Since L2 signalling is used to establish eV2X groupcast with eV2X UEs, an
adversary may launch a man-in-the-middle attack on the signalling if the L2
link is not protected. The eV2X UEs may not be able to receive groupcast
information or may be directed to the wrong groupcast information.
### 5.5.3 Potential security requirements
NOTE: No security requirements are addressed in the present document.
## 5.6 Key Issue #6: Security of the UE service authorization and revocation
### 5.6.1 Key issue details
KI#5 from TR 23.786 [5] is describing Service Authorization and Provisioning
to UE for eV2X communications over PC5 reference point. Secure service
authorization and revocation is important for the overall security of the eV2X
service.
### 5.6.2 Security threats
An adversary that is capable of compromising the eV2X UE service authorization
and revocation procedures can compromise the overall integrity of the eV2X
system.
### 5.6.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G System shall secure the eV2X UE Service authorization and revocation.
The eV2X UE Service authorization and revocation procedures shall be
confidentiality, integrity, and replay protected.
## 5.7 Key Issue #7: Cross-RAT PC5 control authorization indication
### 5.7.1 Key issue details
In TR 23.786 [5], Solution #6 \"eV2X impacts to 5GC procedures\" is selected
as the baseline for normative work to address KI #6 \"Service authorization to
NG-RAN for eV2X communications over PC5 reference Point\". It is mentioned
that the AMF obtains the cross-RAT control authorization from UDM and includes
it in the NGAP message sent to NG-RAN.
\"_The cross-RAT PC5 control authorization indicates whether LTE Uu controls
LTE and/or NR sidelink from the cellular network, and whether NR Uu controls
LTE and/or NR sidelink from the cellular network._ \"
However no IE has been defined for the cross-RAT PC5 control authorization
indication.
\"_Stage 3 will decide if an explicit cross-RAT PC5 control authorization IE
is needed for the signaling over N2, or it can be indicated in an implicit
manner._ \"
### 5.7.2 Security threats
Lack of proper indication method of cross-RAT control authorization will
result in hindrance of service authorization to NG-RAN.
### 5.7.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G system shall have a means to efficiently manage the cross-RAT PC5
control authorization.
## 5.8 Key Issue #8: Privacy protection for broadcast messages over PC5
### 5.8.1 Key issue details
Key issue #3 addresses the needs of privacy protection for groupcast
communication over PC5. Similar to groupcast, broadcast is also 1-to-many
communication mode where there are multiple recipients of the message, except
that the number of recipients in broadcast mode is unknown. If the same L2 ID
is used by a UE for a certain period of time, it is possible to track and
identify the source of the message.
It should be noted that other V2X technologies (e.g. IEEE 1609 and ETSI ITS)
which are based on IEEE 802.11p [14] define communication modes equivalent to
\"broadcast\", \"groupcast\", and \"unicast\" mode. In these standards, the
use of \"pseudonym\" for privacy protection purpose is applicable to all
communication modes. On the contrary, TS 23.287 [4] clause 6.3.3.2 discusses
the periodic L2 ID change in unicast mode only.
According to TS 23.287 [4] clauses 5.1.2.1 and 5.6.1.1, the privacy support
requirement is determined based on the type of V2X service (e.g. PSIDs or ITS-
AIDs of the V2X applications), and it is independent of the type of
communication mode (i.e. broadcast, groupcast, and unicast). Therefore, it
means that privacy requirement is applicable to all communication modes.
It should be noted that, in broadcast mode, any entity can receive the
messages and who should receive the messages is not managed (i.e. it is not
known who is listening). In this respect, the privacy needs in broadcast mode
is even more acute than unicast or groupcast modes.
### 5.8.2 Security threats
An adversary that is capable of connecting and linking L2 identities to a real
or a long-term eV2X endpoint identity will be able to track and trace the
endpoint in space and time. Such trackability and linkability will be a
privacy attack on eV2X endpoint that transmits the broadcast messages.
### 5.8.3 Potential security requirements
The 5G System shall provide means for mitigating linkability attacks on L2
identities in eV2X broadcast communications.
The 5G System shall provide means for mitigating trackability attacks on L2
identities in eV2X broadcast communications.
## 5.9 Key Issue #9: Minimizing the impact of privacy protection mechanism in
the application layer communication
### 5.9.1 Key issue details
Key issues in KI #1, #3, and #8 describes the need for privacy protection in
unicast, groupcast, and broadcast modes. The solution for this requirement is
met by introducing a mechanism where the UE periodically changes its L2 ID and
communicate it to the peer UE(s). This procedure is also described in the eV2X
stage 2 in TS 23.287 [4] clause 6.3.3.2.
It should be noted that the application layer is unaware of such lower layer
identity change. This implies that it is a normal course of event where the L2
ID of the communication session changes while the application layer
communication continues over a longer period of time. In this scenario, the
application layer communication should not be disrupted (i.e. should not be
lost or delayed more than a tolerable threshold in low latency V2X
communication over PC5 interface). Given that typical V2X communication over
PC5 interface require very low latency such as basic safety messages to avoid
collision, etc., delay or loss of application communication may potentially
results in the difference between accident and no-accident.
The example scenario below illustrates the situation where the L2 ID change
event can potentially cause disruption in the application layer communication.
Figure 5.9.1-1: Relative timing of application layer and L2 ID update events
(unicast mode)
The event (C) in Figure 5.9.1-1 indicates that the receiving UE is not able to
correctly receive the application layer message. It is due to the fact that
the application layer event and L2 ID update event occur independently,
combined with the relative timing difference of when the new L2 ID becomes
effective in both sending and receiving UEs.
Situation such as this needs to be avoided.
In addition, in case of groupcast or broadcast mode where there are multiple
peer UEs present in the communication, L2 ID update request message (message
#1) may be missed by one or more of the peer UEs. In such case, synchronized
L2 ID update by all member UEs is an extra challenge to ensure application
layer messages are correctly received by all member UEs.
One possible solution is the sending UE to buffer the application layer
messages until the L2 ID change procedure is completed by all UEs involved.
However, considering the potential consequence described above, buffering will
only lead to delay, thus it is not an acceptable solution in the environment
where reliable and low latency communication is mandatory (basic safety
messages). Therefore, different solution is needed to ensure all UEs in the
communication can receive application layer messages at all time independent
of the periodic L2 ID update event.
### 5.9.2 Security threats
NOTE: No security threats are addressed in the present document.
### 5.9.3 Potential security requirements
NOTE: No security requirements are addressed in the present document.
## 5.10 Key Issue #10: UP security policy handling for PC5 and Uu interface
### 5.10.1 Key issue details
This key issue addresses the security aspects of key issue #22: Support for
operation modes selection for V2V communications in TR 23.795 [9].
According to the TR 23.795 [9], V2V should be supported via PC5 mode for
direct V2V communication and/or Uu mode for indirect V2V communication
considering KPI improvement. Solution #27: Switching the mode of operation for
V2V communications controlled by network and triggered by V2X Application
Enabler (VAE) was proposed, i.e.
\- The V2X Application Enabler (VAE) server triggers switching the user plane
configuration from direct (PC5) to in-direct (Uu) V2V, when the side-link
conditions/QoS are expected to downgrade for single or pre-defined group of
V2X-UEs (e.g. based on information from V2X UEs or from V2X application
specific server).
\- The VAE server triggers switching the user plane configuration from
indirect (Uu) to direct (PC5) V2V, when the resource situation or network QoS
are expected to downgrade for single or pre-defined group of V2X-UEs (based on
the received monitoring events and/or network analytics).
Figure 5.10.1-1: Switching from direct (PC5) to indirect (Uu) V2V
communications
For the Uu interface, 5G network already defined the on-demand user plane
security mechanism to support the flexibility UP protection according to the
DNN, or NSSAI. However, after switching from Uu to PC5, the Uu data will be
transferred within the PC5 interface. The 5G network may enforce different
activation on user data sent via PC5 and Uu. In this case, the attacker may
perform some attacking methods (e.g. jamming) to trigger the communication
mode switch for user data attack.
### 5.10.2 Security threats
If the attacker knows that confidentiality protection is enabled on PC5 not on
the Uu, the attacker could perform jamming on the PC5 interface, in order to
trigger the communication mode switch from PC5 to Uu, and then intercept the
data transferred over the Uu interface. For the integrity protection, the
attacker can similarly trigger the switching to degrade the data protection,
and modify the user data.
### 5.10.3 Potential security requirements
If encryption of user plane data is enabled on the PC5, then encryption shall
be enabled for Uu as well after switching from PC5 to Uu, and vice versa.
If integrity protection of user plane data is enabled on the PC5, then
integrity protection shall be enabled for Uu as well after switching from PC5
to Uu, and vice versa.
## 5.11 Key Issue #11: Security for eV2X broadcast messages over PC5
### 5.11.1 Key issue details
In TR 23.786 [5] and key issues in previous clauses, the security of the
unicast and groupcast communication over PC5 has been mentioned. However, the
security of broadcast communication has not been mentioned. Broadcast messages
in some cases may be sent by a UE periodically to inform the other vehicles
about its driving status or it may be event-driven where information about a
specific event is being broadcasted. The attacks on such messages may lead to
the receiving UEs being misinformed about the road conditions or may lead them
to take wrong decisions. Hence the security of broadcast messages is also to
be considered.
### 5.11.2 Security threats
An adversary that can maliciously modify broadcast input may mislead the
receiving UEs to make wrong decision/action. Maliciously deleted messages may
cause the receiving UE to fail to take action in time. Replayed messages may
cause wrong status of the road conditions for the receiving UEs.
### 5.11.3 Potential security requirements
NOTE: No security requirements are addressed in the present document.
###
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1: Privacy protection for unicast messages over PC5
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1: Privacy protection for unicast messages
over PC5.
The following solution mitigates the trackability and linkability attacks by
enabling both UEs to update their L2 ID and the Kd session ID (definition
below) simultaneously. It allows the UE to avoid having its previously used L2
identifier being indirectly associated with the Kd session ID and/or with its
peer UE\'s L2 ID. This is to be contrasted with the Link identifier update for
a unicast link procedure specified in TS 23.287 [4], which is considering only
the initiating UE changing its L2 ID, which is not considering the
trackability based on the Kd session ID and the peer\'s L2 ID.
This solution assumes that a security association identifier for the specific
link (called Kd session ID) is used to identify and/or retrieve the
corresponding security context as specified in TS 33.303 [6]. Kd session ID is
created by concatenating the identifier components from each peer, i.e. the
Most Significant Byte (MSB) of Kd session ID is from the initiating UE and the
Least Significant Byte (LSB) of Kd session ID is from the peer UE. Kd session
ID is transmitted with each packet as part of the PDCP header.
In this solution, UEs involved in a unicast communication update their
identifiers simultaneously, i.e., within the same procedure. The identifiers
(i.e. L2 IDs and the Kd session ID), included as cleartext within messages
sent over the unicast communication, are being changed. Both UEs start using
the new identifiers once the procedure is completed.
The initiating UE generates a new L2 ID and its portion of the Kd session ID.
The initiating UE sends its new identifiers to a peer UE. The peer UE
receiving these new identifiers also generates a new L2 ID and its own portion
of the Kd session ID. The peer UE sends its new identifiers to the initiating
UE and sends back the received identifiers from the initiating UE to
acknowledge them. The initiating UE receiving the new identifiers from its
peer UE completes the procedure by acknowledging their reception. A three-way
message exchange procedure is required with this solution since both UEs need
to change their identifiers during the same procedure and since these new
values need to be acknowledged by the peer/initiating UEs prior to start using
them.
All messages exchanged during this procedure involve the exchange of new
identifiers. These new identifiers, i.e., L2 ID and Kd session ID, need to be
confidentiality protected to circumvent linkage between the old L2 IDs and new
L2 IDs since the messages exchanged between the peers use the old L2 IDs and
old Kd session ID until the procedure is completed and newly assigned
identities are accepted. The new identities are being sent as a payload of the
previously established (e.g., unicast) communication and are protected as
such. Once the procedure is completed, both UEs start using the new
identifiers, i.e. new L2 IDs and new Kd session ID.
NOTE: Although this solution focuses on confidentiality protection, integrity
and replay protection is also possible using the established security
association.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
Figure 6.1.2-1 details procedure for Privacy protection for unicast messages
over PC5.
Figure 6.1.2-1 Procedure for Privacy protection for unicast messages over PC5
0) The initiating UE and peer UE have a protected unicast communication
established, providing confidentiality, integrity, and replay protection of
messages in Steps 2, 4, and 6.
1) The initiating UE generates its new L2 identifier and a new MSB of the Kd
session ID. Initiating UE may have received a trigger, e.g. from the upper
layer or a timer expiration.
2) The initiating UE sends the newly generated identifiers to the peer UE via
the already established unicast communication. The new identifiers are sent as
message payload thus are confidentiality, integrity and replay protected. The
old identifiers are still used for sending of Message 2, i.e., included within
their respective PDUs header(s) (V2X, PDCP), thus sent in cleartext.
3) The peer UE saves locally the received new identifiers from the initiating
UE. The peers UE generates new identifiers as well, i.e. a new peer UE\'s L2
ID and a new LSB of the Kd session ID.
4) The peer UE acknowledges the reception of the initiating UE\'s new
identifiers by sending a response message to the initiating UE and may specify
the received initiating UE\'s new identifiers. Peer UE also sends its own new
identifiers as message payload.
5) The initiating UE saves locally the received new identifiers from the peer
UE.
6) The initiating UE acknowledges the reception of the peer UE\'s new
identifiers by sending an acknowledgement message to the peer UE and may
include the received peer UE\'s new identifiers as message payload.
7) The initiating UE starts using its new identifiers, i.e. new L2 IDs and new
Kd session ID.
8) The peer UE receives the acknowledgement from the initiating UE and starts
using the new identifiers, i.e., new L2 IDs and new Kd session ID.
NOTE: It is a part of the Stage 2 work to decide if other PC5 messages besides
Link Identifier Update Request/Response may be used to exchange the L2 IDs and
Kd session IDs.
### 6.1.3 Evaluation
Solution #1 fully addresses requirements from Key Issue #1: Privacy protection
for unicast messages over PC5.
This solution mitigates the trackability and linkability attacks by enabling
both participating UEs to update their L2 IDs and the Kd session ID
simultaneously. It also allows the participating UEs to avoid the indirect
association between the previously used L2 identifier and the Kd session ID
with L2 ID of its peer UE.
L2 ID tracking is possible since the source and destination L2 IDs, which
identify a PC5 unicast communication, are sent as cleartext with each PC5
message. In addition, the security (i.e., confidentiality and integrity
protection) handled at the PDCP layer is using a Kd session ID that is also
sent in cleartext in the PDCP header of each PC5 message.
Per clause 6.1.1, a privacy protection mechanism for long duration unicast
communication over PC5 is needed to avoid L2 ID tracking.
However, the existing procedure adopted in TS 23.287 [4] (i.e., Link
Identifier Update procedure) is enabling only one of the participating UEs to
change its L2 ID at a time. Therefore, the existing procedure does not
mitigate trackability and linkability attacks from an eavesdropper who can
follow the Link Identifier Update procedure and link the old source L2 ID with
the new source L2 ID of a participating UE, by passively observing the Kd
session ID and/or the destination L2 ID which are left unchanged and exchanged
in cleartext before, during, and after the L2 ID update procedure.
## 6.2 Solution #2: Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #2: Security for eV2X unicast messages over
PC5 and more specifically the \"V2X Service oriented\" method.
During the unicast link establishment, a security association is created
between the peer UEs. Each peer UE keeps locally a security context containing
confidentiality and integrity keys. Each peer UE uses a portion of the session
identifier (i.e., Kd session ID) to identify and retrieve the security
context/keys when a message is received (to check its integrity and/or decrypt
it) or when a message needs to be sent (to encrypt it and/or protect it for
integrity). The session identifier is created by concatenating identifier
components from each peer UE, i.e. the Most Significant Byte (MSB) of Kd
session ID is from the initiating UE and the Least Significant Byte (LSB) of
Kd session ID is from the peer UE. Each UE uses its portion of the Kd session
ID (i.e., MSB or LSB) to retrieve the security context associated to the link.
The initiating UE broadcasts a Direct Communication Request (DCR) message
announcing a V2X service. This initial message is solely used as an
announcement message, i.e., no response is expected to be received. Instead,
each peer UE receiving the broadcast message and interested in the announced
V2X service initiates a unicast link establishment procedure, i.e., each peer
UE generates an MSB of the Kd session ID, creates a security context, and
sends a DCR message to the initiating UE specifying the announced V2X service
and its generated MSB of Kd session ID. The initiating UE, upon receiving a
DCR message, creates a unique security context, saves the received MSB of Kd
session ID, generates a LSB of session ID, derives the security keys, and
responds to the peer UE by sending a Direct Security Mode (DSM) Command
message including the LSB of Kd session ID. The peer UE, upon receiving the
DSM Command message from the source UE, updates its local security context,
derives the security keys, and sends back a DSM Complete message. The
initiating UE completes the unicast link establishment by sending a Direct
Communication Accept (DCA) message to the peer UE.
This solution ensures that a different security context is established for
each peer UE during the V2X unicast link establishment using the V2X Service-
oriented method. An issue with existing procedures in [4] TS 23.287 and [6] TS
33.303 stems from the fact that all interested UEs reply to the same broadcast
DCR message that includes the MSB of Kd session ID from the initiating UE.
When all interested UEs send back a DSM message to create a security
association with the initiating UE, they all get associated to the same
security context, identified by the MSB of Kd session ID on the initiating UE.
To ensure that the initiating UE is able to establish a different security
context for each peer UEs during the V2X unicast link establishment, the
procedure avoids having the same MSB of Kd session ID being referred to by
multiple peer UEs sending a DSM Command message as a response to the broadcast
DCR message announcing a V2X service. Instead, each peer UEs allocates its MSB
of Kd session ID and includes it in a reply using a DCR message. The
initiating UE allocates a unique LSB of Kd session ID per received DCR message
(i.e. per peer UE) to identify the corresponding security context and replies
by initiating the Direct Security Mode procedure. This solution mitigates man-
in-the-middle attacks during V2X unicast link security establishment between
the initiating UE and each peer UE by using the protection provided by
existing DSM Command/Complete mechanism.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
The solution shown in Figure 6.2.2-1 details a procedure for Security for eV2X
unicast messages over PC5.
Figure 6.2.2-1: Procedure for Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5
1\. The initiating UE broadcasts a DCR message to announce a V2X service.
2\. The peer UE1 is interested by the announced V2X service. It initiates the
unicast communication establishment with initiating UE. The peer UE1 generates
the MSB of Kd session ID and sends it via a DCR message to the initiating UE,
specifying the V2X service it is interested in. A security context is created.
2a. The peer UE3 is also interested by the announced V2X service so it
initiates a unicast link communication with initiating UE. An MSB of Kd
session ID is generated and sent to the initiating UE together with the V2X
service.
3\. The initiating UE receiving a DCR message from the peer UE1 creates a
security context and saves the received MSB of Kd session ID. An LSB of Kd
session is generated and saved into the security context. The LSB of Kd
session is sent to the peer UE1 using DSM Command message.
3a. The initiating UE also receives a DCR message from the peer UE3. It
creates another security context and saves the received MSB of Kd session ID.
Another LSB of Kd session is generated and saved into this security context.
The corresponding LSB of Kd session is sent to the peer UE3 using DSM Command
message.
4\. The peer UE1 updates its security context with the received LSB of Kd
session ID and replies with a DSM Complete message.
4a. The peer UE3 also updates its security context with the received LSB of Kd
session ID and replies with a DSM Complete message.
5\. The initiating UE completes the unicast link establishment by sending a
DCA message to the peer UE1.
5a. Same thing with the peer UE3, i.e. the initiating UE completes the unicast
link establishment by sending a DCA message to the peer UE3
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
Solution #2 fully addresses key issue #2: Security for eV2X unicast messages
over PC5 requirements.
This solution ensures that a different security context is established for
each peer UE during the V2X unicast link establishment using the V2X Service-
oriented method.
The V2X Service-oriented method adopted in TS 23.287 [4] combines the
Discovery procedure, i.e., advertisement of supported V2X services, with the
establishment of a unicast link. Using this method, the DCR message, which is
the first message sent during the Unicast Link Establishment procedure, is
used by a UE to announce the V2X service it supports and, at the same time, to
initiate the establishment of a unicast link. Note that the DCR message is
broadcasted instead of being sent to a specific UE.
As described in clause 6.2.1, the DCR message is associated with a unique
security context identifier which is allocated in the initiating UE. The UEs
interested in the announced V2X service proceed with the Unicast Link
Establishment procedure by replying to the received DCR message.
The problem at hand stems from the combination of the Discovery and Unicast
Link Establishment procedures. To remedy this problem, the Solution #2
decouples these two procedures by using the existing initial DCR message for
initiating the Discovery procedure and using a second DCR \"reply\" message to
proceed with the Unicast Link Establishment procedure for the responding UEs.
By using this solution, the initiating UE is able to establish a different
security context for each peer UE when receiving a DCR \"reply\" message.
## 6.3 Solution #3: Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #2: Security for eV2X unicast messages over
PC5 and more specifically the \"V2X Service oriented\" method.
NOTE: This solution adheres to eV2X architecture (TS 23.287 [4]).
During the unicast link establishment, a security association is created
between the peer UEs to be able to secure the link. Each peer UE keeps locally
its security context containing keys to encrypt/decrypt messages and to
integrity protect them. A portion of the session identifier (i.e., Kd session
ID) is used by each peer UE to identify and retrieve the security context/keys
when a message is received (to check its integrity and/or decrypt it) or when
a message needs to be sent (to encrypt it and/or protect it for integrity).
The session identifier is created by concatenating identifier components from
each peer, i.e. the Most Significant Byte (MSB) of Kd session ID is from the
initiating UE and the Least Significant Byte (LSB) of Kd session ID is from
the peer UE. Each UE uses its portion of the Kd session ID (i.e. MSB or LSB)
to retrieve the security context associated to the link. The security context
is used at the PDCP layer and only the MSB/LSB of Kd session ID are used to
retrieve the security context (as opposed to L2 IDs).
In contrast to solution #2, this solution proposes modifications to be handled
at the PDCP layer (i.e. local security context retrieval) while solution #2
requires handling at the eV2X layer (i.e. unicast link establishment
procedure). Further, compared solution #2, the initiating UE uses the entire
session identifier (i.e., Kd session ID) to retrieve the security context
associated with the link instead of using a portion of it, i.e. the MSB of Kd
session ID.
In case of a second peer UE sending an SMC message containing the same LSB of
Kd session ID than a first peer UE, the initiating UE rejects the second peer
UE SMC. The second peer UE retries the SMC procedure with a different value
for LSB Kd session ID so that initiating UE uses a unique Kd session ID for
each peer UE.
The initiating UE generates the MSB of Kd session ID and broadcasts a Direct
Communication Request (DCR) message including the announced V2X service and
the MSB of Kd session ID. Each peer UE receiving the broadcast message and
interested in the announced V2X service generates an LSB of the Kd session ID,
creates a security context associated with the Kd session ID and sends a
Direct Security Mode (DSM) Command message to the initiating UE specifying the
announced V2X service and its generated LSB of Kd session ID. The initiating
UE, upon receiving a DSM Command message, forms the session identifier by
concatenating the MSB and LSB of the Kd session ID, creates a unique security
context to be associated with the Kd session ID, saves the received LSB of Kd
session ID with its previously generated MSB of Kd session ID in this context,
and derives the security keys. The initiating UE responds to the peer UE by
sending a DSM Complete message. The PDCP layers on both UEs use the entire Kd
session ID to retrieve the security context (as opposed to only the MSB/LSB of
Kd session ID).
This solution ensures that a different security context is established for
each peer UE during the V2X unicast link establishment using the V2X Service-
oriented method. An issue with existing procedures in [4] TS 23.287 and [6] TS
33.303 stems from the fact that all interested UEs reply to the same broadcast
DCR message that includes the MSB of Kd session ID from the initiating UE.
When all interested UEs send back DSMs to create a security association with
the initiating UE, they get associated to the same security context,
identified by the MSB of Kd session ID of the initiating UE. To ensure that
the initiating UE establishes a different security context with each peer UE
during the V2X unicast link establishment, the procedure avoids having
multiple security contexts being associated to the same MSB of Kd session ID
when multiple peer UEs send a DSM Command message as a response to the
broadcast DCR message announcing a V2X service. To do so, the initiating UE
uses the entire Kd session ID to identify the security context for a given
peer UE, instead of using only the MSB of Kd session ID. This solution
mitigates man-in-the-middle attacks during V2X unicast link security
establishment between the initiating UE and each peer UE by using the
protection provided by existing DSM Command/Complete mechanism.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
The solution shown in Figure 6.3.2-1 details a procedure for security for eV2X
unicast messages over PC5 where the initiating UE uses the entire session
identifier (i.e., Kd session ID) to locate the security context.
Figure 6.3.2-1: Procedure for Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5
1\. The initiating UE broadcasts a DCR message to announce a V2X service. An
MSB of Kd session ID is specified.
2\. The peer UE1 is interested by the announced V2X service so it generates an
LSB of Kd session ID and sends it via a DSM Command message to the initiating
UE, specifying the V2X service it is interested in. The MSB of Kd session ID
received on the DCR message may be specified as well.
2a. The peer UE3 is also interested by the announced V2X service so it
generates an LSB of Kd session ID and replies to the initiating UE by sending
a DSM Command message which includes the LSB of Kd session ID and the V2X
service. The MSB of Kd session ID received on the DCR message may be specified
as well.
3\. The initiating UE receiving a DSM Command message from the peer UE1 forms
the session identifier by concatenating the MSB and LSB of the Kd session ID
(i.e. MSB of Kd session ID + LSB of Kd session ID #1). The initiating UE
verifies that this session identifier is unique and creates a security context
to be associated with this session identifier. The received LSB of Kd session
ID and its previously generated MSB of Kd session ID are saved in this
context. The initiating UE replies with a DSM Complete message and may specify
the received LSB of Kd session ID.
3a.The initiating UE also receives a DSM Command message from the peer UE3.
The initiating UE forms a second session identifier by concatenating the MSB
of Kd session ID with the LSB of Kd session ID #3, verifies its uniqueness and
creates a second security context to be associated with this second session
identifier. The initiating UE replies with a DSM Complete message and may
specify the received LSB of Kd session ID.
In the case where a LSB of Kd session ID collision (i.e., #3 has the same
value as #1) is detected by the initiating UE, the initiating UE rejects the
Direct Security Mode Command message (i.e. sends a Direct Security Mode Reject
message) with a cause value specifying that the LSB of Kd session ID is not
unique. The peer UE3 receiving a Direct Security Mode Reject message looks at
the cause value and if the cause is related to the session identifier
uniqueness then the peer UE3 generates a new LSB of Kd session ID and replies
to the initiating UE again (i.e. sends a DSM Command message). The peer UE3
forgets the former LSB of Kd session ID.
4\. The peer UE1 completes the unicast link establishment by sending a Direct
Communication Accept (DCA) message.
4a. The peer UE3 completes the unicast link establishment by sending a DCA
message.
5\. The peer UE1 sends a message (i.e. signaling or data message) to the
initiating UE. The message may be confidentiality and/or integrity protected.
The session identifier is specified on the message.
5a. The initiating UE when receiving this message uses the entire session
identifier (i.e. Kd session ID) to retrieve the corresponding security context
and check the integrity and/or decrypt the message.
### 6.3.3 Evaluation
Solution #3 fully addresses key issue #2: Security for eV2X unicast messages
over PC5 requirements.
This solution ensures that a different security context is established for
each peer UE during the V2X unicast link establishment using the V2X Service-
oriented method.
Solution #3 adheres to Rel-16 eV2X architecture.
## 6.4 Solution #4: Privacy protection for unicast messages over PC5
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #1: Privacy protection for unicast messages
over PC5.
Note: This solution adheres to eV2X architecture (TS 23.287 [4]).
The following solution mitigates the trackability and linkability attacks by
enabling both UEs to update their L2 ID and the Kd session ID simultaneously.
It allows the UE to avoid having its previously used L2 identifier being
indirectly associated with the Kd session ID and/or with its peer UE\'s L2 ID.
In this solution, UEs involved in a unicast communication update their
identifiers simultaneously, i.e., within the same procedure. The identifiers
(i.e. L2 IDs and the Kd session ID), included as cleartext within messages
sent over the unicast communication, are being changed. UEs start using the
new identifiers once the procedure is completed.
This solution assumes that a security association identifier for the specific
link (called Kd session ID) is used to identify and/or retrieve the
corresponding security context as specified in [6] TS 33.303. Kd session ID is
created by concatenating the identifier components from each peer, i.e., the
Most Significant Byte (MSB) of Kd session ID is from the initiating UE and the
Least Significant Byte (LSB) of K~D-sess~ ID is from the peer UE. Kd session
ID is transmitted with each packet as part of the PDCP header. The existing
rekeying procedure updates the security context content including its
identifier, Kd session ID. This solution adds the possibility of updating the
L2 IDs as well during the rekeying procedure.
The initiating UE generates a new L2 ID and triggers the rekeying procedure to
update its own portion of the Kd session ID. The initiating UE sends its new
identifiers, (i.e., L2 ID and MSB of Kd session ID), to a peer UE using the
rekeying procedure. The peer UE, while receiving these new identifiers, also
generates a new L2 ID and its own portion of the Kd session ID. The peer UE
additionally generates new keys for the encryption and integrity protection
and sends its new identifiers to the initiating UE. The initiating UE
receiving the new identifiers from its peer UE generates new encryption and
integrity protection keys and sends back a message to the peer UE
acknowledging the reception of its new identifiers. The peer UE completes the
rekeying procedure by sending a response message. All messages exchanged
during this procedure involve the transmission of security protected new
identifiers. Once the procedure is completed, both UEs start using the new
identifiers, i.e. new L2 IDs and new Kd session ID.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
The solution shown in Figure 6.4.2-1 details a procedure for Privacy
protection for unicast messages over PC5. The rekeying procedure is updated
with the ability to exchange the new initiating and peer L2 IDs between the
communicating UEs, along with the new Kd session ID.
Figure 6.4.2-1: Procedure for Privacy protection for unicast messages over PC5
0) The initiating UE and peer UE have a unicast communication established.
1) The initiating UE generates its new L2 ID and a new MSB of the Kd session
ID. The initiating UE triggers the rekeying procedure to exchange the new
identifiers with the peer UE. The initiating UE may have received a trigger,
e.g. from the upper layer or a timer expiration.
2) The initiating UE sends the newly generated identifiers to the peer UE via
the already established unicast communication. The new identifiers are
confidentiality, integrity and replay protected and sent as message payload.
The old identifiers are still used for sending of Message 2, i.e., included
within their respective PDU header(s) (V2X/PDCP).
3) The peer UE generates new identifiers as well, i.e., a new L2 ID and a new
LSB of the Kd session ID. The peer UE saves locally the received new
identifiers from the initiating UE. The peer UE updates the security
association with the new Kd session ID and generates new keys.
4) The peer UE acknowledges the reception of the initiating UE\'s new
identifiers by sending its own new identifiers, i.e., its new L2 ID and new
LSB of Kd session ID and may also include the initiating UE\'s new
identifiers. Those identifiers are confidentiality, integrity and replay
protected and sent as message payload. The rekeying procedure is assumed to be
performed with an already established security context. The L2 IDs and MSB/LSB
of Kd session ID IEs are ciphered using the available security context while
the whole DSM message is integrity protected also using the available security
context (this is similar to the partial ciphering functionality on Uu as per
[8] TS 33.501, clause 6.4.6).
5) The initiating UE saves locally the received new identifiers from the peer
UE. New keys are generated. The security association is updated with the new
Kd session ID and the new keys.
6) The initiating UE acknowledges the reception of the peer UE\'s new
identifiers and may send them back to the peer UE to do so. The DSM Complete
is confidentiality and integrity protected using the new security context as
per existing procedure.
7) The peer UE receives the acknowledgement from the initiating UE and
completes the rekeying procedure.
8) From this point on, the UEs use the new identifiers and security keys for
their communication, i.e., new L2 IDs, new Kd session ID and new keys for
security protection.
NOTE: It is left to Stage 2 work to decide if other PC5 messages besides
Direct Rekeying Request/Response may additionally be used to exchange the L2
IDs and Kd session ID.
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
Solution #4 addresses key issue #1: Privacy protection for unicast messages
over PC5 requirements.
This solution mitigates trackability and linkability attacks by enabling both
UEs to update their L2 ID and the Kd session ID simultaneously. It also
enables the UE to avoid having its previously used L2 identifier being
indirectly associated with the Kd session ID and/or with its peer UE\'s L2 ID.
Solution #4 adheres to Rel-16 eV2X architecture.
During a unicast communication, there is a need to periodically run the
Rekeying procedure and the Link Identifier Update procedure. In some cases,
these procedures, involving exchange of signalling messages between the peer
UEs, need to be executed one after another. In these scenarios, adding the
Link Identifier Update functionality to the Rekeying procedure considerably
reduces the signalling load between two peers and the associated signaling
overhead by avoiding the execution of two procedures one after the other
(e.g., back to back).
This improvement, while reducing the signalling overhead, comes with the cost
of having to partially cipher the DSM Command message since the new IDs have
to be exchanged confidentiality protected. For that, the initiating UE sends
the DSM Command message with the existing IEs (e.g. Sequence Number, UE
Security Capabilities, etc.) in cleartext, as usual. Only the new L2 IDs and
new Kd session ID, added to the DSM Command message, are ciphered using the
existing security context. The whole DSM Command message is integrity
protected.
Hence, the incremental complexity of doing partial ciphering on the UE is
minimal and justified due to the savings achieved by the reduction of
signalling overhead between the UEs.
## 6.5 Solution #5: Security protection of service authorisation
### 6.5.1 Introduction
This solution addresses key issue #6 \'Security of the UE service
authorization and revocation\' in clause 5.6.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
The procedures of V2X service authorisation is specified in clause 5.1 of TS
23.287 [4], and allow RAT(s) per PLMN basis are provisioned by PCF to UE or by
Application server via PCF. The protection of the procedures is provided by
security procedures in TS 33.501 [8].
NOTE: Mitigation of misbehaviour of unauthorised UE(s) for V2X communication
over PC5 could be supported in the application layer.
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
NOTE: No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
## 6.6 Solution #6: V2X Group Key Provisioning
### 6.6.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #5 by secure provisioning of the group key
for multicast via NAS signalling. The normal procedures for UDM -- 3^rd^ party
AS exposure are reused via NEF for the interaction between UDM and V2X Key
Management Server (KMF).
### 6.6.2 Solution details
The V2X Key Management Server (KMF) may be co-located with the V2X AS and is
responsible for the group key management.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="4.004861111111111in"}
Figure 6.6.2-1: Group Key Provisioning via NAS Transport
1\. The UE may send a UE Policy Provisioning Request to the PCF to retrieve
keys for one or more V2X Group IDs within a NAS uplink NAS transport message.
The UE includes in the NAS message a V2X Security Container that contains the
UEs security capabilities and one or more Group IDs (identified by destination
layer-2 ID) that the UE is interested to retrieve updated keys.
2\. The AMF transparently forwards the message to the PCF within an
Npcf_UEPolicyControl_Update service message.
3\. The PCF extracts the information from the V2X Security Container and
retrieves the V2X Security Context(s) (V2X Group Key (VGK), VGK ID, encryption
algorithm identifier and expiry time) from the V2X Key Management Function.
The PCF then provides the retrieved V2X Security Context(s) to the UE by
updating the V2X configuration information. The PCF may use the exposure
service via NEF.
4\. The PCF sends a UE Configuration Update message for transparent policy
delivery (as defined in clause 4.2.4.3 of TS 23.502 [13]) to the UE via AMF in
a Namf_N1N2Communication message. The UE Configuration Update message includes
an additional container that includes the V2X Security Context(s) for the
group ID(s) according to the UE\'s request.
5\. The AMF forwards the UE Configuration Update message to the UE.
### 6.6.3 Evaluation
NOTE: No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
## 6.7 Solution #7: Cross-RAT PC5 control authorization indication
### 6.7.1 Introduction
This solution address key issue #7 \'Cross-RAT PC5 control authorization
indication\' in clause 5.7. It is applicable for unicast mode as V2X
communication over Uu reference point is only unicast.
### 6.7.2 Solution details
A new field \'Cross-RAT PC5 type\', is added in the Access and Mobility
subscription data type to indicate whether LTE Uu controls LTE and/or NR
sidelink from the cellular network, and whether NR Uu controls LTE and/or NR
sidelink from the cellular network.
\'Cross-RAT PC5 type\' is obtained by the AMF from the UDM as a part of the
subscription data during the registration procedure and stores it as a part of
the UE context. This information is included in the NGAP message from AMF to
NG-RAN, which it uses for the resource management of UE\'s PC5 transmission
for V2X services in network scheduled mode.
If cross-RAT PC5 control authorization indication information is to be
changed, the AMF notifies NG-RAN via the NGAP UE Context Modification Request
message.
The integrity protection of this new field is provided by security procedures
in TS 33.501 [8].
### 6.7.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the requirements of the key issue #7. The protection
of the new field \'Cross RAT PC5\' type can be addressed by NDS.
## 6.8 Solution #8: Deriving PC5 layer keys based on higher layer keys
### 6.8.1 Introduction
This solution address part of key issue #2 on security for eV2X unicast
messages over PC5. In particular, the solution covers the establishment of PC5
security from existing V2X keys that are used to provide security above the
PC5 layer.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
This solution assumes that there are keys in the UE that are related to an
application that can be used for the purposes of providing security for that
application. These keys do not have to belong to a specific application but
could be used for several applications (whether these different apps run over
the same PC5 bearer or not is outside the scope of this solution).
The UE can be provisioned with information (which may be based on local
regulatory requirements) on what security is allowed and/or needed for each of
the V2X service.
The solution is to not standardise a particular method of generating K~D~ but
rather provide a framework and available IEs in the PC5 signalling in the 3GPP
specification to allow multiple methods of establishing K~D~ to work. This is
in effect a future proof approach to establishing V2X security at the PC5
layer by taking advantage of the effort of multiple standards fora. It means
that any methods for establishing K~D~ could be quickly deployed without the
needs for standardisation work in 3GPP.
The below message flows assume the security properties of ProSe one-to-one-
link establishment in terms of handling K~D~ ID, establishment of K~D-sess~
etc -- see clause 6.5 of TS 33.303 [6]. The interface between the application
layer and PC5 layer internal to the UE is not proposed to be standardised.
They are shown to clarify the responsibility of each layer.
The Key_Est_Info in the below flow carries the necessary information for the
application layer to establish the keys. At each step of the flow (and the
possible multiple times that step 3 can be run), the Key_Est_Info contains
different data required for key establishment at the application layer, but
such data is transparent to the PC5 layer.
The following figure shows the message flows for establishing security at PC5
using the key established at the layer above PC5.
Figure 6.8.2-1: Message flow for the establishment of PC5 security using app
layer keys
The steps are as follows:
1\. The application layer in vehicle 1 determines it needs to establish a PC5
connection with vehicle 2.
a. The application layer sends the relevant Key_Est_Info to the PC5 layer.
b. The PC5 layer of vehicle 1 sends the Direct Connection Request message
including the Key_Est_Info received from the application layer to vehicle 2.
c. The PC5 layer in vehicle 2 passes the received Key_Est_Info to the
application layer in vehicle 2.
2\. This step is optional and is omitted if the establishment of K~D~ is
completed without needing further information from vehicle 1. In such a case,
step 3 is also omitted and the flow proceeds with step 5.
a. The application layer in vehicle 2 sends Key_Est_Info to the PC5 layer of
vehicle 2. K~D~ is also be sent if available.
b. The PC5 layer in Vehicle 2 sends a Direct Auth and Key Establish message
(see clause 6.5.5.2 of TS 33.303 [6]) including the Key_Est_Info to vehicle 1.
c. The PC5 layer in vehicle 1 passes the Key_Est_Info to the application layer
of vehicle 1.
3\. This step is optional and is omitted if the establishment of K~D~ is
completed without needing further information from vehicle 2. If used, it can
be repeated multiple times and is a step 4 (with mandatory Key_Est_Info)
followed by a Step 2.
4\. This step is only used if step 2 is performed.
a. The application layer in vehicle 1 sends Key_Est_Info to the PC5 layer in
vehicle 1 if further information from vehicle 1 is needed to complete the
establishment of K~D~. K~D~ can also be sent if available.
b. The PC5 layer of vehicle 1 sends the Key_Est_Info (if any) to the PC5 layer
of vehicle 2.
c. If any Key_Est_Info was received, the PC5 layer of vehicle 2 passes the
received Key_Est_Info to the application layer of vehicle 2.
5\. Step 5a is only needed if steps 2 to 4 were omitted or step 4c was
performed.
a. The application layer in vehicle 2 sends Key_Est_Info if any further
information from vehicle 2 is needed to complete the authentication to the PCS
layer of vehicle 2. K~D~ can also be sent if available.
b. The PC5 layer of vehicle 2 sends a Direct Security Mode Command to the PC5
layer of vehicle 1 including any Key_Est_Info provided if any in step 5a.
c. If the Direct Security Mode Command contained Key_Est_Info, then the PC5
layer of vehicle 1 passes this onto the application layer of vehicle 1.
6\. Step 6a is only needed if step 5c was performed.
a. The application layer in vehicle 1 sends K~D~ to the PC5 layer in vehicle
1.
b. The PC5 layer in vehicle sends the Direct Security Mode Command to the PC5
layer of vehicle 1. At this point, the PC5-RRC and PC5-S signalling protection
are successfully activated.
NOTE: PC5-RRC will use the same algorithms for confidentiality and integrity
protection that were chosen for PC5-S. Hence, from this point, both PC5-S and
PC5-RRC messages can be confidentiality and integrity protected except further
Direct Security Mode Command messages which will only be integrity protected
using the new security context.
7\. The PC5 layer in vehicle 2 responds with the Direct Communication Accept
message
The Key_Est_Info is a transparent container as far as the PC5 signalling is
concerned, i.e. the PC5 layer does not need to understand the contents.
Between the PC5 layer and the application layer on the vehicles, the
information contained in Key_Est_Info can be passed in an implementation
specific manner, e.g. as one block or several IEs.
### 6.8.3 Evaluation
The use of a generic container for carrying the key establishment traffic has
the advantage that it allows new key establishment methods to be introduced
without 3GPP involvement. This means that a standards organisation other than
3GPP can define a new method of creating the PC5 layer keys without requiring
standardisation in 3GPP specification. This is particularly relevant for V2X
as this is an industry that has spent much time working on security solution
that need to satisfy quite rigorous privacy regulation(s) which are often
region specific. Also use of these different authentication methods and their
corresponding application specific credentials will be needed as it is not
clear that there will be one global solution that can meet all V2X deployment
needs.
At the same time, this proposal does not prevent 3GPP from developing a
solution, if a need arises at a later date. This could be done by, simply
specifying the information elements needed for the authentication method and
how they are included in the generic container for each message between the
UEs. Hence this approach provides the flexibility to use authentication
methods that can be standardised both inside and outside of 3GPP without
requiring a change to PC5 layer implementations and the Information Elements
carried on the PC5 interface.
The privacy mechanisms given in clauses 5.6.1.1 and 6.3.3.2 of TS 23.287 [4]
provide privacy protection of the UEs involved in the unicast session from
other UEs and/or attackers tracking them based on the PC5 parameters sent as
part of the PC5 transmissions. In order to get privacy protection from the
other participant in the unicast session, it is necessary to drop the unicast
connection and re-initialise it with a different long term credential. This
provides further justification for allowing the unicast session to be based on
higher layer keys as it prevents the need to co-ordinate the change of higher
layer credentials with PC5 layer credentials in order to preserve the privacy
requested by the application.
## 6.9 Solution #9: Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5 using ECCSI
and SAKKE
### 6.9.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key issue #1 Privacy Protection for unicast messages
over PC5 and key issue #2: Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5
Procedures in this solution is based on one-to-one bearer level security
mechanism which is similar to that of ProSe (specified in TS 33.303[6], clause
6.5.7) Solution proposed does not rely on ProSe Architecture.
The solution uses the \"Elliptic Curve-based Certificateless Signatures for
Identity-based Encryption\" (ECCSI) signature scheme, as defined in IETF RFC
6507 [10]. And, Sakai-Kasahara Key Encryption (SAKKE), as defined in IETF RFC
6508 [11] to generate a shared secret that is used as a KD session ID (root
key) for establishing a secure connection between the two UEs.
The UEs are provisioned with the required credentials (as defined in IETF RFC
6507 [10] and IETF RFC 6508 [11]) in advance, when the UEs have secure access
to their Key Management Server (KMS). The KMS, common root of trust for the
UEs, provisions the UEs with a set of credentials for ECCSI and SAKKE schemes.
Upon successful provisioning for ECCSI, each UE will be configured with the
public key of the KMS, and a set of credentials associated with the UE\'s
identity, which are: Secret Signing Key (SSK) and Public Validation Token
(PVT). The UE needs to act as \"signer\" and \"verifier.\" As a signer, the UE
uses its SSK to sign a message, and when acting as a verifier, the UE uses the
public key of the KMS and the signer\'s PVT to verify the signature.
Upon successful provisioning for SAKKE, each UE will be configured with the
public key of the KMS, and a Receiver Secret Key (RSK) which is associated
with the UE\'s identity. The sender UE uses the receiver\'s UE identity
(receiving entity for SAKKE payload) and the public key of the KMS to create
an encrypted SAKKE payload. The receiving UE uses its identity, its Receiver
Secret Key and the public key of the KMS to decrypt SAKKE payload.
### 6.9.2 Solution details
#### 6.9.2.1 Initial Security Link Establishment
The solution shown in Figure 6.9.2.1-1 and 6.9.2.1-2 details a procedure for
Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5.
Figure 6.9.2.1-1: Procedure for Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5
(V2X Service Oriented)
Figure 6.9.2.1-2: Procedure for Security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5
(UE Oriented)
1\. UE-1 wishing to engage in one-to-one V2X Direct Communication with UE-2
sends a Direct Communication Request message including the following
parameters in addition to parameters described in TS 23.287 [4] clause 6.3.3:
\- UE-1 Info = upper-layer information identifying the user of UE-1. This
information is used to derive the Signer\'s identifier (used by ECCSI) as
shown in figure 6.9.2.1-1, OR
\- V2X Service Info: V2X Service requesting L2 link establishment, e.g., PSID
or ITS-AIDs of the V2X application. (Application Layer ID) as shown in figure
6.9.2.1-2
\- SIGN -- an ECCSI signature (as defined in IETF RFC 6507 [10) of the Direct
Communication Request message. The signature is computed over the UE-1 Info
parameters or the application based id and the Nonce 1.
2\. Upon reception of the Direct Communication Request message, UE-2 verifies
the signature payload SIGN. If the verification test is successful, UE-2
presents the authenticated identity (\"UE-1 Info\") to the UE-2. UE-2 sends a
Direct Communication Accept message including the following parameters:
\- UE-2 Info = upper-layer information identifying the user of UE-2. This
information is used to derive the Signer\'s identifier (used by ECCSI) as
shown in figure 6.9.2.1-1 OR
\- Announced V2X Service Info: V2X Service requesting L2 link establishment,
e.g. PSID or ITS-AIDs of the V2X application. (Application Layer ID of the UE)
as shown in figure 6.9.2.1-2
\- SIGN -- an ECCSI signature (as defined in IETF RFC 6507 [10]) of the Direct
Communication Response message. The signature is computed over the User of
UE-2 Info, Nonce 1 and the SAKKE parameters.
SAKKE -- UE-2 generates a key Shared Secret Value (SSV), which is used as KD
(root key), and encodes SSV value into a SAKKE payload according to the
algorithm described in IETF RFC 6508 [11], using the KMS Public Key and the
public identity of the of UE-1 o application based id.
Upon receipt of the Direct Communication Accept message, the UE-1 verifies the
signature payload SIGN. If the verification test is successful, it decrypts
SAKKE payload to extract the SSV which is used as a KD (root key) from which
other keys can be derived.
> 3\. Upon successful processing of the Direct Communication Accept message,
> UE-1 UE completes the unicast link establishment.
Both UEs shall store their own and the other UE\'s User Info and V2X Service
Information with the K~D~.
This solution protects the unicast message over PC5 by generating the KD
session ID, which can be used as anchor keys to generate further keys for the
bearer level one-to-one security mechanism. Furthermore, each UE session ID is
unique per UE and can be refreshed using the Link update procedure. The
solution also provides a mechanism to prevent trackability and linkability
attacks by providing a secure mechanism to update the L2 ID and KD Session ID.
Link update procedure, as described in clause 6.9.2.2., updates the L2 ID and
updates the KD session-id simultaneously.
Credential provisioning services are provided by KMS as per IETF RFC. KMS can
reside in the service domain or operator domain. Prose and mission-critical
services already have that in the operator domain and controlled by the
operator. Similar to prose, provisioning is done after primary authentication
in the operator domain. Their credentials are never exposed.
#### 6.9.2.2 Procedure for privacy protection of unicast communication
Figure 6.9.2.2-1: Protection of Link Update Procedure
1\. Both UEs have secure PC5 link already established. UE-1 sends a Link
Identifier Request to UE-2. This request includes old layer 2 information or
UE-1 user information along with other information as described in TS 23.287
[4] clause 6.3.3, i.e. new user information, new upper layer identifiers, new
IP address/prefixes, and new L2 IDs, etc.
2\. UE-2 responds with a Link Identifier Response including the following
parameters:
a) SIGN -- an ECCSI signature (as defined in IETF RFC 6507 [10]) of the link
update response message. The signature is computed over the User of UE-2 Info
or Application ID, Nonce 1 and the SAKKE parameters. In case UE-2 also
generates new Layer 2 ID, the signature is computed over the new UE2-layer 2
ID. New UE-2 is also included as payload in the message.
b) SAKKE -- UE-2 generates a key Shared Secret Value (SSV), which is used as
KD (root key), and encodes SSV value into a SAKKE payload according to the
algorithm described in IETF RFC 6508 [11], using the KMS Public Key and the
new identity (received in step 1 above) of the user of UE-1.
3\. Upon receipt of the Link Update response message, the UE-1 verifies the
signature payload SIGN. If the verification test is successful, it decrypts
SAKKE payload to extract the SSV which is used as a KD (root key) from which
other keys can be derived.
Both UEs shall store their own and the other UE\'s Info with the KD.
### 6.9.3 Evaluation
Solution #9 addresses key issue #1: Privacy protection for unicast messages
over PC5 requirements and key issue #2: Security for eV2X unicast messages
over PC5 requirements. Solution #9 adheres to Rel-16 eV2X Architecture.
Confidentiality is achieved by a unique session anchor key per UE.
## 6.10 Solution #10: Privacy protection for unicast message over PC5
### 6.10.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #1 (Privacy protection for unicast
messages over PC5).
The main differences from existing solution #1 and #3 are as follows:
\- The procedure verifies the authenticity of the L2 ID update message sent by
the UE by introducing a mechanism to include information that allows the
receiving UE to verify it. Thus, this procedure allows the peer UE to detect
and reject a message injection by malicious UE.
\- The procedure aligns with the one defined in TS 23.287 [4] clause 6.3.3.2
(i.e. 2-way message exchange rather than 3-way exchange).
\- L2 ID update of one UE does not necessarily mandate the change of L2 ID in
the peer UE (i.e. the peer UE can determine by itself when its L2 ID should be
updated rather than dictated by the peer UE\'s action).
### 6.10.2 Solution details
The L2 ID update procedure in unicast communication over PC5 is described in
Figure 6.10.2-1.
Figure 6.10.2-1: Procedure for privacy protection for unicast communication
over PC5
0\. Unicast communication has been established and is in progress.
1\. UE1 generates its new L2 ID. At this time, UE1 generates verification
information so that the peer UE can verify that this L2 ID change is indeed
sent by the legitimate UE that currently uses the L2 ID that the peer UE is
aware of in this unicast communication. This verification information may be
such as hash result of identities consisting UE1\'s unique information. For
example, input to the hash function may include identities such as currently
used L2 ID, newly generated L2 ID, V2X service type (e.g. PSID/ITS-AID), etc.
NOTE: According to TS 23.287 [4], this event is triggered in the UE by, e.g.
request from the upper layer or timer expiration as specified in TS 23.287
[4].
2\. UE1 sends Link Identifier Update Request message to its peer, UE2,
including the UE1\'s new L2 ID and its verification information.
3\. UE2 verifies the received verification information, and checks if the
hashed value that UE2 obtained matches the one received in the message in step
2 above. If successful, then UE2 accepts the new L2 ID as the UE1\'s new L2
ID.
4\. UE2 sends Link Identifier Update Response message, including the
verification result obtained in step 3.
5\. UE1 starts using the new L2 ID in the subsequent messages as the source L2
ID in the unicast communication. UE2 starts accepting the UE1\'s new L2 ID as
the source L2 ID sent from UE1, and starts using UE1\'s new L2 ID as the
destination L2 ID sent from UE2.
### 6.10.3 Evaluation
NOTE: No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
## 6.11 Solution #11: Solution on minimizing the impact of privacy protection
mechanism in the application layer communication
### 6.11.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the KI #9, \"minimizing the impact of privacy
protection mechanism in the application layer communication\".
This solution introduces the concept of \"time window\" in which duplicate
application layer messages are sent using 2 different (old and new) L2 IDs
(and IP address in case of IP-based communication). This \"time window\"
represents the transition period when the L2 ID is changed from one to another
periodically due to the requirement for the privacy protection in
communication over PC5 interface.
Duplicate transmission of the application layer message during this transition
period ensures that the peer UE to receive the application layer messages
successfully independent of the exact timing in which the peer UE switch from
the \"old\" to the \"new\" L2 ID (and IP address in case of IP-based
communication) during the L2 ID update event.
### 6.11.2 Solution details
To ensure the flow of application layer messages is not negatively impacted by
the L2 ID update event, the UE that is changing its L2 ID (and its IP address
in case of IP-based application) transmit each application layer messages
twice within the \"timing window\" period, using both the old and the new L2
ID (and old and new IP address in case of IP-based application) as the source
ID of the application layer messages. This ensures that peer UE is able to
receive the application layer messages independent of the relative timing when
the peer UE makes transition to start using the new L2 ID (and IP address) and
start accepting application layer messages containing the new L2 ID in the
source L2 ID field (and IP address in the source IP address field in the IP
packet).
The main advantage of this solution is that, it guarantees the peer UE to
receive the application layer messages while the L2 ID (or IP address in case
of IP-based communication) update of the sender UE takes place independently
from the flow of application layer communication.
Figure 6.11.2-1 illustrates this solution.
Figure 6.11.2-1: Procedure for minimizing the impact of privacy protection
mechanism in the application communication in groupcast over PC5
0\. Unicast communication has been established and is in progress.
1\. UE1 determines to update its L2 ID (and its IP address in case of IP-based
communication).
NOTE: This event is triggered in the UE by, e.g. request from the upper layer
or timer expiration as specified in TS 23.287 [4].
2\. UE1 enters the time window to send duplicate application layer messages.
It may be triggered by the start of L2 ID update procedure. The L2 ID update
messages themselves are not shown to simplify the figure.
3\. UE1 sends each application layer message twice, one message using the old
L2 ID and another using the new L2 ID (and old and new IP address in case of
IP-based communication) as the source address. The dashed line and solid line
depict the message that uses the old ID and the new ID, respectively.
The peer UE receives and accepts the application layer message containing
either the old or the new L2 ID (or old or new IP address in case of IP-based
communication) as the source ID of the message. Which ID the peer UE accepts
depends on the timing with respect to the message exchange in the L2 ID update
procedure and corresponding switch of ID recognized as UE1.
4\. UE1 ends the time window to send duplicate application layer messages as
the L2 ID update procedure ends.
5\. UE1 sends application layer messages only once using the new L2 ID as the
source of the message.
### 6.11.3 Evaluation
NOTE: No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
## 6.12 Solution #12: Protecting the traffic at the PDCP layer
### 6.12.1 Introduction
This solution addresses part of key issue #2 on security for eV2X unicast
messages over PC5. In particular, the solution covers the protection at the
PDCP layer of signalling and user plane traffic over the PC5 interface and is
based on the solution for ProSe in TS 33.303 [6].
### 6.12.2 Solution details
#### 6.12.2.1 General
Protection for the signalling and user plane data between the UEs is provided
at the PDCP layer. As the security is not preserved through a drop of the
connection, all signalling messages that need to be sent before security is
established, may be sent with no protection.
All other signalling messages are integrity protected and may be
confidentiality protected except the Direct Security Mode Command which is
sent integrity protected only.
It is necessary to allocate LCID for bearers that carry signalling messages
that are not protected, a bearer to carry Direct Security Mode Command and
Direct Security Mode Complete messages, bearers for other signalling messages
that are confidentiality and integrity protected and the user plane bearers.
#### 6.12.2.2 Integrity protection
V2X UEs implement NIA0, 128-NIA1 and 128-NIA2 and may implement 128-NIA3 for
integrity protection of the relevant bearers
These integrity algorithms are as specified in TS 33.501 [8] and are used with
the following modifications;
\- The key used is PIK;
\- Direction is set to 1 for direct link signalling transmitted by the UE that
sent the Direct Security Mode Command for this security context and 0
otherwise;
\- Bearer[0] to Bearer[4] are set to LCID;
\- The least significant bits of COUNT[0] to COUNT[31] are filled with Counter
and the remaining bits should be filled with some part of K~D-sess~ ID (or
equivalent parameter).
The receiving UE ensures that received messages are not replayed.
#### 6.12.2.3 Confidentiality protection
V2X UEs implement NEA0, 128-NEA1 and 128-NEA2 and may implement 128-NEA3 for
ciphering of one-to-one traffic.
These ciphering algorithms are as specified in TS 33.501 [8] and are used with
the following modifications;
\- The key used in PEK;
\- Direction is set as for integrity protection (see 6.5.6.2);
\- Bearer[0] to Bearer[4] are set to LCID;
\- The least significant bits of COUNT[0] to COUNT[31] are filled with Counter
and the remaining bits should be filled with some part of K~D-sess~ ID (or
equivalent parameter).
#### 6.12.2.4 Security contents in the PCDP header
The Key ID and Counter parameters are carried in the PDCP header, along with
any MAC that is needed for integrity protection. Key ID is used to signal
which security context is being used and may be part of K~D-sess~ ID.
This is illustrated in the Figure 6.12.2.4-1.
Figure 6.12.2.4-1: Security contexts of the PDCP header for one-to-one
communications
If the configuration is not to use any PDCP protection for one-to-one
communication user plane bearers, then the UE sets the values of the security
information (Key ID and Counter) to zero in the header of the user plane PDCP
packets.
For the signalling messages that are not protected, the Key ID and Counter in
PDCP format are set to zeros in the header of the PDCP packet.
### 6.12.3 Evaluation
The solution addressed the requirements of the key issue by introducing a
method of protecting the traffic at the PDCP layer. The same security method
protects the PC5-S signalling, PC5-RRC signalling and user plane traffic,
which avoids the need for deploying more than one security solution.
The solution is similar to the one proposed for ProSe in TS 33.303 [6] and
uses the same inputs to the confidentiality and integrity algorithms so that
the already deployed algorithms can be re-used without changes.
## 6.13 Solution #13: Solution against V2X UE tracking based on PC5
identifiers
### 6.13.1 Introduction
This solution addresses KI#1:\,
KI#3:\ and KI #8:\.
According to clauses 5.6.1.2 and 5.6.1.3 in TS 23.287 [4], the UE self-selects
a source Layer ID for broadcast mode and groupcast mode. It is expected that
the UE self-selects a source Layer ID for unicast mode as well.
According to clause 5.6.1.4 in TS 23.287 [4] for unicast mode V2X
communication over PC5 reference point, the UE maintains a mapping between the
Application Layer IDs and the source Layer-2 IDs used for the PC5 unicast
links, as the V2X application layer does not use the Layer-2 IDs. This allows
the change of source Layer-2 ID without interrupting the V2X applications.
Also, when Application Layer IDs change, the source Layer-2 ID(s) of the PC5
unicast link is changed if the link(s) was used for V2X communication with the
changed Application Layer IDs. It is expected that for broadcast mode and
groupcast mode V2X communication over PC5 reference point, the UE maintains a
similar mapping between the Application Layer IDs and the source Layer-2 IDs
used for the PC5 groupcast links and broadcast links.
### 6.13.2 Solution details
The solution is based on the privacy mechanism defined in TS 33.185 [12] for
V2X LTE which is intended to mitigate against the threat of tracking the UE by
an attacker based on the source Layer 2 ID. This mechanism is described below.
The source Layer-2 ID is randomized and regularly changed in the UE.
The source Layer-2 ID is randomized and changed in the UE when indicated by
the V2X application that the application layer identifier has changed.
The UE provides an indication to the V2X application layer whenever the source
Layer-2 ID is changed.
### 6.13.3 Evaluation
The randomized self-selection of Layer-2 IDs is adopted as in TS 23.287 [4].
## 6.14 Solution #14: Identifier conversion in groupcast communication
### 6.14.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #4 on \"Security of identifier conversion in
groupcast communication\" by updating the L2 ID independently from the
application layer group ID, which may never change. The frequency of the
update may be depending on the message frequency within the group and is
configuration dependent in the V2X AS. In order not to communicate another
change of the L2 ID to all group members at the same time, a timer, when all
group members change the L2 ID, and a common time basis are signalled to the
group member UEs from the V2X AS on application layer signalling. It is
assumed that the application layer signalling is security protected.
### 6.14.2 Solution details
The V2X AS creates a virtual time value T as a common time basis that is upon
reception at the group member UEs normally increased in the V2X AS and the
group member UEs in accordance to their internal clocks in the granularity of
seconds, since the virtual time does not rely on the real time received either
from the gNB (SIB9) or GPS. The virtual time value is used as an initial
secret value and relies on the encrypted application layer signalling to be
provisioned in a secure way to the group member UEs. The V2X AS also provides
a L2 ID update time interval dT to the group members. Once the group member
UEs receive the initial virtual time T and the L2 ID update time interval,
they derive the L2 ID using the virtual time value T and the application layer
group ID as input to the derivation function. Thus all group member UEs derive
the same L2 ID, independently of the transmission delay. The group member UEs
then update the virtual time T with the time received either via GPS or SIB9
until the next derivation of the L2 ID according to the L2 ID update time
interval a time T+ dT. This update procedure is repeated every L2 ID update
time interval in each group member UE until the group member UEs receive a new
initial virtual time from the V2X AS.
If a group member does not receive the provisioning message, i.e. the UE is
out of coverage of the mobile network, then this UE is also not able to
receive the corresponding group messages from the in-coverage group members
due to a L2 ID mismatch. This does not matter much since the \"out of
coverage\" UE cannot receive those messages anyway.
Once a \"out of coverage\" UE recognizes it is back to coverage it is
recommended to \"re-register\" to the V2X AS again to re-sync to the virtual
time and update interval.
If one of the UE belonging to the group is still connected to the network, the
\"out of coverage\" UEs belonging the same group ID could receive the
provisioning message through an in-coverage UE (i.e., remote UE to NW relay).
Group leader or platoon leader UEs could also provide the provisioning message
to the group members locally.
### 6.14.3 Evaluation
The solution fulfils Key Issue #4 on \"Security of identifier conversion in
groupcast communication\" by updating the L2 ID independently from the
application layer group ID and has the following characteristics:
\- Minimum signalling on application layer to initialize the virtual time for
all group members as well as the update interval.
\- The frequency of provisioning the virtual time and update interval from the
V2X AS can be configured and may not occur frequently at all.
\- All group members update the virtual time individually based on their
internal clock without dependency of the real time.
\- The change to the new destination L2 ID cannot be recognized from outside
unless all group members are suddenly sending groupcast messages at the same
time.
\- Out-of-coverage UEs continue to change their L2 ID based on the previous
provisioning message and request an update once returning into coverage.
\- The UEs need to have been provisioned at least once.
## 6.15 Solution #15: Solution on minimizing the impact of privacy protection
mechanism in the application layer communication
### 6.15.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the KI #9, \"minimizing the impact of privacy
protection mechanism in the application layer communication\".
This solution requires UE to use two different (old and new) identifiers (L2
IDs, Kd Session ID and IP address in case of IP-based communication) for
message reception after both UEs updated their identifiers for unicast
simultaneously. The feature above allows UE to receive application layer
messages even during its peer UE switching identifiers. This solution only
proposes additional operations to one.
### 6.15.2 Solution details
To ensure the application layer messages are not interrupted by the identifier
switching procedures, the initiating UE and its peer UE exchange messages
using established unicast communication. Both UEs are aware of new identifiers
(L2 ID, Kd Session ID and IP address in case of IP based application) for this
unicast communication by negotiating identifier update messages. The
initiating UE listens to messages sent with either the old or the new
identifiers after Identifier Update ACK message is sent. During the listening
status, the initiating UE maintains two unicast links with old and new
identifiers. The listening status keeps until it received any message from
peer UE using new identifiers.
The above mechanism assures no application layer messages are discarded caused
by switching the message identifiers independently. Advantages of this
solution include the unchanged mechanism on peer UE, and no need for
additional signalling or application layer messages. The detailed solution is
illustrated in Figure 6.15.2-1
Figure 6.15.2-1: Procedure for minimizing the impact of privacy protection
mechanism in the application communication in unicast over PC5
0\. Unicast communication has been established and is in progress.
1\. The initiating UE (UE1) determines to update identifiers (L2 ID, Kd
Session ID and its IP address in case of IP-based communication) with peer UE
(UE2). This event is triggered in the UE by, e.g. request from the upper layer
or timer expiration as specified in TS 23.287 [4]. Both UEs use old
identifiers to send and receive application layer messages during the
identifier update negotiation.
2\. After emitting the acknowledgement message, the initiating UE (UE1) starts
to receive and accept the message from the peer UE (UE2) using either the old
or the new identifiers of the message. In case of final acknowledgement
message of identifier update negotiation is sent by the peer UE (UE2) instead
of the initiating UE (UE1), this step is executed by the peer UE (UE2).
> The initiating UE (UE1) starts to use new identifiers to send unicast
> messages to peer UE (UE2).
3\. The peer UE (UE2) receives the acknowledgement from the initiating UE and
starts using the new identifiers.
4\. The initiating UE (UE1) stops to receive and accept the old identifiers
from peer UE (UE2) after receiving message from peer UE using new identifiers.
### 6.15.3 Solution Evaluation
NOTE: No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
## 6.16 Solution #16: Solution for the activation of user plane security in NR
PC5 unicast
### 6.16.1 Introduction
This solution addresses part of key issue #2 on security for eV2X unicast
messages over PC5. In particular, the solution covers the activation of user
plane security and provisioning of associated security policy.
In clause 5.1.2.1 of TS 23.287 [4], there is a large list of parameters that
need to be provisioned to the UE for PC5 communications. The solution proposes
to add some additional parameters to cover the required security policy for
V2X services that may use PC5 Unicast. The policy also applies to geographic
areas to allow different regulatory policies to be supported. The security
policy has the confidentiality and integrity requirements (on or off) for both
control and user plane signalling.
### 6.16.2 Solution details
This solution covers the provisioning of PC5 security policy and the
activation of user plane security for the V2X NR PC5 unicast.
As part of the provisioning process for PC5 Unicast (see clause 5.1.2.1 of TS
23.287 [4]), the UE is provisioned with the following:
\- The list of V2X services, e.g. PSIDs or ITS-AIDs of the V2X applications,
with Geographical Area(s) that require and their security policy which
indicates whether confidentiality and/or integrity protection are required for
signalling and/or user plane traffic.
NOTE: No integrity protection on signalling traffic enables services that do
not require security, e.g. emergency services.
The activation of user plane security follows the model for activation of user
plane security when connected to a 5G core and is done based on the security
policy provisioned in the UE, namely:
\- ciphering is activated or deactivated for each user plane bearer
individually when the bearer is established;
\- integrity protection is activated or deactivated for each user plane bearer
individually when the bearer is established; and
\- the same ciphering and integrity algorithms selected for the signalling
traffic are used for all user plane bearers (when activated).
### 6.16.3 Evaluation
The solution addresses the requirements of the key issue #2 by showing how the
user plane security is activated over PC5 NR unicast.
The activation of the user plane security allows for ciphering and integrity
to be activated on a per bearer basis which is the same as for UE connected to
a 5G core. This allows the flexibility to apply the appropriate security to
each bearer. The security policy to apply for each bearer is provisioned to
the UE using the method proposed in TS 23.287 [4].
## 6.17 Solution #17: PC5 layer key derivation using the 5G network keys
### 6.17.1 Introduction
This solution addresses part of key issue #2 on security for eV2X unicast
messages over PC5, and proposes a new solution for PC5 layer key derivation
using the 5G network keys.
This solution is only applicable in the scenario that the initiating UE is
registered into the network, the receiving UE is under the network coverage,
and both initiating UE and receiving UE are in the same serving network.
### 6.17.2 Solution details
This solution assumes that the UE1 is already registered into the network, and
UE2 is under the 3GPP network coverage, in order that both UEs could negotiate
a secured key with the assistance of the core network.
The high level description would be that after receiving the request from the
UE1, the UE2 could request the network to generate a shared key for the PC5
layer based on the AMF key, where the AMF key is the secure key established
during the registration procedure of UE1.
The PC5 layer key derivation using the 5G network keys is described in Figure
6.17.2-1.
Figure 6.17.2-1: PC5 layer key derivation using the 5G network keys
In this procedure the communicated UEs via PC5 already stores the PC5 data
protection status between them, which is negotiated during the PC5 connection
establishment. The details solution is as follows.
0\. UE1 and AMF1 store the 5G-GUTI1, ngKSI and K~AMF~, which are established
during the UE registration to the network.
1\. UE1 sends the NAS Container (5G-GUTI1, ngKSI,..., MAC) to the UE2 via
direct communication request message. Other parameters used for direct
communication establishment can be referred to TS 23.287[4].
2\. UE2 determines whether UE1 and UE2 are in the same serving network based
on the serving network ID1 included in the 5G-GUTI1 and serving network ID2,
where the serving network ID2 indicates the network that UE2 can register with
or currently connected to. If the serving network ID1 and serving network ID2
are the same, the UE2 continues. Otherwise the UE2 could select other ways to
negotiate the PC5 layer key, e.g. based on the application layer keys.
3\. UE2 forwards the indicator, NAS Container (5G-GUTI1, ngKSI,..., MAC) to
the AMF2 via UL NAS message, where the indicator indicates this message is
used for PC5 layer key derivation.
NOTE 1: UE1 and UE2 may be connected to the same AMF, i.e. AMF1.
4\. AMF2 sends the indicator and NAS Container (5G-GUTI1, ngKSI,..., MAC) to
the AMF1.
5\. After receiving the indicator and NAS Container (5G-GUTI1, ngKSI,...,
MAC), the AMF1 firstly verifies the MAC based on the NAS key shared with UE1.
If the verification successes, the AMF1 generates the PC5 key based on the
K~AMF~.
6-7. AMF1 sends the PC5 key to the UE2 via AMF2.
8\. UE2 generates the session key K~D~ based on the PC5 key.
9-11. UE2 initiates the Direct security mode command procedure with UE1. UE1
generates the PC5 key and K~D~ with the same way as AMF1 and UE2.
NOTE 2: This solution focuses on how to establish the PC5 key. Direct security
mode command procedure is out of scope of this solution.
12\. UE2 sends the direct communication response to the UE1.
### 6.17.3 Evaluation
The solution meets the first potential requirement \"The initiating UE shall
establish a different security context for each peer UEs during the V2X
unicast link establishment\". Since the PC5 key is generated based on the AMF
key shared between UE1 and AMF1, a different security context for each peer
UEs during the V2X unicast link establishment will be established.
Furthermore, man-in-the-middle attacks will not be initiated by the attacker
without the AMF key. The second potential requirement \"V2X unicast link
security establishment between the initiating UE and each peer UE shall be
protected from man-in-the-middle attacks\" is also satisfied.
The operator network is involved in the PC5 key generation in this concrete
scenario. 5G key hierarchy (i.e. K~AMF~) is reused here to assure the security
of the newly generated PC5 key. All the security context of PC5 is within 3GPP
scope in this case. The solution is only suitable to the applications where
operators know the key.
The disadvantage of the solution is its limited applicable scenario, which is
only applied when the initiating UE is registered into the network, the
receiving UE is under the network coverage, and both initiating UE and
receiving UE are registered.
5G-GUTI broadcasting may have privacy implications.
## 6.18 Solution #18: Solution for the UP security activation policy handling
in NR PC5 unicast
### 6.18.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the requirement of key issue #2 regarding the
confidentiality and integrity protection of the PC5 user plane. In particular,
the solution covers the UP security activation policy handling in NR PC5
unicast.
### 6.18.2 Solution details
This solution proposes that the user plane security policy handling is based
on the security policy of the eV2X service (e.g. PSID(s) or ITS-AID(s)),
preconfigured in the UE.
Assume that the initiating UE is preconfigured with UP security policy 1 for
service 1, the receiving UE is preconfigured with UP security policy 2 for the
same service. During the PC5 unicast link establishment procedure, the
receiving UE determines the final UP security activation policy after
receiving the UP security policy 1 from the initiating UE. The UP security
activation policy is defined as follow:
\- Ciphering: \"Required, Preferred, Not needed\";
\- Integrity protection: \"Required, Preferred, Not needed\".
The UP security activation handling is defined as follows:
\- If any of the UP security policy1 and UP security policy2 is \"Required\",
ciphering/ integrity protection is activated each user plane bearer
individually for the service when the bearer is established.
\- If both of the UP security policy1 and UP security policy2 is
\"Preferred\", ciphering/ integrity protection is activated or deactivated
each user plane bearer individually for the service when the bearer is
established depending on the decision of the receiving UE.
\- If both of the UP security policy1 and UP security policy2 is \"not
needed\", ciphering/ integrity protection is deactivated each user plane
bearer individually for the service when the bearer is established.
Detailed procedures are as follows: After receiving the UP security policy1
and eV2X service ID from the initiating UE, the receiving UE determines the
final UP activation policy based on the UP security policy1 and UP security
policy2 identified by eV2X service ID as described in the above. Then the
receiving UE sends the protection indication to the receiving UE, where the
protection indication is the same as the protection indication specified in TS
33.501 [8] clause 6.6.2 UP security activation.
### 6.18.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses the part of key issue #2 on security for eV2X unicast
messages over PC5.
The solution meets the first requirement \"_The initiating UE shall establish
a different security context for each peer UEs during the V2X unicast link
establishment_ \". The solution gives out the PC5 UP policy handling per eV2X
service granularity based on the UP security policy1 of the initiating UE and
UP security policy2 of the receiving UE. PC5 UP policy is the principle of the
security context establishment.
The advantage of the solution is that on demand security protection for PC5 is
supported per eV2X service granularity.
The disadvantage of the solution is only applicable when both UEs are
preconfigured with the UP security policy of the eV2X service.
## 6.19 Solution #19: Protection of IEs in Direct Communication Request
message
### 6.19.1 Introduction
This solution addresses part of key issue #2 on security for eV2X unicast
messages over PC5. In particular, the solution covers the protection of the
IEs in the Direct Communications request message that are not needed before
security establishment.
### 6.19.2 Solution details
This solution assumes that the PC5 NR Unicast security context handling
follows that in ProSe (see TS 33.303 [6]) where a complete security context is
not kept when the connection drops. This means it is necessary to run Direct
Security Mode procedure between the Direct Communication Request message and
the Direct Communication Accept message. The solution is then as follows:
\- Only IEs that are needed to establish the security are sent in the Direct
Communication Request messages
\- The other IEs that are needed before the Direct Communication Accept
message are included in the Direct Security Mode Complete message
The exact IEs that will be sent in the Direct Communication Request message
will be determined as part of the normative work.
NOTE: It will be left to the stage 3 specification to decide how there IEs are
carried in the Direct Security Mode Complete message, e.g. as individual IEs
or part of Direct Communication Accept message.
### 6.19.3 Evaluation
The solution provides security for the PC5 signalling by delaying the
transmission of IEs from the Direct Communication Accept message until the
PC5-S security has been established between the UEs, i.e. using the Direct
Security Mode Complete message (or equivalent secured message that is sent
once security has been established but before Direct Communication Accept
message is sent).
The solution does not add any additional messages between the UE but merely
moves the IEs from one message to another. The solution is simpler that the
initial NAS security protection accepted for 5G security (see TS 33.501 [8])
as there is no partial ciphering required as the solution follows ProSe (see
TS 33.303 [6]) with no protection for the Direct Communication Request
message.
## 6.20 Solution #20: Solution on securely creating destination Layer-2 ID in
groupcast communication
### 6.20.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the KI #4 \"Security of identifier conversion in
groupcast communication\", and part of KI #3 \"Privacy protection for
groupcast messages over PC5\" and KI #9 \"Minimizing the impact of privacy
protection mechanism in the application layer communication\".
### 6.20.2 Solution details
The detailed solution is illustrated in Figure 6.20.2-1.
{width="3.8944444444444444in" height="3.2993055555555557in"}
Figure 6.20.2-1: Procedure for secure conversion of application layer group ID
to destination Layer-2 ID
0\. Group Setup: Once the group is created, the group management server will
send the group ID to the associated UEs and a timer T. It will also send a set
of random numbers and a specific sequence in which these random number are to
be used. It is assumed that the application layer signalling is protected.
1\. ID Conversion: All the UEs use the group ID and the first random number
according to the sequence as an input to a hash function to generate the
destination Layer-2 ID.
2\. ID Update: When the timer T expires, a new destination Layer-2 ID is
calculated using the next random number according to the sequence. The UEs can
listen to both old a new destination Layer-2 IDs, to avoid any time
synchronization issues, for a certain period of time or until receives a
message with the new ID.
The destination Layer-2 ID is updated until the application layer changes the
group ID.
The group management server can also send the corresponding materials to
generate random numbers rather than sending the random numbers itself.
### 6.20.3 Evaluation
NOTE: No evaluation is addressed in the present document.
# 7 Conclusions
## 7.1 Conclusion on KI #7
For Key Issue #7 \"Cross-RAT PC5 control authorization indication\", no
normative work is required.
## 7.2 Conclusion on KI #5
For key issue #5 on security for setting up groupcast in Rel-16, it is
concluded that there will be no normative work as there is no signalling to
establish groupcast bearers and the management of groups is out of scope of
3GPP.
## 7.3 Conclusion on KI #11
For Key Issue #11 on security of PC5 NR broadcast in Rel-16, like LTE V2X
broadcast (see [12]), it is concluded that there will be no normative work for
security of broadcast bearers.
## 7.4 Conclusion on KI #3 and #8
For key issues #3 and #8 for the layer-2 source ID, solution #13 is chosen as
the basis for normative work.
For key issue #8, for the privacy protection of destination Layer-2 ID, no
normative work is required.
## 7.5 Conclusion on KI #6
For key issue #6 \"Security of the UE service authorization and revocation\",
it is concluded that no normative work is required.
## 7.6 Conclusion on KI #1
For key issue #1 on privacy protection for unicast messages over PC5, the idea
of changing the layer 2 identities and the shared identities (e.g. Key IDs) at
the same time as proposed in solution #1 is chosen as the basis for normative
work. It is proposed to capture these requirements in the V2X security
specification with the actual procedure to perform layer 2 update satisfying
these requirement specified in TS 23.287 [4].
## 7.7 Conclusion on KI #2
For Key Issue #2 on security for eV2X unicast messages over PC5, solution #3,
solution #8, solution #18, solution #12 and solution#16 are chosen as the
basis for normative work. Inconsistencies in the handling of the security
policy between solutions #18 and solution #16 will be resolved during the
normative phase.
NOTE: Some additional parts of a solution may be needed, e.g. protection of
IEs in Direct Communication Request. These additional decisions can be part of
the normative work.
## 7.8 Conclusion on KI #10
For Key Issue #10 on UP security policy handling for PC5 and Uu interface, it
is concluded that there will be no normative work for UP security policy
handling while switching between PC5 and Uu in this release.
## 7.9 Conclusion on KI#4
For Key Issue #4 on Security of identifier conversion in groupcast
communication, it is concluded that no normative work is required in this
release.
## 7.10 Conclusion on KI#9
For Key Issue #9 on Minimizing the impact of privacy protection mechanism in
the application layer communication, it is concluded that no normative work is
required in this release.
#