# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Virtualisation is a fundamental building block of 5G and while not the only
way of implementing a 5G network, it is nevertheless the primary
implementation method being pursued to some degree (great or small) by all
operators and manufacturers. Furthermore, virtualisation is being applied to
earlier 3GPP architectures (e.g. LTE) and part virtualised networks containing
a mixture of physical, containerised and virtualised network functions will be
common place for most operators for the foreseeable future.
# 1 Scope
The present document considers the consequences of virtualisation on 3GPP
architectures, in order to identify threats and subsequent security
requirements. 3GPP function security relies on the underlying implementation
technology and physical environment being secure. In legacy deployments,
physical rack security and separation implicitly provided underlying security.
Many legacy physical security requirements were not formally documented in
3GPP standards and relied on proprietary domain knowledge by 3GPP operators
and manufacturers. Legacy core network security models also assume that
threats primarily apply at the edge of the function or network only, where the
network or physical network functions are exposed by external interfaces.
To provide equivalent security in virtualised deployments, the underlying
infrastructure needs to provide minimum security capabilities in a
standardised form which can be requested and or consumed at the 3GPP layer.
This is necessary since virtual functions need to co-exist in shared
virtualisation environments and the legacy physical security models don't
address the new threat vectors introduced by virtualisation.
While a number of the key issues identified in the present document may not
necessarily fully be within the scope of 3GPP to resolve, in order to
implement 3GPP functions securely it is necessary for 3GPP to set requirements
that may be addressed outside 3GPP.
The present document identifies security requirements which need to be
addressed outside of 3GPP in order for 3GPP to specify fully secure
virtualised 3GPP functions. The present document identifies extensions to 3GPP
security capabilities which are required to provide direct explicit security
visibility of the underlying virtualised infrastructure platform at the 3GPP
layer and extensions to 3GPP functions to make use of such capabilities.
The wider requirements captured within the present document are intended to
allow outside groups such as ETSI or open-source groups to develop any
necessary capabilities and fill identified standardisation gaps.
Identification of requirements for the standardisation of the overall security
framework (e.g. top to bottom, 3GPP, NFVI, hardware, SDN) and minimum-security
capabilities which should be used by a virtualised implementation to meet
Critical National Infrastructure (CNI) or other regulatory requirements are
outside the scope of the present document.
Since there is no single approach to virtualisation, the security threats and
risks will vary depending on the deployment use case and virtualisation
technology choices. The present document considers both virtualisation threats
and risks that apply to specific implementations (e.g., Virtual Machine or
Container based) and more generic threat and risks that apply in all use
cases.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI GS NFV 002: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Architectural
Framework\".
[3] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 009: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); NFV
Security; Report on use cases and technical approaches for multi-layer host
administration\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\"
[5] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 001: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); NFV
Security; Problem Statement\"
[6] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G System\".
[7] \"Virtualization Technology: Cross-VM Cache Side Channel Attacks make it
Vulnerable\"; Shahzad and Litchfield 2015;
https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1606/1606.01356.pdf
[8] \"OpenStack\"; https://www.openstack.org/
[9] ETSI GR NFV-SEC 016: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Security;
Report on location, timestamping of VNFs\".
[10] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 012: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 3;
Security; System architecture specification for execution of sensitive NFV
components\".
[11] ETSI GR NFV-SEC 011: \" Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); Security;
Report on NFV LI Architecture\".
[12] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 013: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV) Release 3;
Security; Security Management and Monitoring specification\".
> [13] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"System architecture for the 5G System (5GS)\".
>
> [14] ETSI GR NFV-SEC 007: \"Network Functions _Virtualisation_ (NFV); Trust;
> Report on Attestation Technologies and Practices for Secure Deployments\".
>
> [15] _ETSI GR NFV-SEC 018: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
> Security; Report on NFV Remote Attestation Architecture\"._
>
> _[16] 3GPP TS 28.533 \"_ Management and orchestration; Architecture
> framework _\"._
>
> [17] ETSI GS NFV-SEC 003: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV); NFV
> Security; Security and Trust Guidance\".
>
> [18] IETF RFC 4210: \"The Kerberos Network Authentication Service (V5)\".
>
> [19] IETF RFC 6749: \"The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework\".
>
> [20] IETF: RATS Working Group: Remote Attestation Procedures Architecture,
> https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-rats-architecture-12.txt
[21] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 (V2.4.1) (2018-02): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Release 2; Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point -
Interface and Information Model Specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Global Administrator: A role in the access control hierarchy which gives
access to all administrative features and abilities in the NFV environment.
Depending on the operating system this role might be known as root or as a
superuser.**
**Noisy Neighbour Problem:** When a VM accessing shared resources uses more
than it should do. This causes other VMs accessing those resources to suffer
from reduced or erratic performance.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
AUC Authentication Centre
BSS Business Support System
CNI Critical National Infrastructure
CoT Chain of Trust
COTS Commercial Off The Shelf
CSP Communication Service Provider
DRM Digital Rights Management
GDPR General Data Protection Directive
HMEE Hardware Mediated Execution Environment
HSM Hardware Security Module
IAAS Infrastructure As A Service
LI Lawful Interception
MANO Management and Orchestration
MnF Management Function
NAAS Network As A Service
NF Network Function
NFV Network Functions Virtualisation
NFVI Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure
OS Operating System
OSS Operations Support System
PNF Physical Network function
PS Provisioning Server
RoT Root of Trust
SBA Service Based Architecture
SDN Software Defined Network
TPM Trusted Platform Module
TLS Transport Layer Security
UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card
VM Virtual Machine
VNO Virtual Network Operator
VNF Virtual Network Function
# 4 Virtualisation Background, Concepts and Assumptions
Editor's Note: This section will contain a basic description of
virtualisation, hierarchical implementation model and deployment assumptions
## 4.1 Introduction
In computing, virtualisation encompasses a number of different techniques to
create a virtual, or software, version of a computing device. Examples of
devices and systems which may be virtualised include hardware platforms,
memory, storage or a network. The present document primarily addresses the
security of Network Function Virtualisation (NFV) as defined by ETSI. However,
the security threat, risks and mitigations are applicable to any other similar
virtualisation approach. In the context of a 3GPP network, NFV refers to the
deployment of Network Functions (NFs) as software modules which run on off the
shelf computing hardware. This contrasts with the traditional deployment of
3GPP network components as specialised hardware devices. Implementation of the
5G Service Based Architecture (SBA) relies on the use of NFV, among other
technologies.
## 4.2 Architecture
ETSI GS NFV 002 [2] defines the high-level NFV Framework which consists of
three working domains, as shown by Figure 4.2-1.
The NFV Infrastructure (NFVI) includes all the hardware and software which
provide a platform on which VNFs can be deployed. The NFVI includes:
\- Hardware resources, which are assumed to be COTS.
\- Virtualisation Layer, for example a hypervisor or container engine, which
separates the VNF software from underlying hardware.
NOTE: The choice to use a hypervisor or container engine as the virtualisation
layer has security implications. In particular, containers do not present a
security boundary, without use of additional security mechanisms.
\- Virtualised Resources.
VNFs run on top of the NFVI and are software implementations of network
functions. A VNF may run in one Virtual Machine (VM) or over several.
NFV Management and Orchestration consists of the systems and functions which
are responsible for virtualisation specific management tasks, such as
lifecycle management of VNFs and orchestration of resources required to
support virtualisation.
{width="5.1194444444444445in" height="3.334722222222222in"}
Figure 4.2-1: ETSI NFV high-level architecture (ETSI GS NFV 002)
## 4.3 Virtualisation of 3GPP Network Functions
The 5G core network is defined as service-based and consists of network
functions (NFs) which can register themselves to the network and subscribe to
other services using service based interfaces. 3GPP NFs are assumed to be
virtualised, but do not necessarily correspond in a 1:1 manner with ETSI VNFs.
CSPs may choose to group multiple NFs into a single managed VNF or to deploy
each NF in an individual VNF. We assume that a NF is not split between
multiple VNFs, but beyond that decisions on grouping NFs are out of scope of
3GPP.
## 4.4 General NFV security issues
Editor's Note: This subsection contains an overview of general NFV security
issues, which are not specific to 3GPP but which give background to specific
3GPP security decisions.
### 4.4.1 Access to VNFs via virtualisation layer
Most virtualisation platforms make it possible for a user with root access to
the virtualisation layer to view and edit the memory of hosted VMs. This
administrator may be able to change or stop processes running in the VM, give
other applications access to the VM or steal security critical data. These
challenges are discussed in ETSI NFV-SEC 009 [3].
An attacker may have access to the virtualisation layer via a variety of
means. The access could be legitimate, such as a rogue employee at the hosting
company, or illegitimate i.e. hyperjacking. From the point of view of the VNF
these attack vectors are the same, as both result in a rogue actor gaining
access. In general, such access would be invisible to the VNF.
### 4.4.2 Sharing of private keys between VNFs
In the 5G Core Network, NF communications are secured using TLS, according to
the profiles in TS 33.210 [4]. ECDSA and RSA are used to authenticate these
communications. Therefore, a VNF must contain private keys to authenticate
these exchanges. These keys need to be provisioned to VMs securely on first
boot, or need to be stored securely on the image in some fashion. A decision
also needs to be made as to whether two NF instances may share the same key
pair, for example if the second instance is deployed in the case that the
first fails. These challenges are discussed in more detail in section 6.8 of
ETSI NFV-SEC 001 [5].
### 4.4.3 Isolation
One of the attractions of NFV is that it allows resources to be used flexibly.
Sharing hardware resources between VNFs allows networks to scale services up
and down as required and to centralise the management and orchestration.
However, the adoption of shared resources raises security questions which do
not apply when using discrete physical infrastructure. In particular,
virtualisation technology needs to ensure that VNFs can be isolated from one
another, particularly in the case where they have specific security
requirements. There are various approaches to isolating VNFs, ranging from
using physically separate hardware to using separate containers. Where VNFs do
share resources, these might be managed in different ways, as discussed in
Section 6.5 of [2]. Sharing memory and specialised hardware could require
special considerations.
There are a number of security threats if VNFs are not appropriately isolated
and resources are not shared effectively. These include the noisy neighbour
problem and potential side-channel attacks.
### 4.4.4 Vulnerabilities of physical hosts
X86 and similar server architectures have a number of physical security
weaknesses from a critical national infrastructure perspective. Plug and play
interfaces (e.g. USB and removal RAID discs) unless disabled or tightly
controlled represent a risk to 3GPP NF security. However, more difficult to
control attack vectors such as PCI Express bus Direct Memory Access (DMA) or
use of OS swap/page files represent risks if physical access to the server(s)
hosting a 3GPP NF becomes possible. Similarly, most server firmware would
detect hardware changes (e.g. adding an extra copy physical network port which
is visible to the host firmware), but if the replacement hardware uses the
same IDs and declared interfaces this is much more difficult to detect.
In legacy PNF implementations, such risks are better understood with physical
constraints including secured racks, physical testing of interfaces to confirm
they are disabled and careful placement of more sensitive functions (e.g. AUC)
within CSP data centres. However, for virtualised implements using large
common hosts pools, physically securing all hosts (rather than those dedicated
ones for a specific function) so that any 3GPP function can run on any host,
while controlling physical access attacks is difficult to achieve. This threat
potentially increases with IAAS and NAAS deployments.
Furthermore, many data centre hosts are equipped with Baseband Management
Controllers and Intelligent Management Interface Protocol. If an attacker is
able to access these controllers, they effectively have direct control over
all hosts and all VMs running on them. Over recent years a number of
vulnerabilities have occurred. For sensitive functions such as the AUC or LI
functions, the risks would obviously be increased.
### 4.4.5 Secure Administration
A key aim of virtualisation is implementation of the network using flexible
resources which can be scaled and sized in near real-time to fit customer
demand. To achieve this effectively NFV deployments rely on a single
administration domain, where a global administrator is able to manage the
hosts and NFV environment.
While this administrator is not necessarily able to manage the entire
deployment directly from a single account, as they are able to give themselves
roles and permissions, they can use it as a starting point to gain other
capabilities. Without extra security controls an attacker who gains access to
one of these accounts would be able to exploit, control and manage the entire
NFV environment.
The global administrator role is considered to exist in the highest trust
domain for the 3GPP architecture.
## 4.5 Limited Virtualisation vs Full Virtualisation
There are a very wide number of definitions as to the meaning of
\"virtualisation\". A number of vendors have been offering \"virtualised\"
implementations for 15+ years using common hardware platforms running VM
implementation architectures. However, these limited virtualisation
implementations use dedicated hardware instances for each network function.
While these limited implementations have some of the same risks as a fully
virtualised implementation (e.g. common software environment), they are
essentially identical to non-virtualised legacy PNF implementations as they
have physical testable and securable boundaries. On the other hand, these
limited implementations do not offer many of the benefits, including security
benefits, of fully virtualised deployments. Many limited virtualised
implementations can be readily migrated into fully virtualised environments
and will be migrated as networks become increasingly virtualised during the
VNF's operational lifetime.
Editor's Note: Further security issues are FFS
# 5 Key Issues
## 5.1 Introduction
This clause details the key issues identified for security aspects related to
the Virtualisation of 3GPP functions and architectures. Each key issue defines
the background to the issue, defines the threats related to the issue and
proposes requirements that resolve or mitigate the key issue.
## 5.2 Key Issue 1: Establishment of trust domains for Network Functions
### 5.2.1 Key issue detail
5G Network Functions can be grouped into different trust domains which have
different security requirements. For example, trust in functions which contain
long term cryptographic keys might require different levels of trust to
functions which only hold session keys or those which do not contain
cryptographic values at all. However, this classification is too simplistic.
Nearly all 3GPP NFs will contain some privacy sensitive information for
billing purposes or cryptographic material. Applying the same security
policies to NFs in different trust domains could lead to reduced security
and/or to reduced functionality.
Security domains based on grouping whole NFs may not be sufficient. In some
scenarios (e.g. LI), sub-functions of NFs (e.g. LI POIs) may need to belong to
different trust domains to the rest of the NF functionality.
Definition of appropriate segregation and security policies for NFs in
different trust domains requires establishment of trust domains for 3GPP NFs.
It is up to 3GPP to define what a sensitive function or sub-function is and
how they must be handled to protect privacy or security sensitive data, within
a virtualised environment.
While 3GPP TS 33.501 [6] provides some consideration for 5G functions, CSPs
are also in the process of virtualising IMS or 3G/4G networks, for which
similar consideration has not yet been given.
Editor's Note: It may be necessary to liaise with ETSI ISG NFV or open source
groups to ensure the necessary capabilities are available or developed.
### 5.2.2 Security threats
If 3GPP network functions with different security requirements are defined to
be in the same trust domains, the access to a high trust domain might be too
open, increasing the attack surface for security critical or high trust
functions.
A relatively low privilege administrator or user might have access to 3GPP
network functions which are above their intended level of privilege
A user or administrator might impact one trust domain from another.
### 5.2.3 Potential security requirements
_The trust domains of 3GPP network functions should be identified. Security
policies should be applied depending on those trust domains._ Solutions to
this requirement required inside 3GPP.
The system should manage each trust domain separately. Solutions to this
requirement required inside 3GPP.
The system should manage (e.g., define, enforce) the security policies for
each trust domain independently. Solutions to this requirement required inside
3GPP.
## 5.3 Key Issue 2: Confidentiality of sensitive data
### 5.3.1 Key issue detail
Certain 3GPP NFs will hold sensitive data, which should not be available to
other NFs or which should only be made available in a specific set of
circumstances. For example, TS 33.501 [6] includes the requirement that long-
term keys shall never leave the secure environment of the UDM/ARPF.
To have the same level of confidence in the confidentiality of sensitive data
when stored in a VNF as when it is stored on physically separated hardware it
is necessary to consider new threat vectors. For example, the long-term keys
in a virtual UDM/ARPF could be stolen by an attacker with root access to the
virtualisation layer. Alternatively, cache side-channel attacks as in [7]
might allow the operator of a VNF sharing resources to recover data.
### 5.3.2 Security threats
Without appropriate protection, cryptographic keys or other security critical
data of a virtualised 3GPP NF could be stolen by an attacker with access to
the virtualisation layer.
Without appropriate protection, sensitive material of a virtualised 3GPP NF of
one operator could leak to VNFs of other operators running on the same
virtualisation layer.
### 5.3.3 Potential security requirements
Solutions to key issue 2 should increase assurance that sensitive information
of a virtualised 3GPP NF is not exposed through the virtualisation layer.
The system should manage (e.g., define, enforce) the permission control at the
virtualization layer between NFs and/or sub-NFs. Solutions to this requirement
required both inside and outside 3GPP.
## 5.4 Key Issue 3: Availability of Network Functions
### 5.4.1 Key issue detail
Many 3GPP NFs are essential for the 5G Core Network to function. For example,
if a UDM/ARPF is not available then a user cannot complete primary
authentication. Similarly, if an AMF is not available then a connection cannot
be managed. Therefore, it is important that the VNF is guaranteed to be
available in the same way as a physical network function would be.
One of the advantages of virtualisation is that a network can scale and
transform to meet demand. In general, it is likely that the availability of
required 3GPP network functions is less of a concern than in a physical
deployment. However, virtualisation does introduce new availability risks. For
example, shared resources might be monopolised by a neighbouring VM (the noisy
neighbour problem).
### 5.4.2 Security threats
Without appropriate protection shared resources required for a virtualized
3GPP NF could be monopolised by neighbouring VMs, reducing availability or
functionality of the virtualized 3GPP NF.
In a multi-tenant cloud environment, a neighbour attacker uses vulnerabilities
in shared components to attack a service, either individually or by executing
a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack.
Editor's Note: Further new threats to availability are FFS.
### 5.4.3 Potential security requirements
Solutions to key issue 3 should increase assurance that virtualised 3GPP NFs,
particularly those which are critical to the operation and security of the
network, will have access to the required resources for their availability or
functionality when sharing resources with other VNFs. Solutions to this KI are
expected to be mainly handled outside of 3GPP.
The system should manage the utilization, traffic distribution, and overload
control of the NFs and sub-NFs to ensure availability for key network
processes. Solutions to this requirement are required mainly outside of 3GPP.
## 5.5 Key Issue 4: Common Software Environment
### 5.5.1 Key issue detail
Older SS7 circuit switch networks typically had much lower security than
current 3GPP NFs. Their proprietary implementations, non-IP protocols (e.g.
X25) and lack of flexible deployment options provided a high degree of
security by obscurity. By comparison virtualised release 15 onwards
implementations will provide a much higher level of basic security but the
common software platform on which functions are implemented will introduce new
risks.
In legacy PNF implementations each vendor typically used a proprietary
platform and software with a few common web server or OS elements. This meant
that if a vulnerability or zero day exploit was found and utilised by an
attacker, this generally only compromised one NF. This would give the attacker
access to data on that NF and the communication links into and out of that NF
but the attacker would not have an advantage in attacking the next NF in the
chain. Except in really poor implementations relying on network edge security
only, the risk of a cascade failure is minimal with PNFs.
In virtualised implementations all NFs are implemented using a common software
platform such as OpenStack [8]. While vendors may produce tweaked variants,
the code core will be largely identical. Similarly, OS, Hypervisor and VM
software will be identical or from a limited set of variants. What this means
is that if an attacker is able to identify a software vulnerability in one
VNF, that vulnerability will likely exist in many other VNFs making the
attackers job much easier and increases the risk of a cascade security failure
of the network. If network security functions (e.g. SEPP) use the same
software core or are in the same virtualisation layer trust domain as the
functions they are protecting the risk further increases if a software
vulnerability occurs.
### 5.5.2 Security threats
If a vulnerability is found in software used across multiple virtualised 3GPP
NFs then an attacker might be able to exploit all of these NFs with the same
attack. The vulnerability might allow the attacker multiple access points into
the network, or may allow them to move laterally through the network.
Use of a common software platform might give an attacker more information
about how to traverse a network, meaning that compromise of one virtualised
3GPP NF might allow them to move through connected NFs using implicit trust.
### 5.5.3 Potential security requirements
Solutions to key issue 4 should increase assurance that a software
vulnerability in one virtualised 3GPP NF does not affect other virtualised
3GPP NFs using the same software platform. Solutions to this requirement
required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Network interfaces should be locked down so that they only accept a restricted
number of expected protocols. Solutions to this requirement required both
inside (SCAS) and outside 3GPP.
Network management should be secured and should only be allowed from
authorised devices and/or networks. Multi-factor authentication should be used
to log into administrator accounts. Solutions to this requirement required
both inside (SCAS) and outside 3GPP.
## 5.6 Key Issue 5: Data Location and Lifecycle
### 5.6.1 Key issue detail
With PNFs you know where subscriber or other sensitive data is located, or at
least have a high degree of certainty. With virtual functions by design that
data can be anywhere in the host infrastructure. Indeed, if a CSP
implementation spans multiple data centres in multiple countries it may be
necessary to constrain where a VNF or piece of user data physically resides.
For example, LI functions and LI target lists need to remain within a single
legal jurisdiction. Similar restrictions may apply to content which is subject
to DRM and is only licensed for a single country, or more generally to data
covered by GDPR.
Furthermore, in virtualised environments, it is necessary to consider where
data has been and whether that data is privacy sensitive. If a VNF moves from
one host to another or is terminated, and the previous resources are allocated
to another VNF without being fully cleared, this risks compromise of privacy
sensitive data or keys.
OSs are not unknown to proliferate temp files, which in a PNF is much easier
to contain (ignoring PNFs with external storage). In a VNF, if storage /
memory is not fully erased before reuse there is a significant risk of data
loss between VNFs. By extension, software is not unknown to crash or
experience abnormal behaviour, increasing the risk of data remaining in
undesirable locations.
### 5.6.2 Security threats
Without appropriate restriction on function location or data location, privacy
sensitive information of one virtualised 3GPP NF could be exposed to a
different legal jurisdiction.
Without appropriate lifecycle protection, sensitive information of one
virtualised 3GPP NF could be leaked to other VNFs reusing the storage
resource.
### 5.6.3 Potential security requirements
Solutions to key issue 5 should increase assurance that privacy sensitive
information of a virtualised 3GPP NF is protected from being leaked out of its
legal jurisdiction. Solutions to this requirement required both inside and
outside 3GPP.
Solutions to key issue 5 should increase assurance that sensitive information
of a virtualised 3GPP NF is protected during its lifecycle process to avoid
leakage of the information to other VNFs reusing the storage resource.
Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
All privacy sensitive data should be encrypted when at rest and when in
transit. Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Security policy which restricts where certain types of data can reside should
be defined and implemented by CSPs. Solutions to enable this requirement
potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
When VNF moves from one host to another or when VNF is terminated, the system
should ensure that resources, privacy sensitive data, and/or keys are fully
cleared. Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
## 5.7 Key Issue 6: Function Isolation
### 5.7.1 Key issue detail
3GPP architectures (including 5G) are still based on a functional \"boxes\",
with 3GPP security applied between the functions on a reference point basis.
If 3GPP functions are implemented in a common software host environment (e.g.
with a common hypervisor, compute and storage), TLS and similar protocols are
reduced to protecting information travelling between memory locations in a
single logical memory block. As such, if an attacker (or hypervisor
administrator) is able to gain access to the memory in which a set of VNFs
run, then relying on reference point-based security will offer little
protection, except on physically exposed hardware links.
### 5.7.2 Security threats
If appropriate protection is not in place functions might be able to directly
introspect the memory of other functions.
### 5.7.3 Potential security requirements
Solutions to this KI should increase assurance that the virtualisation
platform prevents one function from inspecting the memory of other functions.
Solutions to this requirement required outside 3GPP.
Delegated administrator roles shall be used, with roles which could give a
user or administrator the ability to inspect the memory of functions only used
in exceptional circumstances. Solutions to this requirement required both
inside (SCAS) and outside 3GPP.
The system should manage reference point-based security and service-based
security between VNF functional \"boxes". Solutions to this requirement
required inside 3GPP.
Confidentiality protection should be provided to protect information traveling
between memory locations in a single or multiple logical memory block.
Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Editor's note: this last requirement needs a bit more work/clarification.
Definition of logical memory block, etc. Multiple requirements may be needed.
## 5.8 Key Issue 7: Memory Introspection
### 5.8.1 Key issue detail
In all operating systems or virtual environments there are a number of memory
management and control functions which are able to view or access all memory
locations. These functions such as the kernel in desktop OSs control access to
memory and are responsible for preventing applications from accessing each
other's memory spaces. In VM based NFV environments, the hypervisor is
responsible for administering each VM's resources and isolating the VMs from
each other.
In legacy hardware networks, manufacturers apply physical separation within
the physical hardware to keep sensitive control plane sub-components within a
3GPP function (e.g., key material or billing data) away from lower security
sub functions or other general user plane traffic handling sub functions. This
may include having different administration domains (e.g., LI sub-functions
are managed via different interfaces and have separated administration).
In a virtual environment while the hypervisor plays a role in preventing one
VM from accessing the memory of another (except through declared VM shared
memory locations), the hypervisor is also able to inspect any memory which is
directly under hypervisor control. Such access to memory or other VM resources
cannot be detected by VM or 3GPP security mechanisms. Encrypting memory
provides some resistance but if the keys used to encrypt the memory are also
under hypervisor control (including hypervisor resource controlled TPM / HSMs)
then this does not prevent introspection.
Editor's Note: FFS whether TPM/HSSs term in KI#7 section 5.8.1 need to be
generalised.
In addition to reading memory, the hypervisor is also in many cases able to
write directly to memory, bypassing normal memory access controls and security
within the VNF VM. This allows an attacker with access to the hypervisor to
change data within a 3GPP function at run-time or indeed change the operation
of the function itself.
Container based NFV environments are subject to similar memory introspection
risks, with the container (or cluster) management engine providing similar
functionality to the hypervisor in VM based implementations. KI#25 (see clause
5.26) addresses the issues and additional threats introduced by containers.
### 5.8.2 Security threats
If appropriate protection is not in place functions might be able to directly
introspect the memory of other functions.
### 5.8.3 Potential security requirements
An NFV environment shall use a virtualisation platform which prevents one
function from inspecting the memory of other functions. Solutions to this
requirement required outside 3GPP.
Delegated administrator roles shall be used to ensure that administrators do
not have the ability to inspect memory of functions except under exceptional
circumstances. Solutions to this requirement required outside 3GPP.
Firmware/UEFI updates shall be applied in a timely manner to protect against
hardware bugs and security flaws, including those which are newly found.
Solutions to this requirement required outside 3GPP.
The system should manage the hypervisor to enforce the network security
policies. This includes, but is not limited to, ensuring that;
VMs are isolated from each other,
Applications are prevented from accessing each other's memory spaces,
VMs are prevented from accessing the memory of another VM,
Keys used to encrypt the memory are also under hypervisor control,
Hypervisors are not allowed to write directly to memory,
Hypervisors are not allowed to bypass normal memory access controls and
security within the VNF/VM,
Hypervisors are not allowed to change data within a 3GPP VNF at run-time.
Solutions to this requirement required outside 3GPP.
The system should apply physical and/or logical separation to keep sensitive
control plane sub-components within a 3GPP function (e.g. key material or
billing data) away from lower security sub-functions or other general user
plane traffic handling sub-functions. Solutions to this requirement required
both inside and outside 3GPP.
## 5.9 Key Issue 8: Test Isolation and Assurance
### 5.9.1 Key issue detail
In legacy hardware deployments,3GPP, GSMA or other testing schemes generally
involve testing 3GPP functions as opaque boxes or pentesting them in isolation
from other network functions. While it is possible to test virtual functions
in this way, the level of assurance gained is different. Such stand-alone
testing relies on the underlying virtualisation and hardware layers being 100%
secure and that no future vulnerabilities are found in those underlying
components.
Testing functions in isolation does not guarantee that when a VNF is
instantiated on a different host virtualisation environment or is instantiated
in a larger virtualisation environment containing multiple VNFs that a 3GPP
function tested in isolation remains secure.
Isolation in testing refers to VNF to VNF isolation as well as platform to VNF
isolation. In general, it means that the VNF is firstly tested on its own in a
dedicated NFVI and then tested with other VNFs in a shared NFVI.
### 5.9.2 Security threats
Testing virtualized 3GPP Network Functions in isolation might miss threats and
vulnerabilities which arise from the way in which the virtualized 3GPP NF
interacts with other components in the operator's environment. Without clarity
around the scope and limitations of a given testing scheme CSPs might have a
false sense of security around use of a product.
As different virtualization environments may provide different levels of
security protection for the application layer, stand-alone testing of a
virtualized 3GPP NF may not ensure that the desired level of assurance of the
3GPP NF remains the same when deployed in different virtualized scenarios.
When a virtualized 3GPP NF successfully tested in isolation or a more secured
virtualization environment is deployed in a less secured virtualization
environment, it may not provide the required level of assurance and hence
risks potential attacks.
Furthermore, virtualized 3GPP NFs used in different service types (e.g.
network slices) or different services (e.g. vertical services) may face
different security assurance requirements from the service layer. A
virtualized 3GPP NF successfully tested in isolation may not provide the
required level of assurance of a specific slice/service, for a given NFVI.
### 5.9.3 Potential security requirements
Security assurance testing of a virtualized 3GPP NF needs to be performed
using a standardized NFVI environment used to test all VNFs. When testing
security assurance of a virtualized 3GPP NF, the scope of testing should be
clarified, including defining the pre-conditions of the virtualized test
environment/platform and defining assumptions made in the process. Where
possible recreate these assumptions in the product deployment e.g. close ports
which do not need to be open. Solutions to this requirement required both
inside (SCAS) and outside 3GPP.
Both positive and common vulnerability testing (e.g negative testing) should
be carried out against virtualized 3GPP NF and the underlying virtualization
and hardware layers. This is required to mitigate the increased attack surface
which was partly addressed by physical security assurance protections in
physical networks. Solutions to this requirement required both inside (SCAS)
and outside 3GPP.
Virtualized 3GPP NFs should be checked regularly to see if they are using out-
of-date or insecure versions of a library and these libraries should be
updated if and when possible. This is required to mitigate the increased
attack surface which was partly addressed by physical security assurance
protections in physical networks. Solutions to this requirement required both
inside (SCAS) and outside 3GPP.
## 5.10 Key Issue 9: Trust domain and Slice Isolation
### 5.10.1 Key issue detail
3GPP TS 33.501 [6], defines requirements for slice isolation. However, if one
or more slices are implemented on the same common hypervisor, hosts and
virtualisation layer resources / management (MANO) then requirements in TS
33.501 may only be met at the 3GPP functional application layer. Unlike slices
built using PNFs, the slice isolation would only be virtual in nature and
subject to the threats of other key issues described in the present document.
A similar isolation challenges and risks occur for different trust domains
within a 3GPP operator network. IMS security was standardised by SA3 in
release 5 to exist in a separate security / trust domain from the 3GPP or
non-3GPP access networks used to connect to IMS. Using PNFs, CSCF are largely
isolated from 4G or 5G core functions, except through a limited number of
defined interfaces. Implementing IMS in a fully virtualised network is similar
to the problem of virtualised slice isolation.
### 5.10.2 Security threats
An attacker could take advantage of the virtualised environment to move from a
lower to a higher trust domain or to move between slices.
Sensitive data might be visible outside of the slice it should be confined to.
### 5.10.3 Potential security requirements
3GPP trust model needs to be defined in 33.501 to identify isolation and trust
relationships between 3GPP NFs. Solutions to enable this requirement are
required inside 3GPP.
An NFV environment should use a virtualisation platform which prevents one
function from inspecting the memory of other functions. Solutions to this
requirement required outside 3GPP.
The 5GC should be configured so that NFs can only communicate with NFs which
they have a valid reason to communicate with. The default should be that
functions are not able to communicate. Solutions to enable this requirement
potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Delegated administrator roles shall be used and should only give the user or
administrator the minimum necessary privileges. Solutions to this requirement
required outside 3GPP.
The system should manage slice isolation, security domains and trust domains.
Solutions to this requirement required inside 3GPP.
## 5.11 Key Issue 10: Single Administrator Domain
### 5.11.1 Key issue detail
As discussed in 4.4.x, NFV deployments usually rely on a single administration
domain, with a global administrator who is able to manage the hosts and NFV
environment. As such, at some level, all VNFs regardless of their sensitivity
are potentially reduced to the same security level of the single
administration domain. Therefore, if an attacker is able to gain global
administrator privileges, they will be able to control and manage all Network
Functions, regardless of their sensitivity and trust domain.
### 5.11.2 Security threats
An attacker with access to a global admin account has access to all VNFs,
including high security environments like the UDM/ARPF, could change the
routing of a network to send traffic to a location of their choosing or could
shut down a network altogether.
### 5.11.3 Potential security requirements
In general, delegated administrator roles shall be used. The global
administrator role shall only be used in exceptional cases, e.g. to add
permissions for other high-level administrators. Solutions to this requirement
required both inside (SCAS) and outside 3GPP.
The highest security controls shall be applied to use of the global
administrator role. In particular all use of this role should be logged and
audited. Solutions to this requirement required both inside (SCAS) and outside
3GPP.
An alert should be raised in the global administrator role is used, or if any
account attempts a function it is not meant to attempt. Solutions to this
requirement required both inside (SCAS) and outside 3GPP.
All administration and management should only be permitted from known,
attested devices and multi-factor authentication should be enforced. Solutions
to this requirement required both inside (SCAS) and outside 3GPP.
## 5.12 Key Issue 11: Where are my Keys and Confidential Data
### 5.12.1 Key issue detail
In PNFs there is a reasonable expectation that if a PNF contains dedicated key
storage that any cryptographic keys which are required for PNF functionality
will only be accessible to that PNF and the key storage is within the PNF.
With virtualised implementations this gets much more complicated. Firstly, a
VM has no direct access to any hardware. A VM's view of the world is limited
to that presented to it by the hypervisor or underlying host environment.
However, it has no idea whether physical key storage hardware is in the same
host as the VM, or indeed whether any such key storage is actually a physical
tamper proof hardware environment as opposed to a virtual key storage instance
using software-based approaches. While in some special scenarios a VNF may
have special dedicated hardware key storage as part of a dedicated specially
allocated (and separately administered host), VM and a VNFs will in general
need to use arbitrary hosts within the cloud environment.
It should also be noted that in general a VM cannot actually tell the
difference between different types of memory, hard disc or storage unless
specific mechanisms are used to provide visibility or confirmation (e.g. a RAM
disc looks identical to physical storage to a VM).
### 5.12.2 Security threats
If a VNF cannot securely attest what host it is running on then high security
functions could be deployed on vulnerable hosts. This could increase the risk
of compromise of the data held by the NF.
### 5.12.3 Potential security requirements
It should be possible to deploy a VNF to a host that provides specific
security resources (e.g. HMEE, secure compute, secure memory) in order to bind
a VNF to a specific host or group of hosts. Solutions to enable this
requirement potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Note: 3GPP need to identify specific security resources which need to be
supported and requestable from MANO.
Binding should be verified by secure hardware backed attestation of the health
and security of the host. Controls should be verified and enforced at boot
time and each time a function is migrated. Solutions to enable this
requirement potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Note: This requirement relies on the VNF trusting the virtualisation layer to
implement the rules applied.
The system should manage (e.g., assign/log bindings) key storage and
confidential data in a manner that provides protection against data
compromise. Solutions to enable this requirement potentially required inside
3GPP.
## 5.13 Key Issue 12: Where the is my function
### 5.13.1 Key issue detail
Similar to the key issue 11 Where are my Keys and Confidential Data and key
issue 5 Data Location and Lifecycle, for some VNFs (or sub components) it is
necessary to know exactly where a VNF is (or at least in which data centre it
resides). The same also applies in the case of physical attack in post event
forensic scenarios.
By default, cloud hosting environments do not by nature provide an attestable
guarantee of physical location of a host or VM. It is possible to indirectly
attest location through host IDs but as with SA3 studies on physical locking
down femto cells to specific locations have shown, it is possible to move a
host from one location to another. 3GPP functions such as AUC, UDM or LI
functions need to be attestable within to specific physical location
boundaries and those boundaries need to be attestable within 3GPP scope. ETSI
TR NFV-SEC 016 [9] discusses some of these issues, but the additional 3GPP
specific constraints required, are within the scope of 3GPP and not ETSI ISG
NFV.
Furthermore, if functions such as SEPP are supposed to be the physical
boundary of the network then it may be necessary to be able to constrain them
and the SDN routing to them, to specific physical locations.
### 5.13.2 Security threats
VNFs might be instantiated in or migrated to locations which are not
appropriate for the services provided or which violate legal requirements or
regulations.
### 5.13.3 Potential security requirements
It should be possible to deploy a VNF to a host that provides specific
security resources (e.g. HMEE, secure compute, secure memory) in order to bind
a VNF to a specific host or group of hosts. Solutions to enable this
requirement potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Note: 3GPP need to identify specific security resources which need to be
supported and requestable from MANO.
These controls should be verified by secure hardware backed attestation of the
health and security of the host. Controls should be verified and enforced at
boot time and each time a function is migrated. Solutions to this requirement
potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Note: This requirement relies on the VNF trusting the virtualisation layer to
implement the rules applied.
The system should manage the physical location of the VNFs and sub-components
and SDN routing to provide the attestation that the VNF/sub-components
provided a commensurate level of security to match the requirements of the
service or to meet legal/regulatory requirements. Solutions to this
requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
## 5.14 Key Issue 13: Attestation at 3GPP Function level
### 5.14.1 Key issue detail
ETSI ISG NFV specifications such as ETSI GS NFV-SEC 012 [10] provide various
requirements and recommendations for attestation of host hardware, VMs and
VNFs during boot-time / instantiation time. Attestation can be of multiple
types (e.g. Boot-time and run-time). However, since security cannot exist in
isolation at hardware layer, NFV layer and 3GPP NF layer (VNF functionality
layer), it is necessary for the 3GPP to set explicit requirements on
attestation. Similarly, ETSI ISG NFV or open source group working on NFV
software platform cannot specify the functionality of 3GPP NF or requirement
with respect to their attestation.
3GPP NFs especially in multiple vendor and IAAS scenarios, need assurance that
hardware or other critical security functions have not been modified and can
be trusted. For example, the NRF in SBA needs to attest that a discovered NF
is what it claims to be and has the capabilities it claims to have. While the
OSS / BSS allow an NRF to become aware of a new VNF instance (e.g. AMF) it is
the underlying attestation chain from a security perspective that verifies the
NF is secure.
Possession of a 3GPP level identity / certificate is not in itself a means to
prove authenticity of a VNF, unless there is a full attestation chain back to
hardware. To support multi-vendor scenarios that chain needs to be
standardised either in 3GPP or standards bodies with a wider remit such as
ETSI TC CYBER.
### 5.14.2 Security threats
Without full attestation chain from 3GPP function level to hardware level, a
3GPP Network at the application layer is not able to verify the
trustworthiness of VNFs or the NFVI. This means that a 3GPP NF can only make a
limited judgement as to whether or not to trust another virtualized NF. For
example, the NRF may authorize a maliciously altered virtualized NF to access
a service it intends to abuse.
### 5.14.3 Potential security requirements
It shall be possible to attest a virtualized 3GPP NF through the full
attestation chain from the hardware layer through the virtualization layer to
the VNF layer. Solutions to enable this requirement potentially required both
inside and outside 3GPP.
Attestation of a platform′s integrity should be linked to the application
layer and possible for other functions to query. If platform attestation fails
the virtualized 3GPP NF should not be allowed to run. Solutions to this
requirement potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Attestation of the VNF should be performed prior to deployment/network
integration and during operations. Solutions to this requirement required both
inside and outside 3GPP.
Attestation of the VNF should be done at the hardware, virtualization, and NF
layers. The solution is inside and outside 3GPP.The system should manage VNF
attestation. Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside
3GPP.
## 5.15 Key Issue 14: VNF Host Spanning
### 5.15.1 Key issue detail
3GPP specifies 3GPP NFs in terms of large complex lumps of functionality which
span multiple physical hardware hosts in both legacy and virtualised
implementations. While there is a risk of an attacker gaining physical access
to the interconnections between servers making up a single PNF, this generally
requires physical access to the hardware. However, in a virtualised
environment access can be gained much more easily as the servers making up a
function are more likely to be physically distributed and the SDN v-switch
would allow an attacker to much more easily fork IP packets flowing between
hosts remotely. Such forking is very difficult to detect or prevent from
within a 3GPP NF or VM, unless specific design mitigation is taken to minimise
the risk.
While TLS automatically applied by the NFV / SDN layer between VMs reduces
external attacker threat, it is much less effective against attackers who have
(or gained) access to NFV MANO etc.
### 5.15.2 Security threats
An attacker could read data in transit.
### 5.15.3 Potential security requirements
All control plane data in transit between hosts should be sent over an
encrypted and authenticated channel using non-proprietary protocols. User
plane traffic between hosts may be protected. Solutions to this requirement
required outside 3GPP.
Note: It is assumed that the 3GPP layer does not need explicit real-time
confirmation of the status of the host to host layer encryption (intra VNF).
3GPP layer security in 3GPP TS 33.501 [6] already covers VNF to VNF security
(e.g. AMF to SMF).
The system should prevent and detect unauthorized VNF host spanning. Solutions
to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
## 5.16 Key Issue 15: Encrypted Data Processing
### 5.16.1 Key issue detail
As an extension to key issue 7 Memory Introspection and key issue 19 Time
Manipulation, in a virtualised environment it is necessary to explicitly
consider the risk to cryptographic processing of data within a VNF where a
fully hardened HSM or HMEE is not used to perform the cryptographic function.
Most software manipulating data with cryptographic operations will perform
modification actions on encrypted data by first unencrypting the data either
in general memory (less than ideal) or CPU cache (better but vulnerabilities
exist). Following the necessary processing, the data will be encrypted again.
Within existing SA3 specifications, while some specialist operations are
performed in tamper resistant hardware (e.g. UICC), the bulk of cryptographic
processing (e.g. user plane protection) will be performed using general X86
(or similar) servers within the core network.
In a virtualised environment there are various ways in which unencrypted data
can be captured; through the hypervisor; server management hardware;
modification of VNF images; instantiating a parallel VM on the same physical
CPU; or any number of other options. The risks of being able to capture
encrypted data in an unencrypted form due to processing of that data,
increases significantly. If that processing is highly sensitive (e.g. AUC or
LI functions) then the risk may not be acceptable. Placing entire VMs in fully
hardened HMEEs may reduce the risk in the longer term but not all
cryptographic functions can be placed in a HMEE (this will not scale) and
currently no suitable X86 (or similar architecture) HMEEs exist in commercial
data centre servers capable of the scale required to support 5G deployments.
### 5.16.2 Security threats
If data is decrypted and/or processed in an unencrypted format in an insecure
environment it could be intercepted or copied.
### 5.16.3 Potential security requirements
Sensitive data should only be decrypted or handled in an unencrypted format in
VNFs on trusted and well-known hosts. Solutions to enable this requirement
potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
It shall be possible to control whether untrusted or lower trusted VNFs are
allowed to run on the same host as VNFs in a higher trust domain. Solutions to
enable this requirement potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
It shall be possible to further restrict VNFs on a single host depending on
whether they handle decrypted sensitive data. Solutions to enable this
requirement potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
These controls should be verified by secure hardware backed attestation of the
health and security of the host. Controls should be verified and enforced at
boot time and each time a function is migrated. Solutions to enable this
requirement potentially required both inside and outside 3GPP.
The system should prevent and detect unauthorized or unintended data
manipulation and leakage (e.g., modification of VNF images, instantiating
parallel VM(s) on same physical CPU). Solutions to enable this requirement
required outside 3GPP.
## 5.17 Key Issue 16: Mixed Virtual and Legacy PNF Deployments
### 5.17.1 Key issue detail
One of basic tenants of a VM or a VNF is that it does not know that it is
virtual (a PNF doesn't know it is physical either). Similarly, 3GPP specifies
application layer functionality of core NFs but does not (with the exception
of RAN groups) specify physical implementation aspects.
With the exception of green field 5G only operators, most virtualised
deployments will commence with adding VNFs to an insisting PNF based networks.
Overtime the number of VNFs will increase but mixed network deployments will
be the default for the next 10+ years. Similarly, mixed SDN and non- SDN
linked NFs will also co-exist. By default, PNFs and VNFs have to be able to
implicitly trust each other in mixed deployments, given that 3GPP SA3
currently does not specify different handling or trust relationships based on
PNF or VNF implementation.
As discussed in other key issues, PNFs and VNFs are susceptible to different
types of attack and in turn different have different security capabilities.
Furthermore, it is likely that PNFs will be less easily patched for security
vulnerabilities compared with VNFs over time.
In mixed deployments, especially where older 3G CS NFs share common NFs (e.g.
virtualised HSS, UDM) with 4G or 5G higher security level VNFs, additional
3GPP security mechanisms may be required to prevent attackers using insecure
interfaces as the injection points against the otherwise secure VNFs (i.e. VNF
implicitly accepts messages from legacy PNF with lower security). However, the
reverse attack also exists were an attacker uses the much larger attack
surface offered by VNFs to attack PNFs. VNFs would ignore the messages but may
well forward them to the less secure PNFs. Attacks are also possible depending
on the chain of VNF and PNFs, were an attacker injects messages towards a VNF,
which is forwarded to a PNF and finally to another VNF. While the first VNF
and PNF are unharmed by the attack, the second VNF falls foul of the implicit
trust of PNF and VNF communications. It is possible to conceive other similar
chained attack scenarios where PNFs and VNFs exist together without knowledge
of each other's implementation or trust domain segregation.
### 5.17.2 Security threats
Vulnerabilities of a PNF could be used as a starting point for an attack
against VNFs, potentially taking advantage of legacy security used by PNFs and
not understood by VNFs.
Vulnerabilities of a VNF could be used as a starting point to forward
malicious messages to a PNF which has not been secured against attacks of that
nature.
### 5.17.3 Potential security requirements
The 5GC should be configured so that NFs can only communicate with NFs which
they are specifically authorised to communicate with. These rules should be
applied irrespective of whether the NF is a PNF or a VNF. The default should
be for two NFs not to trust one another and to block communication. Solutions
to this requirement required inside 3GPP.
The security policies enforced by the system should complement each other in
order to protect mixed PNF-VNF deployments. Solutions to this requirement
required inside 3GPP.
## 5.18 Key Issue 17: Software Catalogue Image Exposure.
### 5.18.1 Key issue detail
In legacy PNF implementations there is a high degree of security by obscurity
in terms of the software images that form vendor implementations of 3GPP NFs.
While 3GPP specifications describe the high-level functionality of NFs and CT
stage 3 specs describe the protocol of the interfaces between them, without
\"stealing/borrowing\" numerous large racks of servers, it is difficult for an
attacker to directly analyse the source code or executable software in a PNF.
Virtualised networks define convenient software onboarding APIs and use
central software catalogues to hold the VNF images prior to instantiation.
There has been significant resistance in ETSI ISG NFV and open source
communities to mandate full mandatory integrity checking of software images at
both the overall package and sub-component (artefact) level. Current
implementations offer minimal if any mandatory signing and where they do, this
is based purely on vendor signatures. Therefore, in theory at least, any image
from the same vendor would past verification checks if loaded into the wrong
CSP software catalogue.
Furthermore, the software catalogues with or without integrity protection
provide a standardised description of the VNFs, their resource requirements,
their configuration and ultimately the compiled executables that makeup the
VNF. If an attacker is able to access the catalogue then they will be able
directly gain a lot of information which can then be used to attack the
running instances of the VNF. Where those VNFs contain cryptographic functions
or sensitive information, this increases the risk further.
Based on current virtualisation standards in ETSI and Open Source,
confidentiality protection of whole image or artefacts during; run-time, on-
boarding, storage and instantiation is not supported, although for LI purposes
this was recommended in ETSI TS NFV-SEC 011 [11].
### 5.18.2 Security threats
If a software catalogue holding the images of virtualized 3GPP NFs is not
integrity protected, the information within the catalogue could be exploited
by attackers to launch attacks on the 3GPP NFs.
If the software package of a virtualized 3GPP NF is not integrity protected,
an attacker could tamper the information inside the package before it is
onboarded into the MANO software catalogue of an operator.
If the artefacts within the software package of a virtualized 3GPP NF are not
integrity protected after the onboarding of the software package, the
individual artifacts could be tampered by an attacker with access to MANO
before the 3GPP NF is instantiated.
If the software package or the artefacts within the package of a virtualized
3GPP NF containing sensitive information is not confidentiality protected
during its onboarding, storage and instantiation, the sensitive information of
the 3GPP NF could be compromised to an attacker with access to MANO.
### 5.18.3 Potential security requirements
The software package and the artefacts within the package of a virtualized
3GPP NF shall be integrity protected by the vendor's signature. Solutions to
this requirement required outside 3GPP.
The software package and the artefacts within the package of a virtualized
3GPP NF and the software catalogue holding its image should be integrity
protected after its onboarding. Solutions to this requirement required outside
3GPP.
The software package and the artefacts within the package of a virtualized
3GPP NF containing sensitive information shall support confidentiality
protection. Solutions to this requirement required outside 3GPP.
Software package and artefacts within the package of a virtualized 3GPP NF
shall be bound to a specific network after onboarding, such that unauthorized
software cannot be instantiated even if it has valid vendor certificate.
Solutions to this requirement required outside 3GPP.
## 5.19 Key Issue 18: The Startup Paradox
### 5.19.1 Key issue detail
Following on from key issue 17, it is unclear how to start a security
sensitive function in a virtualised environment unless that security level of
the whole virtualisation environment is the same as the VNF (or VNF sub-
component) being instantiated.
For example, in a PNF legacy network, the AUC is typically only accessible by
a handful of specifically authorised individuals. In a virtualised
environment, if the AUC is to be virtualised and form part of the fully
virtualised network then its image needs to be stored in the MANO software
catalogues and instantiated as per any other VNF. Therefore, any certificates
or information held in a sensitive function may be visible to anyone with
access to MANO unless additional security measures are applied.
Ignoring the risks in key issue 17 associated with image protection at rest,
once a VNF containing sensitive functions is instantiated it is unclear how to
establish initial communication with those sensitive functions and to install
certificates etc, without reducing the security level to that of general MANO.
### 5.19.2 Security threats
If a certificate is provisioned from MANO to an instantiated 3GPP NF, it could
be compromised to anyone who has access to MANO but is not authorized to
access the NF.
### 5.19.3 Potential security requirements
_Access to the MANO shall be restricted to a limited number of administrators.
Solutions to this requirement are expected to be handled inside 3GPP SCAS and
outside 3GPP._
_VNF should include a secured boot process. Solutions to this requirement are
expected to be handled inside 3GPP SCAS and outside 3GPP._
## 5.20 Key Issue 19: Time Manipulation
### 5.20.1 Key issue detail
A fundamental problem with all virtualised implementations is that VMs and
VNFs have trouble accurately telling the time and generating entropy. Unlike a
PNF which can easily be designed to have direct access to a physical clock, a
VM's view of time is only virtual.
If an attacker, hypervisor administrator, or in some scenarios a malicious VM
on the same host is able to manipulate the virtual CPU clock then is it
possible to affect management or service functions such as manipulating
cryptographic algorithms, key generation or other processes which are highly
time dependent or may also impact the synchornization between UEs and the
network. Such manipulation may involve stretching the shape of clock cycles
rather than simply increasing or decreasing their frequency.
ETSI TR NFV-SEC 016 [9] provides more detailed discussion on timing issues
with virtualised environments
Editor's Note: Need to add reference to background research, NFV SEC timing
papers and attack papers.
### 5.20.2 Security threats
It is possible to move clock back and forth in order to confuse the VM's OS
and VNFs. This could introduce several threats such as tampering of security
logs, expiry of used certificates or UEs getting out of sync with the network.
If an attack manipulates the network timing source or VNF clock, the network
can be compromised.
### 5.20.3 Potential security requirements
The system should provide a protected and trusted network time source.
_Solutions to this requirement required outside 3GPP._
_The VNFs shall synchronize with trusted time servers. Solutions to this
requirement required outside 3GPP._
## 5.21 Key Issue 20: 3^rd^ Party Hosting Environments
### 5.21.1 Key issue detail
Large tier 1 CSPs typically own their own data centres and will operate their
own virtualisation host infrastructure, even if the management of that
infrastructure may be outsourced to 3^rd^ parties. However, smaller VNOs will
likely want to consider an IAAS or NAAS model. In these scenarios sensitive
personal data belong to subscriber and cryptographic (e.g. keys and
algorithms) are now being stored in a 3^rd^ party shared environment which is
not within their control. Whereas, a tier 1 CSP has tight control over where
their data centres are located and therefore where their sensitive data is
located (and in turn who has access to that data), in a tenant IAAS or NAAS
this is more difficult to control. 3GPP functions need to be securable both
where CSPs have tight control over NF host environment (including location)
and where they don't.
### 5.21.2 Security threats
When deployed by an operator who uses a 3^rd^ party host environment not in
the operator's control, without appropriate protection, the sensitive
information of a virtualized 3GPP NF could be compromised by the 3^rd^ party.
### 5.21.3 Potential security requirements
Sensitive information of virtualized 3GPP NFs shall be confidentiality
protected by operators when using a 3^rd^ party environment (e.g. NFVI). _The
types of sensitive information to be_ confidentiality protected _should be
defined inside 3GPP._
Third party hosting environments that support virtualized 3GPP NFs should meet
3GPP virtualisation security requirements and to enable operators to meet
legal/regulatory requirements. Solutions to this requirement required inside
3GPP.
The system should be able to monitor the attestation of 3^rd^ party hosting
environments. Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside
3GPP.
## 5.22 Key Issue 21: VM and Hypervisor Breakout
### 5.22.1 Key issue detail
As a specific extension to Key Issue 4 Common Software Environment, the VM
software and hypervisor present a uniquely high risk to network security in
the event that they have vulnerabilities. While hypervisor vulnerabilities are
rare (especially zero-day vulnerabilities), the impact of one occurring could
be devastating to network security.
In a legacy PNF scenario, while common management interfaces link PNFs
together, if an attacker breaches a PNF they must breach each subsequent PNF.
So, for example to attack the AUC, an external attacker would typically have
to breach 2 or 3 3GPP PNFs and a set of hardware firewalls.
By comparison in a fully virtualised network with a common hypervisor, hosts
and resources, if an attacker is able to execute a hypervisor breakout from
the first VNF they attack, additional security needs to be applied to prevent
them from tunnelling through the virtualisation layer from the attacked VNF to
any other VNF.
Similarly, a VM breakout although less catastrophic would compromise all other
VMs within a host or limited set of hosts. A VM breakout is considered more
likely than a hypervisor breakout.
### 5.22.2 Security threats
In a fully virtualised network with a common virtualization platform, without
appropriate protection, a virtualized 3GPP NF could be attacked, via
tunnelling through the virtualisation layer, by an attacker executing a
hypervisor breakout or VM breakout from another compromised 3GPP NF.
An attacker may break out of a VNF and gain code execution at the
virtualisation layer or elsewhere in the NFVI, as described in Section 4.4.1.
### 5.22.3 Potential security requirements
The NFVI shall provide security isolation to minimize the impact of and detect
hypervisor/VM breakout on a virtualized 3GPP NF. Solutions to this requirement
are expected to be handled outside of 3GPP.
The NFVI and VNFs should be patched regularly. Solutions to this requirement
are expected to be handled inside 3GPP SCAS and outside 3GPP.
The system should prevent and detect attacks that breakout from an attacked
VNF through the virtualisation layer to any other VNF or any other location.
Solutions to this requirement required outside of 3GPP.
## 5.23 Key Issue 22: MANO Single Point of Failures
### 5.23.1 Key issue detail
The NFV Management Network Orchestration functions (MANO) are responsible for
on-boarding, instantiation and life cycle management of all VNF within a
virtualised network. Combined with 3GPP layer OSS/BSS functions they control
all VNFs and indirectly (via the hypervisor or hosts) can access all data
within those VNFs, unless specially protected. Compromising MANO would
effectively compromise all VNFs (to a much less extent the same applies to the
OSS/BSS). Therefore, for 3GPP NFs to be secure, 3GPP NFs need to have minimum
security guarantees from MANO and be designed to be resistant to compromise of
the underlying MANO system.
### 5.23.2 Security threats
Without appropriate protection, virtualized 3GPP NFs could be compromised
(forged/tampered/terminated) by an attacker with access to MANO system.
Without appropriate protection, the data within virtualized 3GPP NFs could be
eavesdropped or tampered by an attacker with access to MANO system.
Without appropriate protection, virtualized 3GPP NFs may receive wrong or no
management information from OSS/BSS or EM which is misled by a compromised
MANO system.
### 5.23.3 Potential security requirements
Solutions to key issue 22 should increase assurance that virtualized 3GPP NFs
are protected from being attacked via MANO system compromised by attackers.
Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
The system should be deployed in such a way as to provide isolation and
redundancy to increase the resiliency and defence against a single point of
failure. MANO functions should include internal health checks to detect
potential intrusion and take protective action. Solutions to this requirement
required both inside and outside 3GPP.
## 5.24 Key Issue 23: IP layer vs Application layer Security
### 5.24.1 Key issue detail
In a PNF implementation there are significant differences (pros and cons)
between using security protocols such as IPSec designed to protect IP traffic
over 3GPP reference points and over the top end to end application layer
security (typically using TLS). Both are good at providing protection again a
physical attacker trying to attack a physical cable or optical fibre but their
characteristics vary in terms of where the encryption terminates vs where the
data is processed or stored. TLS is considered to terminate closer to the
point where a function processes or manages data, whereas IPSec may terminate
at a PNF closer to the edge of the network.
In flat virtualised deployments with common hypervisor and resources, there is
very little difference between IPSec and TLS, with neither by default offering
protection from virtualization layer (e.g. hypervisor) attacks. In this
scenario, both an IPSec and TLS tunnels terminate in arbitrary memory
locations which will be in the same accessible range as the plain text data
they are intended to protect. Unless the IPSec or TLS tunnels transverse a
physical network link external to the data centres, the threats they mitigate
can largely become irrelevant. Using HMEEs massively improves security (see
ETSI TS NFVSEC 012 [10]. However, it is clearly impractical for all TLS or
IPSec endpoints for all control plane or user plane traffic, to be terminated
in HMEEs.
### 5.24.2 Security threats
In a virtualized environment, end-to-end or hop-by-hop security mechanisms in
upper layers (e.g. IP layer or application layer) higher than virtualization
layer (e.g. hypervisor) may not provide virtualized 3GPP NFs the same level of
protection as in physical NFs. (e.g., if both ends/hops are terminated in a
common virtualization platform).
### 5.24.3 Potential security requirements
Solutions to key issue 23 should increase assurance that security mechanisms
in upper layers higher than the common virtualization platform layer (e.g.
hypervisor) can provide virtualized 3GPP NFs the same protection as in
physical NFs. Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside
3GPP.
The system should be able to communicate security policies to the
hypervisor(s) to protect NF resource selection. Solutions to this requirement
required both inside and outside 3GPP.
## 5.25 Key Issue 24: Data synchronicity through network
### 5.25.1 Key issue detail
In 3GPP networks there are many defined message flows between Network
Functions. For example, during the authentication procedure, a known series of
messages will pass between the SEAF and AUSF and the AUSF and the UDM. In a
virtualised environment, flexible and low cost (both in money and resource
terms) security monitoring agents (see ETSI TS NFVSEC 013 [12]) can be easily
inserted around multiple VNFs across the network, which could allow an
attacker to identify the different messages making up a single procedure.
Therefore, it may be possible to identify the same data in different
signalling messages and to take action based on this information, potentially
elsewhere in the network. This is in contrast to legacy PNF networks where it
is very difficult to monitor many points in the network in parallel or to take
a snap shot of the memory state of a large number of PNFs.
### 5.25.2 Security threats
Without appropriate protection, an attacker may be able to access multiple
logical locations within NFVI gaining internal information of the virtualized
3GPP NFs, and see the same data of a user on multiple interfaces as it moves
through the network, correlate signalling and take action based on this, in
order to launch attacks. The data leaked to the attacker could even expose the
privacy of users.
### 5.25.3 Potential security requirements
Solutions to key issue 24 should increase assurance that virtualized 3GPP NFs
are protected from distributed monitoring attacks. Solutions to this
requirement required outside 3GPP.
The system should dynamically assign VNF resources (e.g. memory address) to
prevent long-term data leakage and exposure and protect network resources.
Solutions to this requirement required outside 3GPP.
## 5.26 Key Issue 25: Container Security
### 5.26.1 Key issue detail
First generation NFV implementations were based on Virtual Machine (VM)
architectures. While VM architectures contain a number of points of weakness
including Hypervisor breakout (see key issue#21), VMs provide relatively
strong memory isolation and containment of virtual NF components running in
those VMs.
Current generation NFV implementations are migrating to use a Container based
implementation architecture as either full replacement to VMs, or through
groups of containers running with VMs.
In comparison to VM only deployments, containers have much faster
instantiation times but also much shorter life times. For example, containers
may be created in real time on the fly for a specific service event and then
released leaving the resources free for re-use for other purposes.
From a security and isolation perspective, the VM Hypervisor is replaced by a
Container Engine which manages the life-cycle of a container within a given
group of containers (e.g. pod or cluster). However, the Container Engine does
not provide equivalent VM security memory isolation or breakout protection.
The container application usually runs on "bare metal" with no OS equivalent
to the OS used in VM based implementations.
Container acceleration capabilities such as container caching also present
security challenges as otherwise encrypted VM equivalent image artefacts may
be available in unencrypted form in the cache to allow for fast container re-
instantiation. This is similar to risks associated with key issue 5, although
the impact is more localised.
The fast cycle times of containers also make traditional security monitoring
and policy enforcement more challenging as network security enforcement
decision engines cannot so easily make real-time access permission decisions
as is possible for longer lifetime VMs.
Techniques using both containers and VMs provide some mitigation (e.g. running
all containers for a specific VNF with a large VM, or using VMs for VNF
security sensitive components such as TLS end points). However, using this
approach restricts the flexibility of containers and introduces additional
complexity / cost.
### 5.26.2 Security threats
Without appropriate restrictions on container placement, bare metal containers
introduce security risks which cannot be mitigated using the same inherent
security mechanism provided by VMs. Appropriate restrictions may include;
  * User handling containers relative to network management containers within a VNF.
  * Separation of containers belonging to different NFs on different physical servers.
  * Special handling of containers implementing interfaces between different trust domains (intra-VNF and inter-VNF).
Without appropriate restrictions on the use of container caching, sensitive
data or sensitive VNF components may be exposed through the common container
caches.
### 5.26.3 Potential security requirements
Solutions to key issue 25 should aim to reduce or mitigate the security risk
of containers to an equivalent level to that of VMs.
Security policy which restricts the placement and co-existence of containers
belonging to different trust domains should be defined and implemented by
CSPs. Solutions to enable this requirement potentially required both inside
(e.g. trust domain policy and separation requirements) and outside 3GPP (e.g.
mechanism within NFV layer used to enforce 3GPP policy requirements).
Security policy which restricts which sub-functions within an NF if
implemented using containers may be cached within the general unencrypted
container cache, or define security protection mechanisms for sensitive
containers at rest within the cache, should be defined and implemented by
CSPs. Solutions to enable this requirement potentially required both inside
and outside 3GPP.
## 5.27 Key Issue 26: Container breakout
### 5.27.1 Key issue detail
The newer generation of NFV implementations choose to deploy NF as group of
containers especially due to the benefits associated to containers and its
deployment aspects over traditional VM deployment. Such deployments can be
highly flexible by allowing the operators to deploy multiple NFs as a
collection of small microservices on same physical machines and/or even deploy
NF containers within VMs. Containers co-hosted on the same physical machine as
tenants share the same kernel and OS resources. This allows for a potential
risk of a rogue container escaping the container confinement and impacting
other co-hosted containers. The KI is about container breakouts and its impact
on other containers.
There are multiple ways for attackers to escape container isolation. There
have been reported a number of CVEs that document known vulnerabilities that
have been identified in the past. One way to escape containers is to exploit
vulnerabilities in the Linux kernel. The Linux kernel enforces container
isolation by employing namespaces and cgroups. However, if attackers gain
kernel level privileges through privilege escalation, they can circumvent
isolation as reported in CVEs (e.g. CVE20144699 and CVE20163134). There are
CVEs that have reported vulnerabilities in container runtimes that allow
container breakouts.
### 5.27.2 Security threats
When a malicious container escapes isolation, it can gain full control over
the underlying host and cause any of the below serious threats:
\- attacker would gain the ability to mount attacks on host OS or compromise
host OS functionalities
\- compromise the confidentiality & integrity of co-hosted containers and
tenants
\- introduce new vulnerabilities
Such threats can have a devastating effect in multi-tenant deployments. A
malicious container breakout of one tenant can potentially comprise all co-
hosted containers of other tenants
### 5.27.3 Potential security requirements
The virtualization platform shall provide capabilities to limit impact on co-
hosted containers caused by a rogue container escaping its isolation. One of
the commonly practiced security control is to enforce strict resource limits
on container usage, which helps in preventing resource starvation due to an
attack by a rogue container.
The virtualization platform shall enforce principle of least privilege (PLOP)
that ensure that no containers run with a privilege higher than what is
actually required.
## 5.28 Key Issue 27: Secrets in NF container images
### 5.28.1 Key issue detail
There are scenarios which benefit from including configuration and secrets,
such as passwords or credentials in NF container images. For e.g. containers
require to be able to connect to other containers within the deployment as
well as with external entities. All these connections need to be authenticated
and secured. One way of achieving this is to provide the requisite secrets or
keys to the containers which allow them to authenticate and be authenticated
and secure the communication channel. A common but in-secure means of
providing secrets to the containers is by packaging the secrets or the keys
with the image itself. There is the risk that the same can be extracted, read
or manipulated before the container is deployed and the secret used.
### 5.28.2 Security threats
With a long supply chain, container images are vulnerable to outside scrutiny.
With container images containing secrets or keys, this becomes a serious
threat vector. Adversaries can extract them by obtaining a copy of the image
and they can be potentially shared with third parties for illicit gain.
\- Secrets embedded within a container image can be stolen.
\- Secrets embedded within a container image can be modified
### 5.28.3 Potential security requirements
The embedded secrets such as passwords or credentials, or any other critical
configuration data in VNF images shall be properly protected.
## 5.29 Key Issue 28: Management APIs
### 5.29.1 Key issue detail
Both legacy and virtualised networks make extensive use of management APIs to
manage NFs. These management APIs allow access to privacy and security
sensitive information. APIs exist at all layers of network including the 3GPP
application layer (e.g those with SBA), MANO systems and underlying NFV
infrastructure (e.g. server management APIs supported by the server hardware).
Management APIs provide a range of security critical NF management
capabilities including basic configuration of NFs, policy management, audit
and license management.
Specific to this KI, MANO systems provide a set of APIs (e.g. those
standardised by ETSI ISG NFV SOL) which allow standardised subscription to a
range of information, metrics and points of control for NFs or MANO itself.
Many of these APIs and access credentials can be shared across multiple NFs,
and as MANO is not specifically aware of VNF purpose at the 3GPP layer, can
span slice or other 3GPP security domain boundaries.
Furthermore, many APIs currently allow different security access control
mechanisms to those specified by 3GPP. Therefore, any difference in API
security strength between those specified by 3GPP and those supported by the
underlying MANO / NFV infrastructure risk impacting 3GPP security minima.
Until late 2020, common MANO API standards in industry use still mandated
support for TLS 1.0 or allowed use of weaker username and password
authentication mechanisms. Such mechanisms have been prohibited by 3GPP for a
number of years. Approaches using self-signed certificates are also common.
Management APIs can have subscribers that are both internal and external to
the 3GPP network. In the case of external APIs these provide standardised
access to all NFs or MANO functions shared by all NFs, which do not pass
through the 3GPP defined security interfaces (e.g. via SEPP) and do not fall
into the scope of 3GPP Security Assurance Standards.
### 5.29.2 Security threats
Without appropriate security level minima (e.g TLS version, algorithm, token
types), underlying management and licensing APIs introduce standardised
mechanisms to access 3GPP NFs with lower levels of security than those
accepted by 3GPP. This risk existed in legacy networks but there was no common
published API available for an attacker to subscribe to.
Without appropriate linkage between security requirements for APIs all, at all
system layers (3GPP, MANO, NFVI), a 3GPP system cannot achieve 3GPP specified
security strength and attack resistance.
Some NFs or NF components are more sensitive than others (e.g. LI components,
Cryptographic functions). Therefore, without appropriate API access
restriction rules (both access to APIs and specific information or commands
available for a given user), NFV level APIs may bridge or bypass 3GPP level NF
security isolation requirements.
### 5.29.3 Potential security requirements
_Solutions to this Key Issue should ensure minimum levels of API security and
support for isolation requirements across all layers in a 3GPP virtualised
network_. Based on current 3GPP requirements in TS 33.501 such a minimum level
should cover authentication, authorization, integrity protection, replay
deterrence, confidentiality protection, TLS profile and certificate profiles.
_The system should be able to support a single 3GPP defined security level,
for all APIs (including 3GPP layer, NFV layer and NFVI layer) within a 3GPP
network._ Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
The system should be able to support 3GPP defined API access restrictions for
specific NFs, NF components and network slices. Solutions to this requirement
required both inside and outside 3GPP.
## 5.30 Key Issue 29: Image Snapshot and VNF Mobility
### 5.30.1 Key issue detail
Starting, checkpointing, restarting or migration of virtual workloads are
fundamental operational tasks in a cloud environment.
Potential security risks are related to a migration of a virtual workload from
a secure environment to a less secure environment or to attacking data while
on rest (e.g., as part of a snapshot file) or while in transit (e.g., during
live migration).
In general, these threats can be handled using appropriate mechanism, i.e.,
ensuring that source and target environment are secure, that snapshot files
are protected, that the mechanism used during migration is secure, or that the
underlying operational processes are secure.
This approach, however, assumes that the cloud environment is trustworthy,
i.e., the operator, who deploys VNFs in a cloud environment trusts that the
cloud operator has secure mechanisms and processes in place with respect to
lifecycle management of virtual workloads.
If, however, a cloud environment is regarded as potentially malicious, things
are different. In such a case typically remote attestation techniques can be
used to verify that a VNF is running in a trustworthy execution environment.
Such a setup makes migration of VNFs more complicated, since the attestation
is valid only for the source environment and not for the target environment,
i.e., some form of re-attestation needs to be executed for the target
environment. Furthermore, data (including security credentials) used by the
VNF in the source environment are protected (\"sealed\") so that they are
readable and usable only in the source environment. Thus, the migration needs
to include a mechanism, which allows unsealing (on the source environment) and
sealing (on the target environment) of the data to be transferred (i.e., the
persistent state) in a secure way without opening the possibility of running
several copies of a VNF with different persistent state (so called forking or
roll-back attacks).
### 5.30.2 Security threats
An attacker might initiate migration of a VNF from a trustworthy execution
environment into a non-trustworthy environment. The non-trustworthy
environment might be under the control of the attacker and might be used for
direct attacks against a VNF.
An attacker might attack VNF data, while they are at rest as part of a VNF
snapshot or in transition during live migration.
An attacker, who has control over the deployment of VNFs (i.e., the attacker
can start, pause, restart, or migrate a VNF), could run several instances of
the same VNF with different persistent state. While not trivial, this kind of
fork or roll-back attacks can be used to initiate complex attacks against the
overall integrity of the 5G system.
### 5.30.3 Potential security requirements
Migration of a VNF from a trustworthy environment to an untrustworthy
environment shall not be possible, e.g., the access to virtualization
management operations, like starting, stopping, pausing, restarting, live
migration of a VNF, shall be subject to authentication and authorization.
Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
VNF data shall be confidentiality protected when stored as part of a VNF
snapshot or during migration of the VNF to another execution environment.
Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
Where VNF sub-components are in different trust domains, the snapshot shall
maintain security and isolation requirements for each trust domain within the
snapshot of the VNF. Solutions to this requirement required outside 3GPP.
The ability of a VNF to verify the trustworthiness of another VNF (as
described in KI#13) shall not be impeded by pausing, stopping, restarting, or
migrating a VNF. Solutions to this requirement required both inside and
outside 3GPP.
All VNF Snapshot and VNF mobility operations shall preserve the persistent
state of the VNF in order to prevent forking or roll-back attacks. Solutions
to this requirement required outside 3GPP.
It shall be possible to protect and prevent sensitive VNF or VNF-components
from being subject to snapshot or migration without explicit authorization.
Solutions to this requirement required both inside and outside 3GPP.
All system snapshots events shall be subject to secure logging. Solutions to
this requirement required outside 3GPP.
Snapshots shall be securely deleted, once they are no longer required or after
a specified maximum snapshot age has been reached. Solutions to this
requirement required outside 3GPP.
## 5.31 Key Issue 30: Sensitive Function Pinning
### 5.29.1 Key issue detail
Editor's Note: How does 3GPP describe and pin sensitive sub-functions to
specific security hardware in VNFD and NSD. What types and language are
required for this to be done in a multi-vendor interoperable environment?
Editor's Note: How is this attested and linked to KI#13.
### 5.31.2 Security threats
### 5.31.3 Potential security requirements
# 6 Mitigations and Solutions
## 6.1 Introduction
Editor's Note: This section will contain any potential Mitigations or
Solutions that may be used to address or reduce the risk associated with Key
Issues identified in section 5.
## 6.2 Solution 1: Trust domains and separation
### 6.2.1 Introduction
Virtualisation is a widely employed technique to provide separation between
workloads, allowing the resources available to be used in the most efficient
and secure manner. This separation requires the definition of trust domains
but can be implemented and enforced in a variety of different ways. This can
include software defined rules, separate physical infrastructure and
appropriate choices of virtualisation infrastructure. Risk appetite and use
case will determine which combination of these controls are appropriate.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
#### 6.2.2.1 Definition of trust domains
All workloads, functions and VNFs are allocated a trust domain, based upon
their sensitivity. Functions identified as security critical do not share
trust domains with workloads that are not security critical functions.
All physical hosts are categorised into security pools based upon risk. The
risk is based upon the host type, the security features of the host, and the
environment within which that host resides. Hosts can be pooled for resilience
purposes to ensure that parallel workloads are in physically separate
locations. Host pools are tagged with trust domains they can execute. This
will be based on risk and ensure that sensitive functions are not executed
alongside vulnerable functions, or in high-risk locations.
When determining whether a virtual workload is permitted to run on a host, the
following aspects are considered:
  * the trust domain of the workload being deployed,
  * the host's security pool,
  * the existing workloads running on the host, and their trust domains.
Using these criteria, the system enforces rules, as appropriate, to ensure
that critical and sensitive workloads and highly exposed workloads do not run
on the same host pool. Further segregation is available, for example if the
workload vendor is viewed as high risk.
Given that the orchestration tooling requires high levels of access and
privilege it is be counted as a security critical network function and
protected as such. If it were compromised, the entire NFVI would be at risk.
#### 6.2.2.2 Software separation of VNFs
Virtualisation provides a well understood, software defined, mechanism to
separate network functions. Software defined traffic rules applied directly to
each virtual function are used to limit both incoming and outgoing traffic in
an efficient and scalable way.
#### 6.2.2.3 Separation of physical infrastructure
To reduce the risk due to compromise of a single host, virtualisation
infrastructure is segregated, and workloads are deployed appropriately. Hosts
are physically separated such that compromise of one physical host does not
allow an attacker to impact an unmanageable amount of the virtualised network,
and a physical host's risk profile is used to determine which workloads can be
deployed to it.
A physical host is not able to impact hosts in other host pools. For example,
among other controls, spoofing VLAN/VXLANs of virtual networks is not allowed.
#### 6.2.2.4 Virtualisation platform
Where the virtualisation platform is used to enforce separation between trust
domains (i.e. where discrete physical hardware is not used), type-1
hypervisors are used. Virtual workloads do not have direct access to the
physical hardware.
Containers are not used to enforce separation between trust domains.
Correspondingly, containerised hosts only support a single trust domain. This
is because containers only provide process-level separation between workloads,
meaning a single kernel-level vulnerability allows an attacker to impact the
underlying host and all the containers running on it.
Editor's Note: 3GPP details need to be further described.
### 6.2.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issues 1, 9, 11, 12 and 13.
## 6.3 Solution 2: Lock-down of infrastructure
### 6.3.1 Introduction
To prevent enabling unnecessary attack vectors and to make it easier to
monitor whether a network is behaving appropriately, the virtualisation layer
is locked down so that only the necessary communications are possible. In
addition, service providers need to be able to maintain and patch the
virtualisation layer and underlying hardware without impacting their core
services to customers.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
Virtual workloads cannot directly access the physical hardware they are
running on, and it is not possible to directly communicate between physical
hosts other than data flows between virtual workloads. All interfaces on
physical hosts are locked down to restrict access to trusted hosts, and there
is no hard-coded configuration (e.g. virtual span ports or hard-coded MAC
addresses) in the NFVI as these make it significantly harder to update and
patch. Virtualisation hosts only open the minimum number of ports required and
all ports and services are locked down and managed.
Only hosts that have cryptographically attested to be in a good known running
state can be provisioned into the network. Hosts already in the network need
to continue to be cryptographically attested to be in a good known running
state.
The NFVI can be updated without impacting the network functionality. This will
give confidence that patches against security issues will be done in a timely
manner. The NFVI is kept up to date (including firmware), to minimise security
issues. It is possible to automatically update the NFVI, to minimise the time
that the fabric is at risk if an issue is found
NFVI security enforcing functions always encrypt data at rest, and in transit.
Editor's Note: 3GPP details need to be further described.
### 6.3.3 Evaluation
This solution addresses Key Issues 2, 3, 4, 5, and 14.
## 6.4 Solution 3: Administration of the virtualisation fabric
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses Key Issue #10, Single Administrator Domain.
Administration of a network takes place in the management plane. A compromise
in this part of the network infrastructure could impact the whole network,
making it the primary target for any malicious attack intending to disrupt or
otherwise compromise the operation of a network. Exploitation of the
management plane could have a long-term impact on the availability and
confidentiality of the operator's services, including critical services.
Historic management of telecoms networks has relied heavily upon standard
corporate devices doubling up as administrative workstations. Consequently,
machines that perform standard 'office' type functionality such as email, and
web access are also defining the operation of the network. This is often
referred to as a browse up architecture, and brings significant risk. Where it
is used, several commodity classes of attack can be performed with relative
ease upon administrative users, and these can achieve a significant impact.
Several attack vectors exist, the most notable being the possibilities
afforded to an attacker via phishing of administrative users, targeted or
otherwise, which can result in credential loss, remote code execution, and
further exploitation of networks or users.
Attacks of this type tend not to be noisy, meaning that there is no overt
impact on the network, and they may be maintained for years, growing in scale
and complexity over time. These attacks are likely to have a significant
impact on the operator and hence securing the management plane should be
treated as a priority. Given the risks, it is not appropriate for operators to
be using a browse up architecture. Instead, operators should architect, and
operate, their management plane infrastructure to inhibit network compromise
through administrative access. Operators should treat virtualisation
administration as a management plane.
NOTE: A host compromise will compromise all workloads running on that host,
and as such the administration of the underlying hardware is as critical as
the administration of the virtualisation fabric.
### 6.4.2 Solution Details
Access to the management plane needs to be temporary and time-bounded. The
operator needs to constrain the number of administrator accounts able to
modify the Virtualisation Fabric, and the number of administrators, to a
minimal manageable number to meet their needs. Administrators need to be
prevented from being able to grant themselves privileged access to the
network, and should not have access to the host's hardware or the virtualised
workloads running within the environment.
All administrative access needs to be logged, and the activity of the session
recorded. Manual administration of the Virtualisation Fabric (e.g. access to a
command line on host infrastructure) should raise a security incident. The
devices and locations from which the fabric can be modified should be limited.
All new deployments of equipment need to be administered via authenticated and
encrypted channels. Insecure or proprietary security protocols need to be
disabled. Administrative access needs to be via secure, encrypted, and
authenticated protocols whenever technically practical. Functions that support
the administration and security of the Virtualisation Fabric should not be run
on the fabric itself, and should be considered as Security Critical functions
running on separate dedicated hardware.
### 6.4.3 Evaluation
Editor\'s Note: To be added.
## 6.5 Solution 4: Hardware Mediated Execution Enclave (HMEE)
### 6.5.1 Introduction
This solution aims to address KI 6, 7, 15, and 25 by proposing to standardize
the use of Hardware Mediated Execution Enclave (HMEE) when deploying a Network
Function Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI). From ETSI GS NFV-SEC 009 [3] _A
hardware-mediated execution enclave is defined as an area of process space and
memory within a system environment within a computer host which delivers
confidentiality and integrity of instructions and data associated with that
enclave. This enclave is protected from eavesdropping, replay and alteration
attacks as the programs within the enclave are executed._
Utilizing an HMEE within the NFVI may solve the issue of Virtual Network
Function (VNF) isolation, memory introspection, and confidentiality of data-
in-use in both virtualized and containerized environments. HMEE solutions
offer protection from co-located VNFs running on the same physical host as
well as protection from the host itself. General purpose HMEE can be equipped
with Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS) hardware that may be used to host the
NFVI.
Use of an HMEE in the NFVI provides the means to support at least the
following security controls:
  * Security of data-in-use. When code is executed on a shared physical host it is at risk of being modified or inspected by co-located VNFs or the host itself. With HMEE, code is executed in a secure environment, protecting the code and data from co-located VNFs and the host.
  * Data integrity. HMEE is resistant to unauthorized modifications of information inside HMEE.
To scale across 5G NFV this solution proposes to utilize the trust domains
from solutions to key issue #1. For example, trust domains that have security
critical functions are only be deployed on hosts that have HMEEs enabled.
Meanwhile, less sensitive functions belong to a lower trust domain and do not
need to be deployed on HMEE enabled hosts.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
This solution proposes to equip the NFVI with one or more HMEEs, where an HMEE
can be deployed for a single VNF or a group of VNFs. If the HMEE is shared, it
needs to provide isolation from collocated VNFs.
The HMEE is to be used for executing sensitive functions within the VNF, such
as information elements marked as private (e.g., the SIDF de-concealing the
SUPI from the SUCI). Other operations should use the existing security
measures for NFV deployment.
When deploying an HMEE on a NFV environment, the following are required:
  *   * The NFVI needs to be deployed using hardware resources that have an HMEE enabled.
  * The NFVI is designated an appropriate trust domain for VNF deployment based on its HMEE capability. HMEE enabled hosts provide security guarantees that reduce security risks and therefore belongs to higher trust domains.
NOTE 1: Establishment of trust domains is based on solutions for key issue #1
  * Data-in-use are inaccessible by either other VNFs or the virtualisation layer (container engine or hypervisor) with HMEE. VNF sensitive data and functions need to be executed using the HMEE.
### 6.5.3 Evaluation
HMEEs provide enhanced security assurance in the NFVI and can serve as a root
of trust. HMEE capability should be supported within NFVI which is out of 3GPP
scope.
This solution other soluti several key isss,notably key6, 7, 15
## 6.6 Solution 5: Solution Using Boot Time Attestation for NF Registration
### 6.6.1 General
_This solution addresses Key Issue 13: Attestation at 3GPP Function Level.
ETSI NFV reports, such as ETSI GR NFV-SEC 007 [14] and ETSI GR NFV-SEC 018
[15], provide guidance on attestation technologies, practices, and
architectures. However, no standardized attestation framework is specified for
virtualized 3GPP NFs. To attest a virtualized 3GPP NF through a full chain of
trust from the VNF layer down to the hardware layer, attestation
infrastructure and procedures are needed both within the 3GPP functional
domain and outside its domain. This solution seeks to 1) identify dependencies
on underlying elements outside the 3GPP functional domain and 2) introduce new
functionality to coordinate access to attestation services at the 3GPP
functional level._
### 6.6.2 Introduction
#### 6.6.2.1 Reference Architecture for Attestation
_Attestation is a process to determine the trustworthiness of a platform.
Attestation provides cryptographic evidence of the integrity of hardware,
firmware, software, and other critical security functions to show that a
system has not been breached and is in a valid state._
_Implementation of an attestation architecture and protocols are not in scope
of this solution. A conceptual attestation architecture is depicted in Figure
6.6.2.1-1 to make clear the attestation terminology used in this solution._
{width="4.995833333333334in" height="1.3736111111111111in"}
_Figure 6.6.2.1-1: Reference Architecture for Attestation_
_An attestation architecture typically involves three roles:_
  * _Attester: performs integrity measurements on the target system which is to be attested and generates a set of claims called Evidence._
  * _Verifier: verifies the Evidence on the basis of reference values or other complex logic and generates an Attestation Result that declares the target system as trustworthy or not._
  * _Relying Party: depends on the Attestation Results to apply specific actions._
_A typical attestation cycle consists of the following steps illustrated in
Figure 6.6.2.1-1:_
  1. _Verifier sends an attestation request to the target system._
  2. _Upon receiving the attestation request, the Attester measures the target's untrusted environment and collects the integrity measurements into evidence._
  3. _Attester sends the evidence to the Verifier._
  4. _Upon receiving the evidence, the Verifier validates the received measurements against reference values or applies implementation-specific logic. The validation results assert whether the system under evaluation is in trustworthy state or not._
  5. _Verifier sends validation results to a Relying Party. The Relying Party uses the attestation results to decide the extent to which it will interact with the attested system._
_Local attestation occurs when the Attester and Verifier run on the same
physical machine. When the Verifier is remote, this is referred to as remote
attestation._
_Attestation procedures should adhere to the following in order to trust the
process:_
  * An Attester should run in a trusted environment with complete access to the system so that it can take accurate and comprehensive measurements even when measuring a corrupted component.
  * An Attester should run on component boot up.
  * Measurements should be sent from the Attester to the Verifier in a manner that ensures freshness, confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity.
  * Measurements on a component should be stored in a secure manner to prevent unauthorized modification prior to being sent to the Verifier.
  * A Verifier should run in a trusted environment.
  * Attestation results should be sent from the Verifier to the Relying Party in a manner that ensures freshness, confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity.
#### 6.6.2.2 Attestation in NFV Environments
_In a NFV environment, a virtualised 3GPP NF executes inside a virtual
instance (e.g., virtual machine or OS container) created by virtualisation
software (e.g., hypervisor or container engine). The virtualisation software
mediates access to virtual resources that it abstracts from the physical
resources in the hardware platform. The hardware platform includes other
building blocks (e.g., BIOS, operating systems, etc.) for operation.
Therefore, the scope of attestation of a VNF comprises all the aforementioned
systems and components involved._
_Attestation in an NFV environment is established with a chain of trust (CoT).
That is, the trustworthiness of the VNF is guaranteed by the trustworthiness
of the virtual instance, the trustworthiness of the virtual instance is
guaranteed by the trustworthiness of the virtualisation software, and so on
back to the trustworthiness of the hardware. A component participating in a
CoT cannot influence its own measurement procedure, as its execution begins
only after it has been measured and verified [14]. The CoT starts with an
implicitly trusted attester, called a Root of Trust (RoT), and extends up to
the last software component._
_In the NFV architecture, components participating in the CoT are under the
control of different domains. The VNF and virtual instance it runs within are
in the 3GPP functional domain. Whereas the virtualisation software and the
hardware platform are in the NFVI domain._
_To illustrate the interdependency of attestation across domains, Figure
6.6.2.2-1 shows a conceptual flow of measurements needed to form a CoT from
the hardware layer to the VNF. The steps include:_
  1. _RoT measures hardware (including supporting components: firmware/BIOS, OS, etc.)_
  2. _Hardware measures virtualisation layer (e.g., hypervisor or container engine)_
  3. _Virtualisation layer (e.g., hypervisor or container engine) measures the virtual instance (e.g., VM or container)_
  4. _Virtualized RoT (vRoT) measures the VNF. The vRoT is a virtual instance associated to the hardware protected RoT. The virtualisation layer software provides this virtual resource to the virtual instance._
{width="2.28125in" height="2.436111111111111in"}
_Figure 6.6.2.2-1: Conceptual flow of measurements that form a CoT from the
hardware layer to the VNF_
_A VNF's trusted state relies on the state of trust of the underlying
elements. More precisely, measurement of the VNF relies on a mechanism in the
NFVI domain (in this example the vRoT). The cross-over in domain affects the
scope of attestation for VNFs. The target of attestation, i.e., the VNF, is in
the 3GPP functional domain and the mechanism for generating evidence on the
target, e.g., the vRoT, is in the NFVI domain. Furthermore, trust in any
measurements logged by the virtual resource (e.g., vRoT) is predicated on
trust in the virtualisation layer software (e.g., hypervisor or container
engine) that instantiates the resources to be used by the virtual instance
(e.g., VM or OS container)._
_Additionally, relying parties in the 3GPP functional domain that make
decisions based on attestation results may need to influence what is measured
during the attestation process according to the level of assurance required by
the relying party. Different 3GPP VNFs (i.e., relying parties) may have
different criteria for trustworthiness. These aspects on configuration are
within scope of 3GPP._
### 6.6.3 Solution Details
#### 6.6.3.1 General
This solution focuses on boot-time attestation, where a chain of trust is
established during the boot process of the NFVI. The chain is extended to
include attestation of the VNF when it is first instantiated on top of the
NFVI. Run-time attestation methods for NFVI and VNFs are not considered in
this solution.
Defining attestation for NFV environments is out of scope of 3GPP. However,
attestation of NFVI and attestation of VNFs are discussed in this solution to
layout the foundational building blocks and propose a set of requirements from
the perspective of 3GPP functional domain. It is also necessary to examine
NFVI and VNF attestation to understand how attestation results can be used
within 3GPP functional domain and how the 3GPP functional domain can influence
configuration of attestation in the NFV domain.
_A new function called the Profile and Attestation Check Function (PACF) is
proposed to enable access to the attestation results from the 3GPP functional
level and distribute attestation policy to control how attestation is applied.
The PACF may be standalone or co-located with OSS/BSS, NRF, or other network
security functions._
_This solution proposes using proof of attestation results to decide whether
to register a VNF. A modified NF Registration procedure is proposed that uses
the PACF to obtain access to the attestation results._
_This solution is complementary to attestation services performed by the
management layer._
#### 6.6.3.2 Attestation of the NFVI
_Figure 4.2-1 shows the ETSI NFV high-level architecture. The NFVI is a
collection of NFVI-Nodes. Each NFVI-Node is a physical device deployed and
managed as a single entity, providing the NFVI functions required to support
the execution environment for VNFs. Each node goes through the attestation
process to produce a chain of trust starting from the server/hardware layer.
Only after successful attestation of each layer, the NFVI-node joins the NFV
infrastructure._
_Each NFVI-node includes at minimum the following components:_
  1. _Server / Hardware Resource -- bare metal equipment that the entire NFV stack runs upon. It provides physical storage, compute, and network I/O to the OS and virtualization software. Virtual resources are instantiated on these physical resources for VNFs._
  2. _Operating System (OS) -- full featured or customized OS that runs the software necessary for a NFV._
  3. _Virtualization Layer-- software (e.g., hypervisor or container engine) that creates a virtual instance (e.g., Virtual Machine or OS container) to run VNFs_
_Any attestation solutions for NFVI should provide the following chain of
attestation:_
  1. _Attestation of the Server / Hardware Resource: a RoT measures and verifies the server platform consisting of firmware and hardware. After successful attestation of the server, it will act as the attester for the layer above. The attestation results and corresponding measurements are maintained by a verifier for subsequent access._
  2. _Attestation of the OS: the server measures and verifies the OS. After successful attestation of the OS, it will act as attester for the layer above. The attestation results and corresponding measurements are maintained by a verifier for subsequent access._
  3. _Attestation of the Virtualisation Layer software: the OS measures and verifies the virtualisation software. The virtualisation software may be a hypervisor or a container engine. If the virtualisation software is pre-loaded into the OS, then its attestation is included with the attestation of the OS. The attestation results and corresponding measurements are maintained by a verifier for subsequent access._
_If any step in the attestation process fails, the CoT cannot be expanded
further and a recovery procedure should be activated to handle the failure._
#### 6.6.3.3 Attestation of VNFs
_As a precondition to attestation of VNFs, it is assumed the NFVI-node has
been successfully attested and can be trusted to attest VNFs running on its
platform. More precisely, the virtualization layer software has been
successfully attested and can act as the attester for VNFs._
_Also note that a VNF runs inside a virtual instance, either VM-based or based
on an OS-container. Thus, any attestation solutions for VNFs should consider
both use cases._
_Any attestation solution for VNFs should provide a process that includes the
following steps._
_The process is initiated by the NFV MANO requesting to instantiate a new
VNF._
  1. _The NFVI retrieves the virtual instance from network storage that is within the NFVI._
  2. _If the VNF software is not preloaded on the virtual instance, the VNF software specific to the type of VNF being instantiated is retrieved from network storage._
  3. _The NFVI attests the virtual instance and VNF:_
    1. _The virtualisation layer software (e.g., hypervisor or container engine) measures the virtual instance and VNF software and reports the evidence to a Verifier._
    2. _The Verifier validates the measurements. The attestation results and corresponding measurements are maintained by the verifier for subsequent access._
  4. _NFV MANO provides the VNF with a signed NF profile [13], clause 4.17.1. (TS 23.502, clause 4.17.1, NOTE 2 states the NF profile is configured by OAM system)._
> _Editor's Note: References to the NFV management and orchestration as "NFV
> MANO" vs. "OAM" should be aligned with the terminology in TS 23.502 clause
> 4.17.1._
  1. _The NFVI begins to run the VNF._
_If any step in the attestation process fails, the CoT cannot be expanded
further and a recovery procedure should be activated to handle the failure._
#### 6.6.3.4 Proposed Requirements for Attestation in NFV Environments
_Currently, no specification exists that defines support for attestation in
NFV environments. The following requirements are proposed for consideration
for future development of NFV specifications to assist the 3GPP functional
domain in VNF attestation:_
  1. _The NFV architecture shall provide support for attestation._
  2. _Support for attestation shall include NFVI subsystems and components described in 6.6.3.2._
  3. _Support for attestation of VNFs shall include VM-based and container-based use cases as described in 6.6.3.3._
  4. _The NFV architecture shall provide external access to the attestation measurements and attestation results._
  5. _Verification of attestation evidence from NFVI shall be performed by a verifier external to NFVI to support remote attestation_
  6. _The external verifier should be within the NFV MANO domain_
  7. _Support for a mechanism to establish trust between the 3GPP functional domain and the external verifier shall be provided._
  8. _The NFV architecture shall provide an interface and protocol to allow the 3GPP functional domain to send attestation policies to the NFV architecture to support configuration of attestation parameters._
#### 6.6.3.5 Profile and Attestation Check Function (PACF)
_Since the attestation procedures to verify the trustworthiness of VNFs and
NFVI exist outside the domain of the 3GPP functional level, access to the
attestation results is needed from within the 3GPP functional level._ This
access allows attestation to be integrated with select procedures in the
control plane, such as NF registration and slicing operations. For instance,
enterprise slices for some verticals may require the ability to query for
proof of successful attestation to support their use cases. Applicability to
NF registration is discussed in 6.6.3.6.
Additionally, default application of the same level of attestation to every
virtualized NF in a 3GPP network may not be necessary. In which case, the 3GPP
functional level can provide an attestation policy to the infrastructure
responsible for attestation. The attestation policy describes the conditions
for applying attestation and the type of measurements required to meet a
specified level of assurance per VNF.
This solution proposes the PACF to _coordinate access to attestation results
from the 3GPP functional level and administer policy to help control how and
when attestation is applied. Figure 6.6.3.5-1 presents a reference
architecture integrating PACF into the NFV architecture. This architecture
assumes the NFVI has been successfully attested and the virtualization layer
software can act as the attester for VNFs._
{width="4.836111111111111in" height="3.2604166666666665in"}
_Figure 6.6.3.5-1 Reference architecture with PACF integrated with NFV
architecture_
_The PACF serves as a bridge between the 3GPP functional level and the
attestation infrastructure outside its domain. The PACF requires a secure
communication path to the Verifier. Policy information is sent from PACF to
the Verifier. Attestation results are sent from the Verifier to the PACF. A
trust relationship must be pre-established between the PACF and the Verifier.
Other network functions acting as Relying Parties must also trust the
Verifier. This solution assumes the Verifier is located within the NFV MANO
domain._
> _Editor's Note: Communication between the PACF and NFV MANO is FFS._
#### 6.6.3.6 NF Service Registration Procedure with Remote Attestation
_This solution proposes to provide proof to the 3GPP functional domain that a
new VNF has been successfully attested before registration occurs in the 5G
Core._
> _Editor's Note:_ The process for verifying attestation results of the NRF
> and PACF is FFS _._
_Once successfully instantiated, a new VNF will register with the NRF. The
original NF Service Registration procedure is detailed in [13], clause 4.17.1.
The modified NF Service Registration procedure shown in Figure 6.6.3.6-1
includes attestation by adding steps 2, 3, and 4. Steps 1, 5, and 6 are steps
from the original procedure._
_The modified NF Service Registration procedure retrieves attestation results
based on the NF Instance ID in the NF profile. This solution proposes the use
of digital signatures to enable integrity protection and verification of the
NF profile sent in the registration request by the VNF. The NF profile should
be signed by the OAM, NFV MANO, or an authorized delegate when the VNF
instance is provisioned and instantiated on the NFVI. The NF profile should
only be signed after the integrity of the VNF instance has been verified.
Signing the NF profile prevents the registering VNF from altering the NF
profile by forging the NF Instance ID of a successfully attested VNF._
_NOTE: A signed NF profile is within alignment of TS 23.502 [13] clause
4.17.1. TS 23.502 clause 4.17.1, NOTE 2 states: the NF profile is configured
by OAM system and NOTE 3 states: that whether the NF profile sent by NF
service consumer to NRF needs to be integrity protected by the NF service
consumer and verified by the NRF is to be decided by SA3._
{width="6.1090277777777775in" height="3.35625in"}
**Figure 6.6.3.6-1: NF Service Registration Procedure with PACF**
When an NF requires attestation results to register, the following steps _are
proposed for the registration procedure:_
> _Step 1: NF service consumer, i.e. an NF instance, sends
> Nnrf_NFManagement_NFRegister Request message to NRF to inform the NRF of its
> NF profile when the NF service consumer becomes operative for the first
> time._
>
> _Step 2: The NRF initiates a request for attestation results and sends the
> signed NF profile to the PACF._
>
> _Step 3: The PACF verifies the signature on the NF profile and retrieves
> attestation results from the Verifier using the NF Instance ID from the NF
> profile._
>
> _If signature verification fails, the NF service consumer cannot be trusted
> and an exception handling procedure should be activated to handle an
> untrusted NF._
>
> _Step 4: The PACF responds to the NRF with attestation results it received
> from the Verifier._
>
> _Step 5: If the attestation results affirm successful attestation, the NF
> service consumer can be trusted. The NRF stores the NF profile of NF service
> consumer and marks the NF service consumer available._
>
> _Otherwise, if the attestation results affirm an unsuccessful attestation,
> the NF consumer cannot be trusted and a recovery procedure should be
> activated to handle an untrusted NF._
>
> _Step 6: The NRF acknowledge NF Registration is accepted via
> Nnrf_NFManagement_NFRegister response._
_There can also be interactions between NFs with MnF (as defined in TS 28.533)
for NF management service._
_Besides the above procedures defined in 3GPP, the NFs can also interact with
domains defined in other SDOs, e.g., MANO defined in ETSI._
_The main idea is requiring the Verifier to expose the attestation results of
different layers to the network entities (NRF, NFp, PS, MnF, MANO, OAM, etc.)
which will interact with the attested NF, then, on receiving the interaction
from the NF, these network entities can invoke the attestation /results and
take further actions._
_NOTE: The Verifier itself can also be distributed in different layers. The
network entities can communicate with the Verifier directly or via a unified
proxy_
### 6.6.4 Evaluation
Editor's Note: In cases where the NF does not need to register to NRF, the NRF
cannot perform verification of the attestation results as proposed in the
solution. Evaluation of this case is FFS.
The solution has the following 3GPP impact:
> PACF: Introduction of a new 3GPP network function to enable interworking
> between 3GPP NF and NFV MANO domains, and also to perform the integrity
> check of the NF profiles.
>
> NRF: Addition of the necessary functionalities to enable the NRF to relay
> the necessary information and to enforce the policies related to the
> attestation results.
The solution depends on attestation infrastructure outside the scope of 3GPP.
The solution proposes a set of requirements for attestation in the NFV
environment to assist the 3GPP functional domain in VNF attestation.
## 6.7 Solution 6: Solution Using Attestation for Key Issue 13
### 6.7.1 General
_This solution addresses Key Issue 13: Attestation at 3GPP Function Level._
_The solution proposes to bind the provisioning of 3GPP identities and
corresponding cryptographic material to 3GPP NFs to the process of remote
attestation._
### 6.7.2 Introduction
_3GPP has defined an own security framework on NF level, which is based on the
Service Based Architecture._
_A central element of the security is transport layer security based on X.509
certificates._
_If a NF acting as a service consumer requests a service from another NF
acting as a service producer, the consumer and producer shall mutually
authenticate by means of verifying the consumer's client certificate and
producer\'s server certificate. Vice versa, the producer authorizes the
consumer by means of verifying an OAuth 2.0 token included in the service
request._
_The consumer requests and receives the OAuth 2.0 token from the NRF. During
the token request the NRF authenticates the NF requesting the token. The
authentication is based on a X.509 certificates and a corresponding private
key, which together are acting as the consumer\'s OAuth Client Id and Client
Secret._
_There can also be interactions between NFs with MnF (as defined in TS
28.533[16]) for NF management service._
_Besides the above procedures defined in 3GPP, the NFs can also interact with
domains defined in other SDOs, e.g., MANO defined in ETSI._
_Therefore, there can be multiple approaches, how the concept of remote
attestation could be linked to the existing security concept, for instance:_
_1\. Remote Attestation is executed during each interaction between consumer
and NRF and between consumer and producer._
_2\. Remote Attestation is executed during enrolment of client and server
certificates to the NFs. Afterwards trust is based on these certificates and
their corresponding private keys._
_The main idea is requiring the Remote Attestation server to exposure the RA
report/result of different layers to the network entities (NRF, NFp, PS, MnF,
MANO, OAM, etc.) which will interact with the attested NF, then, on receiving
the interaction from the NF, these network entities can invoke the RA
report/result and take further actions._
_NOTE: The RA server itself can also be distributed in different layers. The
network entities can communicate with the RA server directly or via a unified
proxy._
_The proposed solution takes the PS as an example._
_This approach assumes that the NF can protect the private key linked to the
certificate from any attack. That is the cryptographic material needs to
reside within a trusted execution environment and must not be visible outside
of the trusted execution environment at any time, not even during
provisioning._
_It is up to implementation and specific security requirements, if the NF is
using a trusted execution environment based on enclave technologies for
handing of the private key and certificate, or if the entire NF is executed in
a trusted execution environment._
### 6.7.3 Solution Details
The following description provides a high-level overview about a possible
solution focussing on the concept and requirements. The individual steps are
only indicative. A detailed specification is FFS or up to normative work.
**Figure 6.7.3-1: Combining provision of 3GPP identities and certificates to
the process of remote attestation. In terms of an attestation architecture
[20] the Network Function NF is acting as Attester, the Provisioning Server PS
as the Relying Party, and the Attestation Server AS as the Verifier.**
1\. NF is requesting secure channel from the provisioning server.
Depending on the exact specification of the protocol in this step the NF might
also verify the identity of the provisioning server. For instance, if TLS is
used as a secure channel, the NF could verify the server certificate of the
provisioning server using a preconfigured root certificate.
2\. The provisioning server is replying with a request for evidence. The
request includes a nonce, which will be used to ensure the freshness of the
evidence provided in the subsequent steps.
3- The NF collects claims and prepares the signed evidence, which includes the
Nonce
The claims included in the evidence are for further study and might be out of
scope of 3GPP. Claims in the evidence might include claims related to the NF
Software and to the NF configuration, but also claims related to the Hardware
and the Cloud Software stack. If NF is deployed in the form of several
components, the evidence might also include claims from the individual
components.
Furthermore, the evidence needs to include a claim, which binds the secure
channel to the attestation process. For instance, an ephemeral public key,
whose corresponding private key is only known to the NF and protected by the
NF by means of a trusted execution environment, could be included in the
evidence.
4\. The NF sends the evidence to the provisioning server
5\. The provisioning server requests verification of the evidence from the
attestation server.
6\. The attestation server appraises the provided evidence using endorsements
and refence values. The way, how this appraisal is executed and how the
attestation server receives endorsements and reference values might be out of
scope of 3GPP.
Note: In case of a negative outcome of the appraisal the attestation server
might inform the management system about this incident. The management might
take immediate action on this incident including identifying, isolating, and
shutting down of the potentially malicious NF. Furthermore, the incident might
cause a root cause analysis with the target of closing the security gap, which
was causing the incident.
7\. The attestation server returns the result of the appraisal to the
provisioning server
8\. Based on the attestation results and other policies the provisioning
server decides whether the NF is eligible for provisioning or not.
9\. The establishment of the secure channel is completed.
Note: The establishment of the secure channel includes usage of the claim
related to the channel, which was included in the evidence provided in step 3
from the NF to the provisioning server.
10\. NF and provisioning server use the secure channel to enrol necessary
identities and certificates to the NF.
NOTE: The PS may need not forward messages between NF and AS but only invoke
the final result directly to AS. The above procedure is just an example which
may needs to be tweaked in the normative work.
### 6.7.4 Evaluation
TBD
## 6.8 Solution #7: Ticket-based access control for NFV
### 6.8.1 Introduction
This solution aims to provide one approach to address KI 10: Single
Administrator Domain, and KI 22: MANO Single Point of Failures.
Administrators ("admins") have many responsibilities in the NFV such as
starting/stopping VNF instances, ensuring resources are provided to the VNF,
and orchestrating the NFV infrastructure. These responsibilities should only
be given to privileged admins. If the admin account is compromised or the
admin is malicious then the account can be used to conduct attacks on the NFV
(e.g., data exfiltration/espionage, selling user data, unauthorized
configuration or package modification, service disruption). To reduce the risk
of a malicious admin or MANO single point of failure the principles
highlighted in Annex A. and Solution #3 must be followed.
To that end, this solution proposes using a ticket-based authentication system
and Attribute Based Access Control (ABAC) on the NFV management plane. Within
ETSI GS NFV-SEC 003 [17] it suggests _a token-based authentication mechanism
such as Kerberos may be used between the Tenant Domain and Infrastructure
Domain_. Similarly, this solution uses an Authentication Server (AS) to
authenticate the admin. Next, a Ticket Granting Server (TGS) issues a ticket
to authenticated admins which is used to connect securely to an NFV component.
Tickets issued should be restricted by both time and number of usages. All
other connection requests to the NFV environment shall be denied.
Another token-based authorization framework that can be used is OAuth 2.0,
specified in IETF RFC 6749 [19]. Herein we only give details for the Kerberos
option.
Once, the admin is authenticated and has established a secure connection with
the NFV environment, they must also be authorized to perform tasks. ABAC may
be used to provide fine grain access control to resources within the NFVI or
the VNFs. ABAC uses policies that are based on subject attributes (e.g., user,
admin, senior admin), object attributes (e.g., VNF, NFVI), and environmental
conditions (e.g., time, location, authentication strength). Such attribute
based policies help protect the NFV environment from unusual/ suspicious
behaviour, even when the source is authenticated. Together, ticket-based
authentication and ABAC provide secure access to the NFV resources, and fine
grain access control.
### 6.8.2 Solution details
To implement necessary access controls, this solution proposes using a ticket-
based authentication mechanism and ABAC. Kerberos, described in IETF RFC 4120
[18], is a network authentication protocol that uses tickets to authenticate a
client's connection to a server. It uses shared secret key cryptography to
provide a secure connection between the client, Key Distribution Center (KDC),
and server.
In this solution, a ticket-based authentication protocol, like Kerberos, is
used to authenticate admins attempting to gain access to the NFV resources
(VNF or the NFVI). In this case the client is an admin requesting access to
the NFV environment. Additionally, ABAC is used on the resource side to
authorize the admin. The ABAC server is per domain (VNF or NFVI) and
implemented in such a way as to not be a single point of failure (e.g.,
distributed or redundant). The procedure for admin authentication and
authorization to perform Management and Orchestration (MANO) functions is
depicted in figure 6.8.2.1.
We note that the VNFs themselves and the infrastructure they run on (NFVI) can
and should be two different administrative domains. The KDC can be per domain
or can serve several domains. A policy server can be a part of the KDC and
handles access control for each domain.
{width="4.509722222222222in" height="2.6819444444444445in"}
Figure 6.8.2.1: Procedure for admin authentication and authorization to
perform Management and Orchestration (MANO) functions, applicable for each of
the domains: NFVI and VNF.
Step 1: The admin (i.e., client) sends an authentication request to the
Authentication Server (AS) that is part of the Key Distribution Center (KDC).
The Kerberos configuration (e.g., KDC deployment, principals, realms) is
implementation specific and out of 3GPP scope. The KDC does not need to be
collocated with the resource, in this case the resource is the VNF or the NFVI
depending on the administrative task and role. The interface between the admin
and the KDC is out of 3GPP scope.
> NOTE: The Kerberos protocol has built-in security measures for protection of
> messages on the interface between a client and the KDC such as timestamps,
> cache, and symmetric key cryptography.
Step 2: Upon successful authentication the KDC issues a Ticket Granting Ticket
(TGT) to the admin.
Step 3: The admin sends the TGT to the Ticket Granting Service (TGS) that is
part of the KDC to request access to the resource (NFVI/VNF).
Step 4: If access is approved, the KDC sends the admin a session key and
ticket to access the resource (NFVI/VNF). If the KDC limits the number of
access attempts, then the remaining access attempts should be decreased by one
every time a ticket is issued.
Step 5: Once authenticated and authorized by the KDC, the admin can send the
ticket with the session key to the resource (NFVI/VNF). Admin can use the
session key to communicate securely with the resource (NFVI/VNF) for the
duration of time on the ticket. The reference point between the admin and the
NFVI or the VNF, Nf-Vi and Ve-Vnfm reference points respectively, are defined
in ETSI NFV 002 [2]. Security for the Nf-Vi and Ve-Vnfm reference points is in
ETSI GS NFV-SEC 003 [17].
Step 6: The resource (NFVI/VNF) sends an authorization request to the ABAC
server on behalf of the admin. The ABAC server may be co-located with the
resource (NFVI/VNF), but access must only be granted to authorized admins with
the highest privileges. The ABAC server grants authorization using attribute
based rules (e.g., admin A is allowed access to resource B from IP address:
1.2.3.4 from 9:00-10:00 UTC).
Step 7: The resource (NFVI/VNF) sends an authorization response. If the admin
is unauthorized to perform the requested MANO functions, then the resource
drops the connection.
Step 8: The admin performs the authorized MANO functions.
Step 9: Once the allotted time on the Ticket is reached, the resource
(NFVI/VNF) drops the connection with the admin.
### 6.8.3 Evaluation
This solution is used as a reference model for secure NFV administration and
addresses the key issues relating to protection from MANO single point of
failures (KI #22) and malicious global admins (KI #10).
Aspects of this solution defined outside of 3GPP include implementation of
ticket based access control (e.g., Kerberos, OAuth 2.0), ABAC setup, and the
Nf-Vi and Ve-Vnfm reference points.
## 6.9 Solution 8: Slice isolation in both service and resource layer
### 6.9.1 General
_This solution addresses Key Issue 9:_ Trust domain and Slice Isolation _._
Generally, there are several levels of isolation in network slice. The lowest
level is isolating different VNFCIs in one VNFI. For example, a particular
service in one NF may be more critical than others and hence needs to be
protected in a dedicated host. Another level of isolation is about VNFs within
a specific network slice. For example, a NF in a network slice needs to be
isolated from other NFs in the same slice. The above two level of isolation
are supported by the corresponding affinity and anti-affinity attributes
contained in VNFD and NSD as defined in [21]. In addition, it is proposed that
3GPP define the isolation principles and guidelines so that network managers
can define the corresponding VNFD and NSD [21].
Besides the above two levels, the isolation between network slices should also
be considered, e.g., two network slices should be deployed in separate host
groups or DCs. The solution proposes to define umbrella isolation groups to
cover such case while reusing the current affinity and anti-affinity
attributes.
### 6.9.3 Solution Details
_It's proposed to first define a set of isolation principles for network
design. The general 3 levels of isolation principles are listed as follows:_
1\. Isolation between slices: Network slices for critical sectors (e.g.,
energy sector, emergency services sector, critical manufacturing sector, etc.)
should be isolated from general commercial network slices. This implies that
all NFs in critical should be isolated from NFs in other ordinary slice or a
particular set of NFs in critical slice should be isolated from other NFs.
As explained above, this type of isolation needs enhancement work in ETSI NFV
ISG. The related slices need to be considered as a whole service, and then
several umbrella isolation groups will be defined. Afterwards, the affinity
and anti-affinity attributes should be allocated to each group. For instance,
if NF_A in slice_A is to be isolated from NF_B in slice_B, then, NF_A and NF_B
can be allocated with the same group ID. Such a group is to be assigned with a
specific anti-affinity attribute. The MANO can by this means allocate isolated
resources for these two NFs in two slices.
2\. Isolation between network functions in the same slice: In a particular
network slice, several NFs are more sensitive than others, e.g.,
UDM/AUSF/ARPF, etc. It may be needed to isolate these NFs from others even in
the same network slice.
3\. Isolation between network services in the same NF: It's general
recommended to isolate sensitive services (e.g., LI service) in a NF from
other services.
_Both scenarios mentioned in 2 and 3 are already supported by the existing_
affinity and anti-affinity attributes contained in VNFD and NSD.
NOTE: The above general principles are just examples to show some guidance
that network operators can adjust in reality.
_Based on the above schemes,_ MANO can allocate isolated resources based on
the isolated attributes in NSD.
### 6.9.4 Evaluation
_This solution addresses Key Issues 9. However, ETSI NFV ISG is expected to
involved and enhance the MANO functionality in order to support the new
parameters in NSD, i.e. the umbrella group identifier and group isolation
attributes._
# 7 Conclusions
# 8 Recommendations
###### ## Annex A: Principles for administration of virtualisation
infrastructure
Secure administration of the NFVI is critical for the security of a
virtualised core network. The following principles describe a selection of
basic principles for such secure management.
a) Best practice for network administration is applied to administration of
the NFVI.
b) Administration of the NFVI is only available over mutually authenticated,
encrypted and integrity protected channels.
c) The number of privileged accounts for the NFVI is constrained to a minimal
manageable number to meet the CSP's needs.
d) Virtualisation administrators do not have any privileged rights to other
services within the CSP.
e) Virtualisation administrators are only provided with the privileges and
accesses required to carry out their role.
f) Virtualisation administrators do not have access to workloads running
within the virtualised environment.
g) Virtualisation administration access is limited to best practice
configuration methods (e.g. authorised API calls).
h) Virtualisation administration is automated wherever possible.
i) Manual administration of the NFVI is by exception and raises a security
alert.
j) Functions that manage the administration and security of the NFVI (e.g.
MANO) are physically separate and do not run on the same NFVI as the NFs they
manage.
k) Functions that support the administration and security of the NFVI are
treated as security critical functions.
###### ### Annex B: KI Mitigations Summary
Editor's Note: Table of summary of KIs and Mitigations
+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Key Issue | 3GPP | In Scope of | Out of | New | | | Mitigation | 3GPP | Scope of | solution | | | or Solution | | 3GPP | required | | | Identified | Yes/ No / | | outside of | | | | Part | Yes/ No / | 3GPP? | | | Yes (Clause | | Part | | | | number) / | | | Yes/ No / | | | No | | | Unknown / | | | | | | Not | | | | | | Applicable | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#1 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#2 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#3 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#4 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#5 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#6 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#7 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#8 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#9 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#10 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#11 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#12 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#13 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#14 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#15 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#16 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#17 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#18 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#19 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#20 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#21 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#22 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#23 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#24 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#25 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#26 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#27 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#28 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#29 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | KI#30 | | | | | +-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
###### ### Annex T: Temporary Holding Annex Security Areas
Editor\'s Note: The figure and table in this annex were provided during the
17/09/2019 conference call and are intended to help review of the KIs to
ensure requirements cover all areas identified in the table.
Editor\'s Note: Annex to be deleted or replaced once study conclusions are
completed as per 17/09/2019 conference call discussions.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="4.73125in"}
Figure T-1: Simplified virtualisation security area
* * *
**Security area** **[Requirements Scope]{.underline}** (1) External interfaces
Yes (2) 3GPP Data Yes (3) Border Security Yes (4) Exchange of 3GPP data with
Virtualization entities Maybe (5) Exchange of 3GPP data between NVFs Maybe (6)
Control and instantiation of NVFs Maybe (7) Storage and Memory Maybe (8)
Access to storage Maybe (9) Access and control of Virtualization domain Yes
(10) Access and control of Border Security Function Yes (11) Security of the
server itself Yes
* * *
Table T-1: 3GPP scope per Security Area
#