# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The interworking between NR and UTRAN is not supported in 3GPP, leading to the
lack of Voice Call Continuity from NR to UTRAN. This may cause problem to
voice service, when NR coverage is limited, as listed below:
Scenario # -- Operators with both VoNR and VoLTE enabled:
\- In the initial stage of 5G deployment, the voice service continuity may not
be guaranteed if the VoLTE coverage provided by the operators is not (ideal)
complete, i.e., there are some \"holes\" of VoLTE coverage.
The present document presents the security aspects of single radio voice
continuity from 5G to UTRAN.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies the security aspects of single radio voice
continuity from 5G to UTRAN CS. In particular, the goal of the present
document is to study the impacts on 3GPP security architecture which may
result from 5GS to UTRAN CS voice continuity, e.g. security context mapping
from 5G and UTRAN, security procedure for the emergency call, etc.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 33.501: \"Security architecture and procedures for 5G system\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.756: Study for single radio voice continuity from 5G to 3G\".
[3] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.401: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
architecture\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [3] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [3].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [3] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [3].
AMF Access and Mobility Management Function
CS Circuit Switched
EPS Evolved Packet System
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
HO HandOver
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
MSC Mobile Switching Center
NAS Non Access Stratum
NR New Radio
PS Packet Switched
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Overview
The interworking between NR and UTRAN is not supported in 3GPP, leading to the
lack of Voice Call Continuity from NR to UTRAN. This may cause problem to
voice service, have impact on the user experience, when NR coverage is
limited, as listed below:
Scenario #1 -- Operator with both VoNR and VoLTE enabled
\- In the initial stage of 5G deployment, the voice service continuity may not
be guaranteed if the VoLTE coverage provided by the operators is not (ideal)
complete, i.e., there are some "holes" of VoLTE coverage.
Scenario #2 -- Operator with both VoNR and LTE enabled, but no VoLTE
\- Some operators deploys VoNR and LTE, but do not launch VoLTE in their LTE
network, which means VoNR will be dropped if the UE moves from 5G coverage to
LTE coverage.
Scenario #3 -- Operator with VoNR but no LTE (nor VoLTE)
\- In some countries, the operators only have GSM/UTRAN deployment currently.
Deploying 5G system and VoNR directly would be infeasible for them since the
voice continuity cannot be guaranteed. Thus the voice service continuity from
5G to UTRAN is supported for MNOs that are in one of the above scenarios, in
order to enable such an MNO to offer a good service to its subscribers.
# Thus, the security related analysis for the requirements identified in TS
23.216 [5] and candidate solutions of supporting single radio voice continuity
from 5GS to UTRAN CS is necesary.5 Key issues
## 5.1 Key Issue #1: Achieving backward security of key derivation during
SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS
### 5.1.1 Key issue details
During SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS, the MSC server should never know the K~AMF~
nor should the K~AMF~ be revealed to an entity other than AN AMF. If the AMF
or the MME does not derive new key(s) to create a mapped SRVCC security
context for the MSC server instead of sending K~AMF~ to the MSC server, or if
the keys sent to the MSC server are not generated properly, the MSC server or
an attacker can gain knowledge of K~AMF~ and violate backward security.
### 5.1.2 Security threats
If the backward security is not achieved, the key received from the AMF may be
used to attack 5G system, for example, deriving other keys based on K~AMF~ and
recover communication between a UE and the system.
### 5.1.3 Potential Security requirements
\- backward security shall be achieved when handover is performed from the AMF
to the MSC server.
## 5.2 Key Issue #2: Security of IMS Emergency Session Handling
### 5.2.1 Key issue details
During SRVCC from 5G to 3G, IMS Emergency Sessions can be made by:
\- normally attached UEs; or
\- UEs attached for emergency bearer services.
IMS Emergency Services can be authenticated or unauthenticated, it depends on
the serving network policy if unauthenticated IMS Emergency Sessions are
allowed. Any behaviour not explicitly specified as being special to IMS
Emergency Sessions is handled in accordance to normal procedures.
If the SRVCC is for an emergency call, the UE is not in limited service state,
it initiates normal initial attach when not already attached to receive
emergency bearer services. If the serving network attempts to authenticate the
UE after receiving a request for emergency bearer services which was integrity
protected by the current NAS security context and the authentication failed
and if the serving network policy does not allow unauthenticated IMS Emergency
Sessions, the UE and AMF proceed as for set up of normal bearers.
In this scenario, since the serving network policy does not allow
unauthenticated IMS Emergency Sessions, the continuous authentication process
may exhaust UE and network resource.
### 5.2.2 Security threats
If the serving network policy does not allow unauthenticated IMS Emergency
Sessions, the continuous authentication process may exhaust the resources of
UE and network.
### 5.2.3 Potential Security requirements
The continuous authentication process during the IMS Emergency Session
handling shall be avoided.
## 5.3 Key Issue #3: Protecting the SRVCC capability
### 5.3.1 Key issue details
To support 5G-SRVCC, SRVCC Capability, MS Classmark 2 and Supported Codecs IE
are sent to the AMF by the UE via initial Registration Request message, non-
periodic Registration message, and by a source AMF to a target AMF during
Intra-5GS handover.
### 5.3.2 Security threats
If the UE SRVCC capability sent to the network or between AMFs is tampered
with, the network may not be able to provide SRVCC service to the user and the
user\'s call will be dropped when UE leaves 5G service area and enters into
UMTS coverage. This leads to bad user experience and denial of service.
### 5.3.3 Potential Security requirements
UE SRVCC Capability, MS Classmark 2 and Supported Codecs IE should be
protected from modification when sent in the initial Registration message,
non-periodic Registration or sent between source AMF and target AMF.
## 5.4 Key Issue #4: 5G UE returning from 3G SRVCC to E-UTRA or NR
### 5.4.1 Key issue details
A 5G UE that is handed off to 3G SRVCC is not allowed to return to either
E-UTRA or NR without explicit (re)authentication after the CS voice call is
released, regardless of whether the UE has a valid EPS security context or a
NR security context.
### 5.4.2 Security threats
When a voice service ends in UTRAN and NR coverage is not available, the UE
may use current security context (UMTS) to derive a mapped EPS security
context as described in subclause 9.1.2 of TS 33.401 [4].In this case, the UE
may potentially get back to NR with a security context that is based on 3G. If
this is allowed, once the NR coverage is available, the UE will return to NR
by executing the procedures as described in subclause 8.2 or 8.4 of TS 33.501
[1], however, the context will have been derived from the UMTS session.
Using UMTS security context to derive a mapped EPS security context including
the subsequent 5GS security context will jeopardize 5G security due to the
lower security level of UMTS potentially leading to far more serious attacks
in the network.
### 5.4.3 Potential Security requirements
\- A UE that is handed off to 3G SRVCC shall be prohibited to return to
E-UTRAN and NR without explicit (re)authentication if NR coverage is not
available.
\- The network shall prohibit a UE that is handed off to 3G SRVCC shall be
prohibited from returning to E-UTRAN and NR without explicit
(re)authentication if NR coverage is not available.
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Solution #1.1: Key derivation during SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS without
direct interface between AMF and MSC server
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #1, namely achieving backward security
of key derivation during SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS if there is no direct
interface between the AMF and the MSC server.
### 6.1.2 Solution details
Figure 6.1.2: Key derivation of 5G to UTRAN CS during SRVCC without direct
interface between AMF and MSC server
1\. The gNB sends Handover Required message to the AMF.
2\. The AMF derives a new K\'~ASME~ key using the K~AMF~ key and the current
downlink 5G NAS COUNT of the current 5G security context similar to as
described in clause 8.6.1 of TS 33.501 [1]. A new FC value may be used..
3\. The AMF assigns the value of ngKSI to the eKSI (maps ngKSI to eKSI) and
transfers the new K\'~ASME~ key and the UE security capability to the MME via
PS to CS HO request message.
4\. The MME may further derive the CK~SRVCC~, IK~SRVCC~ based on the new
K\'~ASME~ key, or treat the received new K\'~ASME~ key as the concatenation of
the CK~SRVCC~, IK~SRVCC~. Then the MME assigns the value of eKSI to KSI~SRVCC~
(maps eKSI to KSI~SRVCC~) and transfers CK~SRVCC~, IK~SRVCC~ with KSI~SRVCC,~
downlink 5G NAS COUNT and the UE security capability to the MSC server in PS
to CS HO request message.
NOTE: MME and UE need to agree on how CK~SRVCC~, IK~SRVCC~ are derived (e.g.
via a new key generation procedure using K\'~ASME~ or treating K\'~ASME~ as a
simple concatenation of CK~SRVCC~, IK~SRVCC~). If a new FC value is not used,
a new key needs to be derived.
5\. The MSC server sends the PS to CS HO response message to the MME.
6\. The MME sends the Forward relocationHO response message including the
security parameters in step 4 to the AMF.
7\. The AMF sends the HO command to the gNB, in which includes the security
parameters in step 6.
8\. The gNB sends the HO command to the UE, in which includes the security
parameters in step 7.
9\. When the UE receives the message, it derives the new K\'~ASME~ key using
the K~AMF~ key and the current downlink 5G NAS COUNT, and identifies the
CK~SRVCC~ and IK~SRVCC~ as the MME does.
If the SRVCC handover is not completed successfully, the new mapped CK~SRVCC~,
IK~SRVCC~ and KSI~SRVCC~ cannot be used. The MSC server enhanced for SRVCC
deletes the newly mapped SRVCC security context for the UE, including
CK~SRVCC~, IK~SRVCC~ and KSI~SRVCC~.
### 6.1.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
MME:
\- It needs to derive CK\|\|IK from received K\'~ASME~ according to \"SRVCC HO
Indication\" received from AMF.
UE:
\- It needs to derive CK\|\|IK from K\'~ASME~ which are derived from K~AMF~.
### 6.1.4 Evaluation
For Key Issue# 1: Achieving backward security of key derivation during SRVCC
from 5G to UTRAN CS:
\- Solution#1.1 is used in the scenario that no direct interface exists
between the AMF and the MSC server:
\- For the AMF, a new K\'~ASME~ key needs to derive, the downlink 5G NAS COUNT
is reused.
\- For the MME, the CK and IK for SRVCC based on the new K\'~ASME~ key need to
derive.
\- For the UE, a new K\'~ASME~ key need to derive, the downlink 5G NAS COUNT
is reused.
TR 23.756 [2] has decided to reuse the existing SRVCC mechanism as much as
possible to minimize the impact on 5GS and UMTS, it is therefore there is no
direct interface between AMF and MSC server. This solution for key issue #1
describes the key derivation during SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS via MME.
This solution reuses the current parameters of 5G security context as much as
possible, and can minimize the impact on 5GS and UTRAN.
## 6.2 Solution #1.2: Key derivation during SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS with
direct interface between AMF and MSC server
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #1, namely achieving backward security
of key derivation during SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS if there is a direct
interface between the AMF and the MSC server.
### 6.2.2 Solution details
Figure 6.2.2: Key derivation of 5G to UTRAN CS during SRVCC with direct
interface between AMF and MSC server
1\. The gNB sends Handover Required message to the AMF.
2\. The AMF derives CK~SRVCC~\|\|IK~SRVCC~ using the K~AMF~ key and the
current downlink 5G NAS COUNT of the current 5G security context.
3\. The AMF assigns the value of ngKSI to the KSI~SRVCC~ (maps ngKSI to
KSI~SRVCC~) and transfers the CK~SRVCC~\|\|IK~SRVCC~ and the UE security
capability to the MSC server via PS to CS HO request message.
4\. The MSC server sends the PS to CS HO response message to the AMF.
5\. The AMF sends the HO command to the gNB, in which includes the security
parameters in step 3.
6\. The gNB sends the HO command to the UE, in which includes the security
parameters in step 5.
7\. When the UE receives the message, it derives the CK~SRVCC~\|\|IK~SRVCC~
using the K~AMF~ key and the current downlink 5G NAS COUNT.
If the SRVCC handover is not completed successfully, the new mapped CK~SRVCC~,
IK~SRVCC~ and KSI~SRVCC~ cannot be used. The MSC server enhanced for SRVCC
deletes the newly mapped UE SRVCC security context, including CK~SRVCC~,
IK~SRVCC~ and KSI~SRVCC~.
### 6.2.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
AMF:
\- AMF needs to derive CK\|\|IK directly from received K~AMF~ according to
\"SRVCC HO Indication\" received from gNB.
UE:
\- UE needs to derive CK\|\|IK directly from K~AMF~.
### 6.2.4 Evaluation
For Key Issue# 1: Achieving backward security of key derivation during SRVCC
from 5G to UTRAN CS:
\- Solution#1.2 is used in the scenario that there is a direct interface
between the AMF and the MSC server:
\- For the AMF, the CK and IK for SRVCC is derived by using the K~AMF~ key,
the downlink 5G NAS COUNT of the current 5G security context is reused.
\- For the UE, the CK and IK for SRVCC is derived by using the K~AMF~ key, the
downlink 5G NAS COUNT of the current 5G security context is reused.
This solution reuses the current parameters of 5G security context as much as
possible.
## 6.3 Solution #2: Emergency session in SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS
### 6.3.1 Introduction
This clause addresses the key issue #2 for authenticated emergency session and
unauthenticated emergency session.
### 6.3.2 Solution details
When the SVRCC is for an authenticated emergency session or an unauthenticated
emergency session, the security procedure in solution #1.1 is applied if there
is no direct interface between the AMF and the MSC server. Otherwise if there
is direct interface between the AMF and the MSC server, the security procedure
in solution #1.2 is applied.
In the case when the SRVCC is for an unauthenticated emergency session, since
the derived keys have no ability to affect the output of the NULL algorithms,
However, call set up needs to continue even though the network and the UE
derive different keys.
### 6.3.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
In case there is no direct interface between the AMF and the MSC server,
subclause 6.1.3 in the present document applies.
In case there is direct interface between the AMF and the MSC server,
subclause 6.2.3 in the present document applies.
### 6.3.4 Evaluation
This solution applies the security procedure in solution #1.1 or solution
#1.2, it can avoid the continuous authentication process during the IMS
Emergency Session handling in SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS.
The details of evaluation for solution #1.1and solution #1.2 can be seen in
clause 6.1.3 and 6.2.3.
This solution satisfies the requirement of key issue#2. . For an authenticated
emergency session, the security procedure in subclause 6.1.3 or 6.2.3 is
applied. For an unauthenticated emergency session, call set up needs to
continue even when the network and the UE derive different key.
## 6.4 Solution #3: Protecting the SRVCC capability
### 6.4.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #3, namely protecting the SRVCC
capability.
### 6.4.2 Solution details
For protecting the SRVCC capability in conjunction with the MS Classmark 2 and
Supported Codecs IE in initial Registration Request message, the hash based
method specified in subclause 6.7.2 in TS 33.501 [1] can be reused to address
the problem.
For protecting the SRVCC capability in Intra-5G handover procedure, the
messages between source AMF and target AMF are protected by NDS/IP.
### 6.4.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
There is no impact on the existing UTRAN and EPS system.
### 6.4.4 Evaluation
TR 23.756 [2] has decided to reuse the existing SRVCC mechanism to send the
SRVCC capability, MS Classmark 2 and Supported Codecs IE in an initial
Registration Request message and in the Intra-5G handover procedure.
## 6.5 Solution #4: Return from UTRAN to E-UTRAN or NR
### 6.5.1 Introduction
This solution addresses the key issue #4, namely return from UTRAN to E-UTRAN
or NR.
### 6.5.2 Solution details
When a voice service ends in UTRAN and NR coverage is available, if the native
5G security context stored on the UE is available, it should be used for
protecting the Registration Request message. If the native 5G security context
is not available (even if a mapped 5G security context is available), the AMF
performs a(n) (re-) authentication procedure with the UE to establish a new
native 5G security context.
When there is no NR coverage but E-UTRAN is available, if the native 5G
security context stored on the UE is available, the UE deletes the UMTS
security context and set the native 5G security context to current security
context when receives the RRC release message from UTRAN. Then the UE should
return to E-UTRAN by sending a TAU request message to the MME which is
integrity protected using current native 5G security context as described in
subclause 8.5 of TS 33.501 [1]. If the native 5G security context is not
available (even if a mapped 5G security context is available), the MME
performs a(n) (re-)authentication procedure with the UE to establish a new
native EPS security context.
### 6.5.3 Impacts on existing nodes and functionality
There is no impact on the existing UTRAN, EPS, and 5GS.
UE:
\- It needs to delete the UMTS security context and set the stored non-current
native 5G security context to the current one when receives the RRC release
message from UTRAN.
AMF:
\- It needs to perform a(n) (re-)authentication procedure with the UE to
establish a new native 5G security context, in case that the native 5G
security context is not available when a voice service ends in UTRAN and NR
coverage is available.
### 6.5.4 Evaluation
This solution satisfies the requirement of key issue #4.
\- This solution prevents UE from using lower security level based on UMTS to
access E-UTRAN or NR.
# 7 Conclusions
**Conclusion for Key Issue#1: Achieving backward security of key derivation
during SRVCC from 5G to UTRAN CS:**
TR 23.756 reuses the existing SRVCC mechanism as much as possible and can
minimize the impact on 5GS and UTRAN, therefore the solution #1.1 is selected
as the basis for normative work to resolve key issue#1.
Normative work is expected to be reflected in TS 33.501 [1] for this aspect.
**Conclusion for Key Issue#2:** Security of IMS Emergency Session Handling:
Solution#2 is selected as the basis for normative work to resolve key issue#2:
Security of IMS Emergency Session Handling.
Normative work is expected to be reflected in TS 33.501 [1] for this aspect.
**Conclusion for Key Issue#3:** Protecting the SRVCC capability:
Solution #3 is selected to resolve key issue #3 (Protecting the SRVCC
capability), and it is expected to be the basis of normative work. Since
messages between AMFs during Intra-5G handover are protected using NDS/IP, the
security issue related protecting UE SRVCC capability has been addressed and
no further normative work is expected.
As solution #1 contains proper key separation for SRVCC handover from 5G to
UMTS CS and the introduction of this feature does not include a new way to
return to 5G, the introduction of this feature does not weaken the 5G security
of operators who do not deploy SRVCC handovers from 5G to UMTS CS.
**Conclusion for Key Issue#4: 5G UE returning from 3G SRVCC to E-UTRA or NR:**
Solution#4 is selected as the basis for normative work to resolve key issue#4:
5G UE returning from 3G SRVCC to E-UTRA or NR.
#