# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This section provides an introduction on the context of GAA and some
clarification of why this TR was written (with some reference to related 3GPP
Technical Specifications and Technical Reports).
{width="2.1034722222222224in" height="1.9277777777777778in"}
Figure 1: Schematic illustration of GAA
A number of applications share a need for mutual authentication between a
client ((i.e. the UE ) and an application server before further communication
can take place. Examples include (but are not limited to) communication
between a client and a presence server (possibly via an authentication proxy),
communication with a PKI portal where a client requests a digital certificate,
communication with a Mobile Broadcast / Multicast Service (MBMS) content
server, a BM-SC, etc.
Since a lot of applications share this common need for a peer authentication
mechanism, it has been considered useful to specify a Generic Authentication
Architecture (GAA). This GAA describes a generic architecture for peer
authentication that can _a priori_ serve for any (present and future)
application.
This TR can be considered as a framework document for the generic
authentication architecture as is illustrated in Figure 1. GBA, HTTPS and the
Authentication Proxy (AP), and Certificates are the basic building blocks of
the GAA in 3GPP Release 6 and they are specified each in a separate TS. Later
on, many additions were made to accommodate specific needs for various use
cases.
How the different GAA and GBA related specifications and technical reports fit
together in GAA is explained in this document.
# 1 Scope
This 3GPP Technical Report aims to give an overview of the different
mechanisms that mobile applications can rely upon for authentication between
server and client (i.e. the UE). Additionally it provides guidelines related
to the use of GAA and to the choice of authentication mechanism in a given
situation and for a given application.
To this end the TR puts the different 3GPP GAA related specifications, into
perspective. It clarifies the logic for having the technical specifications
and technical reports, sketches their content and explains the inter-relation
between these 3GPP TSs and TRs and their relation with this TR.
The heart of GAA consists out of the Generic Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA):
The GBA core specifications consist out of TS 33.220, TS 24.109 and TS 29.109.
Figure 2 depicts protocols used over the GBA core interfaces and the
relationships between different GBA core specifications.
{width="4.894444444444445in" height="2.9659722222222222in"}
Figure 2: Relationships between GBA core specifications and the protocols used
by GBA interfaces
GBA in turn is then used by many other TSs and TRs to enable specific usages
e.g. HTTPS, subscriber certificates.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Security
architecture\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Generic
Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic bootstrapping architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 33.221: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Generic
Authentication Architecture (GAA); Support for subscriber certificates\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.222: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Generic
Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to network application functions
using secure hypertext transfer protocol (HTTPS)\".
[5] IETF RFC 2818: \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.109: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA);
Zh and Zn Interfaces based on the Diameter protocol; Protocol details\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.109: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and Network
application function interface (Ua); Protocol details\".
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] W3C: \"Web Services Description Language (WSDL) Version 2.0 Part 0:
Primer\", http://www.w3.org/TR/2005/WD-wsdl20-primer-20050803/.
[11] IETF RFC 4279 (2005) \"Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport Layer
Security (TLS)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33.246: "3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project, Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Security of
Multimedia Broadcast / Multicast Services".
[13] 3GPP TR 33.905: "3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project, Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Recommendations for Trusted
Open Platforms".
[14] 3GPP TR 33.920: "3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project, Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; SIM card based GBA Generic
Bootstrapping Architecture; Early Implementation Feature".
[15] 3GPP TS 33.110: "3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project, Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Key Establishment between a
UICC and a Terminal".
[16] 3GPP TR 33.980: "3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Liberty Alliance and 3GPP
security interworking; Interworking of Liberty Alliance Identity Federation
Framework (ID-FF), Identity Web Services Framework (ID-WSF)\ and Generic
Authentication Architecture (GAA)".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Subscriber certificate:** a certificate issued by a mobile network operator
to a subscriber based on his/her subscription. It contains the subscriber\'s
own public key and possibly other information such as the subscriber\'s
identity in some form.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AKA Authentication and Key Agreement
AP Authentication Proxy
AS Application Server
BSF Bootstrapping Server Function
GAA Generic Authentication Architecture
GBA Generic Bootstrapping Architecture
HSS Home Subscriber System
NAF Network Application Function
NE Network Element
PKI Public Key Infrastructure
SSC Support for Subscriber Certificates
UE User Equipment
# 4 Generic Authentication Architecture
## 4.1 GAA overview
There are generally speaking two types of authentication mechanisms. One is
based on a secret shared between the communicating entities, the other one is
based on (public, private) key pairs and digital certificates. Also in GAA
these are the two options that are a priori available for mobile applications
as is illustrated in Figure 3.
Figure 3: GAA schematic overview
## 4.2 Authentication using shared secret
There are several authentication protocols that rely on a pre-shared secret
between the two communicating entities. Popular examples include HTTP Digest,
Pre-Shared Key TLS, IKE with pre-shared secret and a priori any mechanism
based on username and password.
The main problem with these mechanisms is how to agree on this pre-shared
secret. Clause 5.2 and GBA TS 33.220 [2] describe how in a mobile context an
AKA based mechanism can be used to provide both communicating entities with a
pre-shared secret.
## 4.3 Authentication based on (public, private) key pairs and certificates
An alternative to using shared secrets for authentication is to rely on
asymmetric cryptography. This assumes that the entity that needs to be
authenticated (one or both partners in the communication) possesses a (public,
private) key pair and a corresponding digital certificate. The latter
validates the key pair and binds the key pair to its legitimate owner. Well-
known protocols whose authentication is based on (public, private) key pairs
include PGP and HTTP over TLS, RFC 2818 [5] (the later is commonly called by
its protocol identifier, \"HTTPS\").
The main disadvantage of this type of authentication is that a PKI is needed
and that asymmetric key cryptographic operations often require substantially
more computational effort than symmetric key operations. Clause 5.3 and
Support for Subscriber Certificates (SSC) TS 33.221 [3] describe how a mobile
operator can issue digital certificates to its subscribers (hence providing a
basic PKI).
# 5 Issuing authentication credentials
## 5.1 Schematic overview
NOTE: Other mechanisms for issuing authentication credentials may exist but
are out of scope for this TR.
Figure 4: Illustration of mechanisms to issue authentication credentials
Figure 4 illustrates the relation between this TR and TS 33.220 [2] and TS
33.221 [3]. There are on the one hand authentication methods that are based on
shared secrets and GBA, described in TS 33.220 [2], specifies a mechanism to
provide communicating parties with such a shared secret. On the other hand
there are authentication methods that rely on (public, private) key pairs and
digital certificates and SSC, described in TS 33.221 [3], specifies how to
issue certificates to mobile subscribers.
## 5.2 GBA: Mechanism to issue shared secret
TS 33.220 [2] specifies an application independent mechanism based on the 3GPP
AKA mechanism to provide a client and an application server with a common
shared secret. This shared secret can subsequently be used to authenticate the
communication between the client and an application server.
## 5.3 SSC: Mechanism to issue subscriber certificates
TS 33.221 [3], specifies a mechanism to issue a digital certificate to a
mobile subscriber.
Once a mobile subscriber has a (public, private) key pair and has obtained a
certificate for it, he can use the certificate together with the corresponding
key pair to produce digital signatures in e.g. m-commerce applications but
also to authenticate to a server (e.g. in TLS).
# 6 GAA building blocks
## 6.1 GAA structural overview
{width="6.521527777777778in" height="3.529861111111111in"}
Figure 5: Detailed overview of inter-relation of GAA building blocks
This clause gives a high level overview of the content of the different GAA
and GBA related documents and describes how these documents fit together.
## 6.2 GAA
GAA refers to this TR that describes the general framework of the Generic
Authentication Architecture.
## 6.3 GBA
As briefly indicated in clause 5.2, GBA provides a general mechanism based on
3GPP AKA [1] to install a shared secret between a UE and a server.
AKA is a very powerful mechanism that mobile networks make use of. GBA takes
benefit of this mechanism and re-uses AKA to bootstrap application security.
GBA introduces a new network element (NE) called the Bootstrapping Server
Function (BSF). This BSF has an interface with the HSS. The UE runs AKA with
the HSS via the BSF. From the resulting (CK, IK), a session key is derived in
BSF and UE. An application server (called Network Application Function (NAF)
in TS 33.220 [2]) can fetch this session key from the BSF together with
subscriber profile information. In this way the application server (NAF) and
the UE share a secret key that can subsequently be used for application
security, in particular to authenticate UE and NAF at the start of the
application session (possibly also for integrity and/or confidentiality
protection although that might not be strictly in the scope of GAA). The
communication between the UE and the BSF as well as that between NAF and BSF
and between BSF and HSS are application independent and are described in TS
33.220 [2].
If only SIM cards or SIMs on UICC is available, and 2G_GBA is allowed, the BSF
and UE mutually authenticates using the 2G AKA and TLS protocol.
The following argument leads to the introduction of this new NE (BSF):
\- keep the number of different types of NEs as well as the total number of
NEs that retrieve AVs from the HSS to a minimum.
One generic mechanism for different applications avoids a large diversity of
mechanisms and allows to address security issues once and in a consistent way.
## 6.4 SSC
If a client wants to make use of asymmetric encryption technology, he needs a
digital certificate that is created by a certification authority (CA). Such a
certificate binds a public key to the identity of its legitimate owner and
certifies the validity of the public key. If a mobile subscriber wants to have
and make use of a (public, private) key pair, the key pair and a certificate
should either be preloaded or the subscriber must have the means to either
generate or obtain a key pair and dynamically obtain a corresponding digital
certificate. As briefly indicated in clause 5.3, SSC specifies a mechanism to
dynamically issue a digital certificate to a mobile subscriber.
To dynamically obtain a digital certificate a UE must send an appropriate
certificate request to a PKI portal of his home operator, and the PKI portal
must authenticate the certificate request. The certificate enrolment process
i.e. the issuing of a certificate to a subscriber and the corresponding
communication session between a UE and a PKI portal is in fact an example of a
mobile application. As with many mobile applications it requires
authentication of the communicating entities, in this case the UE and the PKI
portal (the latter plays the role of the application server). As for any other
application there are 2 options for this authentication: pre-shared secret
based or based on asymmetric cryptography and certificates. The latter is only
an option when a new certificate is requested from the PKI portal while
another still valid certificate is already loaded in the UE. The former method
requires a shared secret between the PKI portal and the UE. If the shared
secret is not pre-configured, GBA can be used to obtain such a shared secret.
As indicated in Figure 5, the result of the process of issuing a certificate
to a mobile subscriber which is described in the SSC TS 33.221 [3] is that the
UE is loaded with a certificate corresponding to its (public, private) key
pair. This is indicated by the green upward arrow.
Once the certificate is in place it can be used (together with the
corresponding (public, private) key pair) to authenticate the UE. This is
indicated by the black dotted lines that connect \"certificates\" to the
underlying applications (HTTPS and SSC in Figure 5). The (public, private) key
pair and the corresponding digital certificate can also be used for integrity
protection (or less likely confidentiality) but these are not part of the
scope of GAA.
## 6.5 Access to Network Application Functions using HTTPS
It is envisaged that HTTPS (or HTTP/TLS) may be used in a number of services
to secure the application session between the UE and the application server
(Ua interface in TS 33.220, see TS 33.222 [4]). TS 33.222 [4] describes the
details of the possible authentication options when HTTPS is used between a UE
and an application server. Any existing or future application based on HTTPS
or Pre-Shared Key TLS can refer to TS 33.222 [4] for details on authentication
and the set up of a secure HTTP session.
### 6.5.1 HTTPS with Authentication Proxy
TS 33.222 [4] describes a mechanism where a reverse proxy (called
authentication proxy (AP)) is used between the UE and the AS.
The AP is the TLS end point and the UE shall be able to simultaneously connect
to different ASs behind one AP. The AP shall be able to authenticate the UE
using the means of GAA, and shall send the authenticated UE identity to the
AS. If UE authentication is based on a shared secret then the AP acts as the
NAF in the GAA architecture and terminology.
Possible advantages of the use of such an AP may include reduced consumption
of authentication vectors, minimization of SQN synchronization failures and
reduction of number of TLS sessions that a UE needs to set up and maintain.
### 6.5.2 HTTPS without Authentication Proxy
HTTP based application servers can also be deployed without the use of an
authentication proxy. In this case the HTTPS (or TLS) session is between the
UE and the AS. In this case the AS shall be able to authenticate the UE using
the means of GAA. If UE authentication is based on a shared secret then the AS
acts as the NAF in the GAA architecture and terminology.
### 6.5.3 Pre-Shared Key TLS
The HTTP client and server can authenticate each other based on the GBA-based
shared key between the UE and the BSF generated during the bootstrapping
procedure created by the procedures in TS 33.220 [2]. The shared key shall be
used as a master key to generate further TLS session keys, and also be used as
the proof of secret key possession as part of the authentication function. The
exact procedure can be found in Pre-Shared Key Ciphersuites for Transport
Layer Security (TLS) [11].
# 7 Application guidelines to use GAA
## 7.0 Overview on Application Authentication
GAA provides different alternatives to an AS or an AP to perform user
authentication (i.e. force the UE to run AKA with the BSF as specified in TS
33.220 [2] or use a mechanism based on subscriber certificates). Also under
GAA, an AS may understand that the user request is already authenticated by an
Authentication Proxy.
GAA as described in this TR has not the intention to impose any one
authentication mechanism onto applications . It is rather aimed to be a tool
at developers disposal which they can use to their benefit. Application
developers may save development time by using GAA instead of designing and
implementing application-specific authentication mechanisms. An additional
advantage of the mechanisms of GAA is that they can provide global coverage,
inherited from the GSM/UMTS coverage.
Depending on network configuration and policies of the operator, an AS or an
AP will be able to use any of the alternatives provided by GAA or even any
other user authentication mechanisms specified outside of 3GPP if such
mechanisms are at their disposal. It is therefore assumed that an AS and an AP
should be able to take the decision what parts of GAA shall be used if any.
This section tries to give an overview of arguments that can play a role in
the choice of authentication mechanism. The authentication mechanism selected
will be dependent on:
1\. Requirements/policies relating to the user/server/application/device that
needs authentication. This may be in both directions (mutual authentication),
but the usual emphasis is user to server authentication.
2\. Device and service characteristics, user capabilities and preferences as
defined in the user profile.
3\. Policies of the network or networks providing the transport service and
the service providers of the applications.
Requirements/policies relating to authentication will depend on whether there
is a need for:
**a) Device authentication:** The device is genuine and not a clone i.e.
Authentication of a (U)SIM by challenge response.
**b) Integrity protection:** An example is signalling protection in UTRAN
access A weakness in GSM is that it is very easy for a man in the middle to
manipulate signalling message e.g. cipher mode command and a way to prevent it
being compromised is to use device authentication **[and]{.underline}**
integrity protection via a keyed MAC (Message Authentication Code) on the
specific signalling messages.
**c) Application authentication:** It will often be necessary to check the
authenticity of the application software. Application authentication is
however out of the scope of GAA.
**d) User authentication:**. This refers to authentication of the end user,
the person who is using the end user device. One way of doing this is to make
the USIM availability to devices/protocols/applications dependent, logically,
by user PIN input or physically, by a policy of removal and insertion. The
entry of a PIN may also be required before access is allowed to a specific
application.
**e) Transaction authentication and non-repudiation:** For some business
transactions that are carried out using the mobile device it is necessary to
digitally sign the transaction with a users private key, specifically where
there is a need for non repudiation i.e. to prevent:
\- the False Denial of the: SENDING of the Message, e.g. \"I never sent it!\"
\- the CONTENT of the Message, e.g. \"I said you should sell, not buy!\"
\- the TIME of the Message, e.g. \"I sent it a different time!\"
NOTE: Many authentication techniques such as 3GPP AKA are based on a single
key which is shared between the network and the user - this is OK for
authentication between sender and recipient, but non repudiation provable to a
third party may require the use of public key technique where the private key
is only held by the sender.
Figure 6 shows how device and service characteristics can impact the choice of
a particular technique from the Spectrum of Authentication Mechanisms.
* * *
                                       **authentication type**
**client (device) charateristics** device (client) auth server auth
transaction auth PIN/password stored PIN/password signature or password x GAA:
subscriber certificate client private key, signature signature private key,
signature GAA: GBA at UE shared secret (GBA), keyed MAC shared secret (GBA),
keyed MAC OR server private key, signature x
* * *
x = client characteristics do not allow authentication requirement to be met.
Figure 6: Authentication characteristics comparison
## 7.1 Use of shared secrets and GBA
Some examples of where shared secrets from the innovation of GBA can be used
are:
\- distribution of symmetric ciphering and integrity keys for securing
applications running between the UE and a server in the network. Example
protocols that can be used to secure an application and that require a shared
secret include HTTP Digest, shared secret TLS and IPsec;
\- distribution of passwords and PIN for third party applications;
\- for protecting the distribution of certificates between the UE and the
certificate authority.
## 7.2 Use of certificates
Some examples of where certificates can be used for authentication are:
\- when it is necessary to check the identity of the end user;
\- when the application security protocol works smoothly with (public,
private) key pair authentication and subscriber certificates are available
(e.g. normal TLS);
\- where there is a need for non-repudiation and where the user is required to
digitally sign the transaction with a user\'s private key as many
authentication techniques such as 3GPP AKA are based on a single key, which is
shared between the network and the user. Non-repudiation provable to a third
party may require the use of public key technique where the private key is
only held by the sender.
## 7.3 NAF Recommendations
### 7.3.1 Overview
GBA can be used by various types of applications, which utilize different
types of Ua protocols. In this section, some recommendations and motivations
are given to help the design of the Ua protocol. The security and the service
delivery would benefit from the following recommendations in some cases, but
not all recommendations are applicable to all application types and hence,
each NAF Ua application has to validate, if these recommendations are
applicable or not.
### 7.3.2 Key Lifetime Management
If the NAF has a NAF defined lifetime to be used with the NAF specific key
material Ks_(ext/int)_NAF key (or further adapted key material), which is
shorter compared to the default Ks lifetime received from the BSF, (due to NAF
having it's own policy), then to avoid different lifetimes in UE and NAF and
to ensure continuous service delivery to the UE at least two approaches could
be taken. One approach is that the NAF could send the key lifetime to the UE
on the Ua reference point. This way the UE is able to make a new bootstrapping
before the NAF defined key lifetime expires. Another approach, is that the NAF
instructs the UE on the Ua reference point to make a new bootstrapping before
the NAF defined key lifetime expires.
### 7.3.3 User Identity Validation
If the UE sends one or more identities as part of the application protocol
that is run over reference point Ua, then it would avoid some fraud scenarios,
if the NAF verifies that the identities indeed belongs to the subscriber by
checking that the identity or identities are present in the service specific
USS fetched from the BSF. This is only possible if the BSF and NAF support
usage of USS and the NAF can extract the send identities or identity from the
message send by the UE.
## 7.4 Event Monitoring Principles for GAA
Monitoring of GAA usage requires the logging of certain events. The following
list of events, grouped by interfaces on which they occur, may serve as a
baseline for implementing monitoring in the network nodes.
1 Ub interface: Bootstrapping between UE and BSF over Ub interface,
2 Ua interface:
a) Authentication of UE and NAF based on bootstrapped NAF specific key.
b) Enrollment of subscriber's public key.
c) Delivery of operator's root CA certificate.
3 Zn interface:
a) Delivery of NAF specific key material to the NAF,
b) Delivery of USS to NAF
4 Zh interface: Delivery of AV and GUSS.
Note: This list may not be exhaustive.
# 8 Usage of GBA
This chapter contain some examples of usage of GBA within 3GPP specification
and GBA extension.
## 8.1 GAA and Trusted Open Platforms
TR 33.905 [13] outlines the GAA related functionalities and their interworking
in the terminal. It describes the relationship of the GAA server in the
terminal that communicates with the BSF server over Ub reference point, and
with the UICC through the relevant device drivers, the GAA client that is part
of a terminal application and communicates over the network with a NAF server
and the GAA server in the terminal to obtain the NAF specific GAA credentials.
## 8.2 2G GBA
TR 33.920 [14] outlines needed changes to provision an ME and a NAF with a
shared secret based on the SIM card. TS 33.220 focuses on the usage of 3G USIM
/ ISIM for GBA and the SIM card specific details can be found in the Annex I.
2G GBA provides allows building services where authentication is performed and
managed in an analogous way as using USIM. The protocol wherein the SIM card
is used, decides the strength of the security of the whole system. Therefore,
the solution described for an early implementation feature in this
specifications targets to enhance GSM security to address the known GSM
vulnerabilities when using 2G GBA. 2G GBA **does not require any change to the
existing SIM specifications** , in particular GBA_U as in 3G GBA is not part
of 2G GBA.
## 8.3 Key Establishment between UICC and a Terminal
TS 33.110 [15] describes a GBA based key establishment between a UICC and a
terminal. The UICC is rarely a stand-alone device; it usually interacts with a
terminal. For sensitive applications that are split between a smart card and a
terminal with sensitive data exchanged between those two. TS 33.110 provide
means to establish keys, that then can be used to establish a secure channel
between a UICC and a terminal.
## 8.4 Liberty Alliance and GBA
TR 33.980 [16] defines the Interworking between GBA and Liberty Alliance
protocols. GBA and the Liberty Alliance Identity Federation and Web Service
Framework were developed and can be deployed indepently of each other. The
Liberty Alliance Identity Federation and Web Service Framework offers
simplified single sign-on and session management for complex web service
business interaction protocols. The GBA offers a mechanism to provide a shared
secret and certificates to two communicating entities for mobile applications,
based on GSM and UMTS authentication and key agreement protocols. TR 33.980
provides guidelines on the interworking of the Generic Authentication
Architecture (GAA) and the Liberty Alliance architecture. It studies the
details of possible interworking methods between the Liberty Alliance Identity
Federation Framework (ID-FF), the Identity Web Services Framework (ID-WSF) and
GBA for various Single Sign On scenarios.
## 8.5 MBMS Security
TS 33.246 [12] specifies the usage of GBA TS 33.220 [2]. GBA is used to
provision the keys that are needed to run an MBMS User Service. If protection
for the MBMS User Service is required, then the UE needs to share GBA-keys
with the BM-SC that is acting as a Network Application Function (NAF)
according ot TS 33.220 [2]. The MMBS Serivice Keys for an MBMS User Service
shall be stored on either the UICC if the UICC is capable of MBMS key
management or the ME if the UICC is not capable of MBMS key management.
#