# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This document has been prepared by the 3GPP Task Force, and contains an
example set of algorithms which may be used as the authentication and key
generation functions **_f1_** , **_f1*_** , **_f2_** , **_f3_** , **_f4_** ,
**_f5_** and **_f5*_**. (It is not mandatory that the particular algorithms
specified in this document are used --- all seven functions are operator-
specifiable rather than being fully standardised). This document is one five,
which between them form the entire specification of the example algorithms,
entitled:
\- 3GPP TS 35.205: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Specification of
the MILENAGE Algorithm Set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP
authentication and key generation functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*;\
**Document 1: General** \".
\- 3GPP TS 35.206: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Specification of
the MILENAGE Algorithm Set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP
authentication and key generation functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*;\
Document 2: Algorithm Specification\".
\- 3GPP TS 35.207: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Specification of
the MILENAGE Algorithm Set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP
authentication and key generation functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*;\
Document 3: Implementors\' Test Data\".
\- 3GPP TS 35.208: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Specification of
the MILENAGE Algorithm Set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP
authentication and key generation functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*;\
Document 4: Design Conformance Test Data\".
\- 3GPP TR 35.909: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Specification of
the MILENAGE Algorithm Set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP
authentication and key generation functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*;\
Document 5: Summary and results of design and evaluation\".
# 1 Scope
This report is a description of the work undertaken by an ETSI SAGE Task Force
on the design of the Milenage Algorithm Set: an example set of 3GPP
Authentication and Key Generation Functions.
The 3GPP Authentication and Key Generation Functions are not standardized. An
example set of these algorithms has been produced on request from 3GPP with
the intent that it shall be offered to the UMTS operators, to utilise instead
of developing their own. An ETSI SAGE Task Force has carried out this work.
The requirement specification from 3GPP SA3 stated that operator
personalisation of the example set must be possible and that the basic kernel
must be possible to replace.
The example set is based on the block cipher Rijndael, which at the time was
one of the AES candidates and the specification describes how the 7 algorithms
used in 3GPP authentication and key generation are scheduled around this basic
kernel. The specification and associated test data for the example algorithm
set is documented in three documents:
\- A formal specification of both the modes and the example kernel [3]
\- A detailed test data document, covering modes and the example kernel [4]
\- A \"black box\" test data document [5]
A detailed summary of the evaluation is provided in a public evaluation report
[6]
This report gives an overview of the overall work by the task force.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 33.102 v3.5.0: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Security
Architecture\".
[2] 3GPP TS 33.105 v3.4.0: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Cryptographic
Algorithm Requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 35.206: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Specification of
the MILENAGE Algorithm Set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP
authentication and key generation functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*;
Document 2: Algorithm Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 35.207: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Specification of
the MILENAGE Algorithm Set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP
authentication and key generation functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*;
Document 3: Implementors\' Test Data\".
[5] 3GPP TS 35.208: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Specification of
the MILENAGE Algorithm Set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP
authentication and key generation functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*;
Document 4: Design Conformance Test Data\".
[6] ETSI SAGE 3GPP AF TF: \"Report on the design and evaluation of 3GPP
Authentication and Key Generation Functions\".
[7] 3GPP TSG SA WG3 liaison statement to SAGE (S3‑000089): \"Authentication
algorithm for 3GPP\".
# 3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present report, the following abbreviations apply:
3GPP 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project
AES Advanced Encryption Standard
AMF Authentication Management Field
AK Anonymity key
AuC Authentication Centre
AUTS Re-synchronisation Token
CK Cipher Key
DPA Differential Power Analysis
E(X)~K~ Encryption of X under key K
IK Integrity Key
K Subscriber key
MAC Message Authentication Code
MAC-A Network Authentication Code
MAC-S Resynchronisation Authentication Code
OP a 128-bit Operator Variant Algorithm Configuration Field that is a
component of the functions **_f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*_**
OP~C~ a 128-bit value derived from OP and K and used within the computations
of the functions **_f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*_**.
OFB Output Feedback
RAND Random Challenge
RES Response to Challenge
RNC Radio Network Controller
SAGE Security Algorithms Group of Experts
SAGE 3GPP AF TF\ SAGE Task Force for the design of the 3GPP Authentication and
Key Agreement Functions
SQN Sequence Number
SPA Simple Power Analysis
TA Timing Attack
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
USIM User Services Identity Module
# 4 Structure of this report
The material presented in this report is organised in the subsequent clauses,
as follows:
\- clause 5 provides background information on the Authentication and Key
Generation algorithms;
\- clause 6 provides an outline of the work plan adopted by the SAGE Task
Force to design and evaluate the example algorithm set and to produce the
associated test data for release to 3GPP;
\- clause 7 consists of a summary of the main points in the algorithm
requirements specification produced by 3GPP TSG SA ;
\- clause 8 describes how the SAGE Task Force designed the algorithm and
produced the specification and associated test data;
\- clause 9 gives an overview of the evaluation work carried out by the SAGE
Task Force and the conclusions of the evaluations;
\- clause 10 gives statements on the task force procedure for approval and
release of the specification and the considerations for publication and export
control.
# 5 Background to the 3GPP Authentication and Key Generation algorithms
Within the mobile communication system UMTS specified by 3GPP there is a need
to provide security features. These security features are realised with the
use of cryptographic functions and algorithms. In total 3GPP identified the
need for 9 cryptographic algorithms and functions (ref. [1]). Two of these, f8
and f9, for cipher and integrity protection of the 3GPP radio interface have
already been developed and are now part of the 3GPP standard specifications.
It was decided that the algorithms for authentication and key generation
should not be standardised as they can well be proprietary to each operator
and by his own choice (just like in GSM). The context for these algorithms,
called f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5, f5*, are described in ref. [1]. The generic
requirements for these algorithms are specified in ref. [2].
It was discussed in 3GPP SA 3 if an example set of these algorithms should be
produced and offered to the UMTS operators, to utilise instead of developing
their own. A need for such an example set was identified with the additional
requirement that operators should have a means to personalise their own
algorithms. ETSI SAGE was asked to design the algorithms. To carry out this
work SAGE set up a Task Force (SAGE 3GPP AF TF) based on SAGE and enlarged
with cryptographers form UMTS manufacturers.
# 6 SAGE 3GPP AF TF work plan
The workplan for 3GPP authentication example algorithms was approved by 3GPP
in July 2000. The SAGE 3GPP AF TF formally started work in August 2000 as an
ETSI Task Force. This SAGE 3GPP AF TF consisted of the regular SAGE members,
and three 3GPP manufacturers (Gemplus, Mitsubishi and Nokia).
The work was funded by 3GPP. The total resource budget for the SAGE 3GPP AF TF
work was 16.75 man months.
The work was divided into five main tasks:
\- Project Management;
\- Design ( approximately 14% of the budget)
\- Evaluation (the major task, approximately 60% of the budget)
\- Specification testing (approximately 20% of the budget)
\- Liaison and publication activities
The design of the algorithm example set and a complete set of specification
documents should be finalised in November 2000.
The work should be reported in 5 deliverables according to the requirements
from 3GPP TSG SA.
\- a short public report on the design and evaluation work (**_this
document)_**.
\- formal specification of both the modes and the example kernel [3]
\- two test data reports, covering modes and the example kernel (detailed test
results in [4]; black box test data in [5]
\- a summary of the evaluation results in a public report [6]
The results of the evaluations was to be approved and agreed by the whole
group before the final algorithms specifications were released to 3GPP.
# 7 Outline of algorithm requirements specification
The requirements for the authentication and key generation functions were
specified by 3GPP TSG SA in: 3^rd^ Generation Partnership Project: technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; 3G Security; Cryptographic
Algorithm Requirements (3G TS 33.105 version 3.4.0) [2]
## 7.1 The authentication and key generation functions
The mechanism for authentication and key agreement described in [1] requires
the following cryptographic functions:
f0 the random challenge generating function;
f1 the network authentication function;
f1* the re-synchronisation message authentication function;
f2 the user authentication function;
f3 the cipher key derivation function;
f4 the integrity key derivation function;
f5 the anonymity key derivation function.
f5* the anonymity key derivation function for the re-synchronisation message.
Regarding f0, the random generation function, it was agreed with 3GPP SA3 that
an example for this function should not be proposed by the Task Force.
For each of the algorithms f1 to f5* there is a general requirement that it
shall be computationally infeasible to derive K from knowledge of input(s) and
output.
## 7.2 Use of the algorithms on the AuC side
This figure describes the generation of the authentication and key generation
values in the HLR/AuC
## 7.3 Use of the algorithms in the USIM
This figure describes the generation of the authentication and key generation
values in the USIM
## 7.4 Use of the algorithms for resynchronisation in the USIM
This figure describes the generation of the re-synchronisation token, AUTS, in
the USIM.
## 7.5 Use of the algorithms for resynchronisation in the HLR/AuC
This figure describes the control of the re-synchronisation token in the USIM
## 7.6 Implementation aspects
All the functions f1 to f5* shall be designed so that they can be implemented
on an IC card equipped with a 8-bit microprocessor running at 3.25 MHz with 8
kbyte ROM and 300byte RAM and produce AK, XMAC-A, RES, CK and IK in less than
500 ms execution time.
## 7.7 Generic requirements for 3GPP cryptographic functions and algorithms
In section 4 of [2] generic requirements are given for all 3GPP cryptographic
functions and algorithms. These are summarized below (in Italics).
**_Resilience_**
_The functions should be designed with a view to its continued use for a
period of at least 20 years. Successful attacks with a workload significantly
less than exhaustive key search through the effective key space should be
impossible._
_The designers of above functions should design algorithms to a strength that
reflects the above qualitative requirements._
**_World-wide availability and use_**
_Legal restrictions on the use or export of equipment containing cryptographic
functions may prevent the use of such equipment in certain countries._
_It is the intention that UE and USIMs which embody such algorithms should be
free from restrictions on export or use, in order to allow the free
circulation of 3G terminals. Network equipment, including RNC and AuC, may be
expected to come under more stringent restrictions. It is the intention that
RNC and AuC which embody such algorithms should be exportable under the
conditions of the Wassenaar Arrangement_
## 7.8 Subsequent requirements on the authentication and key generation
functions
In a liaison statement to SAGE the 3GPP Security Group TSG SA WG3 presented
some further requirements on the authentication functions [7]:
\"The basic principles of the algorithm design, as agreed by S3, are listed
below:
\- It is required that the algorithm fulfil the requirements specified in 3G
TS 33.105.
\- It is required that controlled personalisation of the algorithm is possible
based on an operator variant algorithm configuration field of at least 128
bits.
\- It is desirable that the algorithm is designed around a replaceable kernel
function to provide an additional degree of variety.
\- If an algorithm is to be designed around a kernel function, then it is
required that one specific kernel function be provided.
\- If an algorithm is to be designed around a kernel function, then it is
desirable that a list of suitable alternative kernel functions be provided.
\- If an algorithm is to be designed around a kernel function, then it is
desirable that standard / publicly available algorithms may be used to
implement the kernel function. However, the type or types of kernel function
that could be supported is left to SAGE.
It is required that the algorithm lends itself to implementations which are
resistant to Simple Power Analysis, Differential Power Analysis and other
\'side-channel\' attacks as appropriate when implemented on a USIM. It is
acknowledged that SAGE may need to consult with smart card experts in order to
be able to address this requirement.\"
# 8 Algorithms design
Based on the requirements and fixed starting points SAGE 3GPP AF TF
established the following essential design criteria.
## 8.1 Design criteria
1\. Without knowledge of secret keys, the functions **_f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5
and f5*_** should be practically indistinguishable from independent random
functions of their inputs (RAND\|\|SQN\|\|AMF) and RAND.
2\. It should be practically impossible to determine any part of the secret
key K, or the operator variant algorithm configuration field, OP, by
manipulation of the inputs and examination of the outputs to the algorithm.
3\. Events tending to violate criteria 1 and 2 should be regarded as
insignificant if they occur with probability approximately 2^‑128^ (or require
approximately 2^128^ operations) or less.
4\. Events tending to violate criteria 1 and 2 should be examined if they
occur with probability approximately 2^‑64^ (or require approximately 2^64^
operations) to ensure that they do not have serious consequences. Serious
consequences would include recovery of a secret key or ability to emulate the
algorithm on a large number of future inputs.
5\. The design should build upon well-known structures and avoid unnecessary
complexity. This will simplify analysis and avoid the need for a formal
external evaluation.
## 8.2 Chosen design for the framework
The detailed specifications of the 3GPP algorithms are found in ref. [3]. The
following diagram shows the framework for the functions **_f1, f1*, f2, f3,
f4, f5_** and **_f5*_** using the kernel function denoted E~K.~.
Definition of f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*
The value OP~C~ is derived from the subscriber key K and the operator
dependent value OP by
OP~C~ = OP ⊕ E(OP)~K~
It is assumed and recommended in [3] that OPc is calculated outside the USIM
cards and then stored in each card as an individual value. This will allow OP
to be better protected than if OP had been stored in every card.
r1, ..., r5 are five fixed rotation constants and c1, .., c5 are five fixed
addition constants defined in [2].
## 8.3 Analysis of the role of OP and OPc
The 128-bit value OP is the Operator Variant Algorithm Configuration Field,
which the Task Force was asked to include to provide separation between the
functionality of the algorithms when used by different operators.
It is left to each operator to select a value for OP.
The algorithm set is designed to be secure whether or not OP is publicly
known; however, operators may see some advantage in keeping their value of OP
secret as a secret OP is one more hurdle in the attacker\'s path.
It should be difficult for someone who has discovered even a large number of
(OPc, K) pairs to deduce OP. That means that the OPc associated with any other
value of K will be unknown, which may make it (slightly) harder to mount some
kinds of cryptanalytic and forgery attacks.
It is more likely that OP can be kept secret if OP is not stored on the USIM,
as it then only takes one USIM to be reverse engineered for OP to be
discovered and published. Hence the task force recommends that OPc is
calculated off USIM.
## 8.4 Choice of kernel
Because of the short time scales it was decided to base the algorithm example
set on an existing algorithm which had undergone sufficient analysis to serve
as a kernel for the algorithm set so as to obviate the need for extensive
cryptographic analyses and testing. A 128 bit input/output block cipher with a
128 bit key was chosen as kernel as this was considered to be a type of kernel
which could easily be substituted if any operator wanted to use the framework
with another algorithm.
Document [3] describes the use of the Rijndael algorithm in encryption mode
for the kernel function E~K~, but this choice could be replaced by any
suitable 128-bit keyed function employing a 128 bit key. Rijndael was chosen
as being then one of the five remaining AES candidates, was well studied,
could be efficiently implemented in S/W or H/W and was available IPR-free.
Ref [6] gives general requirements on the kernel which should be considered in
case of replacement.
## 8.5 Design methodology
The algorithms were designed using a phased iterative and interactive
approach. The design process is summarised below.
**\- Phase 1:** The starting points for the algorithms and design criteria
were agreed. The design team then produced a first design proposal for a
framework algorithm set including different options for the inclusion of OP. A
block cipher was proposed as kernel with Rijndael as prime candidate
**\- Phase 2:** The results of first evaluations were discussed. Choice of
block cipher as kernel versus keyed hash was evaluated. Use of OP as
protection against DPA was discussed. The counter mode was adopted instead of
OFB. Based on these results, the design team revised the design to a second
design proposal for the algorithm set. 3GPP SA3 agreed to limit RES to 64 bits
in the example and to change input to the synchronization token.
**\- Phase 3:** The results of the second evaluation were discussed. The use
of Rijndael and the design for the algorithm set was confirmed, except for
some small details. Considering the extensive analyses which have been made on
Rijndael it was decided that the normal range of statistical testing need not
be performed. Evaluation of complexity of implementation started.
**\- Phase 4:** Details were fixed after mathematical evaluation of modes. The
method for deriving OPc from OP was changed. Resistance against side channel
attacks was decided to be left to implementers, with references to methods
discussed in connection with Rijndael as candidate to AES. The specification
documents were drafted and two parties independently carried out specification
testing to check the correctness and completeness of the specification and the
accompanying C-code.
**\- Phase 5:** After the final review the specifications were confirmed. A
summary report of the evaluation undertaken by the task force was produced and
agreed [6], as well as this report.
## 8.6 Specification and test data
The algorithm specification and associated test data are documented in [3],
[4] and [5]. An annex in [3] consists of example program listings of the
algorithm set in \'C\'.
Document [4] provides design conformance test data designed to help verify
implementations of the algorithms. The document identifies intermediate points
in the algorithms where test data is provided. Then it gives input, internal
and output parameters at these points, and provides different sets of test
data listings.
Document [5] is informative and provides test data designed to help verify the
correct functioning of the algorithms seen as a \'black box\'. The document
identifies the input and output interfaces and provides a number of test sets
for the different modes of operation of the algorithms.
Two parties not directly involved in the design and evaluation teams also
evaluated the adequacy of the specification. To this end, these parties made
independent simulations of the algorithm from the specification and confirmed
these against the test data.
# 9 Algorithm evaluation
## 9.1 Evaluation criteria
The algorithm requirements as summarised in section 7 and design criteria as
listed in section 8.1 leads to evaluation criteria for the mathematical
evaluation and statistical evaluations. Due to the fact that the Rijndael
block cipher has undergone an extensive analysis during the AES process, the
task force performed no real cryptanalysis of Rijndael, but rather focused on
the strength of the constructions for deriving the **_f1_** to **_f5*_** modes
from a strong 128-bit block cipher.
## 9.2 Mathematical Evaluation of the modes
The mathematical evaluation concentrated on verifying the strength of the
f1-f5 construction, under the assumption that the underlying kernel is a
strong block cipher.
The main criteria investigated were:
\- The strength of each algorithm, considered individually (resilience of key
and subsequent outputs)
\- The independence between algorithms (one algorithm\'s strength is not
harmed by knowledge of input/outputs for other algorithms)
For further details on these investigations, see [6].
## 9.3 Statistical Evaluation
No statistical tests were performed on the kernel, given Rijndael can be
trusted to be sufficiently tested and secure through the AES process.
Statistical tests on MILENAGE were considered to only yield results about the
underlying kernel function. Since it was not the intention of the task force
to evaluate Rijndael, statistical tests have not been performed as a
consequence.
## 9.4 Side channel attacks evaluation
In the design process it was concluded not to be feasible to design a general
algorithm framework that by itself would not be vulnerable to side channel
attacks. Rijndael, as most other block ciphers, is potentially vulnerable to
simple and differential power analysis (SPA and DPA) aiming to recover the
secret key. It was also concluded that the use of operator constants, OPc, in
the USIM cards can only play a limited role in protecting against these kinds
of attacks. Hardware protection measures and masking techniques, as referenced
in [6], need to be specifically implemented for protection. Also timing
attacks (TA) may need implementation specific countermeasures. Rijndael as an
AES candidate has been shown to readily lend itself to protection measures
against side channel attacks.
## 9.5 Complexity evaluation
It is estimated that a non-optimized implementation of kernel and modes could
be implemented with no more than 2kB ROM, 120B RAM and execute in less than
80ms. (One instance of the Rijndael cipher will execute in less than 10 ms at
3.25 MHz). Even with full protection measures against side channel attacks
(SPA/DPA/TA) on Rijndael it is expected that performance will be well under
the stated requirements [2].
## 9.6 Evaluation report
The evaluation report [6] is a summary of all results of the complete design
and evaluation process. It provides the main conclusions of the evaluation
work carried out by the task force..
# 10 Release of algorithm specification and test data by SAGE
## 10.1 SAGE 3GPP AF TF approval for release
Prior to release of the specification of the algorithm set the following
approvals were gained.
All members of SAGE 3GPP AF TF stated that they were satisfied that the
example algorithm set provides the high level of security for the
authentication and key generation functions required by 3GPP.
\- All members of SAGE 3GPP AF TF approved release of the algorithm set
specifications and the accompanying documents to 3GPP.
## 10.2 Publication of the algorithm set specification
The SAGE 3GPP AF TF does not see from a security point of view any obstacles
that would prevent publication of the algorithm set specifications.
## 10.3 Export of the algorithm set specification
The SAGE 3GPP AF TF does not see any obstacles that would prevent export of
the algorithm set specifications or corresponding implementations in
congruence with the requirements as given in [2].
#