# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
An electronic attachment accompanies the present document, containing test
sequences for a bit exact implementation of the half rate speech transcoder.
Archive en_300968v080001p0.ZIP which accompanies the present document contains
compressed files which are labelled as follows:
Disks24.zip Clause 10: Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec;
Disks 2 and 4 (GSM 06.07).
Disks135.zip Clause 10: Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec;
Disks 1, 3 and 5 (GSM 06.07).
Disks6A.zip Clause 10: Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec;
Disks 6 and 10 (GSM 06.07).
Disks7B.zip Clause 10: Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec;
Disks 7 and 11 (GSM 06.07).
Disks89.zip Clause 10: Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec;
Disks 8 and 9 (GSM 06.07).
The present document specifies the half rate speech traffic channels for the
Digital cellular telecommunications system.
The present document specifies the digital test sequences for the GSM half
rate speech codec for the digital cellular telecommunications system. The
present document, is part of a series covering the half rate speech traffic
channels as described below:
GSM 06.02 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech processing functions\".
GSM 06.06 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; ANSI‑C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
**GSM 06.07 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec\".**
GSM 06.20 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
GSM 06.21 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
GSM 06.22 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic channels\".
GSM 06.41 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
GSM 06.42 \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half rate
speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic channels\".
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the digital test sequences for the GSM half
rate speech codec. These sequences test for a bit exact implementation of the
half rate speech transcoder (GSM 06.20 [2]), Voice Activity Detector (GSM
06.42 [6]), comfort noise (GSM 06.22 [4]) and the discontinuous transmission
(GSM 06.41 [5]).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 06.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
[3] GSM 06.21: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frame for half rate speech
traffic channels\".
[4] GSM 06.22: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic channels\".
[5] GSM 06.41: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[6] GSM 06.42: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[7] GSM 06.06: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; ANSI‑C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
[8] GSM 06.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Half rate speech coding functions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Definition of terms used in the present document can be found in GSM 06.20
[2], GSM 06.21 [3], GSM 06.22 [4], GSM 06.41 [5] and GSM 06.42 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
ETS European Telecommunication Standard
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
For abbreviations not given in this clause, see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 General
Digital test sequences are necessary to test for a bit exact implementation of
the half rate speech transcoder (GSM 06.20 [2]), Voice Activity Detector (GSM
06.42 [6]), comfort noise (GSM 06.22 [4]) and the discontinuous transmission
(GSM 06.41 [5]).
The test sequences may also be used to verify installations of the ANSI C code
in GSM 06.06 [7].
Clause 5 describes the format of the files which contain the digital test
sequences. Clause 6 describes the test sequences for the speech transcoder.
Clause 7 describes the test sequences for the VAD, comfort noise and
discontinuous transmission.
Clause 8 describes the method by which synchronization is obtained between the
test sequences and the speech codec under test.
Clause 9 describes the optional acceptance testing of the speech encoder and
decoder in the TRAU by means of 8 bit A- or μ-law compressed test sequences on
the A-Interface.
Electronic copies of the digital test sequences are provided as clause 10,
these digital test sequences are contained in archive en_300968v080001p0.ZIP
which accompanies the present document.
# 5 Test sequence format
This clause provides information on the format of the digital test sequences
for the GSM half rate speech transcoder (GSM 06.20 [2]), Voice Activity
Detector (GSM 06.42 [6]), comfort noise (GSM 06.22 [4]) and the discontinuous
transmission (GSM 06.41 [5]).
## 5.1 File format
The test sequence files are provided in archive en_300968v080001p0.ZIP which
accompanies the present document.
Following decompression, by execution of the 11 \"disk*.exe\" files, four
types of file are provided:
‑ Files for input to the GSM half rate speech encoder: *.INP
‑ Files for comparison with the encoder output: *.COD
‑ Files for input to the GSM half rate speech decoder: *.DEC
‑ Files for comparison with the decoder output: *.OUT
Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4 define the formats of the four types of file. Each
parameter in these tables is contained in a 16 bit word except for the samples
of the 8 bit PCM test sequences, which are contained in an 8 bit word each.
The left or right justification is indicated in the tables. The size and
location of speech parameters in the encoder output (*.COD) and decoder input
files (*.DEC) are described in GSM 06.20 [2].
## 5.2 Codec homing
Each *.INP file includes two homing frames at the start of the test sequence.
The function of these frames is to reset the speech encoder state variables to
their initial value. In the case of a correct installation of the ANSI‑C
simulation (GSM 06.06 [7]), all speech encoder output frames shall be
identical to the corresponding frame in the *.COD file. In the case of a
correct hardware implementation undergoing type approval, the first speech
encoder output frame is undefined and need not be identical to the first frame
in the *.COD file, but all remaining speech encoder output frames shall be
identical to the corresponding frames in the *.COD file.
Each *.DEC file includes two homing frames at the start of the test sequence.
The function of these frames is to reset the speech decoder state variables to
their initial value. In the case of a correct installation of the ANSI‑C
simulation (GSM 06.06 [7]), all speech decoder output frames shall be
identical to the corresponding frame in the *.OUT file. In the case of a
correct hardware implementation undergoing type approval, the first speech
decoder output frame is undefined and need not be identical to first frame in
the *.OUT file, but all remaining speech decoder output frames shall be
identical to the corresponding frames in the *.OUT file.
Table 1: Encoder input sequence (*.INP) format
* * *
Name Description No. of bits Justification s(n) Encoder input signal 13 Left
* * *
Table 2: Encoder output sequence (*.COD) format
+-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+ | Name | Description | No. of words | Justification | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+ | Speech | Speech | 18 | Right | | | parameters to | | | | | the channel | | | | | encoder | | | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+ | Additional | | | | | information | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+ | VAD | Voice activity | 1 | Right | | | detection flag | | | | SP | | 1 | Right | | | SP flag | | | +-----------------+-----------------+--------------+---------------+
Table 3: Decoder input sequence (*.DEC) format
+----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Name | Description | No. of | Justification | | | | bits/words | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | Speech | Speech | 18 words | Right | | parameters | parameters to | | | | | the channel | | | | | encoder | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+ | BFI flag | Bad Frame | 1 bit / 1 word | Right | | | Indicator | | | | UFI flag | | 1 bit / 1 word | Right | | | Unreliable | | | | SID flag | Frame | 2 bits / 1 | Right | | | Indicator | word | | | TAF flag | | | Right | | | SIlence | 1 bit / 1 word | | | | Descriptor | | | | | | | | | | Time Alignment | | | | | Flag | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+---------------+
Table 4: Decoder output sequence (*.OUT) format
* * *
Name Description No. of bits Justification s\'(n) Decoder output signal 13
Left
* * *
# 6 Speech codec test sequences
This clause describes the test sequences designed to exercise the GSM half
rate speech transcoder (GSM 06.20 [2]).
## 6.1 Codec configuration
The speech encoder shall be configured to operate in the non‑DTX mode. The VAD
and SP flags shall be set to 1 at the speech encoder output.
## 6.2 Speech codec test sequences
Table 5 lists the location and size of the speech codec test sequences.
### 6.2.1 Speech encoder test sequences
Three encoder input sequences are provided:
‑ SEQ01.INP ‑ Sequence for exercising the LPC vector quantization codebooks;
‑ SEQ02.INP ‑ Sequence for exercising the long term predictor codebooks;
‑ SEQ03.INP ‑ Sequence for exercising the remaining excitation codebooks.
The SEQ01.INP sequence causes the GSM half rate speech encoder to select every
vector in the three reflection coefficient vector quantizers at least once. In
a correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters shall
be identical to those specified in the SEQ01.COD sequence.
The SEQ02.INP sequence causes the encoder to select at least once every
quantization level in the eight bit table of long term filter lags for the
first subframe, and every quantization level in the four bit delta lag
quantizer for subframes 2, 3, and 4. In a correct implementation, the
resulting speech encoder output parameters shall be identical to those
specified in the SEQ02.COD sequence.
The SEQ03.INP sequence causes the encoder to select each of the quantization
levels at least once for the remaining GSM half rate speech coder parameters:
R0 (frame energy), the soft interpolation decision for the LPC coefficients,
the four voicing modes, the gain vectors (GSP0) for each of the voicing modes,
and the voiced and unvoiced VSELP codebooks. The only exception to this is
that two GSP0 levels in the unvoiced mode are not selected. However, these
levels are exercised in the GSM half rate speech decoder as described below.
In a correct implementation, the resulting speech encoder output parameters
shall be identical to those specified in the SEQ03.COD sequence.
### 6.2.2 Speech decoder test sequences
Four speech decoder input sequences are provided:
‑ SEQ01.DEC;
‑ SEQ02.DEC;
‑ SEQ03.DEC;
‑ SEQ04.DEC.
The SEQ01.DEC, SEQ02.DEC, and SEQ03.DEC sequences test the operation of the
GSM half rate speech decoder in the absence of channel errors. They are
derived from the corresponding SEQXX.INP sequences. In a correct
implementation, the resulting speech decoder output shall be identical to the
SEQ01.OUT, SEQ02.OUT, and SEQ03.OUT sequences, respectively. Together, these
three sequences exercise every quantization level in every codebook in the
decoder, with the exception of two GSP0 levels in the unvoiced mode.
The SEQ04.DEC sequence is designed to test the GSM half rate speech decoder
under conditions which can result from channel errors. In particular, it is
the decoding of LTP lags at the lag table boundaries, given delta lag codes
which if incorrectly decoded would point outside the eight bit lag table, that
is being tested. Also, the two remaining GSP0 levels in the unvoiced mode are
exercised by this sequence. In a correct implementation, the resulting speech
decoder output shall be identical to the SEQ04.OUT sequence.
### 6.2.3 Codec homing sequence
In addition to the test sequences described above, two homing sequences are
provided to assist in codec type approval testing. SEQ05.INP contains one
encoder‑homing‑frame. SEQ05.DEC contains one decoder‑homing‑frame. The use of
these sequences is described in GSM 06.02 [8].
Table 5: Location and size of speech codec test sequences
+----------+-----------+---------------+--------------+ | Disk No. | File Name | No. of frames | Size (bytes) | +----------+-----------+---------------+--------------+ | 1 | SEQ01.INP | 2 359 | 754 880 | | | | | | | 1 | SEQ01.COD | | 94 360 | | | | | | | 2 | SEQ01.DEC | | 103 796 | | | | | | | 2 | SEQ01.OUT | | 754 880 | +----------+-----------+---------------+--------------+ | 1 | SEQ02.INP | 781 | 249 920 | | | | | | | 1 | SEQ02.COD | | 31 240 | | | | | | | 2 | SEQ02.DEC | | 34 364 | | | | | | | 2 | SEQ02.OUT | | 249 920 | +----------+-----------+---------------+--------------+ | 1 | SEQ03.INP | 413 | 132 160 | | | | | | | 1 | SEQ03.COD | | 16 520 | | | | | | | 2 | SEQ03.DEC | | 18 172 | | | | | | | 2 | SEQ03.OUT | | 132 160 | +----------+-----------+---------------+--------------+ | 2 | SEQ04.DEC | 76 | 3 344 | | | | | | | 2 | SEQ04.OUT | | 24 320 | +----------+-----------+---------------+--------------+ | 1 | SEQ05.INP | 1 | 320 | | | | | | | 2 | SEQ05.DEC | | 44 | +----------+-----------+---------------+--------------+
# 7 DTX test sequences
This clause describes the test sequences designed to exercise the VAD
algorithm (GSM 06.42 [6]), comfort noise (GSM 06.22 [4]) and discontinuous
transmission (GSM 06.41 [5]).
## 7.1 Codec configuration
The VAD, comfort noise and discontinuous transmission shall be tested in
conjunction with the speech encoder [2]). The speech encoder shall be
configured to operate in the DTX mode defined in GSM 06.22 [4].
## 7.2 DTX test sequences
Each DTX test sequence consists of four files:
‑ Files for input to the GSM half rate speech encoder: *.INP
‑ Files for comparison with the encoder output *.COD
‑ Files for input to the GSM half rate speech decoder: *.DEC
‑ Files for comparison with the decoder output: *.OUT
The *.DEC files are generated from the corresponding *.COD files.
In a correct implementation, the speech encoder parameters generated by the
*.INP file shall be identical to those specified in the *.COD file; and the
speech decoder output generated by the *.DEC file shall be identical to that
specified in the *.OUT file.
Table 6 lists the DTX test sequences and their size in frames.
### 7.2.1 Predictor values computation
The computation of the predictor values described in GSM 06.42 [6] is not
tested explicitly, since the results from the computation are tested many
times via the spectral comparison and threshold adaptation tests.
### 7.2.2 Spectral comparison
The spectral comparison algorithm described in GSM 06.42 [6] is tested by the
following test sequence:
‑ DTX01.*
### 7.2.3 Threshold adaptation
The threshold adaptation algorithm described in GSM 06.42 [6] is tested by the
following test sequence:
‑ DTX02.*
### 7.2.4 Periodicity detection
The periodicity detection algorithm described in GSM 06.42 [6] is tested by
the following test sequence:
‑ DTX03.*
### 7.2.5 Tone detection
The tone detection algorithm described in GSM 06.42 [6] is tested by the
following test sequence:
‑ DTX04.*
### 7.2.6 Safety and initialization
This sequence checks the safety paths used to prevent zero values being passed
to the norm function. It checks the functions described in the adaptive
filtering and energy computation, and the prediction values computation given
in GSM 06.42 [6]. This sequence also checks the initialization of thvad and
the rvad array:
‑ DTX05.*
### 7.2.7 Comfort noise test sequence
The test sequences described in sub‑clauses 7.2.2 to 7.2.6 are designed to
exercise the VAD described in GSM 06.42 [6] and the discontinuous transmission
described in GSM 06.41 [5]. The following test sequence is defined to exercise
the comfort noise algorithm described in GSM 06.22 [4]:
‑ DTX06.*
### 7.2.8 Real speech and tones
The test sequences cannot be guaranteed to find every possible error. There is
therefore a small possibility that an incorrect implementation produces the
correct output for the test sequences, but fails with real signals.
Consequently, an extra sequence is included, which consists of very clean
speech, barely detectable speech and a swept frequency tone:
‑ DTX07.*
NOTE: Some of the DTX test sequences contain homing frames. The DTX test
sequences are therefore only suitable for testing a single transcoding.
Table 6: Location and size of DTX test sequences
* * *
                                                   size     (bytes)
Disk No. File Name No. of Frames *.INP *.COD *.DEC *.OUT 3 DTX01 460 147 200
18 400 20 240 147 200 3 DTX02 886 283 520 35 440 38 984 283 520 3 DTX03 125 40
000 5 000 5 500 40 000 3 DTX04 317 101 440 12 680 13 948 101 440 3 DTX05 37 11
840 1 480 1 628 11 840 4 DTX06 240 76 800 9 600 10 560 76 800 4 DTX07 1 188
380 160 47 520 52 272 380 160
* * *
# 8 Sequences for finding the 20 ms framing of the GSM half rate speech
encoder
When testing the decoder, alignment of the test sequences used to the decoder
framing is achieved by the air interface (testing of MS) or can be reached
easily on the Abis‑interface (testing on network side).
When testing the encoder, usually there is no information available about
where the encoder starts its 20 ms segments of speech input to the encoder.
In the following, a procedure is described to find the 20 ms framing of the
encoder using special synchronization sequences. This procedure can be used
for MS as well as for network side.
Synchronization can be achieved in two steps. First, bit synchronization has
to be found. In a second step, frame synchronization can be determined. This
procedure takes advantage of the codec homing feature of the half rate codec,
which puts the codec in a defined home state after the reception of the first
homing frame. On the reception of further homing frames, the output of the
codec is predefined and can be triggered to.
## 8.1 Bit synchronization
The input to the speech encoder is a series of 13 bit long words (104 kbits/s,
13 bit linear PCM). When starting to test the speech encoder, no knowledge is
available on bit synchronization, i.e. where the encoder expects its least
significant bits, and where it expects the most significant bits.
The encoder homing frame consists of 160 samples, all set to zero with the
exception of the least significant bit, which is set to one (0 0000 0000 0001
binary, or 0x0008 hex if written into 16 bit words left justified). If two
such encoder homing frames are input to the encoder consecutively, the decoder
homing frame is expected at the output as a reaction of the second encoder
homing frame.
Since there are only 13 possibilities for bit synchronization, after a maximum
of 13 trials bit synchronization can be reached. In each trial, three
consecutive encoder homing frames are input to the encoder. If the decoder
homing frame is not detected at the output, the relative bit position of the
three input frames is shifted by one and another trial is performed. As soon
as the decoder homing frame is detected at the output, bit synchronization is
found, and the first step can be terminated.
The reason why three consecutive encoder homing frames are needed is that
frame synchronization is not known at this stage. To be sure that the encoder
reads two complete homing frames, three frames have to be input. Wherever the
encoder has its 20 ms segmentation, it will always read at least two complete
encoder homing frames.
An example of the 13 different frame triplets is given in sequence BITSYNC.INP
(see table 7).
## 8.2 Frame synchronization
Once bit synchronization is found, frame synchronization can be found by
inputting one special frame that delivers 160 different output frames,
depending on the 160 different positions that this frame can possibly have
with respect to the encoder framing.
This special synchronization frame was found by taking one input frame and
shifting it through the positions 0 to 159. The corresponding 160 encoded
speech frames were calculated and it was verified that all 160 output frames
were different. When shifting the input synchronization frame, the samples at
the beginning were set to 0x0008 hex, which corresponds to the samples of the
encoder homing frame.
Before inputting this special synchronization frame to the encoder, again the
encoder has to be reset by one encoder homing frame. A second encoder homing
frame is needed to provoke a decoder homing frame at the output that can be
triggered to. And since the framing of the encoder is not known at that stage,
three encoder homing frames have to precede the special synchronization frame
to ensure that the encoder reads at least two homing frames, and at least one
decoder homing frame is produced at the output, serving as a trigger for
recording.
The special synchronization frame preceded by the three encoder homing frames
are given in SEQSYNC.INP. The corresponding 160 different output frames are
given in SYNC000.COD through SYNC159.COD. The three digit number in the
filename indicates the number of samples by which the input was retarded with
respect to the encoder framing. By a corresponding shift in the opposite
direction, alignment with the encoder framing can be reached.
## 8.3 Formats and sizes of the synchronization sequences
BIT SYNC.INP:
This sequence consists of 13 frame triplets. It has the format of the speech
encoder input test sequences (13 bit left justified with the three least
significant bits set to zero).
The size of it is therefore:
SIZE (BITSYNC.INP) = 13 * 3 * 160 * 2 bytes = 12480 bytes.
SEQSYNC.INP:
This sequence consists of 3 encoder reset frames and the special
synchronization frame. It has the format of the speech encoder input test
sequences (13 bit left justified with the three least significant bits set to
zero).
The size of it is therefore:
SIZE (SEQSYNC.INP) = 4 * 160 * 2 bytes = 1280 bytes.
SYNCXXX.COD:
These sequences consists of 1 encoder output frame each. They have the format
of the speech encoder output test sequences (16 bit words right justified).
The values of the VAD and SP flags are set to one in these files.
The size of them is therefore:
SIZE (SYNCXXX.COD) = (18 + 2) * 2 bytes = 40 bytes
Table 7 summarizes this information.
Table 7: Location, size and justification of synchronization sequences
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Disk No. | Purpose | Name of | No. of | Size in | Justi | | | of | Sequence | Frames | Bytes | fication | | | Sequence | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | Bit | BIT | 39 | 1 2480 | Left | | | Synchro | SYNC.INP | | | | | | nization | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | Frame | SEQ | 4 | 1 280 | Left | | | Synchro | SYNC.INP | | | | | | nization | | | | | | | (input) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | Frame | SYN | 1 | 40 | Right | | | Synchro | C000.COD | | | | | | nization | | 1 | 40 | Right | | | (output) | SYN | | | | | | | C001.COD | 1 | 40 | Right | | | | | | | | | | | SYN | \" | \" | \" | | | | C002.COD | | | | | | | | \" | \" | \" | | | | \" | | | | | | | | \" | \" | \" | | | | \" | | | | | | | | 1 | 40 | Right | | | | \" | | | | | | | | | | | | | | SYN | | | | | | | C159.COD | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# 9 Trau Testing with 8 Bit A- and µ-law PCM Test Sequences
In the previous clauses tests for the transcoder in the TRAU are described
using 13 bit linear test sequences. However, these 13 bit test sequences
require a special interface in the Trau and do not allow testing in the field.
In most cases the TRAU has to be set in special mode before testing.
As an option, the speech codec tests can be performed with A/μ law compressed
8 bit PCM test sequences on the A interface. These modified input test
sequences (*-X.INP) are generated from the original sequences by A or μ law
compression. As an input to the encoder they result in modified encoder output
sequences (*-X.COD). The same *.dec decoder input sequences as in clause
6.2.2. are then used to produce the output sequences *-X.OUT, which are A- or
µ-law compressed.
The A- and µ-law compression and decompression does not change the homing
frames at the encoder input. The format of all A- and μ-law PCM files *-X.INP
and *-X.OUT is one sample (8 bit) per byte. The format of all other files is
as described in clause 5.
All files are provided in archive en_300968v080001p0.ZIP which accompanies the
present document. The \'X\' in the tables below with the filenames stands for
A (A-law) and U (μ-law), respectively. The decoder input files *.dec are the
same as in Table 5 and are not described in this clause.
Table 8: Location and size of compressed 8 bit PCM speech codec test sequences
+----------+-------------+---------------+--------------+ | Disk No. | File Name | No. of frames | Size (bytes) | +----------+-------------+---------------+--------------+ | 6/7 | SEQ01-X.INP | 2 359 | 377 440 | | | | | | | 6/7 | SEQ01-X.COD | | 94 360 | | | | | | | 6/7 | SEQ01-X.OUT | | 377 440 | +----------+-------------+---------------+--------------+ | 6/7 | SEQ02-X.INP | 781 | 124 960 | | | | | | | 6/7 | SEQ02-X.COD | | 31 240 | | | | | | | 6/7 | SEQ02-X.OUT | | 124 960 | +----------+-------------+---------------+--------------+ | 6/7 | SEQ03-X.INP | 413 | 66 080 | | | | | | | 6/7 | SEQ03-X.COD | | 16 520 | | | | | | | 6/7 | SEQ03-X.OUT | | 66 080 | +----------+-------------+---------------+--------------+ | 6/7 | SEQ04-X.OUT | 76 | 12 160 | +----------+-------------+---------------+--------------+ | 6/7 | SEQ05-X.INP | 1 | 160 | +----------+-------------+---------------+--------------+
Table 9: Location and size of compressed 8 bit PCM DTX test sequences
* * *
                                         size      (bytes)
Disk No. File Name No. of Frames *.INP *.COD *.OUT 8/9 DTX01-X 460 73 600 18
400 73 600 8/9 DTX02-X 886 141 760 35 440 141 760 8/9 DTX03-X 125 20 000 5 000
20 000 8/9 DTX04-X 317 50 720 12 680 50 720 8/9 DTX05-X 37 5 920 1 480 5 920
8/9 DTX06-X 240 38 400 9 600 38 400 8/9 DTX07-X 1 188 190 080 47 520 190 080
* * *
In addition to the testsequences above, special input (seqsyncX.inp) and
output (syncxxxX.cod) sequences for frame synchronization are provided. The X
again stands for A and μ law compressed PCM. The synchronization procedure is
described in clause 8.
Table 10: Location, size and justification of compressed8 bit PCM test
sequences
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Disk No. | Purpose | Name of | No. of | Size in | Justi | | | of | Sequence | Frames | Bytes | fication | | | Sequence | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 10/11 | Frame | SEQS | 4 | 640 | - | | | Synchro | YNCX.INP | | | | | | nization | | | | | | | (input) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 10/11 | Frame | SYNC | 1 | 40 | Right | | | Synchro | 000X.COD | | | | | | nization | | 1 | 40 | Right | | | (output) | SYNC | | | | | | | 001X.COD | 1 | 40 | Right | | | | | | | | | | | SYNC | \" | \" | \" | | | | 002X.COD | | | | | | | | \" | \" | \" | | | | \" | | | | | | | | \" | \" | \" | | | | \" | | | | | | | | 1 | 40 | Right | | | | \" | | | | | | | | | | | | | | SYNC | | | | | | | 159X.COD | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# 10 Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec
NOTE: This clause is contained in archive en_300968v080001p0.ZIP which
accompanies the present document.
#