# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 06 series of the GSM technical
specifications dealing with the Full rate speech processing functions in the
GSM system. A general overview of the speech processing parts is given with
reference to the technical specifications where each part is specified in
detail.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 03.50: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Transmission planning aspects of the speech service in the GSM Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN) system\".
[3] GSM 06.10: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
rate speech; Transcoding\".
[4] GSM 06.11: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for full rate speech
channels\".
[5] GSM 06.12: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
rate speech; Comfort noise aspect for full rate speech traffic channels\".
[6] GSM 06.31: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for full rate speech traffic
channels\".
[7] GSM 06.32: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Voice
Activity Detector (VAD) for full rate speech traffic channels\".
[8] GSM 06.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Half rate speech processing functions\".
[9] GSM 06.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
[10] GSM 06.21: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for half rate speech
traffic channels\".
[11] GSM 06.22: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic channels\".
[12] GSM 06.41: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
[13] GSM 06.42: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
\"Half rate speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic
channels\".
# 3 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 Introduction
Figure 1 presents a reference configuration where the various speech
processing functions are identified. In this figure, the relevant technical
specifications for each function are also indicated.
In figure 1, the audio parts including analogue to digital and digital to
analogue conversion are included to show the complete speech path between the
audio input/output in the Mobile Station (MS) and the digital interface to the
PSTN. The specification of the audio parts are contained in GSM 03.50 [2]
(Transmission plan aspects of the speech service in the GSM PLMN system).
These aspects are only considered in the GSM 06‑series to the extent that the
performance of the audio parts affect the performance of the speech
transcoder.
# 5 Full rate speech transcoding (GSM 06.10)
As shown in figure 1, the speech encoder takes its input as a 13 bit uniform
PCM signal either from the audio part of the mobile station or on the network
side, from the PSTN via an 8 bit/A‑law or μ-law (PCS 1900) to 13 bit uniform
PCM conversion. The encoded speech at the output of the speech encoder is
delivered to the channel coding function defined in GSM 05.03 to produce an
encoded block consisting of 456 bits leading to a gross bit rate of 22,8
kbit/s.
In the receive direction, the inverse operations take place. GSM 06.10 [3]
describes the detailed mapping between input blocks of 160 speech samples in
13 bit uniform PCM format to encoded blocks of 260 bits and from encoded
blocks of 260 bits to output blocks of 160 reconstructed speech samples. The
sampling rate is 8 000 sample/s leading to an average bit rate for the encoded
bit stream of 13 kbit/s. The coding scheme is the so‑called Regular Pulse
Excitation ‑ Long Term prediction ‑ Linear Predictive Coder, here‑after
referred to as RPE‑LTP.
The technical specification describes the codec down to the bit level, thus
enabling the verification of compliance to the technical specification to a
high degree of confidence by use of a set of digital test sequences. These
test sequences are also described and are available on floppy disks.
# 6 Full rate Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) (GSM 06.31)
During a normal conversation, the participants alternate so that, on the
average, each direction of transmission is occupied about 50 % of the time.
Discontinuous transmission (DTX) is a mode of operation where the transmitters
are switched on only for those frames which contain useful information. This
may be done for the following two purposes:
1) in the MS, battery life will be prolonged or a smaller battery could be
used for a given operational duration;
2) the average interference level on the \"air\" is reduced, leading to better
spectrum efficiency.
The overall DTX mechanism is implemented in the DTX handlers (TX and RX)
described in GSM 06.31 [6] and requires the following functions which are
described in separate technical specifications:
‑ a Voice Activity Detector on the transmit side;
‑ evaluation of the background acoustic noise on the transmit side, in order
to transmit characteristic parameters to the receive side;
‑ generation on the receive side of a similar noise, called comfort noise,
during periods where the radio transmission is cut.
The transmission of comfort noise information to the receive side is achieved
by means of a special frame (Silence descriptor = SID). This frame is
transmitted at the end of speech bursts and serves as an end of speech marker
for the receive side. In order to update the comfort noise characteristics at
the receive side, SID frames are transmitted at regular intervals also during
speech pauses. This also serves the purpose of improving the measurement of
the radio link quality by the radio subsystem.
For the overall DTX functionality, the DTX handlers interwork via various
flags with the Radio Subsystem, which is in control of the actual transmitter
keying on the TX side and which performs various pre‑processing functions on
the RX side. This is also described in GSM 06.31 [6].
A common terminology used throughout the GSM 06‑series of technical
specifications is also defined in the present document.
# 7 Full rate Voice Activity Detection (VAD) (GSM 06.32)
The input to the VAD is a set of parameters computed by the full‑rate speech
encoder defined in GSM 06.10 [3]. The VAD uses this information to decide
whether each 20 ms speech coder frame contains speech or not. Note that the
VAD flag is an input to TX DTX handler and does not control the transmitter
keying directly.
The technical specification describes the VAD algorithm down to the bit level.
The conventions used in the bit‑exact specification are the same as those used
in GSM 06.10 [3]. The verification of compliance to the technical
specification is achieved by use of digital test sequences applied to the same
interface as the test sequences for the speech codec. These test sequences are
also described and are available on floppy disks.
# 8 Full rate comfort noise insertion (GSM 06.12)
When switching the transmission on and off during DTX operation, the effect
would be a modulation of the background noise at the receiving end if no
precautions were taken. When transmission is on, the background noise is
transmitted together with the speech to the receiving end. As the speech burst
ends, the connection is off and the perceived noise would drop to a very low
level. This step modulation of noise is perceived as very annoying and may
reduce the intelligibility of speech if presented to a listener without
modification.
This so‑called \"noise contrast effect\" is reduced in the GSM system by
inserting an artificial noise, termed comfort noise, at the receiving end when
speech is absent.
GSM 06.12 [5] deals with the detailed aspects of the comfort noise process:
‑ the evaluation of the acoustic background noise in the transmitter;
‑ the noise parameter encoding (SID frames) and decoding;
‑ and the generation of comfort noise in the receiver.
The algorithm for updating the noise parameters during speech pauses is also
defined.
The comfort noise mechanism is based on the full rate speech codec defined in
GSM 06.10 [3].
# 9 Full rate lost speech frame substitution and muting (GSM 06.11)
In the receiver, frames may be lost due to transmission errors or frame
stealing. GSM 06.11 [4] describes the actions to be taken in these cases, both
for lost speech frames and for lost SID‑frames in DTX operation.
In order to mask the effect of an isolated lost frame, a scheme is used, where
the lost speech frame is substituted by a predicted frame based on previous
frames. Insertion of silence frames is not allowed. For several lost frames in
a row, some muting technique must be used to indicate to the customer that
transmission is interrupted.
# 10 Full Rate codec homing (GSM 06.10, optional feature)
A codec homing procedure has been introduced to the GSM Full Rate speech codec
as an optional feature.
The GSM Full Rate speech transcoder and VAD algorithm (see figure 1) are
defined in bit exact arithmetic. Consequently, they shall react on a given
input sequence always with the corresponding bit exact output sequence,
provided that the internal state variables are also always exactly in the same
state at the beginning of the experiment.
The input test sequences provided in GSM 06.10 [3] shall force the
corresponding output test sequences, provided that the tested modules are in
their home‑state when starting.
The modules may be set into their home states by provoking the appropriate
homing‑functions.
NOTE: This is normally done during reset (initialization of the codec).
Special inband signalling frames (encoder‑homing‑frame and
decoder‑homing‑frame) also described in GSM 06.10 [3] have been defined to
provoke these homing‑functions also in remotely placed modules.
This mechanism is specified to support three main areas:
\- type approval and laboratory test of mobile terminal equipment;
\- type approval and laboratory test of infrastructure equipment;
\- remote control and testing for operation and maintenance.
At the end of the first received homing frame, the audio functions that are
defined in a bit exact way shall be rendered into their predefined home
states. The output corresponding to the first homing frame is dependent on the
codec state when the frame was received. Any consecutive homing frames shall
produce corresponding homing frames at the output.
# 11 Speech transmission functions of the half rate traffic channel
The gross bit rate of the half rate speech traffic channel is 11,4 kbit/s. The
algorithm for the half rate speech transcoder as well as the associated DTX
functions are defined in GSM 06.02 [8], GSM 06.20 [9], GSM 06.21 [10], GSM
06.22 [11], GSM 06.41 [12] and GSM 06.42 [13].
Figure 1: Overview of audio processing functions
#