# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the detailed requirements for the correct operation
of the background acoustic noise evaluation, noise parameter encoding/decoding
and comfort noise generation in GSM Mobile Stations (MS)s and Base Station
Systems (BSS)s during Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) on full rate speech
traffic channels.
The requirements described in the present document are mandatory for
implementation in all GSM MSs. The receiver requirements are mandatory for
implementation in all GSM BSSs, the transmitter requirements only for those
where downlink DTX will be used.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 05.03: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Channel coding\".
[3] GSM 06.10: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
rate speech; Transcoding\".
[4] GSM 06.31: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for full rate speech traffic
channel\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
Definitions and abbreviations used in the present document are listed in GSM
01.04 [1].
The definitions of terms used in this technical specification can be found in
GSM 06.31 [4].
# 4 General
The overall operation of Discontinuous Transmission is described in GSM 06.31
[4].
A basic problem when using DTX is that the background acoustic noise, which is
transmitted together with the speech, would disappear when the radio
transmission is cut, resulting in a modulation of the background noise. Since
the DTX switching can take place rapidly, it has been found that this effect
can be very annoying for the listener - especially in a car environment with
high background noise levels. In bad cases the speech may be hardly
intelligible.
The present document specifies the way to overcome this problem by generating
on the receive side synthetic noise similar to the transmit side background
noise. The parameters of this so called comfort noise are estimated on the
transmit side and transmitted to the receive side before the radio
transmission is cut and at a regular low rate afterwards. This allows the
comfort noise to adapt to the changes of the noise on the transmit side.
# 5 Functions on the transmit side
The comfort noise evaluation algorithm uses the unquantized block amplitude
and Log Area Ratio (LAR) parameters of the full rate speech encoder, defined
in subclauses 4.2.15 and 4.2.6 of GSM 06.10 [3]. These parameters give
information on the level and the spectrum of the background noise,
respectively.
The evaluated comfort noise parameters are encoded into a special frame,
called a SID (Silence Descriptor) frame, for transmission to the receive side.
The SID frame also serves to initiate the comfort noise generation on the
receive side, as a SID frame is always sent at the end of a speech burst, i.e.
before the radio transmission is cut.
The scheduling of SID or speech frames on the radio path is described in GSM
06.31 [4].
## 5.1 Background acoustic noise evaluation
The comfort noise parameters to be encoded into a SID frame are calculated
over N=4 consecutive frames marked with VAD=0, as follows:
The Log Area Ratio parameters shall be averaged according to the equation:
$\text{mean}(\text{LAR}(i)) = \frac{1}{N}\sum_{n =
1}^{N}{\text{LAR}\lbrack j - n\rbrack(i)}$ i = 1,2..8
where LAR[j](i) is the i\'th Log Area Ratio coefficient of the current frame j
and j-n indicates the previous frames.
The block amplitude parameter shall be averaged according to the equation:
where x~max~[j](i) is the block amplitude in sub-segment i of the current
frame. The SID frame containing these averaged parameters is passed to the
Radio Subsystem instead of frame number j.
## 5.2 SID-frame encoding
The SID-frame encoding algorithm exploits the fact that only some of the 260
bits in a frame are needed to code the comfort noise parameters. The other
bits can then be used to mark the SID-frame by means of a fixed bit pattern,
called the SID code word.
The log area ratio coefficients are replaced by the mean (LAR(i)) values
defined above and encoded as described in GSM 06.10 [3].
The block amplitude values are replaced by the mean (x~max~) value defined
above, repeated four times inside the frame and encoded as described in GSM
06.10 [3].
The SID code word consists of 95 bits which are all zero. The bits of the SID
code word are inserted in the SID field defined as the positions of those 95
bits of the encoded RPE-pulses Xmc, which are in the error protection class I
(see GSM 05.03 [2], table 2).
The remaining bits in the SID frame are set to zero. The use of these bits is
for further study.
# 6 Functions on the receive side
The situations in which comfort noise shall be generated on the receive side
are defined in GSM 06.31 [4]. Generally speaking, the comfort noise generation
is started or updated whenever a valid SID frame is received.
## 6.1 Comfort noise generation and updating
The comfort noise generation procedure uses the RPE-LTP speech decoder
algorithm defined in GSM 06.10 [3].
When comfort noise is to be generated, then the various encoded parameters are
set as follows.
The RPE pulses (X~mcr~) are replaced by a locally generated random integer
sequence, uniformly distributed between 1 and 6.
Also the grid position parameters (M~cr~) are set to random integer values,
uniformly distributed between 0 and 3.
The LTP gain values (b~cr~) are set to 0.
The LTP lag values (N~cr~) of the 4 sub-segments are set to 40, 120, 40 and
120 respectively.
The 4 block amplitude values (X~maxcr~) used are those received in the SID
frame.
The log area ratio parameters (LAR~cr~) used are those received in the SID
frame.
With these parameters, the speech decoder now performs the standard operations
described in GSM 06.10 [3] and synthesizes comfort noise.
Updating of the comfort noise parameters occurs each time a valid SID frame is
received, as described in GSM 06.31 [4].
When updating the comfort noise, the parameters above should preferably be
interpolated over a few frames to obtain smooth transitions.
#