# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document describes the general baseband operation of Enhanced Full
Rate speech traffic channels in the transmitter and in the receiver of GSM
Mobile Stations and Base Station Systems during Discontinuous Transmission
(DTX) within the digital cellular telecommunications system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives a description of the general baseband operation of
Enhanced Full Rate speech traffic channels in the transmitter and in the
receiver of GSM Mobile Stations (MS)s and Base Station Systems (BSS)s during
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX).
For clarity, the description is structured according to the block diagrams in
figures 1 and 4. Except in the case described next, this structure of
distributing the various functions between system entities is not mandatory
for implementation, as long as the operation on the air interface and on the
speech decoder output remains the same.
In the case of BSSs where the speech transcoder is located remotely in the
Base Station Controller (BSC), the implementation of the interfaces between
the DTX handlers and the Radio Sub System (RSS) as described in the present
document together with all their flags is mandatory, being part of the A‑bis
interface as described in GSM 08.60 [13].
The DTX functions described in the present document are mandatory for
implementation in the GSM MSs. The receiver requirements are mandatory for
implementation in all GSM BSSs, the transmitter requirements only for those
where downlink DTX will be used.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] GSM 04.08: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Mobile
radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[3] GSM 05.03: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Channel coding\".
[4] GSM 05.05: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
transmission and reception\".
[5] GSM 05.08: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Radio
subsystem link control\".
[6] GSM 06.51: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech processing functions; General description\".
[7] GSM 06.53: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); ANSI‑C
code for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
[8] GSM 06.54: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Test
vectors for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
[9] GSM 06.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech transcoding\".
[10] GSM 06.61: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Substitution and muting of lost frame for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech
traffic channels\".
[11] GSM 06.62: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Comfort noise aspects for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic channels\".
[12] GSM 06.82: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Voice
Activity Detector (VAD) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
channels\".
[13] GSM 08.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Inband control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors for Enhanced Full Rate
(EFR) and full rate traffic channels\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**accepted SID frame:** traffic frame which is flagged with SID=\"1\" or
SID=\"2\" by the Radio Subsystem.
**bad traffic frame:** traffic frame flagged BFI flag =\"1\" (Bad Frame
Indication) by the Radio Subsystem.
**frame:** time interval of 20 msec. corresponding to the time segmentation of
the Enhanced Full Rate speech transcoder (GSM 06.60 [9]), also used as a short
term for a traffic frame.
**good speech frame:** good traffic frame which is not an accepted SID frame.
**good traffic frame:** traffic frame flagged BFI flag =\"0\" by the Radio
Subsystem.
**hangover period:** period of 7 frames added at the end of a speech burst in
which VAD flag =\"0\" and SP flag =\"1\".
**invalid SID frame:** accepted SID frame which was not classified as valid
SID frame. This frame is not valid for updating comfort noise parameters, but
the frame conveys information that comfort noise generations should be started
or continued.
**lost SID frame:** unusable frame received when the RX DTX handler is
generating comfort noise and a SID frame is expected (Time Alignment Flag,
TAF=\"1\").
**lost speech frame:** unusable frame received when the RX DTX handler is
passing on traffic frames directly to the speech decoder.
**SID code word:** fixed bit pattern defined in GSM 06.62 [11], for labelling
a traffic frame as a SID frame.
**SID field:** bit positions defined in GSM 06.62 [11], of the SID codeword
within a SID frame.
**SID frame:** frame characterized by the SID (SIlence Descriptor) code word.
It conveys information on the acoustic background noise.
**SP flag:** boolean flag, generated by the TX DTX handler, indicating the
presence of a speech frame (\"1\") or the presence of a SID frame (\"0\").
**speech frame:** traffic frame that cannot be classified as a SID frame.
**TAF flag:** Time Alignment Flag. Boolean flag, marks with TAF=1 those
traffic frames that are aligned with the SACCH multiframe structure (see GSM
05.08 [5]). The next SID frame is expected at the decoder when TAF=1.
**traffic frame:** block of 244 information bits transmitted on the Enhanced
Full Rate speech traffic channel.
**unusable frame:** bad traffic frame that is not an accepted SID frame.
**VAD flag:** boolean flag, generated by the VAD algorithm defined in GSM
06.82 [12] indicating the presence (\"1\") or the absence (\"0\") of a speech
frame.
**valid SID frame:** good traffic frame flagged with SID=\"2\" by the Radio
Subsystem. This frame is valid for updating of comfort noise parameters at any
time.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbol applies:
Nelapsed Number of elapsed frames since the last updated SID frame.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BFI Bad Frame Indicator
BSC Base Station Controller
BSS Base Station System
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
ETS European Telecommunication Standard
FACCH Fast Associated Control CHannel
GSM Global System for Mobile Telecommunications
MS Mobile Station
RSS Radio Sub System
RX Receive
SACCH Slow Associated Control CHannel
SID SIlence Descriptor
TX Transmit
VAD Voice Activity Detector
For abbreviations not given in this clause, see GSM 01.04 [1].
# 4 General
Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) is a mechanism which allows the radio
transmitter to be switched off most of the time during speech pauses for the
following two purposes:
\- to save power in the Mobile Station (MS);
\- to reduce the overall interference level over the air interface;
DTX shall be in operation in GSM MS if commanded so by the network, see GSM
04.08 [2].
## 4.1 General organization
The overall DTX mechanism described in the present document requires the
following functions:
\- a Voice Activity Detector (VAD) on the transmit (TX) side;
\- evaluation of the background acoustic noise on the transmit (TX) side, in
order to transmit characteristic parameters to the receive (RX) side;
\- generation on the receive (RX) side of a similar noise, called comfort
noise, during periods where the radio transmission is switched off.
The Voice Activity Detector (VAD) is defined in GSM 06.82 [12] and the comfort
noise functions in GSM 06.62 [11]. Both are based partly on the speech
transcoder and its internal variables, defined in GSM 06.60 [9].
In addition to these functions, if the parameters arriving at the RX side are
detected to be seriously corrupted by errors, the speech or comfort noise must
be generated from substituted data in order to avoid seriously annoying
effects for the listener. This function is defined in GSM 06.61 [10].
An overall description of the speech processing parts can be found in GSM
06.51 [6].
# 5 Transmit (TX) side
A block diagram of the transmit side DTX functions is shown in figure 1.
Figure 1: Block diagram of the transmit side DTX functions
## 5.1 General operation
The TX DTX handler continuously passes traffic frames, individually marked by
a flag SP, to the Radio Subsystem (RSS). This binary flag is redundant to the
SID code word labelling. SP flag =\"1\" indicates a speech frame, SP flag
=\"0\" a SID frame.
The scheduling of the frames for transmission on the air interface is
controlled by the radio subsystem (RSS) alone, on the basis of the SP flag as
described in clause 5.1.1.
### 5.1.1 Functions of the TX DTX handler
To allow an exact verification of the TX DTX handler functions, all frames
before the reset of the system are treated as if there were speech frames of
an infinitely long time. Therefore, the first 7 frames after the reset are
always marked with SP flag =\"1\", even if VAD flag =\"0\" (hangover period,
see figure 2).
The Voice Activity Detector (VAD) shall operate all the time in order to
assess whether the input signal contains speech or not. The output is a binary
flag (VAD flag =\"1\" or VAD flag =\"0\", respectively) on a frame by frame
basis (see GSM 06.82 [12]).
The VAD flag controls indirectly, via the TX DTX handler operations described
below, the overall DTX operation on the transmit side.
Whenever VAD flag =\"1\", the speech encoder output frame shall be passed
directly to the radio subsystem (RSS), marked with SP flag =\"1\".
At the end of a speech burst (transition VAD flag =\"1\" to VAD flag =\"0\"),
it takes 8 consecutive frames to make a new updated SID frame available (see
GSM 06.62 [11]). Normally, the first 7 speech encoder output frames after the
end of the speech burst shall therefore be passed directly to the radio
subsystem, marked with SP flag =\"1\" (\"hangover period\"). The first new SID
frame is then passed to the RSS as frame 8 after the end of the speech burst,
marked with SP flag =\"0\" (see figure 2).
(N~elapsed~: No. of elapsed frames since last update SID).
Figure 2: Normal hangover procedure (Nelapsed > 23)
If, however, at the end of the speech burst, less than 24 frames have elapsed
since the last SID frame was computed and passed to the RSS, then this last
SID frame shall repeatedly be passed to the RSS, until a new updated SID frame
is available (8 consecutive frames marked with VAD flag =\"0\").This reduces
the activity on the air in cases where short background noise spikes are taken
for speech, by avoiding the \"hangover\" waiting for the SID frame computation
(see figure 3).
NOTE: Figure 3 shows as example the longest possible speech burst without
hangover.
Figure 3: Handling of short speech bursts (Nelapsed \< 24) (Example)
Once the first SID frame after the end of a speech burst has been computed and
passed to the Radio Subsystem, the TX DTX handler shall continuously compute
and pass updated SID frames to the Radio Subsystem (RSS), marked with SP flag
=\"0\" as long as VAD flag =\"0\".
Following a handover, the DTX hangover period shall be initiated in the MS
speech encoder to synchronize the encoder and decoder DTX states. This will
allow a decoder which is reset at handover to synthesize comfort noise with
the correct noise level using the first received SID frame following the
handover.
The speech encoder is operated in full speech modality if SP flag =\"1\" and
in a simplified mode if SP flag =\"0\", because not all encoder functions are
required for the evaluation of comfort noise parameters.
### 5.1.2 Functions of the TX Radio Subsystem
The following traffic frames shall be scheduled for transmission:
\- all frames marked with SP flag =\"1\";
\- the first one with SP flag =\"0\" after one or more frames with SP flag
=\"1\";
\- those marked with SP=0 and aligned with the SACCH multiframe structure as
described in GSM 05.08 [5].
This has the overall function, that the radio transmission is cut after the
transmission of a SID frame when the speaker stops talking. During speech
pauses the transmission is resumed at regular intervals for transmission of
one SID frame, in order to update the generated comfort noise on the RX side
(and to improve the measurement of the link quality by the RSS).
If a SID frame (SP flag =\"0\"), scheduled for transmission is stolen for Fast
Associated Control Channel (FACCH) signalling purposes, then the subsequent
frame shall be scheduled for transmission instead.
# 6 Receive (RX) side
A block diagram of the receive side DTX functions is shown in figure 4.
Figure 4: Block diagram of the receive side DTX functions
## 6.1 General operation
Whatever their context (speech, SID, FACCH or none), the RSS continuously
passes the received traffic frames to the RX DTX handler, individually marked
by various pre‑processing functions with 3 flags. These are the Bad Frame
Indicator (BFI) flag, the Silence Descriptor (SID) flag and the Time Alignment
Flag (TAF) described in clause 6.1.1 and table 1, which serve to classify the
traffic frame according to the list of terms defined in clause 3.1. This
classification, summarized in table 1, allows the RX DTX handler to determine
in a simple way how the received frame is to be handled.
Table 1: Classification of traffic frames
* * *
        SID
BFI 2 1 0 0 Valid SID frame Good speech frame 1 Invalid SID frame Unusable
frame
* * *
### 6.1.1 Functions of the RX radio subsystem
The binary BFI flag (see GSM 05.05 [4]) indicates whether the traffic frame is
considered to contain meaningful information bits (BFI flag =\"0\") or not
(BFI flag =\"1\"). In the context of the present document, a FACCH frame is
considered not to contain meaningful bits and shall be marked with BFI flag
=\"1\". The BFI flag must fulfil the performance requirements of GSM 05.05
[4].
The SID frame detector compares bit by bit the relevant bits of the received
traffic frame (the SID field) with the SID code word defined in GSM 06.62 [11]
and gives back the ternary SID flag. The SID flag is coded as follows, where
_n_ designates the number of bit deviations:
SID = 2 when _n_ \< 2
SID = 1 when 2 ≤ _n_ \< 16
SID = 0 when _n_ ≥ 16
The binary TAF flag marks with TAF=\"1\" those traffic frames that are aligned
with the SACCH multiframe structure as described in GSM 05.08 [5].
### 6.1.2 Functions of the RX DTX handler
The RX DTX handler is responsible for the overall DTX operation on the RX
side.
The DTX operation on the RX side shall be as follows:
\- whenever a good speech frame is detected, the DTX handler shall pass it
directly on to the speech decoder;
\- when lost speech or lost SID frames are detected, the substitution and
muting procedure defined in GSM 06.61 [10] shall be applied;
\- valid SID frames shall result in comfort noise generation, as defined in
GSM 06.62 [11], until the next SID frame is expected (TAF =\"1\") or good
speech frames are detected. During this period, the RX DTX handler shall
ignore any unusable frames delivered by the RSS;
\- an invalid SID frame shall be substituted by the last valid SID frame and
the procedure for valid SID frames be applied.
#