# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document reports the subjective testing results concerning the
performance of the GSM Half, Full, and Enhanced Full Rate speech codecs
(including the estimated advantages obtainable by using Tandem Free Operation)
for the simulated digital cellular telecommunications system. The experimental
conditions adopted for this set of tests reflected, as much as possible,
\"realistic\" mobile-to-mobile connections. The present document will be part
of GSM specification series covering the half rate, full rate, and enhanced
full rate speech traffic channels (and TFO).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the results obtained from an internationally co-
ordinated subjective evaluation conducted by four laboratories to estimate the
performance in mobile-to-mobile connections of the GSM half, full, and
enhanced full rate speech codecs (including the expected advantages of the
Tandem Free Operation), in case of inter-operability in the digital cellular
telecommunications system. These (listening-only) tests did not include the
effects of Voice Activity Detector, Comfort Noise Insertion and the
Discontinuous Transmission.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
```{=html}
``` \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case
of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Abbreviations and acronyms\".
>
> [2] GSM 06.01: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
> rate speech; Processing functions\".
>
> [3] GSM 06.10: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
> rate speech; Transcoding\".
>
> [4] GSM 06.11: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
> rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frames for full rate speech
> channels\".
>
> [5] GSM 06.12: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
> rate speech; Comfort noise aspect for full rate speech traffic channels\".
>
> [6] GSM 06.31: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Full
> rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for full rate speech traffic
> channels\".
>
> [7] GSM 06.32: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Voice Activity Detector (VAD)\".
>
> [8] GSM 06.02: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
> rate speech; Half rate speech processing functions\".
>
> [9] GSM 06.06: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); Half
> rate speech; ANSI‑C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
>
> [10] GSM 06.07: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Half rate speech; Test sequences for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
>
> [11] GSM 06.08: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Half rate speech; Performance Characterization of the GSM half rate speech
> codec\".
>
> [12] GSM 06.20: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Half rate speech; Half rate speech transcoding\".
>
> [13] GSM 06.21: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Half rate speech; Substitution and muting of lost frame for half rate speech
> traffic channels\".
>
> [14] GSM 06.22: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Half rate speech; Comfort noise aspects for half rate speech traffic
> channels\".
>
> [15] GSM 06.41: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Half rate speech; Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for half rate speech
> traffic channels\".
>
> [16] GSM 06.42: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Half rate speech; Voice Activity Detector (VAD) for half rate speech traffic
> channels\".
>
> [17] GSM 06.51: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech coding functions; General description\".
>
> [18] GSM 06.53: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> ANSI-C code for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
>
> [19] GSM 06.54: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Test sequences for the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech codec\".
>
> [20] GSM 06.55: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Performance Characterization of the GSM Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech
> codec\".
>
> [21] GSM 06.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech transcoding\".
>
> [22] GSM 06.61: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Substitution and muting of lost frames for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech
> traffic channels\".
>
> [23] GSM 06.62: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Comfort noise aspects for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
> channels\".
>
> [24] GSM 06.81: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
> channels\".
>
> [25] GSM 06.82: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
> Voice Activity Detection (VAD) for Enhanced Full Rate (EFR) speech traffic
> channels\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Definition of terms used in the present document can be found in GSM 06
Series.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purpose of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
BFH Bad Frame Handling
BFI Bad Frame Indicator
CCITT Comité Consultatif du Téléphone et du Télégraphe
CODEC enCOder + DECoder
DL Down-Link
DT Deutsch Telekom
EFR Enhanced Full Rate
EID Error Insertion Device
EP Error Pattern
ETS European Telecommunication Standard
ETSI European Telecommunication Standardization Institute
FR Full Rate
FTP File Transfer Protocol
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
HR Half-Rate
IRS Intermediate Reference System
ITU International telecommunication Union
LAN Local Area Network
M-IRS Modified Intermediate Reference System
PCM Pulse Coded Modulation
MNRU Modulated Noise reference Unit
SEG Speech Expert Group
SMG Special Mobile Group
STL Software Tool Library
TFO Tandem Free Operation
TR Technical Report
UFI Unreliable Frame Indicator
UIT Union Internationale des Télécommunications
UL Up-Link
For abbreviations not given in this subclause, see GSM 01.04 (ETR 350) [1].
# 4 General
Clause 5 describes the testing methodologies adopted for the internationally
co-ordinated subjective evaluation of the interoperability HR-FR-EFR.
Clause 6 describes the tools and procedures used by the host laboratory to
produce the processed speech material (speech was added with environmental
noise, when requested by the experimental design).
Clause 7 describes the results obtained from the set of tests carried out by
four laboratories.
Clause 8 describes the conclusions that can be drawn from the analysis of all
data that were produced over the two main phases of testing.
# 5 Testing methodology
A series of internationally co-ordinated subjective listening experiments were
carried out in four different laboratories. These experiments were designed to
investigate the performance issues surrounding interoperability across the
three GSM standards; Full Rate, Half Rate, and Enhanced Full Rate GSM. The
purpose of the experiments was to determine the:
1) quality under error conditions for single encodings, providing a baseline
when considering the results for tandemed connections;
2) quality under tandem conditions, where all possible tandemings of the three
GSM standards are characterised under a range of channel errors;
3) quality with far end background noise, where both single encodings and all
possible combinations of the three GSM standards are characterised under a
range of channel errors;
4) quality enhancements through the use of the TFO scheme;
5) differences in perceived quality between the input frequency responses
\"flat\" and \"complying with ITU-T Modified IRS definition\".
To investigate these aspects, the testing was split into two phases:
\- phase 1 investigated all the possible tandem connections between the three
GSM standards in environments free of background noise. Also, the potential
quality benefits resulting from tandem-free operation were investigated, as
well as the effects of input frequency response;
\- phase 2 investigated all the possible tandem connections with the far end
was immersed in noisy environment. The noisy environments used were street
noise (with a 15 dB Signal to Noise Ratio) and vehicular noise (with a 10 dB
Signal to Noise Ratio). Only the Modified IRS input frequency characteristic
was used.
In both these phases, all of the investigations spanned the range of channel
error conditions; no errors, EP1, and EP2 (corresponding to C/I = 10 dB and 7
dB, respectively, with ideal Frequency Hopping). Both phases also checked the
performance of each of the three GSM standards as a single encoding (i.e. no
tandeming).
MNRU reference conditions were included in all experiments. These serve two
main purposes. The first is to ensure that a suitable range of qualities is
presented to the subjects; not doing so can lead to unusual results. The
second is to provide a calibration of the judgement scale, which allows for
the possibility of comparing results across experiments and laboratories.
Previous Technical Reports on GSM standards (GSM 06.08 and 06.55) used an
input level to the speech codec of ‑16 dBm0 (22 dB OVL). However, in light of
the recent availability of updated average distributions of speech levels in
fixed networks throughout the world (source ITU-T Rec. G.117), a new nominal
level of -20 dBm0 (-26 dB OVL) was used in the investigations reported here.
The use of this figure, sourced from information drawn from the fixed network
was selected in the absence of any reliable statistics on the levels found in
mobile networks. It should also be noted that no reliable information is
available on the responses of microphones adopted for use in mobile terminals.
It was for this reason that the Modified IRS response (again sourced from
information on the fixed network) was used in the majority of these
experiments.
The remainder of this clause will discuss the two phases of experimentation.
## 5.1 Phase 1: Investigation under conditions free of environmental noise
Phase one was designed to characterise GSM performance in noise free
environments in order to provide information on the optimum performance
figures likely to be obtained across the three different standards. Single
encodings as well as tandemed connections between the available GSM standards,
both with and without the use of the TFO scheme were investigated. The
methodology used the ACR (Absolute Category Rating) method based on a 5-point
rating scale, as given in ITU-T Recommendation P.800. To ensure that the
maximum amount of information could be extracted from the experiment, the
following precautions were taken in the experiment design:
\- to ensure that all the subjects started the experiments with similar levels
of expectation, a standard set of instructions was given to each subject, and
they were all given the same set of practice trials at the start of the
experiment. These practice trials covered a range of conditions representative
of the qualities in the main body of the experiment. The scores from the
practice trials are recorded, but are not used in any further analysis, and
hence are not reported on in the present document;
\- it is known, particularly in ACR tests, that the order in which the test
material is presented to the subjects can have an effect on the results due to
carry-over effects. Three different presentation orders were therefore used to
minimise this;
\- subjects can experience fatigue if listening sessions are too long, leading
to an increase in the inherent variability of the results. The phase 1 tests,
required subjects to spend approximately one hour in the experiment. For the
reasons given, this was split into three sessions, each of approximately 20
minutes separated by short breaks.
The results from this phase are discussed in subclauses 7.1 (single encoding),
7.2 (tandem operation), 7.4 (TFO enhancements), and 7.5 (input frequency
response).
## 5.2 Phase 2: Investigation under conditions with far end environmental
noise
Phase two was designed to evaluate the GSM algorithms with regard to
transmission quality in the presence of far end background noise. Two types of
noise were investigated, street noise at a signal to noise ratio of 15 dB and
vehicle noise at a signal to noise ratio of 10 dB. The phase was split into
two experiments, each of which investigated one of the noise types. Other than
this difference, these experiments were identical in design. The methodology
used the DCR (Degradation Category Rating) method, where the opinions given by
subjects are a measure of the perceived difference between a quality reference
and a degraded sample. To ensure that the maximum amount of information could
be extracted from the experiment, the following precautions were taken in the
experiment design:
\- when investigating far end background noise, the effects of the noise
itself can dominate the results to such an extent that the influence of the
factors of interest are hidden. The Degradation Category Rating method was
selected to minimise this, as was the decision to place each of the two
different types of noise in separate experiments;
\- to ensure that all the subjects started the experiments with similar levels
of expectation, a standard set of instructions was given to each subject, and
they were all given the same set of practice trials at the start of the
experiment. These practice trials covered a range of conditions representative
of the qualities in the main body of the experiment. The scores from the
practice trials are recorded, but are not used in any further analysis, and
hence are not reported on in the present document;
\- three different presentation orders were used to minimise the possibility
of carry-over effects;
\- subjects can experience fatigue if listening sessions are too long, leading
to an increase in the inherent variability of the results. The phase 2 tests,
required subjects to spend approximately one hour 15 minutes in the
experiment. For the reasons given, this was split into four sessions, each of
just over 20 minutes separated by short breaks.
The results from this phase are discussed in subclause 7.3.
# 6 Test set-up
**Overview of the Host Lab Simulation Tool**
In this section the different software components that are used by the Host
Lab simulation. We present also the way they are used by the simulator.
**The software components**
**The UIT-T STL96**
In 1990 a group was set up within the CCITT to develop common software tools
to help the development of speech coding standards. The first formal release
of the library was the STL92. Matra Communication had used \"IUT-T Software
Tool Library Manual,\" ITU-T Users\' Group on Software Tools, Geneva, May
1996, to develop the Software Tool used for the optimization of the Half Rate
GSM codec.
It includes many different tools but more precisely all the tools needed to
properly condition speech signals. It was mainly used for pre-processing and
post-processing. However it was also used for A-Law PCM and MNRU.
**The Speech codecs**
The three speech codecs were simulated using 16-bit fixed point libraries that
are part of the codecs\' source code.
The test vectors of the three GSM speech codecs were successfully processed by
their respective codecs.
**[The Full Rate GSM]{.underline}**
The Full-Rate GSM simulation used (ETSI GSM Recommendation 06.10, \"GSM full-
rate speech transcoding\") has been developed in Matra\'s Speech Processing
Department. It was found easier to use this version rather than the one which
is provided in STL96. Bad Frame Handling was included in the channel decoder
function delivered by Nokia.
**[The Half-Rate GSM]{.underline}**
The Half-Rate simulation used is based on that described in ETSI GSM
Recommendation 06.20, \"GSM half-rate speech transcoding\". It was checked
that it corresponds to the latest version available on the ETSI ftp server.
The Bad Frame Handling simulation was that provided in ETSI GSM Recommendation
06.06, \"ANSI-C code for the GSM half rate speech codec\".
**[The Enhanced Full Rate GSM]{.underline}**
The Enhanced Full Rate (ETSI GSM Recommendation 06.60, \"GSM enhanced full-
rate speech transcoding\") simulation was based on versions 5.0 and 5.1 of
ETSI GSM Recommendation 06.53, , \"ANSI-C code for the GSM enhanced full rate
codec\"). Version 5.0 was upgraded taking into account the changes brought by
version 5.1, i.e. initialization in the pulse search and modification of the
basic operators. The pre-channel coding and the post-channel decoding of
version 5.0 were kept.
**[The G.711 PCM codec]{.underline}**
A-Law PCM coding was performed using the functions provided in the STL96
[\"IUT-T Software Tool Library Manual,\" ITU-T Users\' Group on Software
Tools, Geneva, May 1996].
**The Channel codecs**
**[The Full Rate GSM]{.underline}**
It was agreed that the channel codec and above all the error Concealment would
have to be \"state-of-the-art\" as it had already been done for the pre-
qualification test of the EFR. In consequence it was asked to Nokia if they
could, as they had already done for the pre-qualification tests, deliver such
a simulation to the Host Lab.
An NDA was signed between Nokia and Matra Communication to enable the use of
these functions. Since Sun workstation are used in both companies, it was
decided to exchange object code compiled for such systems.
**[The Half Rate GSM]{.underline}**
An NDA was signed between Motorola and Matra Communication in order to use the
Channel codec simulation that has already been used during the complexity
estimation and the Optimization of the Half Rate GSM.
The interfaces were updated with the help of Eric Winter of Motorola.
**[The Enhanced full Rate GSM]{.underline}**
Matra Communication received together with the source code of the EFR v1.4
speech codec the source code of the channel codec. This was the one that has
been used so far to measure the performances of the EFR codec in error
conditions.
Therefore it was decided to use it in the Host Lab simulation.
**The Modulated Noise Reference Unit (MNRU)**
The so-called \"Duo-MNRU\" [11] [12] tool of STL96 was included in the Host
LAB simulation.
## 6.1 Host Lab processing for the evaluation of HR-FR-EFR interoperability
(phase 1)
The processing carried out by Matra Communication under contract of the ETSI
were made using a Host Lab simulator. This section contains the description of
the Host Lab simulator.
**Modified IRS filtering procedure**
The first problem in phase 1A was due to a wrong interpretation of the test
plan by the Host Lab. The « HQN » key word of the command line was wrongly
interpreted as \"the spectral characteristic must be flat\".
We replace the « HQN » key word by « MIRS » in the test plan file and we
created a pre‑processing procedure to filter and adjust the level of the
speech material. This procedure is based on the function available in the
STL96. Figure 1 shows the scheme of this pre-processing.
Figure 1: Scheme of the pre-processing procedure: M-IRS filtering and level
adjustment
## 6.2 Error concealment for TCH/FS
The second problem in phase 1A concerns the Error Concealment function
included in the TCH ‑ FS Channel Codec Libraries. During phase 1A this
function has been implicitly switched off by the provider. As decided during
the SEG #8 meeting the provider sent to Matra a correct version of the
libraries. This version works correctly for all the possible channel
simulations (with or without noise insertion). In the demo tape delivered by
Matra (cf. SMG11 Tdoc 18/96) we provided some examples of sentences in EP1 and
EP2 conditions obtained by using the old and the new versions of these
libraries.
## 6.3 Control of codec simulation
All the codecs used in this simulation have been tested using the test vectors
defined in the GSM recommendations. When the Host Lab simulator is used in the
« test mode » the pre‑processing, post‑processing and channel coding procedure
are bypassed as illustrated by figure 2. No errors have been observed in the
output file.
Figure 2: Scheme of the testing procedure using the test vectors
## 6.4 Pre-processing and post-processing procedure
Figure 3 and figure 4 show the frequency response of the M-IRS filtering
module and the frequency response for the pre and post processing. The
behaviours of these frequency responses are closed to the frequency responses
presented in the STL96 documents.
{width="3.7944444444444443in" height="2.811111111111111in"}
Figure 3: Frequency response of the M-IRS filtering module
{width="3.9659722222222222in" height="2.9194444444444443in"}
Figure 4: Frequency response of the global simulator filtering modules
## 6.5 Conclusion of Phase 1
All the accessible components of the Host Lab simulator have been tested by
Matra. No particular problem was observed during this phase of test.
## 6.6 Host Lab processing for the evaluation of HR-FR-EFR interoperability
(phase 2)
The phase 2 of interoperability test have been carried out to evaluate the
performances of GSM speech codecs in environmental noise conditions. The
present document describes the noise mixing procedure used to produce the
speech material.
**Noise mixing process**
The original speech material used during phase 1 of test has been the starting
point to produce the input databases for phase 2. The procedure used to
produce these samples is the following (cf. figure 6). First of all the
sources (speech and noise) are filtered using the FIR version of Modified IRS
filter (M-IRS). Then they are gain‑scaled to obtain a -30 dBOv level for
speech samples and the (‑30‑SNR) dBOv level for noise source. The value of SNR
is dependent on the noise characteristic: this value is fixed to 15 dB for
street noise and 10 dB for car noise.
Figure 6: Noise and speech mixing procedure
The gain scaling values are obtained using the STL\'96 speech voltmeter for
the speech samples (according with ITU-T Recommendation. P.56) and using RMS
measure for noise files.
The files filtered and scaled are then mixed by summing the samples. An
automatic control of overload is performed during the mixing procedure. If a
saturation occurred an expert listener checked if the quality of the speech +
noise sample is acceptable. If the clipping effect was annoying the level of
the speech after the M-IRS filter was down‑scaled in a maximum range of 1 dB
and the mixing procedure is restarted. During the mixing procedure any
saturation has been observed.
## 6.7 Processing
The data-bases obtained by the noise mixing procedure are processed according
to the test using the Host-Lab simulator.
## 6.8 Conclusion of Phase 2
During phase 2, test have been performed without any problem. Quality of
processed speech has been checked by MATRA speech expert. The processed files
were sent to the listening test laboratories in January 1997, according to the
time schedule defined during the first SMG11 meeting.
# 7 Summary of results
The test results obtained from the subjective evaluation of the
interoperability HR-FR-EFR, considering the different combinations of the
three GSM standards, and also the so called TFO (Tandem-Free or Transcoding-
Free Operation), are summarised in the following sub-clauses.
## 7.1 Quality under error conditions
Statistical analysis and significance tests (at 95 % confidence level) on the
full set of raw data were performed in terms of Mean Opinion Scores (MOS) and
confidence intervals (C. I.), that were calculated to interpret the
statistical significance of differences between the given scores.
An analysis of variance (using the General Linear Model) of all opinion scores
was carried out to show which factors under test (laboratories, talkers, order
of presentation, experimental conditions, and listeners) did account for the
subjective judgements. The analysis showed that all factors were significant;
anyway, the \'common behaviour\' showed by all the individual results,
justified the decision of amalgamating the data coming from the different
laboratories.
A statistical method based on a simple Tukey\'s Honestly Significant
Difference (HSD) procedure, by utilising the measure MSE obtained from the
analysis of variance**,** at the 95% confidence level, was used to accept or
reject the hypothesis that the average score obtained by a certain condition
was \"significantly\" (in statistical sense) worse than another one.
The number of votes cast by each listener was: 4 (talkers) x 48 (conditions) =
**192**. There were 24 listeners (e.g. 12 male and 12 female) per experiment,
organized in a number of sub-groups, e.g. 3 sub-groups made up of 8 persons
each, each sub-group of listeners hearing the sequence in a different order.
The number of votes per condition was: 4 (talkers) x 4 (languages/countries) x
24 (subjects) = **384**.
A primary elaboration of data was performed for the individual raw data,
averaging Male and Female talkers (see Annex C for Tables of experimental
results).
The following figure was obtained for the \"reference conditions\" inserted in
the tests, i.e. the MNRU (Modulated Noise Reference Unit) and the \"Direct\"
signal. The figure correlates Mean Opinion Scores (MOS, Yq) with Equivalent Q
(dB) values, and is usually considered the \"transfer curve\" to convert data
coming from different countries, i.e. taking into account cultural, or
language, or other differences among laboratories conducting the \"same\"
subjective test.
The effect of errors on the three algorithms, HR FR, EFR, in single encoding
and for quiet conditions is depicted in the following figure.
Single encoding
## 7.2 Quality under tandeming conditions
Tandeming conditions were tested in EP0, EP1 and EP2 error conditions (see
Annex C for tables of results). The following figures clearly indicate the
performance of HR, FR, and EFR when interworking with each of the other
standards (i.e. the combinations of codecs in the figures should be read:
Coder in the Legenda is tandemed with codec in the abscissa). The following
figures were obtained from the experiments that adopted the Modified IRS input
frequency characteristics.
EP0 Tandem
EP1 Tandem
EP2 Tandem
The following figures were obtained from the experiments adopting the flat
input frequency characteristics.
{width="3.8756944444444446in" height="2.0in"}
{width="3.7625in" height="1.8055555555555556in"}
{width="3.7625in" height="1.8055555555555556in"}
## 7.3 Quality with far end background noise
Any of the listening laboratories had to report their results from Exp#1 or
Exp#2 in a way that the effects of environmental noise, error pattern and
transcoding of the different standards are documented as DMOS values with
their confidence interval (two-tailed t-distribution with a=0,05).
An individual analysis of data was conducted by each participant laboratory
(see Bibliography). Tables of \"averaged\" results are given in DMOS, and
confidence intervals. An analysis of variance revealed that conditions,
talkers and groups of listeners were highly significant factors (p\ HR 3.15 0.10 2 EP0 HR -> FR
3.03 0.08 3 EP0 HR - > EFR 3.72 0.08 4 EP0 FR -> HR 3.18 0.08 5 EP0 FR -> FR
3.13 0.08 6 EP0 FR - > EFR 3.79 0.08 7 EP0 EFR -> HR 3.72 0.08 8 EP0 EFR -> FR
3.60 0.09 9 EP0 EFR - > EFR 4.29 0.08 10 EP1 HR -> HR 2.77 0.09 11 EP1 HR ->
FR 2.59 0.08 12 EP1 HR - > EFR 3.17 0.09 13 EP1 FR -> HR 2.82 0.09 14 EP1 FR
-> FR 2.64 0.09 15 EP1 FR - > EFR 3.03 0.09 16 EP1 EFR -> HR 3.22 0.09 17 EP1
EFR -> FR 2.89 0.08 18 EP1 EFR - > EFR 3.45 0.09 19 EP2 HR -> HR 2.24 0.09 20
EP2 HR -> FR 1.85 0.08 21 EP2 HR - > EFR 2.15 0.09 22 EP2 FR -> HR 2.07 0.08
23 EP2 FR -> FR 1.68 0.08 24 EP2 FR - > EFR 2.15 0.09 25 EP2 EFR -> HR 2.34
0.09
(continued)
* * *
Phase 1 of testing (concluded): experimental conditions and results.
* * *
Condition Error Pattern Codec / Reference M.O.S Confidence Interval 26 EP2 EFR
-> FR 2.13 0.09 27 EP2 EFR - > EFR 2.38 0.09 28 EP1 HR -> HR TFO 3.46 0.09 29
EP1 FR -> FR TFO 3.10 0.08 30 EP1 EFR -> EFR TFO 3.87 0.08 31 EP2 HR -> HR TFO
2.55 0.10 32 EP2 FR -> FR TFO 2.03 0.09 33 EP2 EFR -> EFR TFO 2.71 0.10 34 EP0
HR 3.85 0.08 35 EP0 FR 3.71 0.08 36 EP0 EFR 4.43 0.07 37 EP1 HR 3.68 0.08 38
EP1 FR 3.41 0.08 39 EP1 EFR 4.12 0.07 40 EP2 HR 3.30 0.09 41 EP2 FR 2.73 0.09
42 EP2 EFR 3.53 0.09 43 MNRU = 6 dB 1.26 0.06 44 MNRU = 12 dB 1.93 0.08 45
MNRU = 18 dB 3.03 0.08 46 MNRU = 24 dB 3.94 0.08 47 MNRU = 30 dB 4.35 0.07 48
Direct 4.61 0.06
* * *
Analysis of Variance
General Linear Models Procedure
Number of observations in data set = 18432
Dependent Variable: SCORE
* * *
Source DF Sum of Squares Mean Square F Value Pr > F Model 76 12655.81 166.52
261.80 0.0001 Error 18355 11674.99 0.63  
Corrected Total 18431 24330.81
* * *
* * *
R-Square C.V. Root MSE SCORE Mean 0.52 26.08 0.80 3.06
* * *
* * *
Source DF Type I SS Mean Square F Value Pr > F LAB 3 310.00 103.33 162.46
0.0001 COND 47 11153.85 237.31 373.10 0.0001 TALKER 3 352.45 117.48 184.70
0.0001 GROUP 2 82.13 41.06 64.56 0.0001 LISTENER (GROUP) 21 757.38 36.07 56.70
0.0001
* * *
General Linear Models Procedure
Tukey\'s Studentized Range (HSD) Test for variable: SCORE
NOTE: This test controls the type I experimentwise error rate, but generally
has a higher type II error rate than REGWQ.
Alpha= 0,05 df= 18355 MSE= 0.636
Critical Value of Studentized Range = 5.62
Minimum Significant Difference = 0.2287
Means with the same letter are not significantly different.
+----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | Tukey Grouping | Mean | Condition | Condition | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | No. | Description | | | | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | | | A | | 4.61 | 48 | Direct | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | B | | A | | 4.43 | 36 | EP0 EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | B | | | | 4.35 | 47 | MNRU = 30 dB | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | B | | C | | 4.29 | 9 | EP0 EFR-EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | D | | C | | 4.12 | 39 | EP1 EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | D | | E | | 3.94 | 46 | MNRU = 24 dB | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | F | | E | | 3.87 | 30 | EP1 EFR-EFR TFO | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | F | | E | | 3.85 | 34 | EP0 HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | | | | | | | | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | (continued) | | | | | | | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+
+----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | Tukey Grouping | Mean | Condition | Condition | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | No. | Description | | | | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | F | | E | G | 3.79 | 6 | EP0 FR-EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | F | H | E | G | 3.72 | 7 | EP0 EFR-HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | F | H | E | G | 3.72 | 3 | EP0 HR-EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | F | H | | G | 3.71 | 35 | EP0 FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | F | H | | G | 3.68 | 37 | EP1 HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | | H | I | G | 3.60 | 8 | EP0 EFR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | | H | I | | 3.53 | 42 | EP2 EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | J | | I | | 3.46 | 28 | EP1 HR-HR TFO | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | J | | I | K | 3.45 | 18 | EP1 EFR-EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | J | | I | K | 3.41 | 38 | EP1 FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | J | | L | K | 3.30 | 40 | EP2 HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | M | | L | K | 3.22 | 16 | EP1 EFR-HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | M | | L | | 3.18 | 4 | EP0 FR-HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | M | | L | | 3.17 | 12 | EP1 HR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | M | | L | | 3.15 | 1 | EP0 HR-HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | M | | L | | 3.13 | 5 | EP0 FR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | M | | L | N | 3.10 | 29 | EP1 FR-FR TFO | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | M | | O | N | 3.03 | 45 | MNRU = 18 dB | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | M | | O | N | 3.03 | 15 | EP1 FR-EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | M | | O | N | 3.03 | 2 | EP0 HR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | P | | O | N | 2.89 | 17 | EP1 EFR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | P | | O | Q | 2.82 | 13 | EP1 FR-HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | P | | R | Q | 2.77 | 10 | EP1 HR-HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | P | | R | Q | 2.73 | 41 | EP2 FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | P | | R | Q | 2.71 | 33 | EP2 EFR-EFR TFO | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | | | R | Q | 2.64 | 14 | EP1 FR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | S | | R | | 2.59 | 11 | EP1 HR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | S | | R | T | 2.55 | 31 | EP2 HR-HR TFO | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | | | | | | | | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+ | (continued) | | | | | | | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+-----------------+
(concluded)
+----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | Tukey Grouping | Mean | Condition | Condition | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | No. | Description | | | | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | S | | U | T | 2.38 | 27 | EP2 EFR-EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | V | | U | T | 2.34 | 25 | EP2 EFR-HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | V | | U | W | 2.24 | 19 | EP2 HR-HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | V | X | U | W | 2.15 | 24 | EP2 FR-EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | V | X | | W | 2.15 | 21 | EP2 HR-EFR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | V | X | | W | 2.13 | 26 | EP2 EFR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | | X | Y | W | 2.07 | 22 | EP2 FR-HR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | | X | Y | W | 2.03 | 32 | EP2 FR-FR TFO | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | | X | Y | | 1.93 | 44 | MNRU = 12 dB | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | Z | | Y | | 1.85 | 20 | EP2 HR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | Z | | | | 1.69 | 23 | EP2 FR-FR | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+ | | | A | | 1.26 | 43 | MNRU = 6 dB | +----------------+------+-----------+-------------+------+----+---------------+
###### ### Annex D: Phase 2: Tables of experimental results
HR-FR-EFR Interoperability Phase 2 of testing: Exp. 1 & 2 average results.
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | N | Expe | Street | (CNET & | Vehicle | CSELT & | | | rimental | Noise | Nortel) | Noise | De | | | c | | | | TeBerkom | | | ondition | SNR = 15 | | SNR = 10 | | | | | dB | | dB | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | **DMOS** | **C.I.** | **DMOS** | **C.I.** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | HR>HR_ | 2.55 | 0.15 | 2.38 | 0.14 | | | EP0_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 2 | HR>FR_ | 3.21 | 0.14 | 3.07 | 0.13 | | | EP0_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 3 | H | 3.07 | 0.15 | 3.03 | 0.14 | | | R>EFR_ | | | | | | | EP0_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 4 | FR>HR_ | 3.03 | 0.14 | 2.95 | 0.14 | | | EP0_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 5 | FR>FR_ | 3.52 | 0.13 | 3.34 | 0.14 | | | EP0_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 6 | F | 3.76 | 0.14 | 3.63 | 0.15 | | | R>EFR_ | | | | | | | EP0_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 | E | 3.33 | 0.16 | 3.14 | 0.15 | | | FR>HR_ | | | | | | | EP0_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8 | E | 3.78 | 0.14 | 3.69 | 0.14 | | | FR>FR_ | | | | | | | EP0_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9 | EF | 3.85 | 0.14 | 3.87 | 0.14 | | | R>EFR_ | | | | | | | EP0_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 10 | HR>HR_ | 2.21 | 0.14 | 2.12 | 0.14 | | | EP1_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 11 | HR>FR_ | 2.60 | 0.14 | 2.69 | 0.15 | | | EP1_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 12 | H | 2.70 | 0.15 | 2.71 | 0.15 | | | R>EFR_ | | | | | | | EP1_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 13 | FR>HR_ | 2.57 | 0.15 | 2.53 | 0.15 | | | EP1_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 14 | FR>FR_ | 2.96 | 0.15 | 2.82 | 0.14 | | | EP1_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 15 | F | 2.95 | 0.14 | 2.91 | 0.15 | | | R>EFR_ | | | | | | | EP1_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 16 | E | 2.76 | 0.15 | 2.64 | 0.14 | | | FR>HR_ | | | | | | | EP1_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 17 | E | 2.98 | 0.15 | 3.00 | 0.14 | | | FR>FR_ | | | | | | | EP1_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 18 | EF | 2.85 | 0.15 | 3.19 | 0.14 | | | R>EFR_ | | | | | | | EP1_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 19 | HR>HR_ | 1.83 | 0.14 | 1.76 | 0.14 | | | EP2_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 20 | HR>FR_ | 2.04 | 0.15 | 2.07 | 0.16 | | | EP2_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 21 | H | 1.93 | 0.14 | 1.93 | 0.15 | | | R>EFR_ | | | | | | | EP2_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 22 | FR>HR_ | 1.91 | 0.14 | 1.85 | 0.15 | | | EP2_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 23 | FR>FR_ | 2.21 | 0.15 | 2.10 | 0.15 | | | EP2_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 24 | F | 2.00 | 0.15 | 1.96 | 0.15 | | | R>EFR_ | | | | | | | EP2_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 25 | E | 2.04 | 0.13 | 1.90 | 0.14 | | | FR>HR_ | | | | | | | EP2_S+N | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | (co | | | | | | | ntinued) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
HR-FR-EFR Interoperability Phase 2 of testing (concluded): Exp. 1 & 2 average
results.
+----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | N | Exp | Street | (CNET & | Vehicle | CSELT & | | | erimental | Noise | Nortel) | Noise | D | | | condition | | | | eTeBerkom | | | | SNR = 15 | | SNR = 10 | | | | | dB | | dB | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 26 | EFR>FR\ | 1.96 | 0.14 | 2.23 | 0.15 | | | _EP2_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 27 | EFR>EFR\ | 2.00 | 0.15 | 1.95 | 0.14 | | | _EP2_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 28 | HR\ | 3.56 | 0.14 | 3.45 | 0.15 | | | _EP0_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 29 | HR\ | 3.51 | 0.15 | 3.32 | 0.14 | | | _EP1_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 30 | HR\ | 3.16 | 0.14 | 3.04 | 0.15 | | | _EP2_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 31 | FR\ | 3.92 | 0.14 | 3.83 | 0.14 | | | _EP0_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 32 | FR\ | 3.67 | 0.14 | 3.58 | 0.14 | | | _EP1_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 33 | FR\ | 3.04 | 0.14 | 2.85 | 0.13 | | | _EP2_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 34 | EFR\ | 4.18 | 0.13 | 4.25 | 0.14 | | | _EP0_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 35 | EFR\ | 3.79 | 0.15 | 4.08 | 0.13 | | | _EP1_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 36 | EFR\ | 3.32 | 0.16 | 3.49 | 0.15 | | | _EP2_S+N | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 37 | MNRU=6dB | 1.59 | 0.12 | 1.81 | 0.12 | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 38 | MNRU=12dB | 2.92 | 0.14 | 3.12 | 0.12 | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 39 | MNRU=18dB | 4.08 | 0.11 | 4.07 | 0.11 | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 40 | MNRU=24dB | 4.66 | 0.10 | 4.70 | 0.07 | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 41 | MNRU=30dB | 4.76 | 0.10 | 4.77 | 0.06 | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 42 | Dir | 4.81 | 0.09 | 4.81 | 0.06 | | | ect,clean | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+ | 43 | Dir | 4.35 | 0.12 | 4.42 | 0.12 | | | ect+Noise | | | | | +----+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
#