# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document has the objective to describe the power consumption
caused by UICC when it is idle and identify the potential solutions to allow
the reduction or removal of the UICC power supply in order to save power when
the UICC is not required for long periods of time.
This document identifies conditions which might need to be applied to the UICC
platform.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 31.101 V13.0.0: \"UICC-terminal interface; UICC-terminal
interface; Physical and logical characteristics\".
[4] 3GPP TS 31.102 V13.1.0: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber
Identity Module (USIM) application\".
[5] 3GPP TS 31.111 V13.1.0: \"Universal Subscriber Identity Module (USIM)
Application Toolkit (USAT)\"
[6] ETSI TS 102 221 V13.0.0: \"Smart Cards; UICC-Terminal interface; Physical
and logical characteristics\".
[7] ETSI TS 102 223 V12.3.0: \"Smart Cards; Card Application Toolkit\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.368 V13.1.0: \"Service requirements for Machine-Type
Communications (MTC); Stage 1\"
[9] 3GPP TR 23.887 V12.0.0: \"Study on Machine-Type Communications (MTC) and
other mobile data applications communications enhancements\"
[10] 3GPP TS 23.682 V13.4.0: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate
communications with packet data networks and applications\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], in 3GPP TS 31.102 [4] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Use cases
Use cases are described in Annex A of TS 22.368 [8]. Some examples are copied
below:
> **Extra Low Power Consumption Use Case**
>
> For high mobility case, tracking MTC devices such as animal tracking MTC
> devices in natural world with high mobility require extra low power
> consumption because it is almost impossible to replace the battery or
> recharge the battery for animal tracking MTC device. Compared to the
> tracking devices installed in the cars and trucks because cars and trucks
> could generate electricity by themselves, extra low power consumption for
> these MTC devices is required.
>
> For cargo tracking, the cargo with a tracking MTC device could move very
> fast such as on a train or lorry and could stand still such as in the dock
> before loading or unloading. It is not desired to either change its battery
> or replace battery during the transport period, so extra low power
> consumption MTC devices are also required.
>
> For prisoner tracking MTC devices are already used by police, prisoners will
> not cooperate with police and would wish the MTC devices have flat
> batteries; therefore, extra low power consumption feature is required for
> these MTC devices. For the tracking MTC devices of elder people who have
> memory problem, children or pets, even the batteries of these MTC devices
> could be replaced or charged, however, considering the worst scenario -- if
> they are missing, it requires the MTC devices with extra low power
> consumption and long working time in order to find them.
>
> For low mobility case, the gas meter MTC devices must be battery powered.
> Extra low power consumption for gas MTC devices is much more critical than
> electricity meters.
>
> **Extra Low Power Consumption with Time Controlled MTC Devices Use Case**
>
> Time Controlled MTC Devices which send or receive data only at certain pre-
> defined periods may be operated in one or more modes that minimize power
> consumption.
>
> An MTC Device may be operated in a mode where it is expected to receive non-
> periodic messages (e.g. emergency messages or notifications of altered
> access period as with the MTC Feature Time Controlled outside the time
> controlled periods. The MTC Device should minimize power consumption while
> in a mode to support this.
>
> If the application requires the MTC Device to send or receive data within
> pre-defined periods and receive non-periodic messages outside these periods,
> operation at the lowest possible power consumption level to extend battery
> life should be achieved.
Such use cases justify the overall system requirement present in TS 22.368
[8]:
The system shall provide mechanisms to lower power consumption of MTC Devices.
Some solutions to lower the overall power consumption in such scenarios are
already defined within 3GPP, as described in TR 23.887 [9] clause 7\. These
include:
  * Extended DRX cycle, introduced in Rel-13, as described in TS 23.682 [10] clause 4.5.13.
# 5 Power considerations related to the UICC
## 5.1 Causes of power consumption related to the UICC
### 5.1.1 Introduction
During the power cycle of the ME, there are only some short periods of time
during which the UICC is actively used by the terminal and that activity
normally occurs in bursts. Examples of this include:
  * The ME reads configuration parameters set by the MNO and stored in > the UICC
  * The ME performs authentication command
  * The ME reads data stored in the UICC by the end user (i.e. phonebook > or SMS)
  * The ME writes data to the UICC
  * Proactive sessions, as defined in TS 31.111 [5]
  * Toolkit events, as defined in TS 31.111 [5]
During the rest of the time, the UICC is not actively used by the terminal.
There are three distinct causes of power consumption that are related to the
presence of the UICC that contains a USIM when not actively used.
### 5.1.2 Presence detection polling
The presence detection mechanism is defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [6] clause
14.5.2 and referenced by 3GPP TS 31.101 [3]:
> If an application present on the UICC has the requirement to ensure that the
> UICC has not been removed during a card session the following procedure
> applies. The terminal sends, at frequent intervals, a STATUS command on the
> UICC-terminal interface. The STATUS command shall be issued within a period
> of inactivity on the UICC-terminal interface. [...] This procedure shall be
> used in addition to a mechanical or other device used to detect the removal
> of a UICC.
According to TS 31.102 [4] clause 5.1.9, presence detection polling is
required by the USIM only in case of a call, including active PDP context, and
can be suspended if the ME has not exchanged any data with the network within
a 30s period of inactivity on the UICC-ME interface.
> The ME may suspend the UICC presence detection based on STATUS commands in
> case it has an active PDP context or an active EPS bearer context, but has
> not exchanged any data with the network within a 30s period of inactivity on
> the UICC-ME interface, and resume it as soon as data is exchanged with the
> network, sending immediately a new STATUS command.
As a consequence of changes agreed in Release 12 as part of the MTCe-UEPCOP-CT
Work Item, the presence detection polling is not a concern for devices that
are not actively exchanging data with the network.
### 5.1.3 Proactive polling
The proactive polling mechanism is defined in ETSI TS 102 221 [6] clause
14.6.2 and referenced by 3GPP TS 31.101 [3]:
> During idle mode the terminal shall send STATUS commands to the UICC at
> intervals no longer than the interval negotiated with the UICC (see TS 102
> 223 [7]). During a call the UICC presence detection applies. The default
> value for the proactive polling is the same as for the presence detection
> procedure.
The interval of the proactive polling can be negotiated between UICC and ME:
  * the UICC can completely disable proactive polling using the POLLING > OFF proactive command, defined in TS 31.111 [5];
  * the UICC can mandate a longer polling interval using the POLL > INTERVAL proactive command, defined in TS 31.111 [5];
  * the ME can request an optimal polling interval using the Poll > Interval Negotiation procedure, defined in TS 31.111 [5].
In a deployment where power saving is very important, it is reasonable to
expect that polling is disabled by the UICC or that at least an optimal
polling interval requested by the ME is negotiated. As a consequence, the
power consumption related to proactive polling is not a concern for those
devices.
### 5.1.4 Power absorbed by the UICC in idle state
The UICC consumes power at all times, also when the clock is stopped and the
UICC is in idle state. This power consumption is summarized in table 1 for
different classes of UICC, based on values indicated in ETSI 102 221 [6]:
Table 1: power when the clock is stopped
* * *
Class Clause Power consumption Class \"B\" 5.2.1 When the UICC is in idle
state, the current consumption shall not exceed 200 μA at 1 MHz at +25 °C.
When the UICC is in clock stop mode and no other interface is active, the
current consumption shall not exceed 100 μA at +25 °C. Class \"C\" 5.3.1 When
the UICC is in idle state, the current consumption shall not exceed 200 μA at
1 MHz at +25 °C. When the UICC is in clock stop mode and no other interface is
active, the current consumption shall not exceed 100 μA at +25 °C.
* * *
Measurements taken in the field on UICC cards without special applications
(for example, payment applications) show a consumption of about 15 μA in clock
stop mode. This value is used as reference in the rest of this document.
In addition to the numbers indicated above, note that the overall power
consumption of the ME to provide the necessary current to the UICC is
significantly higher, as it needs to keep the voltage regulator active.
Even if these numbers seem to be low, they become significant over a large
period of time, which is a common use case for some devices.
## 5.2 Comparisons
### 5.2.1 Introduction
The objective of this clause is to compare the power consumed by the terminal
in two distinct cases: during the initialization of the UICC and an attach
procedure to the network, and the while keeping the UICC in idle mode without
exchanging any APDU.
The goal of this comparison is to define the best strategy from a power
perspective for a UE that only needs to exchange data with the network rarely.
For this comparison, it will be assumed a UICC card with only a USIM, as
commonly seen in commercial deployments for devices that do not have voice
capabilities.
### 5.2.2 Power required to initialize a UICC
The amount of time taken by the ME to initialize a UICC and the USIM
application in it varies significantly, depending on the number of factors,
including:
  * services that are enabled in the USIM application (as the number of > EFs that needs to be read is directly related to the > initialization time);
  * capabilities of the terminal (for example, a device without voice > capabilities might not cache the phonebook stored in the UICC)
  * speed of the ISO interface
  * delay of the UICC to respond back for APDU requests
An overall initialization time of about 2 seconds can be considered as an
average delay for devices that initialize a UICC containing a simple USIM,
without many additional services.
During this delay, the power consumption of the UE is the sum of two
components:
  * Power consumption of the USIM
  * Power consumption of the ME
In the absence of specific negotiation with the UICC using the TERMINAL
CAPABILITY command, which is the most common case in the market today and most
likely scenario for M2M terminals, the USIM has a maximum power consumption of
10 mA, as specified by ETSI TS 102 221 [6].
The estimate of the power consumption of the ME is not simple, as it vary
greatly and has evolved rapidly in the last years. Anyway, for the purpose of
this document, a power consumption of 100 mA will be considered.
### 5.2.3 Comparison
The following clause analyzes the power consumption related to the UICC for
these two approaches:
  * terminal keeps the UICC powered up in clock stop mode and the UICC > consumes 15 μA for the entire duration
  * UE switches off the UICC and re-activates it only when needed
The comparison is done for two separate cases, respectively with duration of 1
day and 1 week.
The additional power consumption of the ME is not considered in table 2, as it
would be the same in both cases.
**Table 2: Comparison of power consumption**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **1 day** | **1 week** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | UICC | UICC | UICC | UICC | | | powered up | switched | powered up | switched | | | in clock | off | in clock | off | | | stop mode | | stop mode | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | USIM | 15 μA * 24 | 10 mA * 2 | 15 μA * | 10 mA * 2 | | | h = | s = | 168 h = | s = | | | | | | | | | 0.360 mAh | 0.005 mAh | 2.520 mAh | 0.005 mAh | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ME | 0 mAh (see | 100 mA * 2 | 0 mAh (see | 100 mA * 2 | | | note 1) | s = | note 1) | s = | | | | | | | | | | 0.055 mAh | | 0.055 mAh | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Total** | **0.360 |** 0.060 | **2.520 |** 0.060 | | | mAh**| mAh** | mAh**| mAh** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: This | | | | | | value | | | | | | assumes the | | | | | | best case | | | | | | without any | | | | | | leak in the | | | | | | ME to keep | | | | | | the UICC | | | | | | powered up. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
In addition to power consumed for the UICC, there is also a difference in the
power required for signalling over the network. An accurate estimate of the
power required for this is difficult to perform: it varies greatly based on
network conditions and delays, and it might also change a lot for each
product. Anyway it is reasonable to consider them similar and it should be
noted that this contribution to the total power becomes less and less relevant
with the increase of the duration.
### 5.2.4 Conclusions
From the comparison above, it is evident that there is no incentive from a
power perspective to keep the UICC powered up in clock stop mode.
## 5.3 Objective
The objective of this document is to define a UICC platform level solution
that can be used to reduce the power consumption of the UE when the UICC is
not actively used, removing the power component caused by the UICC in idle
state.
The document focuses on M2M use cases. In this context, it is assumed that the
UICC has limited functionalities and does not include applications often seen
for smartphones (for example, for mobile payments).
# 6 Proposed solution
## 6.1 UICC suspension
### 6.1.1 Overview
3GPP has already agreed text to allow the UE to switch off the UICC card as
described in 3GPP TS 31.102 [4] clause 5.1.10 in order to reduce power
consumption, as per previous sections. This has two impacts:
  * The ME needs to re-initialize the UICC and the USIM from the beginning when the USIM is required
  * The UICC would lose its context, which could potentially have impact on the applications in the UICC
For these reasons, it is proposed a solution where the UICC can be suspended
in a way that allows the ME to remove the power, while still keeping the
status of the card.
It is clear that a solution where the UICC is suspended needs to be specified
at platform level, so it is appropriate that such solution is defined by ETSI
SCP.
The following section describes a high-level proposal as discussed in CT6. The
final solution might be different from what is described below, as long as it
meets the overall requirements discussed in this document.
### 6.1.2 New commands
#### 6.1.2.1 Introduction
The proposal is to introduce two new commands in the UICC platform, as
specified below:
  * SUSPEND UICC
  * RESUME UICC
#### 6.1.2.2 SUSPEND UICC
##### 6.1.2.2.1 Functional description
This function is used to store the internal status of the UICC so that power
supply to the UICC can be switched off. When the UICC receives the command, it
stores the complete UICC status to a non-volatile memory. The UICC status
includes at least the following items:
  * status of selected NAA on each logical channel
  * security conditions for each NAA
  * selected EF and record for each logical channel
  * status of toolkit applications
The ME does not issue the command if the UICC suspension mechanism is not
indicated as supported by the UICC (for example, by means of a bit in the
EF~UMPC~).
The UICC generates a Resume information and stores it with the complete status
to its non-volatile memory. The method of generation and the length of the
Resume information need to be defined.
The UICC deletes or invalidates the saved status if it receives any APDU after
responding to the SUSPEND UICC command. This implies that the UICC may have at
most one stored status at any time.
NOTE: the execution of this command might take a significant amount of time.
The input parameters of the function include at least the following items:
  * Maximum duration of the suspension proposed by the ME
The output parameters of the function include at least the following items:
  * Negotiated duration of the suspension decided by the UICC
  * Resume information
#### 6.1.2.3 RESUME UICC
##### 6.1.2.3.1 Functional description
This function is used to restore the status of the UICC that was previously
stored to non-volatile memory of the UICC. The UICC shall delete the stored
UICC status after execution of the command, irrespective of the result.
The ME does not issue this command if the UICC suspension mechanism is not
indicated as supported by the UICC (for example, by means of a bit in the
EF~UMPC~).
The UICC deletes or invalidates the stored status if a normal initialization
is performed by the UICC. For example, the UICC might delete or invalidate the
stored status if it receives a TERMINAL PROFILE command or any SELECT by DF
name command. The UICC rejects the RESUME UICC command if it does not have a
valid status to resume (for example, returning status word \'6985\').
The UICC compares the Resume information passed by the terminal with the key
stored in the non-volatile memory. The UICC responds with an error if the
Resume information passed by the ME does not match (for example, returning
status word \'6982\'). The UICC restores the previous status and return
\'9000\' if the Resume information passed by the ME is validated.
NOTE: the execution of this command might take a significant amount of time.
The input parameters of the function include at least the following items:
  * Resume information
# 7 Considerations on proposed solutions
## 7.1 UICC suspension
### 7.1.1 Introduction
The following clauses describe the considerations related to the UICC
suspension proposal.
### 7.1.2 Security
The main security objective of the feature is to prevent that a UICC can be
suspended, removed from the ME and then resumed in a separate ME, where it can
be used bypassing the initialization and, potentially, the PIN verification.
The \"Resume information\" described in the sections above solves the problem,
allowing only the ME that has the \"Resume information\" to be able to issue
the RESUME UICC command successfully.
The alternative where the UICC is powered down and re-initialized when needed
by the terminal should be considered less secure, because it is applicable
only to the case where PIN is disabled. For this reason, that creates an
incentive to keep the PIN disabled in the USIM.
### 7.1.3 Toolkit
#### 7.1.3.1 Proactive UICC session
The proactive UICC session is defined in ETSI TS 102 223 [7] clause 3.1:
> **proactive UICC session:** sequence of related CAT commands and responses
> which starts with the status response
>
> \'91XX\' (proactive command pending) and ends with a status response of \'90
> 00\' (normal ending of command) after
>
> Terminal Response
The suspension of the UICC during a proactive UICC session might potentially
lead to problems to the application, especially if there are time-sensitive
operations. Moreover, even if the interface between ME and UICC might be idle
during a proactive UICC session, it is logically incorrect to assume that
entire UICC is idle.
For this reason, the solution should prevent the suspension of the UICC during
a proactive UICC session.
#### 7.1.3.2 BIP session
BIP is used to establish a data connection between the UICC and a server on
the network, using the connectivity provided by the ME. It is possible that
the proactive UICC session is ended during an active BIP session (i.e., while
waiting a response from the network).
In order to avoid any impact on network elements, the SUSPEND mechanism should
not be used if any BIP channel is opened.
NOTE: these considerations do not apply for the OPEN CHANNEL related to UICC
Server Mode.
#### 7.1.3.3 Timers
The UICC is able to manage timers running physically in the terminal with the
proactive command TIMER MANAGEMENT and be informed when the timer expires.
Timers are normally used for time-sensitive operations.
The solution should not have impact on the handling of timers. The solution
should:
  * Either prevent the UICC suspension when one or more timers are running,
  * or guarantee that UICC is resumed before any timer expires.
#### 7.1.3.4 Other events
In the case where the ME needs to send an ENVELOPE command to the UICC when it
is suspended, the ME should immediately resume the UICC and then send the
ENVELOPE.
### 7.1.4 Internal events
It is possible that specific applications (e.g. USIM, ISIM, CAT applications)
inside the UICC can not tolerate the suspension of the UICC in a specific
state or might need to perform specific operations before the UICC is
suspended. For this reason, the solution should have a mechanism to inform the
applications in the UICC about the SUSPEND command and allow each interested
application to return a temporary error or reject it. A temporary error gives
to the ME the indication that SUSPEND can be retried later. A mechanism to
avoid a repeated trial and error approach by the ME should be considered (e.g.
by allowing the UICC to indicate a period of time after which the ME may retry
successfully to issue a SUSPEND command or a mechanism for the UICC to
explicitly state it is ready to be suspended).
### 7.1.5 Duration
It is considered useful for the UICC to know the estimate of the duration of
the suspension. The ME might not be in a position to know it exactly, as this
might vary based on external inputs, but the ME is able to provide the maximum
duration.
The UICC should be able to negotiate such duration, proposing a smaller value,
if it has the need to be resumed at a specific time to perform time-critical
activities (for example, report to a server at a certain time).
### 7.1.6 Impact on ME
The ME should not use any of the values contained in the UICC and previous
cached (e.g., value of IMSI) until it has successfully resumed the UICC.
The ME should also maintain the status related to toolkit operations. This
includes maintaining the poll interval negotiated with the UICC, the list of
events received in the last SET UP EVENT LIST proactive command and the
toolkit menu received in the last SET UP MENU proactive command. These should
be removed from the ME only in case of failure to resume the UICC
successfully.
# 8 Conclusions
## 8.1 UICC platform
A solution for the UICC suspension requires support by the UICC platform. For
this reason, ETSI SCP should be requested to provide the required commands.
## 8.2 Impact on 3GPP network access applications
Based on the solution adopted by ETSI SCP, 3GPP would need to further expand
its specifications to incorporate necessary changes to allow a UICC containing
3GPP network access applications (for example, USIM and ISIM) to be suspended.
The overall impact will be assessed when the platform-level changes are
available.
#