# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To evaluate conformance of a particular implementation, it is necessary to
have a statement of which capabilities and options have been implemented for a
telecommunication specification. Such a statement is called an Implementation
Conformance Statement (ICS).
The present document is 2^nd^ part of a multi-part conformance test
specification for UE and is _valid for 3GPP Release 5 (respectively Release 15
for 5GS test cases)_. The specification contains the UE IMS CC capability and
the applicability of the UE IMS CC conformance test cases.
3GPP TS 34.229-1 [5]: Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1: Protocol
conformance specification.
**3GPP TS 34.229-2 (the present document): \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia
call control protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session
Description Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\" -
current document.**
3GPP TS 34.229-3 [6]: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 3:
Abstract Test Suites (ATS)\".
3GPP TS 34.229-5 [95]: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 5:
Protocol conformance specification using 5G System (5GS)\"
Note: For conformance testing of the UTRAN requirements refer to 3GPP TS
34.123 Parts 1 to 3 [2] [3] [4].
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma for 3^rd^ Generation User Equipment (UE) supporting the Internet
Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol based on Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP), in compliance with the
relevant requirements, and in accordance with the relevant guidance given in
ISO/IEC 9646-7 [8] and ETS 300 406 [9].
The present document also specifies a recommended applicability statement for
the test cases included in TS 34.229-1 [5] and TS 34.229-5 [95]. These
applicability statements are based on the features implemented in the UE.
The present document is valid for UE implemented according to 3GPP releases
starting from Release 5 up to the Release indicated on the cover page of the
present document.
Also, it is generally assumed that an IMS capable UE is compliant to GSMA PRD
IR.92 [83] and GSMA PRD IR.94 [75];any update of requirements in these GSMA
PRD documents, which are relevant to the present document will be handled on a
case by case basis, with due consideration given for grace period to be
granted for the UE to comply to any updated requirements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document > unless the context in which the reference is made suggests a > different Release is relevant (information on the applicable > release in a particular context can be found in e.g. test case > title, description or applicability, message description or > content).
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 34.123-1: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1:
Protocol conformance specification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 34.123-2: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 2:
Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 34.123-3: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 3:
Abstract Test Suites (ATS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 34.229-1: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 1:
Protocol conformance specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 34.229-3: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 3:
Abstract Test Suites (ATS)\".
[7] ISO/IEC 9646-1: \"Information technology - Open systems interconnection -
Conformance testing methodology and framework - Part 1: General concepts\".
[8] ISO/IEC 9646-7: \"Information technology - Open systems interconnection -
Conformance testing methodology and framework - Part 7: Implementation
Conformance Statements\".
[9] ETSI ETS 300 406: \"Methods for testing and Specification (MTS); Protocol
and profile conformance testing specifications; Standardization methodology\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
[11] Void.
[12] 3GPP TS 33.203: \"Access security for IP-based services\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.221: \"Architectural requirements\".
[14] Void.
[15] RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[16] Void.
[17] 3GPP TS 24.247: \"Messaging using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[18] 3GPP TR 23.981: \"Interworking aspects and migration scenarios for
IPv4-based IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) implementations\".
[19] 3GPP TS 24.147: \"Conferencing using the IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Stage 3\".
[20] Void.
[21] Void.
[22] Void.
[23] Void.
[24] Void.
[25] Void.
[26] RFC 3312: \"Integration of Resource Management and Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".
[27] RFC 3262: \"Reliability of provisional responses in Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".
[28] Void.
[29] Void.
[30] Void.
[31] Void.
[32] Void.
[33] Void.
[34] Void.
[35] Void.
[36] Void.
[37] Void.
[38] Void.
[39] Void.
[40] Void.
[41] Void.
[42] Void.
[43] Void.
[44] Void.
[45] Void.
[46] Void.
[47] Void.
[48] Void.
[49] Void.
[50] Void.
[51] Void.
[52] Void.
[53] Void.
[54] Void.
[55] 3GPP TS 24.173: \"IMS Multimedia Telephony Communication Service and
supplementary services; stage 3\".
[56] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[57] Void.
[58] Void.
[59] Void.
[60] Void.
[61] Void.
[62] Void.
[63] 3GPP TS 33.222: "Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Access to
network application functions using Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Transport
Layer Security (HTTPS)".
[64] 3GPP TS 24.109: "Bootstrapping interface (Ub) and network application
function interface (Ua); Protocol details".
[65] RFC 2617; "HTTP Authentication: Basic and Digest Access Authentication".
[66] 3GPP TS 24.341: \"Support of SMS over IP networks; Stage 3\".
[67] Void.
[68] 3GPP TS 24.604: "Communication Diversion (CDIV) using IP Multimedia
(IM)".
[69] 3GPP TS 24.615: \"Communication Waiting (CW) using IP Multimedia (IM)
Core Network (CN) subsystem\".
[70] 3GPP TS 36.101: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception".
> [71] 3GPP TR 21.904: \"UE capability requirements\".
>
> [72] Void.
>
> [73] 3GPP TS 36.523-2: \"User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
> 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)proforma specification\".
>
> [74] 3GPP2 C.S0005-E: "Upper Layer (Layer 3) Signalling Standard for
> cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems".
>
> [75] GSMA PRD IR.94: \"IMS Profile for Conversational Video Service\".
>
> [76] 3GPP TS 23.167: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) emergency sessions\".
[77] 3GPP TS 24.237: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity; Stage
3\".
> [78] 3GPP TS 34.109: \"Terminal logical test interface; Special conformance
> testing functions\".
[79] 3GPP TS 36.509: \"Special conformance testing functions for User
Equipment (UE)\".
> [80] Void.
>
> [81] 3GPP TS 24.623: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) Configuration Access
> Protocol (XCAP) over the Ut interface for Manipulating Supplementary
> Services\".
>
> [82] 3GPP TS 33.220: \"Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
> Bootstrapping Architecture\".
>
> [83] GSMA PRD IR.92: \"IMS Profile for Voice and SMS\".
>
> [84] GSMA PRD IR.51: \"IMS Profile for Voice, Video and SMS over Wi-Fi\".
>
> [85] 3GPP TS 24.238: \"**Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) based user
> configuration** ; Stage3\".
[86] IETF RFC 4028 (April 2005): \"Session Timers in the Session Initiation
Protocol (SIP)\".
[87] GSMA PRD NG.108: \"IMS Profile for Voice and SMS for UE category
M1\".[88] IETF RFC 8147 (May 2017): \"Next-Generation Pan-European eCall\".
[88] FFS
[89] GSMA PRD NG.102: \"IMS Profile for Converged IP Communications\".
[90] 3GPP TS 24.390: \" Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) using
IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem IMS; Stage 3\"
[91] 3GPP TS 38.101-1: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 1: Range 1 Standalone\"
[92] 3GPP TS 38.101-2: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception; Part 2: Range 2 Standalone\"
[93] 3GPP TS 38.508-2: \"5GS; User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 2: Common Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma
specification\".
[94] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
[95] 3GPP TS 34.229-5: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control
protocol based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description
Protocol (SDP); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part 5:
Protocol conformance specification using 5G System (5GS)\".
[96] GSMA PRD NG.114: \"IMS Profile for Voice, Video and Messaging over 5GS,
Version 1.0\".
[97] 3GPP TS 27.007: \"AT command set for User Equipment (UE)\".
[98] GSMA PRD NG.114: \"IMS Profile for Voice, Video and Messaging over 5GS,
Version 2.0\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply, in addition to those in TR 21.905 [1]:
\- terms defined in the relevant 3GPP core specifications (see normative
references);
\- terms defined in ISO/IEC 9646‑1 [7] and in ISO/IEC 9646‑7 [8].
In particular, the following terms defined in ISO/IEC 9646‑1 [7] apply:
**Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS):** statement made by the supplier
of an implementation or system claimed to conform to a given specification,
stating which capabilities have been implemented\ The ICS can take several
forms: protocol ICS, profile ICS, profile specific ICS, information object
ICS, etc.
**ICS proforma:** document, in the form of a questionnaire, which when
completed for an implementation or system becomes an ICS
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ICS Implementation Conformance Statement
SCS System Conformance Statement
UEUT User Equipment Under Test
# 4 Recommended test case applicability
The applicability of each individual test is identified in the table 1. This
is just a recommendation based on the purpose for which the test case was
written.
The applicability of every test is formally expressed by the use of Boolean
expression that are based on parameters (ICS) included in annex A of the
present document.
Additional information related to the Test Case (TC), e.g. affecting its
dynamic behaviour or its execution may be provided as well.
The columns in table 1 have the following meaning:
##### Clause {#clause .H6}
The clause column indicates the clause number in TS 34.229-1 [5] that contains
the test body.
##### Title {#title .H6}
The title column describes the name of the test.
##### Release {#release .H6}
The release column indicates the earliest release from which each testcase is
applicable, except if otherwise stated of an individual test case.
NOTE: For the IMS Emergency Service test cases, the 3GPP Release of UTRAN and
GERAN is independent of that indicated in the release column.
##### Applicability {#applicability .H6}
The following notations are used for the applicability column:
R recommended - the test case is recommended
O optional -- the test case is optional
N/A not applicable - in the given context, the test case is not recommended.
Ci conditional - the test is recommended (\"R\") or not (\"N/A\") depending on
the support of other items. \"i\" is an integer identifying an unique
conditional status expression which is defined immediately following the
table. For nested conditional expressions, the syntax \"IF ... THEN (IF ...
THEN ... ELSE...) ELSE ...\" is used to avoid ambiguities.
##### Comments {#comments .H6}
This column contains a verbal description of the condition included in the
applicability column.
## 4.1 Applicabilities for test cases specified in TS 34.229-1
Table 4.1: Applicability of TS 34.229-1 tests
* * *
Clause Title Release Applicability Comments **6** **PDP Context Activation**  
6.2 General Purpose PDP Context Establishment (UE Requests for a Dedicated PDP
Context) Rel-8 C04 UE capable of being configured to initiate Dedicated PDP
Context 6.3 Dedicated PDP Context Establishment Rel-8 C04 UE capable of being
configured to initiate Dedicated PDP Context **7** **P-CSCF Discovery**  
7.1 P-CSCF Discovery via PDP Context Rel-8 C05 UE capable of being configured
to initiate P-CSCF Discovery via PCO 7.2 P-CSCF Discovery via DHCP - IPv4
Rel-8 C06 UE supports IPv4 and capable of being configured to initiate P-CSCF
Discovery via DHCPv4 7.3 P-CSCF Discovery via DHCP - IPv4 (UE Requests P-CSCF
discovery via PCO) Rel-8 C07 UE supports IPv4, supports P-CSCF Discovery via
PCO and DHCPv4 and capable of being configured to initiate P-CSCF Discovery
via PCO 7.4 P-CSCF Discovery by DHCP - IPv6 Rel-8 C08 UE capable of being
configured to initiate P-CSCF Discovery via DHCPv6 7.5 P-CSCF Discovery by
DHCP-IPv6 (UE Requests P-CSCF discovery by PCO) Rel-8 C09 UE supports P-CSCF
Discovery via PCO and DHCPv6 and capable of being configured to initiate
P-CSCF Discovery via PCO 7.6 P-CSCF Discovery by DHCP - IPv6 (UE does not
Request P-CSCF discovery by PCO, SS includes P-CSCF Address(es) in PCO) Rel-8
C10 UE supports P-CSCF Discovery via PCO and DHCPv6 and capable of being
configured to initiate P-CSCF Discovery via DHCPv6 7.7 Void  
7.8 Void  
7.9 Void  
**8** **Registration**  
8.1 Initial registration Rel-8 C17 UE supports IMS security and E-UTRA and not
UE category M1 8.2 User Initiated Re-Registration Rel-8 C17 UE supports IMS
security and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 8.3 Mobile Initiated Deregistration
Rel-8 C80 UE supports IMS security and IMS deregistration and E-UTRA and
(Support of CS/PS mode 2 or Support of PS mode 2) and not UE category M1 8.4
Invalid Behaviour - 423 Interval Too Brief Rel-8 C17 UE supports IMS security
and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 8.5 Void  
8.6 Void  
8.7 Void  
8.8 Void  
8.9 Void  
8.10 Initial registration using GIBA Rel-8 C18 UE supports GIBA only and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 8.11 Initial registration using IMS AKA and GIBA
against a network with GIBA support only Rel-8 C19 UE supports IMS security
and GIBA and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 8.12 User initiated re-registration
using GIBA Rel-8 C18 UE supports GIBA only and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
8.13 User initiated de-registration using GIBA Rel-8 C18 UE supports GIBA only
and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 8.14 Void  
8.15 Refresh for ISIM parameters Rel-10 C17 UE supports IMS security and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 8.16 User initiated re-registration- 423
Interval Too Brief Rel-9 C17 UE supports IMS security and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 **9** **Authentication**  
9.1 Invalid Behaviour - MAC Parameter Invalid Rel-8 C17 UE supports IMS
security and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 9.2 Invalid Behaviour - SQN out of
range Rel-8 C17 UE supports IMS security and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
**10** **Subscription**  
10.1 Invalid Behaviour - 503 Service Unavailable Rel-8 C151 E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 **11** **Notification**  
11.1 Network-initiated deregistration Rel-8 C151 E-UTRA and not UE category M1
11.2 Network initiated re-authentication Rel-8 C17 UE supports IMS security
and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 **12** **Call Control**  
12.1 Void  
12.2 MO Call with preconditions at both originating UE and terminating UE -
503 Service Unavailable Rel-8 C160 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and
initiating a session and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.2a
MO Call with preconditions at both originating and terminating UE - 504 Server
Time-out Rel-8 C160 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a session
and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.2b MO Call without
preconditions at both originating UE and terminating UE - 503 Service
Unavailable Rel-8 C164 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a
session and no preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.2c MO Call
without preconditions at both originating and terminating UE - 504 Server
Time-out Rel-8 C164 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a session
and no preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.3 Void  
12.4 Void  
12.5 Void  
12.6 Void  
12.7 Void  
12.8 Void  
12.9 Void  
12.10 Void  
12.11 Void  
12.12 MO MTSI Voice Call Successful with preconditions at both originating UE
and terminating UE Rel-8 C160 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating
a session and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.12a MO MTSI
Voice Call Successful without preconditions at both originating UE and
terminating UE Rel-14 C164 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a
session and not preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.13 MT MTSI
Speech call Rel-8 C27 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and preconditions and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.13a MT MTSI speech cal with preconditions at
both originating UE and terminating UEl when MO reserves resources before
sending INVITE Rel-8 C27 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and preconditions
and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.13b MT MTSI Speech call Successful
without preconditions at both originating UE and terminating UE Rel-8 C165 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and E-UTRA and not preconditions and not UE
category M1 12.13c MT MTSI speech call Successful with preconditions at
originating UE and without preconditions at terminating UE Rel-14 C165 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and E-UTRA and not preconditions and not UE
category M1 12.15 Void  
12.16 Void  
12.17 Void  
12.18 Void  
12.18a Void  
12.18b Void  
12.19 Void  
12.19a Void  
12.19b Void  
12.20 Void  
12.20a Void  
12.21 MO MTSI Video call Rel-8 C71 UE supports MTSI and initiating a session
and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.22 MT MTSI Video call Rel-8
C70 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264 CBP
Level 1.2 and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.23 MO MTSI
speech call / EVS Rel-12 C83 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech EVS (see NOTE 3
below) and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.24 MT MTSI
speech call / EVS Rel-12 C83 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech EVS (see NOTE 3
below) and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.25 MO MTSI
speech call / EVS offered but not supported by remote UE / AMR-WB agreed
Rel-12 C83 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech EVS (see NOTE 3 below) and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.25a MT MTSI speech call /
EVS offered but not supported by UE / AMR-WB agreed Rel-8 C167 MTSI and MTSI
speech and MTSI speech, AMR wideband and not MTSI speech, EVS and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.26 MT MTSI speech call /
EVS / AMR-WB IO mode Rel-12 C83 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech EVS (see NOTE
3 below) and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.27 MO MTSI
speech call / SRVCC on MT side / Codec Change from AMR-WB to AMR-NB Rel-8 C160
UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a session and preconditions
and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.27a MO MTSI speech call / SRVCC on MT
side / Codec Change from EVS to AMR-NB Rel-12 C83 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
speech EVS (see NOTE 3 below) and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category
M1 12.28 MO MTSI speech call / MO UE cancels call establishment Rel-8 C160 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a session and preconditions and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 12.29 MO MTSI Video call / MO UE cancels call
establishment Rel-8 C71 UE supports MTSI and initiating a session and MTSI
speech and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and preconditions and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 13 SIP Compression (SigComp)  
13.1 SigComp in the Initial registration FFS C58 UE supports IMS security and
Indicate Sigcomp 13.2 SigComp in the MO Call FFS FFS FFS (see NOTE 1 below)
13.3 SigComp in the MT Call FFS FFS FFS (see NOTE 1 below) 13.4 Void  
**14** **Emergency Service**  
14.1 Void  
14.2 Void  
**15** **Supplementary Services**  
15.1 Originating Identification Presentation Rel-8 C43 UE supports MTSI and
MTSI Originating Identification Presentation and (GBA or HTTP Digest) for XCAP
authentication (NOTE 4) and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.2 Originating
Identification Restriction Rel-8 C88 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Originating
Identification Restriction - Configuration and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 5)
and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.2a Originating Identification Restriction
/ Signalling Rel-8 C44 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification
Restriction and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.3
Terminating Identification Presentation Rel-8 C48 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
Terminating Identification Presentation and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 5) and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.4 Terminating Identification Restriction
Rel-8 C89 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification Restriction -
Configuration and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 4) and E-UTRA and not UE category
M1 15.4a Terminating Identification Restriction / Signalling Rel-8 C49 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification Restriction and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.5 Communication Forwarding
unconditional Rel-8 C30 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and
(GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 5) and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.6 Void  
15.7 Communication Forwarding on non Reply: activation Rel-8 C30 UE supports
MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 5) and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.8 Communication Forwarding on non reply: MO
call initiation Rel-8 C31 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
Communication Diversion and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
15.9 Communication Forwarding on Busy Rel-8 C30 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
Communication Diversion and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 5) and E-UTRA and not
UE category M1 15.10 Communication Forwarding on Not logged-in Rel-8 C30 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE
4) and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.10a Communication Forwarding on Not
reachable Rel-8 C30 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and (GBA
or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 5) and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.11 MO Call Hold
without announcement Rel-8 C23 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
Communication Hold and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.11a
MO Video Call Hold without announcement Rel-8 C77 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
speech and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and MTSI
Communication Hold and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.12
MT Call Hold without announcement Rel-8 C23 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech
and MTSI Communication Hold and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category
M1 15.12a MT Video Call Hold without announcement Rel-8 C77 UE supports MTSI
and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and MTSI
Communication Hold and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.13
Incoming Communication Barring except for a specific user Rel-8 C24 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Barring and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 5)
and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.14 Incoming Communication Barring for
anonymous users Rel-8 C45 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Barring and
MTSI Anonymous Communication Rejection and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 5) and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.14a Incoming Communication Barring while
roaming Rel-8 C24 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Incoming Communication Barring and
(GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 5) and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.14b
Outgoing Communication Barring while roaming Rel-8 C84 UE supports MTSI and
MTSI Outgoing Communication Barring and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 4) and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.15 Subscription to the MWI event package
Rel-8 C50 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Message Waiting Indication and E-UTRA and
not UE category M1 15.17 Creating and leaving a conference Rel-8 C32 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Conference and preconditions and E-UTRA
and not UE category M1 15.18 Inviting user to conference by sending a REFER
request to the user Rel-8 C32 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
Conference and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.19 Inviting
user to conference by sending a REFER request to the conference focus Rel-8
C32 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Conference and preconditions and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.19a Inviting user to conference by sending a
REFER request to the conference focus / Video Rel-8 C78 UE supports MTSI and
MTSI speech and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and MTSI Conference and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.21 Void  
15.21a Three way session creation Rel-8 C61 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
Conference and MTSI three way session and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 15.21b Void  
15.21c Three way session creation / Video Rel-8 C79 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
speech and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and MTSI Conference
and MTSI three way session and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
15.23 Void  
15.24 Void  
15.25 MO Explicit Communication Transfer - Consultative Call Transfer Rel-8
C29 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Explicit Communication Transfer
- consultative transfer and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
15.26 Void  
15.27 Communication Waiting and answering the call Rel-8 C57 UE supports MTSI
and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Waiting and preconditions and E-UTRA
and not UE category M1 15.28 Communication Waiting and cancelling the call
Rel-8 C57 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Waiting and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 15.29 GBA authentication Rel-8
C81 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification Presentation and GBA
for XCAP authentication and E-UTRA and not UE category M1. 15.30 User
initiated USSI Rel-12 C159 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a
session and E-UTRA and USSI and not UE category M1 **16** **Codec selecting**  
16.1 Void  
16.2 Speech AMR, indicate selective codec modes Rel-8 C27 UE supports MTSI and
MTSI speech and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 16.3 Speech
AMR-WB, indicate all codec modes Rel-8 C28 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech
and MTSI speech, AMR wideband and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category
M1 16.4 Speech AMR-WB, indicate selective codec modes Rel-8 C28 UE supports
MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI speech, AMR wideband and preconditions and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 16.5 Void  
16.6 Void  
16.7 Void  
16.8 Void  
16.10 Void  
16.11 Void  
16.12 Void  
16.13 Void  
**17** **Media use cases**  
17.1 MO Speech, add video remove video Rel-8 C71 UE supports MTSI and
initiating a session and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264 CBP
Level 1.2 and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 17.2 MT Speech,
add video remove video Rel-8 C70 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
video and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and preconditions and E-UTRA and not
UE category M1 17.4 Void  
17.5 Void  
17.6 Void  
17.8 Void  
17.10 Void  
17.12 Void  
17.14 Void  
17.16 Void  
17.17 Void  
17.18 Void  
**18** **SMS over IMS**  
18.1 Mobile Originating SMS Rel-8 C55 UE supports MO SMS over IMS and E-UTRA
and UE configured to use SMS over IP and UE is not category M1 18.1a Mobile
Originating Concatenated SMS Rel-8 C168 UE supports concatenated SM-over-IP
sender and E-UTRA and UE is not category M1 18.1b Mobile Originating SMS / RP-
ERROR Rel-8 C55 UE supports MO SMS over IMS and E-UTRA and UE configured to
use SMS over IP and UE is not category M1 18.2 Mobile Terminating SMS Rel-8
C56 UE supports SM-over-IP receiver and E-UTRA and UE configured to use SMS
over IP and UE is not category M1 18.2a Mobile Terminating Concatenated SMS
Rel-8 C169 UE supports concatenated SM-over-IP receiver and E-UTRA and UE is
not category M1 **19** **Emergency Service**  
19.1.1 Emergency call with emergency registration / Success / Location
information available Rel-9 C76 UE supports EPS IMS emergency call and is
capable of obtaining location information and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
19.1.2 Emergency call with emergency registration / Success / Location
information not available Rel-9 C59 UE supports EPS IMS emergency call and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 19.1.3 Emergency call with emergency
registration / Abnormal case / IM CN sends a 380 / UE performs emergency call
via CS domain / UTRAN or GERAN Rel-9 C62 UE supports EPS IMS emergency call
and Emergency speech call and (UTRAN or GERAN) (NOTE 2, 6) 19.1.3a Emergency
call with emergency registration / Abnormal case / IM CN sends a 380 / UE
performs emergency call via CS domain / CDMA 2000 1xRTT Rel-9 C74 UE supports
EPS IMS emergency call and Emergency speech call and 1XRTT (NOTE 2) 19.1.3b
Void  
19.1.3c Emergency call with emergency registration / Abnormal case / IM CN
sends 503 Service Unavailable / UE performs emergency call via CS domain /
UTRAN or GERAN Rel-9 C62 UE supports EPS IMS emergency call and Emergency
speech call and (UTRAN or GERAN) (NOTE 6) 19.1.4 Void  
19.1.5 Emergency call with emergency registration / Emergency SIP signalling
and media in parallel with an other ongoing IM CN subsystem signalling and
media Rel-9 C72 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and EPS IMS emergency call
and Communication Hold during emergency call and preconditions and E-UTRA and
not UE category M1 19.1.6 Emergency call with emergency registration / Success
/ GIBA against a network with GIBA support only Rel-9 C124 UE supports IMS
security and GIBA and EPS IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
19.3.1 Non-UE detectable emergency call / IM CN sends a 1xx response / UE
geographical location information available or not Rel-9 C73 UE supports EPS
IMS emergency call and MTSI and MTSI speech and preconditions and E-UTRA and
not UE category M1 19.3.2 Non-UE detectable emergency call / IM CN sends 380
Alternative Service including emergency service URN and no emergency
subservice type / Non-emergency IMS registration / UTRAN or GERAN Rel-9 C66 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI Speech and EPS IMS emergency call and (UTRAN or GERAN)
(NOTE 2, 6) 19.3.2a Non-UE detectable emergency call / IM CN sends 380
Alternative Service / Non-emergency IMS registration / CDMA 2000 1xRTT Rel-9
C75 UE supports initiating bidirectional voice session over IMS and MTSI
Speech and IMS emergency call and emergency call over 1XRTT (NOTE 2) 19.3.2b
Non-UE detectable emergency call / IM CN sends a 380 with unavailable
emergency service URN / UE performs normal call via CS domain / UTRAN or GERAN
Rel-9 C66 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Speech and EPS IMS emergency call and
emergency call and (UTRAN or GERAN) (NOTE 6) 19.3.2c Non-UE detectable
emergency call / IM CN sends a 380 with available emergency service URN / UE
performs CS Emergency call via CS domain / UTRAN or GERAN Rel-9 C66 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI Speech and EPS IMS emergency call and emergency call
and (UTRAN or GERAN) (NOTE 6) 19.3.3 Non-UE detectable emergency call / IM CN
sends 380 Alternative Service / Emergency IMS registration Rel-9 C73 UE
supports EPS IMS emergency call and MTSI and MTSI speech and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 19.3.4 Non-UE detectable emergency call / IM CN sends 380 with an
Alternative Service / Previous emergency IMS registration not expired Rel-9
C73 UE supports EPS IMS emergency call and MTSI and MTSI speech and E-UTRA and
not UE category M1 19.4.1 Emergency call without emergency registration / EPS
/ UE does not contain an ISIM or USIM Rel-9 C162 UE supports EPS IMS emergency
call and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 and no USIM test execution 19.4.2
Emergency call without emergency registration / EPS / UE contains an ISIM or
USIM / UE is in state EMM-REGISTERED.LIMITED-SERVICE Rel-9 C64 UE supports EPS
IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 19.4.3 Void  
19.4.4 Void  
19.4.5 Emergency call without emergency registration / UE credentials are not
accepted Rel-9 C59 UE supports EPS IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 19.4.6 Emergency call without emergency registration / Failure of
registration / Rejected by 403 (Forbidden) Rel-9 C125 UE supports IMS
emergency service and IMS emergency call without registration after rejection
of emergency registration and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 19.4.7 Emergency
call without emergency registration / Failure of registration / against a
network with GIBA support only Rel-9 C134 UE supports EPS IMS emergency call
and IMS emergency call without registration after rejection of emergency
registration that used IMS security. The UE does not support GIBA. UE supports
IMS security and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 19.5.1 New initial emergency
registration / UE obtains from the serving IP-CAN an IP address different than
the IP address used for the emergency registration Rel-9 C59 UE supports EPS
IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 19.5.6 User-initiated
emergency reregistration / UE has emergency related ongoing dialog Rel-9 C59
UE supports EPS IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 19.5.7
User-initiated emergency reregistration / The user initiates an emergency call
Rel-9 C59 UE supports EPS IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
19.5.8 Void  
19.5.9 In parallel emergency and non-emergency registrations Rel-9 C59 UE
supports EPS IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 19.5.10
Deregistration upon emergency registration expiration Rel-9 C59 UE supports
EPS IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 **20** **Customized
Alerting Tones (CAT)**  
20.1 Mobile Originating CAT - Forking Model Rel-8 C82 UE supports MTSI and
MTSI speech and early media and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category
M1 **21** **eCall over IMS (eCall)**  
21.1 eCall over IMS / Manual initiation / Normal registration / Emergency
registration / Success / 200 OK with ACK Rel-14 C147 UE supports IMS eCall
type of emergency services over EPS and Manual type of eCall (NOTE 7) 21.2
eCall over IMS / Automatic initiation / Normal registration / Emergency
registration / Success / 200 OK with ACK Rel-14 C148 UE supports IMS eCall
type of emergency services over EPS and Automatic type of eCall (NOTE 7) 21.3
eCall over IMS / Manual initiation / MSD transfer Failure / UE performs eCall
in CS domain after Timer expiry / UTRAN or GERAN Rel-14 C147 UE supports IMS
eCall type of emergency services over EPS and manual type of eCall (NOTE 7)
21.4 eCall over IMS / Manual initiation / MSD transfer and 200 OK with ACK /
SIP INFO request for MSD Update / Success Rel-14 C147 UE supports IMS eCall
type of emergency services over EPS and Manual type of eCall (NOTE 7) 21.5
eCall over IMS / Automatic initiation / MSD transfer and 200 OK with ACK / SIP
INFO request for MSD Update / Success Rel-14 C148 UE supports IMS eCall type
of emergency services over EPS and Automatic type of eCall (NOTE 7) 21.6 eCall
over IMS / Automatic initiation / MSD transfer and 200 OK with ACK / SIP INFO
request for unsupported MSD / UE indicates unsuccessful in SIP INFO Rel-14
C148 UE supports IMS eCall type of emergency services over EPS and Automatic
type of eCall (NOTE 7) 21.13 eCall only mode / Manual initiation / Emergency
registration / Abnormal case / IM CN sends a 486 (Busy Here) / UE performs
eCall in CS domain / UTRAN or GERAN Rel-14 C149 UE supports IMS eCall Only
type of emergency services over EPS and manual type of call (NOTE 7) 21.14
eCall only mode / Automatic initiation / Emergency registration / Abnormal
case / IM CN sends a 486 (Busy Here) / UE performs eCall in CS domain / UTRAN
or GERAN Rel-14 C150 UE supports IMS eCall Only type of emergency services
over EPS and Automatic type of eCall (NOTE 7) 21.15 eCall only mode / Manual
initiation / Emergency registration / Abnormal case / IM CN sends a 600 (Busy
Everywhere) / UE performs eCall in CS domain / UTRAN or GERAN Rel-14 C149 UE
supports IMS eCall Only type of emergency services over EPS and manual type of
call (NOTE 7) 21.16 eCall only mode / Automatic initiation / Emergency
registration / Abnormal case / IM CN sends a 600 (Busy Everywhere) / UE
performs eCall in CS domain / UTRAN or GERAN Rel-14 C150 UE supports IMS eCall
Only type of emergency services over EPS and Automatic type of eCall (NOTE 7)
21.17 eCall only mode / Manual initiation / Emergency registration / Abnormal
case / IM CN sends a 603 (Decline) / UE performs eCall in CS domain / UTRAN or
GERAN Rel-14 C149 UE supports IMS eCall Only type of emergency services over
EPS and manual type of call (NOTE 7) 21.18 eCall only mode / Automatic
initiation / Emergency registration / Abnormal case / IM CN sends a 603
(Decline) / UE performs eCall in CS domain / UTRAN or GERAN Rel-14 C150 UE
supports IMS eCall Only type of emergency services over EPS and Automatic type
of eCall (NOTE 7) **22** **Session Timer**  
22.1 MO Call -- UE is able to refresh the session Rel-8 C157 UE supports MTSI
and MTSI speech and initiating a session and preconditions and E-UTRA and not
UE category M1 and Session Timer 22.2 MO Call -- Remote end is refresher Rel-8
C157 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a session and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 and Session Timer 22.3 MO Call
-- Remote end does not support Session Timer Rel-8 C157 UE supports MTSI and
MTSI speech and initiating a session and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 and Session Timer 22.4 MO Call -- Remote end seems oblivious to
Session Timer parameters Rel-8 C157 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and
initiating a session and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 and
Session Timer 22.5 MT Call -- Remote end does not send Session-Expires Rel-8
C158 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 and Session Timer 22.6 MT Call -- Remote end sends Session-Expires
but does not choose refresher Rel-8 C158 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 and Session Timer 22.7 MT Call
-- Remote end chooses UE as refresher Rel-8 C158 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
speech and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 and Session Timer
22.8 MT Call -- Remote end does not support Session Timer Rel-8 C158 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category
M1 and Session Timer **G.8** **Registration / WLAN**  
G.8.1 Initial Registration / WLAN Rel-11 C108 UE supports MTSI and WLAN
**G.12** **Call Control / WLAN**  
G.12.1 MO MTSI speech call / WLAN Rel-11 C152 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech
and preconditions and WLAN G.12.2 MT MTSI speech call / WLAN Rel-11 C152 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and preconditions and WLAN G.12.3 MO MTSI video
call / WLAN Rel-11 C153 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and
preconditions and WLAN G.12.4 MT MTSI video call / WLAN Rel-11 C153 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and preconditions and WLAN
**G.15** **Supplementary Services / WLAN**  
G.15.1 Originating Identification Presentation / WLAN Rel-11 C92 UE supports
MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification Presentation and WLAN G.15.2
Originating Identification Restriction / Signalling / WLAN Rel-11 C93 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification Restriction and
preconditions and WLAN G.15.3 Terminating Identification Presentation / WLAN
Rel-11 C94 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification Presentation
and WLAN G.15.4 Terminating Identification Restriction / Signalling / WLAN
Rel-11 C95 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification Restriction
and preconditions and WLAN G.15.5 Communication Forwarding unconditional /
WLAN Rel-11 C101 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and WLAN
G.15.6 Communication Forwarding on non Reply: activation / WLAN Rel-11 C101 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and WLAN G.15.7 Communication
Forwarding on non reply: MO call initiation / WLAN Rel-11 C102 UE supports
MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Diversion and preconditions and
WLAN G.15.8 Communication Forwarding on Busy / WLAN Rel-11 C101 UE supports
MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and WLAN G.15.9 Communication Forwarding
on Not logged-in / WLAN Rel-11 C101 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication
Diversion and WLAN G.15.10 Communication Forwarding on Not reachable / Rel-11
C101 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and WLAN G.15.11 MO
Call Hold without announcement / WLAN Rel-11 C109 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
speech and MTSI Communication Hold and preconditions and WLAN G.15.12 MT Call
Hold without announcement / WLAN Rel-11 C109 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech
and Communication Hold and preconditions and WLAN G.15.13 MO video Call Hold
without announcement / WLAN Rel-11 C110 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and
MTSI video and MTSI Communication Hold and preconditions and WLAN G.15.14 MT
video Call Hold without announcement / WLAN Rel-11 C110 UE supports MTSI and
MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI Communication Hold and preconditions and
WLAN G.15.15 Incoming Communication Barring while roaming / WLAN Rel-11 C111
UE supports MTSI and MTSI Incoming Communication Barring and WLAN and (GBA or
HTTP Digest) (NOTE 4) G.15.16 Outgoing Communication Barring while roaming /
WLAN Rel-11 C112 UE supports MTSI and Outgoing Communication Barring and WLAN
and (GBA or HTTP Digest) (NOTE 4) G.15.17 Subscription to the MWI event
package / WLAN Rel-11 C113 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Message Waiting
Indication and WLAN G.15.18 Inviting user to conference by sending a REFER
request to the conference focus / WLAN Rel-11 C114 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
speech and MTSI Conference and preconditions and WLAN G.15.19 Void  
G.15.20 Three way session creation / WLAN Rel-11 C116 UE supports MTSI and
MTSI speech and MTSI Conference and MTSI three way session and preconditions
and WLAN G.15.21 Inviting user to conference by sending a REFER request to the
conference focus for video / WLAN Rel-11 C117 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech
and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and MTSI Conference and
preconditions and WLAN G.15.22 Void  
G.15.23 Three way session creation for video / WLAN Rel-11 C119 UE supports
MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and
MTSI Conference and MTSI three way session and preconditions and WLAN G.15.24
Communication Waiting and answering the call / WLAN Rel-11 C120 UE supports
MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Waiting and preconditions and WLAN
G.15.25 Communication Waiting and cancelling the call / WLAN Rel-11 C120 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Waiting and preconditions
and WLAN **G.17** **Media use cases / WLAN**  
G.17.1 MO Speech, add video remove video / WLAN Rel-11 C106 UE supports MTSI
and initiating a session and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI video H.264
CBP Level 1.2 and preconditions and WLAN G.17.2 MT Speech, add video remove
video / WLAN Rel-11 C107 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and
MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and preconditions and WLAN **G.19** **Emergency
Service over IMS / WLAN**  
G.19.1 Emergency call with emergency registration / WLAN Rel-11 C121 UE
supports IMS emergency call over WLAN and WLAN **H.8** **Registration / Fixed
Broadband Access**  
H.8.1 Initial registration / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C90 UE supports SIP
Digest without TLS and Fixed Broadband H.8.2 User Initiated Re-Registration /
Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C90 UE supports SIP Digest without TLS and Fixed
Broadband H.8.3 User Initiated Deregistration / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12
C100 UE supports SIP Digest without TLS and Fixed Broadband and IMS
deregistration H.8.4 Invalid behaviour- 423 Interval too brief / Fixed
Broadband Access Rel-12 C90 UE supports SIP Digest without TLS and Fixed
Broadband H.8.5 User initiated re-registration - 423 Interval Too Brief /
Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C90 UE supports SIP Digest without TLS and Fixed
Broadband **H.9** **Authentication / Fixed Broadband Access**  
H.9.1 SIP digest without TLS - abnormal procedures - 403 Forbidden / Fixed
Broadband Access Rel-12 C90 UE supports SIP Digest without TLS and Fixed
Broadband **H.11** **Notification / Fixed Broadband Access**  
H.11.2 Network initiated re-authentication / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C90
UE supports SIP Digest without TLS and Fixed Broadband **H.12** **Call Control
/ Fixed Broadband Access**  
H.12.1 Originating - 503 Service Unavailable / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12
C91 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and SIP Digest without TLS and no
preconditions and Fixed Broadband H.12.2 Originating - 504 Server Time-out /
Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C161 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and SIP
Digest without TLS and preconditions and Fixed Broadband H.12.3 Originating
MTSI Voice Call Successful with preconditions / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12
C161 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and SIP Digest without TLS and
preconditions and Fixed Broadband H.12.4 Originating MTSI Voice Call
Successful without preconditions / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C105 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and SIP Digest without TLS and no preconditions
and Fixed Broadband H.12.5 Terminating MTSI Voice call with preconditions /
Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C161 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and SIP
Digest without TLS and preconditions and Fixed Broadband H.12.6 Terminating
MTSI voice call without preconditions / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C105 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI speech and SIP Digest without TLS and no preconditions
and Fixed Broadband H.12.7 Originating MTSI Video call without preconditions /
Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C122 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and video
and SIP Digest without TLS and no preconditions and Fixed Broadband H.12.8
Terminating MTSI Video call without preconditions / Fixed Broadband Access
Rel-12 C122 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and video and SIP Digest without
TLS and no preconditions and Fixed Broadband **H.15** **Supplementary Services
/ Fixed Broadband Access**
H.15.1 Originating Identification Presentation / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12
C96 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification Presentation and
Fixed Broadband H.15.2 Originating Identification Restriction / Signalling /
Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C97 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Originating
Identification Restriction and preconditions and Fixed Broadband H.15.3
Terminating Identification Presentation / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C98 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification Presentation and Fixed
Broadband H.15.4 Terminating Identification Restriction / Signalling / Fixed
Broadband Access Rel-12 C99 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Terminating
Identification Restriction and no preconditions and Fixed Broadband H.15.5
Communication Forwarding unconditional / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C103 UE
supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and Fixed Broadband H.15.6
Communication Forwarding on non Reply: activation / Fixed Broadband Access
Rel-12 C103 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and Fixed
Broadband H.15.7 Communication Forwarding on non reply: Originating call
initiation / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C104 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
speech and MTSI Communication Diversion and no preconditions and Fixed
Broadband H.15.8 Communication Forwarding on Busy / Fixed Broadband Access
Rel-12 C103 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and Fixed
Broadband H.15.9 Communication Forwarding on Not logged-in / Fixed Broadband
Rel-12 C103 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and Fixed
Broadband H.15.10 Communication Forwarding on Not reachable / Fixed Broadband
Rel-12 C103 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and Fixed
Broadband H.15.11 Self-Configuration via SIP based procedure / Fixed Broadband
Access Rel-12 C123 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and SIP-
based configuration and Fixed Broadband **H.17** **Media use cases / Fixed
Broadband Access**  
H.17.1 Originating Voice, add video remove video / Fixed Broadband Access
Rel-12 C122 UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and SIP Digest
without TLS and no preconditions and Fixed Broadband H.17.2 Terminating Voice,
add video remove video / Fixed Broadband Access Rel-12 C122 UE supports MTSI
and MTSI speech and MTSI video and SIP Digest without TLS and no preconditions
and Fixed Broadband **I.8** **RCS**  
I.8.1a Initial Registration / single / E-UTRA n/a C135 UE supports combined
registration over E-UTRA I.8.1b Initial Registration / dual / E-UTRA n/a C136
UE supports registration to two IMS core networks over E-UTRA I.8.1c Initial
Registration / single / WLAN n/a C137 UE supports combined registration over
WLAN I.8.1d Initial Registration / dual / WLAN n/a C138 UE supports
registration to two IMS core networks over WLAN I.12.1a MO voice call / single
/ E-UTRA n/a C139 UE supports voice call after combined registration over
E-UTRA I.12.1b MO voice call / dual / E-UTRA n/a C140 UE supports voice call
after dual registration over E-UTRA I.12.1c MO voice call / single / WLAN n/a
C141 UE supports voice call after combined registration over WLAN I.12.1d MO
voice call / dual / WLAN n/a C142 UE supports voice call after dual
registration over WLAN I.12.2a RCS chat / single / E-UTRA n/a C143 UE supports
RCS chat after combined registration over E-UTRA I.12.2b RCS chat / dual /
E-UTRA n/a C144 UE supports RCS chat after dual registration over E-UTRA
I.12.2c RCS chat / single / WLAN n/a C145 UE supports RCS chat after combined
registration over WLAN I.12.2d RCS chat / dual / WLAN n/a C146 UE supports RCS
chat after combined registration over E-UTRA **J.8** **Registration / UE
category M1**  
J.8.1 Initial Registration / UE category M1 Rel-13 C126 UE supports MTSI and
UE category M1 **J.12** **Call control / UE category M1**  
J.12.1 MO MTSI speech call / UE category M1 Rel-13 C163 UE supports MTSI and
preconditions and UE category M1 J.12.2 MT MTSI speech call / UE category M1
Rel-13 C163 UE supports MTSI and preconditions and UE category M1 **J.15**
**Supplementary Services / UE category M1**  
J.15.1 Communication Waiting and answering the call / UE category M1 Rel-13
C127 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Waiting and preconditions and UE
category M1 J.15.2 Communication Waiting and cancelling the call / UE category
M1 Rel-13 C127 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Communication Waiting and
preconditions and UE category M1 J.15.3 Subscription to the MWI event package
/ UE category M1 Rel-13 C128 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Message Waiting
Indication and UE category M1 J.15.4 Originating Identification Restriction /
Signalling / UE category M1 Rel-13 C129 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Originating
Identification Restriction and preconditions and UE category M1 J.15.5
Terminating Identification Restriction / Signalling / UE category M1 Rel-13
C130 UE supports MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification Restriction and
preconditions and UE category M1 J.15.6 Communication forwarding on non-reply:
MO call initiation / UE category M1 Rel-13 C131 UE supports MTSI and MTSI
Communication Diversion and preconditions and UE category M1 **J.18** **SMS
over IMS / UE category M1**  
J.18.1 Mobile Originating SMS / UE category M1 Rel-13 C154 UE supports MO SMS
over IMS and UE configured to use SMS over IP and UE is category M1 J.18.2
Mobile Terminating SMS / UE category M1 Rel-13 C155 UE supports SM-over-IP
receiver and UE configured to use SMS over IP and UE is category M1 **J.19**
**Emergency Service over IMS / UE category M1**  
J.19.1 Emergency call with emergency registration / Success / Location
information available / UE category M1 Rel-13 C132 UE supports EPS IMS
emergency call and is capable of obtaining location information and UE
category M1 J.19.2 Emergency call with emergency registration / Success /
Location information not available / UE category M1 Rel-13 C133 UE supports
EPS IMS emergency call and UE category M1
* * *
Table 4.1a: Applicability Conditions for TS 34.229-1 tests
* * *
Condition Test Case Selection Expression Comment C00 Void  
C01 IF A.4/2B THEN R ELSE N/A (condition unused, see NOTE 1 below) Initiating
a session C02 Void  
C03 IF A.4/2B AND A.4/16 THEN R ELSE N/A (condition unused, see NOTE 1)
Initiating a session and preconditions C04 IF A.12/4 THEN R ELSE N/A Dedicated
PDP Context C05 IF A.12/5 THEN R ELSE N/A P-CSCF Discovery via PCO C06 IF
A.7/1 AND A.13/1 THEN R ELSE N/A IPv4 and configured to initiate P-CSCF
discovery via DHCPv4 C07 IF A.7/1 AND A.12/8 AND A.13/2 AND A.12/5 THEN R ELSE
N/A IPv4 and P-CSCF discovery via PCO and P-CSCF discovery via DHCPv4 and
configured to initiate P-CSCF discovery via PCO C08 IF A.12/7 THEN R ELSE N/A
Configured to initiate P-CSCF discovery via DHCPv6 C09 IF A.12/8 AND A.12/10
AND A.12/5 THEN R ELSE N/A P-CSCF Discovery via PCO and P-CSCF discovery via
DHCPv6 and configured to initiate P-CSCF discovery via PCO C10 IF A.12/8 AND
A.12/10 AND A.12/7 THEN R ELSE N/A P-CSCF Discovery via PCO and P-CSCF
discovery via DHCPv6 and configured to initiate P-CSCF discovery via DHCPv6
C11 Void  
C12 Void  
C13 Void  
C14 Void  
C15 Void  
C16 Void  
C17 IF A.6a/2 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A IMS
security and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C18 IF A.6a/1 AND NOT A.6a/2 AND
A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A GIBA and not IMS security and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C19 IF A.6a/2 AND A.6a/1 THEN R ELSE N/A IMS
security and GIBA C20 Void  
C21 Void  
C22 Void  
C23 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/6 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Hold
and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C24 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/7
AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A
MTSI and Incoming Communication Barring and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and E-UTRA
and not UE category M1 C25 Void  
C26 Void  
C27 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN
R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 C28 IF A.3A/50 AND A.4/2B AND A.15/1 AND A.15/2 AND A.4/16 AND
A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
speech, AMR wideband and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C29
IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/11 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Explicit
Communication Transfer - consultative transfer and preconditions and E-UTRA
and not UE category M1 C30 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/5 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND
A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Communication
Diversion and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C31 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/5 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1
THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Diversion and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C32 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND
A.16/9 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI
and MTSI speech and MTSI Conference and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 C33 Void  
C34 Void  
C35 Void  
C37 Void  
C38 Void  
C39 Void  
C40 Void  
C41 Void  
C42 Void  
C43 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/1 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification
Presentation and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C44 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.16/2 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE
N/A MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification Restriction and preconditions and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C45 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/7 AND A.16/12 AND
(A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI
and MTSI Communication Barring and MTSI Anonymous Communication Rejection and
(GBA or HTTP Digest) and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C46 Void  
C47 Void  
C48 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/3 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and Terminating Identification Presentation
and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C49 IF A.3A/50 AND
A.16/4 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI
and MTSI Terminating Identification Restriction and preconditions and E-UTRA
and not UE category M1 C50 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/8 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Message Waiting Indication and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C51 Void  
C52 Void  
C53 Void  
C54 Void  
C55 IF A.3A/61 AND A.18/1 AND [73] A.4.4-2/32 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R
ELSE N/A SM-over-IP sender and E-UTRA and UE configured to use SMS over IP and
UE is not category M1 C56 IF A.3A/62 AND A.18/1 AND [73] A.4.4-2/32 AND NOT
[73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A SM-over-IP receiver and E-UTRA and UE
configured to use SMS over IP and UE is not category M1 C57 IF A.3A/50 AND
A.15/1 AND A.16/13 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE
N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI communication waiting and preconditions and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C58 IF A.6a/2 AND A.8/5 THEN R ELSE N/A IMS
security and Indicate Sigcomp C59 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.18/1 AND NOT
[73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A EPS IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 C60 Void  
C61 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/9 AND A.16/14 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Conference and MTSI three way
session and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C62 IF [73]
A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND [34.123-2] A.2/2 AND ([73] A.4.1-1/6 OR [73] A.4.1-1/7) THEN
R ELSE N/A EPS IMS emergency call and emergency speech call and (UTRAN or
GERAN) C63 Void  
C64 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1THEN R ELSE N/A
EPS IMS emergency call and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C65 Void  
C66 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.12/12 AND A.15/1 AND [34.123-2] A.2/2 AND
([73] A.4.1-1/6 OR [73] A.4.1-1/7) THEN R ELSE N/A EPS IMS emergency call and
initiating bidirectional voice session over IMS and MTSI speech and emergency
call and (UTRAN or GERAN) C67 Void  
C68 Void  
C69 Void  
C70 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.15/9 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT
[73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI
Video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
C71 IF A.3A/50 AND A.4/2B AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.15/9 AND A.4/16 AND
A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and initiating a session
and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI Video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C72 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND
A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.12/33 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1
THEN R ELSE N/A EPS IMS emergency call and MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
Communication Hold during emergency call and preconditions and E-UTRA and not
UE category M1 C73 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.18/1 AND
NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1THEN R ELSE N/A EPS IMS emergency call and MTSI and MTSI
speech and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C74 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND [3]
A.2/2 AND [73] A.4.1-1/4 THEN R ELSE N/A EPS IMS emergency call and emergency
speech call and 1xRTT C75 IF A.12/12 AND A.15/1 AND [3] A.2/2 AND [73]
A.4.1-1/4 THEN R ELSE N/A initiating bidirectional voice session over IMS and
MTSI Speech and IMS emergency call and emergency speech call and 1xRTT C76 IF
[73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.12/27 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1THEN R ELSE
N/A EPS IMS emergency call and capable of obtaining location Information and
E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C77 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.15/9
AND A.16/6 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A
MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI Video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and
MTSI Communication Hold and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1
C78 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.15/9 AND A.16/9 AND A.4/16 AND
A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and MTSI Conference and preconditions and E-UTRA and
not UE category M1 C79 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.15/9 AND A.16/9
AND A.16/14 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A
MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video andMTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and MTSI
Conference and MTSI three way session and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 C80 IF A.6a/2 AND A.12/39 AND A.18/1 AND ([73] A.4.4-2/5 OR [73]
A.4.4-2/8) AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A IMS security and IMS
deregistration and E-UTRA and (Support of CS/PS mode 2 or Support of PS mode
2) and not UE category M1 C81 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/1 AND A.6a/3 AND A.18/1 AND
NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification
Presentation and GBA for XCAP authentication. and E-UTRA and not UE category
M1 C82 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.12/45 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and early media and
preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C83 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/10 AND
A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI
speech EVS and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C84 IF A.3A/50
AND A.16/15 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R
ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Outgoing Communication Barring and (GBA or HTTP Digest)
and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C85 Void  
C86 Void  
C87 Void  
C88 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/2A AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification
Restriction Configuration and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 C89 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/4A AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND A.18/1 AND
NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification
Restriction - Configuration and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and E-UTRA and not UE
category M1 C90 IF A.6a/5 AND A.18/3 THEN R ELSE N/A SIP Digest without TLS
and Fixed Broadband C91 IF A.6a/5 AND A.18/3 AND A.3A/50 AND NOT A.4/16 AND
A.15/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and SIP Digest without TLS and no
preconditions and Fixed Broadband C92 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/1 AND A.18/4 THEN R
ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification Presentation and WLAN C93 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.16/2 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI
Originating Identification Restriction and preconditions and WLAN C94 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.16/3 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Terminating
Identification Presentation and WLAN C95 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/4 AND A.4/16 AND
A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification Restriction
and preconditions and WLAN C96 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/1 AND A.18/3 THEN R ELSE
N/A MTSI and MTSI Originating Identification Presentation and Fixed Broadband
C97 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/2 AND A.18/3 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Originating
Identification Restriction and Fixed Broadband C98 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/3 AND
A.18/3 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification Presentation
and Fixed Broadband C99 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/4 AND NOT A.4/16 AND A.18/3 THEN R
ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Terminating Identification Restriction and no
preconditions and Fixed Broadband C100 IF A.6a/5 AND A.18/3 AND A.12/39 THEN R
ELSE N/A SIP Digest without TLS and Fixed Broadband and IMS deregistration
C101 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/5 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI
Communication Diversion and WLAN C102 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/5 AND
A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication
Diversion and preconditions and WLAN C103 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/5 AND A.18/3
THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and Fixed Broadband C104
IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/5 AND A.18/3 AND NOT A.4/16 THEN R ELSE N/A
MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Diversion and Fixed Broadband and
no preconditions C105 IF A.3A/50 AND A.6a/5 AND A.18/3 AND A.15/1 AND NOT
A.4/16 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and SIP Digest without TLS and
Fixed Broadband and no preconditions C106 IF A.3A/50 AND A.4/2B AND A.15/1 AND
A.15/3 AND A.15/9 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and initiating a
session and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI Video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and
preconditions and WLAN C107 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.15/9 AND
A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI
Video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and preconditions and WLAN C108 IF A.3A/50 AND
A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and WLAN C109 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/6 AND
A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication
Hold and preconditions and WLAN C110 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND
A.16/6 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
video and MTSI Communication Hold and preconditions and WLAN C111 IF A.3A/50
AND A.16/7 AND A.18/4 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI
Incoming Communication Barring and WLAN and (GBA or HTTP Digest) C112 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.16/15 AND A.18/4 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and
MTSI Outgoing Communication Barring and WLAN and (GBA or HTTP Digest) C113 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.16/8 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Message Waiting
Indication and WLAN C114 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/9 AND A.4/16 AND
A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Conference and
preconditions and WLAN C115 Void  
C116 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/9 AND A.16/14 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R
ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Conference and MTSI three way session
and preconditions and WLAN C117 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.15/9
AND A.16/9 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
video and MTSI video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and MTSI Conference and preconditions
and WLAN C118 Void  
C119 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.15/9 AND A.16/9 AND A.16/14 AND
A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI
video H.264 CBP Level 1.2 and MTSI Conference and MTSI three way session and
preconditions and WLAN C120 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/13 AND A.4/16 AND
A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI communication waiting and
preconditions and WLAN C121 IF A.12/65 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A IMS
emergency call over WLAN and WLAN C122 IF A.3A/50 AND A.6a/5 AND A.18/3 AND
A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND NOT A.4/16 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
video and SIP Digest without TLS and Fixed Broadband and no preconditions C123
IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/5 AND A.16/18 AND A.18/3 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI
Communication Diversion and SIP-based configuration and Fixed Broadband C124
IF A.6a/2 AND A.6a/1 AND [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A IMS security and GIBA and EPS IMS emergency call
and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C125 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.12/52 AND
A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A EPS IMS emergency call and
IMS emergency call without registration after rejection of emergency
registration and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C126 IF A.3A/50 AND A.4/16 AND
[73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and preconditions and UE category M1
C127 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/13 AND A.4/16 AND [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A
MTSI and MTSI communication waiting and preconditions and UE category M1 C128
IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/8 AND [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI
Message Waiting Indication and UE category M1 C129 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/2 AND
A.4/16 AND [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI Originating
Identification Restriction and preconditions and UE category M1 C130 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.16/4 AND A.4/16 AND [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and
MTSI Terminating Identification Restriction and preconditions and UE category
M1 C131 IF A.3A/50 AND A.16/5 AND A.4/16 AND [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A
MTSI and MTSI Communication Diversion and preconditions and UE category M1
C132 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.12/27 AND [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A
EPS IMS emergency call and capable of obtaining location Information and UE
category M1 C133 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A
EPS IMS emergency call and UE category M1 C134 IF A.6a/2 AND NOT A.6a/1 AND
[73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.12/52 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1THEN R ELSE
N/A IMS security and NOT GIBA and EPS IMS emergency call and IMS emergency
call without registration after rejection of emergency registration. UE
supports E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C135 IF A.20/1 THEN R ELSE N/A Combined
Registration E-UTRA C136 IF A.20/2 THEN R ELSE N/A Dual Registration E-UTRA
C137 IF A.20/3 THEN R ELSE N/A Combined Registration WLAN C138 IF A.20/4 THEN
R ELSE N/A Dual Registration WLAN C139 IF A.20/5 THEN R ELSE N/A Voice Call
after combined registration E-UTRA C140 IF A.20/6 THEN R ELSE N/A Voice call
after dual registration E-UTRA C141 IF A.20/7 THEN R ELSE N/A Voice Call after
combined registration WLAN C142 IF A.20/8 THEN R ELSE N/A Voice call after
dual registration WLAN C143 IF A.20/9 THEN R ELSE N/A RCS chat after combined
registration E-UTRA C144 IF A.20/10 THEN R ELSE N/A RCS chat after dual
registration E-UTRA C145 IF A.20/11 THEN R ELSE N/A RCS chat after combined
registration WLAN C146 IF A.20/12 THEN R ELSE N/A RCS chat after dual
registration WLAN C147 IF A.12/54 AND [3] A.10/16 THEN R ELSE N/A IMS eCall
type of emergency services over EPS and manual type of eCall C148 IF A.12/54
AND [3] A.10/17 THEN R ELSE N/A IMS eCall type of emergency services over EPS
and automatic type of eCall C149 IF A.12/55 AND [3] A.10/16 THEN R ELSE N/A
IMS eCall Only type of emergency services over EPS and manual type of eCall
C150 IF A.12/55 AND [3] A.10/17 THEN R ELSE N/A IMS eCall Only type of
emergency services over EPS and automatic type of eCall C151 IF A.18/1 AND NOT
[73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C152 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/4 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech
and preconditions and WLAN C153 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/4
AND A.15/3 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI video and
preconditions and WLAN C154 IF A.3A/61 AND [73] A.4.4-2/32 AND [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A SM-over-IP sender and UE configured to use SMS
over IP and UE is category M1 C155 IF A.3A/62 AND [73] A.4.4-2/32 AND [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A SM-over-IP receiver and UE configured to use SMS
over IP and UE is category M1 C156 Void - C157 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND
A.4/2B AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 AND A.12/57 THEN R ELSE
N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a session and preconditions and E-UTRA
and not UE category M1 and Session Timer C158 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/16
AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 AND A.12/57 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI
speech and preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 and Session Timer
C159 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/2B AND A.18/1 AND A.16/19 AND NOT [73]
A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a
session and E-UTRA and USSI and not UE category M1 C160 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1
AND A.4/2B AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A
MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating a session and preconditions and E-UTRA and
not UE category M1 C161 IF A.6a/5 AND A.18/3 AND A.3A/50 AND A.4/16 AND A.15/1
THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and SIP Digest without TLS and
preconditions and Fixed Broadband C162 IF [73] A.4.2.1.1-1/4 AND A.18/1 AND
[3] A.20/90 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A EPS IMS emergency call
and E-UTRA and no USIM test execution and not UE category M1 C163 IF A.3A/50
AND A.4/16 AND [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and preconditions and UE
category M1 C164 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/2B AND NOT A.4/16 AND A.18/1
AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and initiating
a session and no preconditions and E-UTRA and not UE category M1 C165 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.18/1 AND NOT A.4/16 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R
ELSE N/A UE supports MTSI and MTSI speech and E-UTRA and no preconditions and
not UE category M1 C166 Void  
C167 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/2 AND NOT A.15/10 AND A.4/16 AND A.18/1
AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI
speech, AMR wideband and not MTSI speech, EVS and preconditions and E-UTRA and
not UE category M1 C168 IF A.3A/64 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R
ELSE N/A Concatenated SM-over-IP sender and E-UTRA and UE is not category M1
C169 IF A.3A/65 AND A.18/1 AND NOT [73] A.4.3.2-2A/1 THEN R ELSE N/A
Concatenated SM-over-IP receiver and E-UTRA and UE is not category M1
* * *
NOTE 1: Applicability of test cases 13.2 and 13.3 are currently marked as FFS.
The reason to this is that the contents of the specific messages sent by the
SS (as currently specified within those Call Control test cases) do not match
the contents of those messages as expected by any specific IMS application
known. Further on the test specification apparently lacks support for certain
application specific message exchanges which are however mandatory for a few
specific IMS applications specified outside of TS 24.229. It is necessary to
fully resolve the problem (by e.g. defining the applications for which the
Call Control test cases would be applicable, possibly specifying the
extensions to the test cases like required by those applications and creating
the corresponding application profiles) before the applicability statements of
Call Control test cases can be unambiguously defined.
NOTE 2: Either one of the two adjacent test cases, i.e. (19.1.3 or 19.1.3a),
(19.3.2 or 19.3.2a), shall be executed.
NOTE 3: This TC can optionally be executed against Rel-8 and onwards UEs.
NOTE 4: In case the UE supports both GBA and HTTP Digest, GBA shall be used as
XCAP authentication.
NOTE 5: In case the UE supports both GBA and HTTP Digest, HTTP Digest shall be
used as XCAP authentication.
NOTE 6: The TC contains multi-RAT branches not all mandatory in the scope of
the TC. The E-UTRA/EPC branch will be executed always; the TC will go through
any other RAT branch depending on the UE capability. Execution only of the
E-UTRA/EPC branch regardless of the UE capabilities can also be imposed by
setting the IXIT px_RATComb_Tested = EUTRA_only. For UEs supporting both UTRA
and GERAN the TC should be executed once only for the E-UTRA/EPC and UTRA
combination by setting the px_RATComb_Tested = EUTRA_UTRA.
NOTE 7: This TC can optionally be executed against Rel-9 and onwards UEs.
## 4.2 Applicabilities for test cases specified in TS 34.229-5
Table 4.2: Applicability of TS 34.229-5 tests
+--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | Clause | Title | Release | Applicability | Comments | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | **6** | ** | | | | | | Registration**| | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 6.1 | Initial | Rel-15 | C01 | UE supports NR | | | Registration / | | | (see Note 1 | | | 5GS | | | below) | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 6.2 | Initial | Rel-15 | C01 | UE supports NR | | | Registration | | | | | | Failures / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 6.3 | R | Rel-15 | C01 | UE supports NR | | | e-Registration | | | | | | Scenarios / | | | | | | 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 6.4 | D | Rel-15 | C13 | UE supports NR | | | e-Registration | | | and IMS | | | Scenarios / | | | d | | | 5GS | | | e-registration | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 6.5 | Void | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 6.6 | R | Rel-15 | C15 | UE supports NR | | | e-Registration | | | and | | | after | | | Enab | | | capability | | | ling/Disabling | | | update / 5GS | | | SMS over IMS | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 6.7 | Authentication | Rel-15 | C01 | UE supports NR | | | / MAC | | | | | | Parameter | | | | | | Invalid / Only | | | | | | two | | | | | | consecutive | | | | | | challenges / | | | | | | 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 6.8 | Authentication | Rel-15 | C01 | UE supports NR | | | / Security | | | | | | Server missing | | | | | | / SQN out of | | | | | | range / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 6.9 | Subscription / | Rel-15 | C01 | UE supports NR | | | 503 Service | | | | | | Unavailable / | | | | | | 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ |** 7**|** Call | | | | | | Control**| | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.1 | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C03 | UE supports NR | | | Call / 503 | | | and IMS voice | | | Service | | | over NR and | | | Unavailable / | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | 5GS | | | speech and | | | | | | AMR-WB and EVS | | | | | | and initiating | | | | | | a session and | | | | | | NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.2 | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C03 | UE supports NR | | | Call / 504 | | | and IMS voice | | | Server | | | over NR and | | | Time-out / 5GS | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | | | | speech and | | | | | | AMR-WB and EVS | | | | | | and initiating | | | | | | a session and | | | | | | NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.3 | Void | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.4 | Void | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.4a | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | Call with | | | voice over NR | | | preconditions | | | and MTSI | | | at both | | | Speech and | | | originating UE | | | preconditions | | | and | | | and NG.114 | | | terminating UE | | | v1.0 | | | / Default | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.5 | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C27 | UE supports NR | | | call without | | | and IMS voice | | | preconditions | | | over NR and | | | at both | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | originating UE | | | speech and | | | and | | | AMR-WB and EVS | | | terminating UE | | | and initiating | | | / 5GS | | | a session and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and disabling | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.6 | Void | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.6a | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | Call with | | | voice over NR | | | preconditions | | | and MTSI | | | at both | | | Speech and | | | originating UE | | | preconditions | | | and | | | and NG.114 | | | terminating UE | | | v1.0 | | | / Default | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.7 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C28 | UE supports NR | | | Call without | | | and IMS voice | | | preconditions | | | over NR and | | | at both | | | MTSI speech | | | originating UE | | | and | | | and | | | preconditions | | | terminating UE | | | and disabling | | | / 5GS | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.8 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | Call without | | | voice over NR | | | preconditions | | | and MTSI | | | at originating | | | Speech and | | | UE and with | | | preconditions | | | preconditions | | | and NG.114 | | | at terminating | | | v1.0 | | | UE / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.9 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C28 | UE supports NR | | | Call with | | | and IMS voice | | | preconditions | | | over NR and | | | at originating | | | MTSI speech | | | UE and without | | | and | | | preconditions | | | preconditions | | | at terminating | | | and disabling | | | UE / 5GS | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.10 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C60 | UE supports NR | | | call without | | | and IMS voice | | | preconditions | | | over NR and | | | and without | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | SDP offer in | | | speech and | | | MT INVITE / | | | AMR-WB and EVS | | | 5GS | | | and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and disabling | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | | | | | | and (EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | B0 or EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | A1) | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.11 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C05 | UE supports NR | | | call without | | | and IMS voice | | | preconditions | | | over NR and | | | at terminating | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | UE and | | | speech and | | | originating UE | | | (not | | | requiring them | | | preconditions | | | / 5GS | | | or | | | | | | (preconditions | | | | | | and disabling | | | | | | p | | | | | | reconditions)) | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.12 | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C14 | UE supports NR | | | Call with | | | and IMS voice | | | preconditions | | | over NR and | | | at originating | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | UE and without | | | speech and | | | preconditions | | | AMR-WB and EVS | | | at terminating | | | and initiating | | | UE / 5GS | | | a session and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | | | | | | and (EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | B0 or EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | A1) | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.13 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | Call with RTCP | | | voice over NR | | | disabled / 5GS | | | and MTSI | | | | | | Speech and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG.114 | | | | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.14 | MTSI MO Video | Rel-15 | C61 | NR and IMS | | | Call with | | | voice over NR | | | preconditions | | | and MTSI | | | at both | | | Speech and | | | originating | | | MTSI video and | | | and | | | preconditions | | | terminating UE | | | and NG.114 | | | / 5GS | | | v1.0 | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.15 | MTSI MO Video | Rel-15 | C31 | UE supports NR | | | call without | | | and IMS voice | | | preconditions | | | over NR and | | | at both | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | originating UE | | | speech and | | | and | | | AMR-WB and EVS | | | terminating UE | | | and MTSI video | | | / 5GS | | | and MTSI video | | | | | | H.265 MP MT | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | MTSI video | | | | | | H.264 CHP | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | H.264 CBP | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | initiating a | | | | | | session and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and disabling | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | | | | | | and (EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | B0 or EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | A1) | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.16 | MTSI MT Video | Rel-15 | C61 | NR and IMS | | | call with | | | voice over NR | | | preconditions | | | and MTSI | | | at both | | | Speech and | | | originating UE | | | MTSI video and | | | and | | | preconditions | | | terminating UE | | | and NG.114 | | | / 5GS | | | v1.0 | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.17 | MTSI MT Video | Rel-15 | C33 | UE supports NR | | | call without | | | and IMS voice | | | preconditions | | | over NR and | | | at both | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | originating UE | | | speech and EVS | | | and | | | and MTSI video | | | terminating UE | | | and MTSI video | | | / 5GS | | | H.265 MP MT | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | MTSI video | | | | | | H.264 CHP | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | H.264 CBP | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and disabling | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | | | | | | and EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | B0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.18 | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | Call / EVS / | | | voice over NR | | | AMR-WB / 5GS | | | and MTSI | | | | | | Speech and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG.114 | | | | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.19 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | Call / EVS / | | | voice over NR | | | AMR-WB IO mode | | | and MTSI | | | / 5GS | | | Speech and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG.114 | | | | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.20 | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C61 | NR and IMS | | | Call / add | | | voice over NR | | | video and | | | and MTSI | | | remove video / | | | Speech and | | | with | | | MTSI video and | | | preconditions | | | preconditions | | | at both | | | and NG.114 | | | originating UE | | | v1.0 | | | and | | | | | | terminating UE | | | NOTE 3 | | | / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.21 | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C31 | UE supports NR | | | Call / add | | | and IMS voice | | | video and | | | over NR and | | | remove video / | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | without | | | speech and | | | preconditions | | | AMR-WB and EVS | | | at both | | | and MTSI video | | | originating UE | | | and MTSI video | | | and | | | H.265 MP MT | | | terminating UE | | | Level 3.1 and | | | / 5GS | | | MTSI video | | | | | | H.264 CHP | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | H.264 CBP | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | initiating a | | | | | | session and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and disabling | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | | | | | | and (EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | B0 or EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | A1) | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.22 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C61 | NR and IMS | | | Call / add | | | voice over NR | | | video and | | | and MTSI | | | remove video / | | | Speech and | | | with | | | MTSI video and | | | preconditions | | | preconditions | | | at both | | | and NG.114 | | | originating UE | | | v1.0 | | | and | | | | | | terminating UE | | | NOTE 3 | | | / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.23 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C33 | UE supports NR | | | Call / add | | | and IMS voice | | | video and | | | over NR and | | | remove video / | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | without | | | speech and EVS | | | preconditions | | | and MTSI video | | | at both | | | and MTSI video | | | originating UE | | | H.265 MP MT | | | and | | | Level 3.1 and | | | terminating UE | | | MTSI video | | | / 5GS | | | H.264 CHP | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | H.264 CBP | | | | | | Level 3.1 and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and disabling | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | | | | | | and EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | B0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.24 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | Call / Forking | | | voice over NR | | | / UE receives | | | and MTSI | | | CANCEL request | | | Speech and | | | for a forked | | | preconditions | | | MT voice call | | | and NG.114 | | | / 5GS | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.24a | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | Call / Forking | | | voice over NR | | | / UE receives | | | and MTSI | | | two | | | Speech and | | | preliminary | | | preconditions | | | responses and | | | and NG.114 | | | one early | | | v1.0 | | | dialog | | | | | | termination / | | | | | | 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.24b | MTSI MO Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | Call / UE | | | voice over NR | | | receives two | | | and MTSI | | | preliminary | | | Speech and | | | responses and | | | preconditions | | | one final | | | and NG.114 | | | response / 5GS | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.25 | MTSI MT Voice | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | call without | | | voice over NR | | | SDP offer in | | | and MTSI | | | INVITE / 5GS | | | Speech and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG.114 | | | | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.26 | Mobile | Rel-15 | C17 | NR and IMS | | | Originating | | | voice over NR | | | CAT / Forking | | | and MTSI | | | Model / MO | | | Speech and | | | Voice Call / | | | preconditions | | | 5GS | | | and NG.114 | | | | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.27 | Session Timer | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | / MO Voice | | | voice over NR | | | Call / UE is | | | and MTSI | | | able to | | | Speech and | | | refresh the | | | preconditions | | | session / 5GS | | | and NG.114 | | | | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.28 | Session Timer | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | / MO Voice | | | voice over NR | | | Call / Remote | | | and MTSI | | | end is | | | Speech and | | | refresher / | | | preconditions | | | 5GS | | | and NG.114 | | | | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.29 | Session Timer | Rel-15 | C29 | NR and IMS | | | / MO Voice | | | voice over NR | | | Call / Remote | | | and MTSI | | | end does not | | | Speech and | | | support | | | preconditions | | | Session Timer | | | and Session | | | / 5GS | | | Timer for own | | | | | | benefit and | | | | | | NG.114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.30 | Session Timer | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | / MO Voice | | | voice over NR | | | Call / Remote | | | and MTSI | | | end supports | | | Speech and | | | but does not | | | preconditions | | | use Session | | | and NG.114 | | | Timer / 5GS | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.31 | Session Timer | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | / MT Voice | | | voice over NR | | | Call / Remote | | | and MTSI | | | end supports | | | Speech and | | | but does not | | | preconditions | | | send | | | and NG.114 | | | S | | | v1.0 | | | ession-Expires | | | | | | / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.32 | Session Timer | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | / MT Voice | | | voice over NR | | | Call / Remote | | | and MTSI | | | end sends | | | Speech and | | | S | | | preconditions | | | ession-Expires | | | and NG.114 | | | but does not | | | v1.0 | | | choose | | | | | | refresher / | | | | | | 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.33 | Session Timer | Rel-15 | C30 | UE supports NR | | | / MT Voice | | | and IMS voice | | | Call / Remote | | | over NR and | | | end chooses UE | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | as refresher / | | | speech and EVS | | | 5GS | | | and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and Session | | | | | | Timer and | | | | | | re-INVITE for | | | | | | session | | | | | | refresh and | | | | | | NG114 v1.0 and | | | | | | EVS | | | | | | Configuration | | | | | | B0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 7.34 | Session Timer | Rel-15 | C44 | NR and IMS | | | / MT Voice | | | voice over NR | | | Call / Remote | | | and MTSI | | | end does not | | | Speech and | | | support | | | preconditions | | | Session Timer | | | and NG.114 | | | / 5GS | | | v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ |** 8**| * | | | | | | *Supplementary | | | | | | Services** | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.1 | Originating | Rel-15 | C06 | UE supports NR | | | Identification | | | and (GBA or | | | Presentation / | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Configuration | | | and MTSI and | | | / 5GS | | | MTSI | | | | | | Originating | | | | | | Identification | | | | | | Presentation | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.2 | Originating | Rel-15 | C45 | UE supports NR | | | Identification | | | and (GBA or | | | Restriction / | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Configuration | | | and MTSI and | | | / 5GS | | | MTSI | | | | | | Originating | | | | | | Identification | | | | | | Restriction - | | | | | | Configuration | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.3 | Originating | Rel-15 | C46 | UE supports NR | | | Identification | | | and IMS voice | | | Restriction / | | | over NR and | | | Signalling / | | | MTSI | | | 5GS | | | Originating | | | | | | Identification | | | | | | Restriction | | | | | | and MTSI | | | | | | speech and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.4 | Terminating | Rel-15 | C47 | UE supports NR | | | Identification | | | and (GBA or | | | Presentation / | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Configuration | | | and MTSI and | | | / 5GS | | | Terminating | | | | | | Identification | | | | | | Presentation | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.5 | Terminating | Rel-15 | C48 | UE supports NR | | | Identification | | | and (GBA or | | | Restriction / | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Configuration | | | and MTSI and | | | / 5GS | | | Terminating | | | | | | Identification | | | | | | Restriction - | | | | | | Configuration | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.6 | Terminating | Rel-15 | C49 | UE supports NR | | | Identification | | | and IMS voice | | | Restriction / | | | over NR and | | | Signalling / | | | Terminating | | | 5GS | | | Identification | | | | | | Restriction | | | | | | and MTSI | | | | | | speech and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.7 | Communication | Rel-15 | C50 | UE supports NR | | | Forwarding | | | and (GBA or | | | Unconditional | | | HTTP Digest) | | | / | | | and MTSI and | | | Configuration | | | Communication | | | / 5GS | | | Diversion | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.8 | Communication | Rel-15 | C53 | UE supports NR | | | Forwarding | | | and IMS voice | | | Unconditional | | | over NR and | | | / Signalling / | | | Communication | | | 5GS | | | Diversion and | | | | | | MTSI speech | | | | | | and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.9 | Communication | Rel-15 | C50 | UE supports NR | | | Forwarding on | | | and (GBA or | | | Not Logged-in | | | HTTP Digest) | | | / | | | and MTSI and | | | Configuration | | | Communication | | | / 5GS | | | Diversion | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.11 | Communication | Rel-15 | C50 | UE supports NR | | | Forwarding on | | | and (GBA or | | | Busy / | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Configuration | | | and MTSI and | | | / 5GS | | | Communication | | | | | | Diversion | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.13 | Communication | Rel-15 | C50 | UE supports NR | | | Forwarding on | | | and (GBA or | | | Subscriber Not | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Reachable / | | | and MTSI and | | | Configuration | | | Communication | | | / 5GS | | | Diversion | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.15 | Communication | Rel-15 | C50 | UE supports NR | | | Forwarding on | | | and (GBA or | | | No Reply / | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Configuration | | | and MTSI and | | | / 5GS | | | Communication | | | | | | Diversion | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.17 | Barring of All | Rel-15 | C51 | UE supports NR | | | Incoming Calls | | | and (GBA or | | | / | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Configuration | | | and MTSI and | | | / 5GS | | | Incoming | | | | | | Communication | | | | | | Barring | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.18 | Barring of All | Rel-15 | C07 | UE supports NR | | | Incoming Calls | | | and (GBA or | | | / except for a | | | HTTP Digest) | | | specific user | | | and MTSI and | | | / | | | Incoming | | | Configuration | | | Communication | | | / 5GS | | | Barring | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.19 | Barring of All | Rel-15 | C51 | UE supports NR | | | Incoming Calls | | | and (GBA or | | | from anonymous | | | HTTP Digest) | | | users / | | | and MTSI and | | | Configuration | | | Incoming | | | / 5GS | | | Communication | | | | | | Barring | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.21 | Barring of all | Rel-15 | C52 | UE supports NR | | | Outgoing Calls | | | and (GBA or | | | / | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Configuration | | | and MTSI and | | | / 5GS | | | Outgoing | | | | | | Communication | | | | | | Barring | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.22 | Barring of | Rel-15 | C52 | UE supports NR | | | Outgoing | | | and (GBA or | | | International | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Calls / | | | and MTSI and | | | Configuration | | | Outgoing | | | / 5GS | | | Communication | | | | | | Barring | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.23 | Barring of | Rel-15 | C52 | UE supports NR | | | Outgoing | | | and (GBA or | | | International | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Calls / ex | | | and MTSI and | | | Home Country / | | | Outgoing | | | Configuration | | | Communication | | | / 5GS | | | Barring | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.24 | Barring of | Rel-15 | C52 | UE supports NR | | | Outgoing | | | and (GBA or | | | International | | | HTTP Digest) | | | Calls / When | | | and MTSI and | | | Roaming / | | | Outgoing | | | Configuration | | | Communication | | | / 5GS | | | Barring | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.25 | Barring of | Rel-15 | C51 | UE supports NR | | | Incoming Calls | | | and (GBA or | | | / When Roaming | | | HTTP Digest) | | | / | | | and MTSI and | | | Configuration | | | Incoming | | | / 5GS | | | Communication | | | | | | Barring | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.26 | MO Voice Call | Rel-15 | C20 | UE supports NR | | | Hold without | | | and IMS voice | | | announcement / | | | over NR and | | | 5GS | | | MTSI speech | | | | | | and MTSI | | | | | | Communication | | | | | | Hold and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.27 | MO Video Call | Rel-15 | C34 | UE supports NR | | | Hold without | | | and IMS voice | | | announcement / | | | over NR and | | | 5GS | | | MTSI speech | | | | | | and MTSI video | | | | | | and MTSI | | | | | | Communication | | | | | | Hold and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.28 | MT Voice Call | Rel-15 | C21 | UE supports NR | | | Hold without | | | and IMS voice | | | announcement / | | | over NR and | | | 5GS | | | MTSI speech | | | | | | and MTSI | | | | | | Communication | | | | | | Hold and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.29 | MT Video Call | Rel-15 | C34 | UE supports NR | | | Hold without | | | and IMS voice | | | announcement / | | | over NR and | | | 5GS | | | MTSI speech | | | | | | and MTSI video | | | | | | and MTSI | | | | | | Communication | | | | | | Hold and | | | | | | initiating a | | | | | | session and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.30 | Subscription | Rel-15 | C22 | UE supports NR | | | to the MWI | | | and MTSI | | | event package | | | Message | | | / 5GS | | | Waiting | | | | | | Indication | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.31 | Creating and | Rel-15 | C23 | UE supports NR | | | leaving a | | | and IMS voice | | | conference / | | | over NR and | | | 5GS | | | MTSI speech | | | | | | and MTSI | | | | | | Conference and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.32 | Inviting user | Rel-15 | C23 | UE supports NR | | | to conference | | | and IMS voice | | | by sending a | | | over NR and | | | REFER request | | | MTSI speech | | | to the | | | and MTSI | | | conference | | | Conference and | | | focus / 5GS | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.33 | Inviting user | Rel-15 | C36 | UE supports NR | | | to conference | | | and IMS voice | | | by sending a | | | over NR and | | | REFER request | | | MTSI speech | | | to the | | | and MTSI video | | | conference | | | and MTSI | | | focus / Video | | | Conference and | | | / 5GS | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.34 | Three way | Rel-15 | C24 | UE supports NR | | | session | | | and IMS voice | | | creation / | | | over NR and | | | Voice / 5GS | | | MTSI speech | | | | | | and MTSI | | | | | | Conference and | | | | | | MTSI three way | | | | | | session and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.35 | Three way | Rel-15 | C35 | UE supports NR | | | session | | | and IMS voice | | | creation / | | | over NR and | | | Video / 5GS | | | MTSI speech | | | | | | and MTSI video | | | | | | and MTSI | | | | | | Conference and | | | | | | MTSI three way | | | | | | session and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.36 | MO Voice Call | Rel-15 | C25 | UE supports NR | | | Explicit | | | and IMS voice | | | Communication | | | over NR and | | | Transfer / | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | Consultative | | | speech and | | | Call Transfer | | | MTSI Explicit | | | / 5GS | | | Communication | | | | | | Transfer - | | | | | | consultative | | | | | | transfer and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.37 | Communication | Rel-15 | C26 | UE supports NR | | | Waiting and | | | and IMS voice | | | answering the | | | over NR and | | | call / 5Gs | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | | | | speech and | | | | | | MTSI | | | | | | Communication | | | | | | Waiting and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.38 | Communication | Rel-15 | C26 | UE supports NR | | | Waiting and | | | and IMS voice | | | cancelling the | | | over NR and | | | voice call / | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | 5GS | | | speech and | | | | | | MTSI | | | | | | Communication | | | | | | Waiting and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.39 | GBA | Rel-15 | C55 | UE supports NR | | | Authentication | | | and GBA | | | / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.39a | HTTP Digest | Rel-15 | C56 | UE supports NR | | | Authentication | | | and HTTP | | | / 5GS | | | Digest | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.40 | User initiated | Rel-15 | C37 | UE supports NR | | | USSI / 5GS | | | and MTSI and | | | | | | MTSI speech | | | | | | and USSI and | | | | | | initiating a | | | | | | session | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 8.41 | Communication | Rel-15 | C38 | UE supports NR | | | Forwarding on | | | and IMS voice | | | No Reply:MO | | | over NR and | | | Voice Call | | | MTSI speech | | | initiation | | | and MTSI | | | with | | | Communication | | | preconditions | | | Diversion and | | | | | | preconditions | | | | | | and NG114 v1.0 | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | **9** | **SMS** | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 9.1 | Mobile | Rel-15 | C08 | UE supports NR | | | Originating | | | and SM-over-IP | | | SMS / 5GS | | | sender and UE | | | | | | configured to | | | | | | use SMS over | | | | | | IP | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 9.2 | Mobile | Rel-15 | C09 | UE supports NR | | | Terminating | | | and SM-over-IP | | | SMS / 5GS | | | receiver and | | | | | | UE configured | | | | | | to use SMS | | | | | | over IP | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 9.3 | Mobile | Rel-15 | C10 | UE supports NR | | | Originating | | | and | | | Concatenated | | | concatenated | | | SMS / 5GS | | | SM-over-IP | | | | | | sender and UE | | | | | | configured to | | | | | | use SMS over | | | | | | IP | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 9.4 | Mobile | Rel-15 | C11 | UE supports NR | | | Terminating | | | and | | | Concatenated | | | concatenated | | | SMS / 5GS | | | SM-over-IP | | | | | | receiver and | | | | | | UE configured | | | | | | to use SMS | | | | | | over IP | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 9.5 | Mobile | Rel-15 | C08 | UE supports NR | | | Originating | | | and SM-over-IP | | | SMS / RP-ERROR | | | sender and UE | | | / 5GS | | | configured to | | | | | | use SMS over | | | | | | IP | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | **10** | **Emergency | | | | | | Calls** | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.1 | Emergency Call | Rel-15 | C12 | UE supports NR | | | with emergency | | | and emergency | | | registration / | | | services in NR | | | Success / | | | connected to | | | Location | | | 5GCN and is | | | information | | | capable of | | | available / | | | obtaining | | | 5GS | | | location | | | | | | information | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.2 | Emergency Call | Rel-15 | C39 | UE supports NR | | | with emergency | | | and MTSI and | | | registration / | | | MTSI speech | | | Success / | | | and emergency | | | Location | | | services in NR | | | information | | | connected to | | | not available | | | 5GCN | | | / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.3 | Emergency call | Rel-15 | C40 | UE supports NR | | | with emergency | | | and MTSI and | | | registration / | | | MTSI speech | | | Emergency SIP | | | and emergency | | | signalling and | | | services in NR | | | media in | | | connected to | | | parallel with | | | 5GCN and | | | another | | | preconditions | | | ongoing IM CN | | | and | | | subsystem | | | Communication | | | signalling and | | | Hold during | | | media / 5GS | | | emergency call | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.4 | Non-UE | Rel-15 | C41 | UE supports NR | | | detectable | | | and MTSI and | | | emergency call | | | MTSI speech | | | / IM CN sends | | | and | | | a 1xx response | | | preconditions | | | / UE | | | and emergency | | | geographical | | | services in NR | | | location | | | connected to | | | information | | | 5GCN | | | available or | | | | | | not / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.6 | Non-UE | Rel-15 | C39 | UE supports NR | | | detectable | | | and MTSI and | | | emergency call | | | MTSI speech | | | / IM CN sends | | | and emergency | | | 380 with an | | | services in NR | | | Alternative | | | connected to | | | Service / | | | 5GCN | | | Previous | | | | | | emergency IMS | | | | | | registration | | | | | | not expired / | | | | | | 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.7 | Void | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.8 | Void | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.9 | Emergency call | Rel-15 | C39 | UE supports NR | | | without | | | and MTSI and | | | emergency | | | MTSI speech | | | registration / | | | and emergency | | | UE credentials | | | services in NR | | | are not | | | connected to | | | accepted / 5GS | | | 5GCN | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.10 | Emergency call | Rel-15 | C39 | UE supportsNR | | | without | | | and MTSI and | | | emergency | | | MTSI speech | | | registration / | | | and emergency | | | Failure of | | | services in NR | | | registration / | | | connected to | | | Rejected by | | | 5GCN | | | 403 | | | | | | (Forbidden) / | | | | | | 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.11 | Void | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.12 | User-initiated | Rel-15 | C39 | UE supports NR | | | emergency | | | and MTSI and | | | reregistration | | | MTSI speech | | | / UE has | | | and emergency | | | emergency | | | services in NR | | | related | | | connected to | | | ongoing dialog | | | 5GCN | | | / 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.13 | User-initiated | Rel-15 | C39 | UE supports NR | | | emergency | | | and MTSI and | | | reregistration | | | MTSI speech | | | / User | | | and emergency | | | initiates an | | | services in NR | | | emergency call | | | connected to | | | / 5GS | | | 5GCN | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.14 | In parallel | Rel-15 | C39 | UE supports NR | | | emergency and | | | and MTSI and | | | non-emergency | | | MTSI speech | | | registrations | | | and emergency | | | / 5GS | | | services in NR | | | | | | connected to | | | | | | 5GCN | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 10.15 | Void | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | **11** | **eCall over | | | | | | IMS** | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 11.1 | eCall over IMS | Rel-16 | C42 | UE supports | | | / Manual | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | initiation / | | | speech and IMS | | | Normal | | | eCall type of | | | registration / | | | emergency | | | Emergency | | | services over | | | registration / | | | 5GS and Manual | | | Success / 200 | | | type of eCall | | | OK with ACK / | | | (NOTE 2) | | | 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 11.2 | eCall over IMS | Rel-16 | C43 | UE supports | | | / Automatic | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | initiation / | | | speech and IMS | | | Normal | | | eCall type of | | | registration / | | | emergency | | | Emergency | | | services over | | | registration / | | | 5GS and | | | Success / 200 | | | Automatic type | | | OK with ACK / | | | of eCall (NOTE | | | 5GS | | | 2) | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 11.4 | eCall over IMS | Rel-16 | C42 | UE supports | | | / Manual | | | MTSI and MTSI | | | initiation / | | | speech and IMS | | | MSD transfer | | | eCall type of | | | and 200 OK | | | emergency | | | with ACK / SIP | | | services over | | | INFO for MSD | | | 5GS and Manual | | | Update / | | | type of eCall | | | Success / 5GS | | | (NOTE 2) | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 11.5 | eCall over IMS | Rel-16 | C43 | UE supports | | | / Automatic | | | and MTSI and | | | initiation / | | | MTSI speech | | | MSD transfer | | | and IMS eCall | | | and 200 OK | | | type of | | | with ACK / SIP | | | emergency | | | INFO request | | | services over | | | for MSD Update | | | 5GS and | | | / Success / | | | Automatic type | | | 5GS | | | of eCall (NOTE | | | | | | 2) | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+ | 11.6 | eCall over IMS | Rel-16 | C43 | UE supports | | | / Automatic | | | and MTSI and | | | initiation / | | | MTSI speech | | | MSD transfer | | | and IMS eCall | | | and 200 OK | | | type of | | | with ACK / SIP | | | emergency | | | INFO request | | | services over | | | for | | | 5GS and | | | unsupported | | | Automatic type | | | MSD / UE | | | of eCall (NOTE | | | indicates | | | 2) | | | unsuccessful | | | | | | in SIP INFO / | | | | | | 5GS | | | | +--------+----------------+---------+---------------+----------------+
NOTE 1: If any one of the other Registration test cases 6.2 until 6.9 is
executed, this test case is optional.
NOTE 2: This test case can optionally be executed against Rel-15 UEs.
NOTE 3: As an exception to NG.114 support of MTSI Video Call is optional.
Table 4.2a: Applicability Conditions for TS 34.229-5 tests
* * *
Condition Test Case Selection Expression Comment C01 IF A.18/5 THEN R ELSE N/A
NR C02 Void  
C03 Void  
C04 Void  
C05 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND ( NOT A.4/16 OR
(A.4/16 AND A.12/59)) THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI and
MTSI speech and (not preconditions or (preconditions and disabling
preconditions)) C06 IF A.18/5 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND A.3A/50 AND A.16/1
THEN R ELSE N/A NR and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and MTSI and MTSI Originating
Identification Presentation C07 IF A.18/5 AND A.3A/50 AND A.16/7 AND A.6a/3
THEN R ELSE N/A NR and MTSI and MTSI Communication Barring and GBA for XCAP
authentication C08 IF A.18/5 AND A.3A/61 AND [73] A.4.4-2/32 THEN R ELSE N/A
NR and SM-over-IP sender and UE configured to use SMS over IP C09 IF A.18/5
AND A.3A/62 AND [73] A.4.4-2/32 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and SM-over-IP receiver and
UE configured to use SMS over IP C10 IF A.18/5 AND A.3A/64 AND [73] A.4.4-2/32
THEN R ELSE N/A NR and concatenated SM-over-IP sender and UE configured to use
SMS over IP C11 IF A.18/5 AND A.3A/65 AND [73] A.4.4-2/32 THEN R ELSE N/A NR
and concatenated SM-over-IP receiver and UE configured to use SMS over IP C12
IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/14 AND A.12/27 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and emergency
services in NR connected to 5GCN and is capable of obtaining location
information C13 IF A.18/5 AND A.12/39 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS de-
registration C14 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND
A.15/2 AND A.15/10 AND A.4/2B AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 AND (A.22/15 OR A.22/18)
THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI and MTSI speech and AMR-WB
and EVS and initiating a session and preconditions and NG114 v1.0 and (EVS
Configuration B0 or EVS Configuration A1) C15 IF A.18/5 AND A.12/58 THEN R
ELSE N/A NR and Enabling/Disabling SMS over IMS C16 Void  
C17 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/16 AND A.12/45 AND
A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI Speech and
preconditions and early media and NG.114 v1.0 C18 Void  
C19 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/10 AND
A.4/16 AND A.12/57 AND A.21/1 AND A.22/15 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice
over NR and MTSI and MTSI speech and EVS and preconditions and Session Timer
(and NG114 v1.0 or EVS Configuration B0) C20 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32
AND A.15/1 AND A.16/6 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice
over NR and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Hold and preconditions and
NG114 v1.0 C21 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/6 AND
A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR MTSI speech and
MTSI Communication Hold and preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C22 IF A.18/5 AND
A.16/8 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and MTSI Message Waiting Indication C23 IF A.18/5
AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/9 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE
N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI speech and MTSI Conference and
preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C24 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1
AND A.16/9 AND A.16/14 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 AND (A.22/15 OR A.22/18) THEN R
ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI speech and MTSI Conference and MTSI
three way session and preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C25 IF A.18/5 AND [93]
A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/11 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R
ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI and MTSI speech and MTSI Explicit
Communication Transfer - consultative transfer and preconditions and NG114
v1.0 C26 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/13
AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI and
MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Waiting and preconditions and NG114 v1.0
C27 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/2 AND
A.15/10 AND A.4/2B AND A.4/16 AND A.12/59 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and
IMS voice over NR and MTSI and MTSI speech and AMR-WB and EVS and initiating a
session and preconditions and disabling preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C28 IF
A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/16 AND A.12/59 AND A.21/1 THEN
R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI speech and preconditions and
disabling preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C29 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND
A.15/1 AND A.4/16 AND A.12/60 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over
NR and MTSI Speech and preconditions and Session Timer for own benefit and
NG.114 v1.0 C30 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND
A.15/10 AND A.4/16 AND A.12/57 AND A.12/61 AND A.21/1 AND A.22/15 THEN R ELSE
N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI and MTSI speech and EVS and
preconditions and Session Timer and re-INVITE for session refresh and (NG114
v1.0 or EVS Configuration B0) C31 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50
AND A.15/1 AND A.15/2 AND A.15/10 AND A.15/3 AND A.15/11 AND A.15/12 AND
A.15/13 AND A.4/2B AND A.4/16 AND A.12/59 AND A.21/1 AND (A.22/15 OR A.22/18)
THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI and MTSI speech and AMR-WB
and EVS and MTSI video and MTSI video H.265 MP MT Level 3.1 and MTSI video
H.264 CHP Level 3.1 and H.264 CBP Level 3.1 and initiating a session and
preconditions and disabling preconditions and NG114 v1.0 and (EVS
Configuration B0 or EVS Configuration A1) C32 Void  
C33 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/10 AND
A.15/3 AND A.15/11 AND A.15/12 AND A.15/13 AND A.4/16 AND A.12/59 AND A.21/1
AND A.22/15 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI and MTSI speech
and EVS and MTSI video and MTSI video H.265 MP MT Level 3.1 and MTSI video
H.264 CHP Level 3.1 and H.264 CBP Level 3.1 and preconditions and disabling
preconditions and NG114 v1.0 and EVS Configuration B0 C34 IF A.18/5 AND [93]
A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.16/6 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R
ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI speech and MTSI video and MTSI
Communication Hold and preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C35 IF A.18/5 AND [93]
A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.16/9 AND A.16/14 AND A.4/16 AND
A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI speech and MTSI video
and MTSI Conference and MTSI three way session and preconditions and NG114
v1.0 C36 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.16/9 AND
A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI speech and
MTSI video and MTSI Conference and preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C37 IF A.18/5
AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/19 AND A.4/2B THEN R ELSE N/A NR and MTSI and
MTSI speech and USSI and initiating a session C38 IF A.18/5 AND [93]
A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1 AND A.16/5 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR
and IMS voice over NR and MTSI speech and MTSI Communication Diversion and
preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C39 IF A.18/5 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND [93]
A.4.3.7-1/14 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and MTSI and MTSI speech and emergency
services in NR connected to 5GCN C40 IF A.18/5 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND [93]
A.4.3.7-1/14 AND A.4/16 AND A.12/33 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and MTSI and MTSI
speech and emergency services in NR connected to 5GCN and preconditions and
Communication Hold during emergency call C41 IF A.18/5 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1
AND A.4/16 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/14 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and MTSI and MTSI speech
and preconditions and emergency services in NR connected to 5GCN C42 IF
A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.12/63 AND [3] A.10/16 THEN R ELSE N/A MTSI and MTSI
speech and IMS eCall type of emergency services over 5GS and Manual type of
eCall C43 IF A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.12/63 AND [3] A.10/17 THEN R ELSE N/A
MTSI and MTSI speech and IMS eCall type of emergency services over 5GS and
Automatic type of eCall C44 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.15/1 AND
A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI speech and
preconditions and NG.114 v1.0 C45 IF A.18/5 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND A.3A/50
AND A.16/2A THEN R ELSE N/A NR and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and MTSI and
Originating Identification Restriction - Configuration C46 IF A.18/5 AND [93]
A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.16/2 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR
and IMS voice over NR and MTSI Originating Identification Restriction and MTSI
speech and preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C47 IF A.18/5 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4)
AND A.3A/50 AND A.16/3 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and MTSI
and Terminating Identification Presentation C48 IF A.18/5 AND (A.6a/3 OR
A.6a/4) AND A.3A/50 AND A.16/4A THEN R ELSE N/A NR and (GBA or HTTP Digest)
and MTSI and Terminating Identification Restriction - Configuration C49 IF
A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.16/4 AND A.15/1 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN
R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NR and Terminating Identification Restriction
and MTSI speech and preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C50 IF A.18/5 AND (A.6a/3 OR
A.6a/4) AND A.3A/50 AND A.16/5 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and
MTSI and Communication Diversion C51 IF A.18/5 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND
A.3A/50 AND A.16/7 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and MTSI and
Incoming Communication Barring C52 IF A.18/5 AND (A.6a/3 OR A.6a/4) AND
A.3A/50 AND A.16/15 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and (GBA or HTTP Digest) and MTSI and
Outgoing Communication Barring C53 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.16/5
AND A.15/1 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice over NRand
Communication Diversion and MTSI speech and preconditions and NG114 v1.0 C54
Void  
C55 IF A.18/5 AND A.6a/3 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and GBA C56 IF A.18/5 AND A.6a/4
THEN R ELSE N/A NR and Digest C57 Void  
C58 Void  
C59 Void  
C60 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32 AND A.3A/50 AND A.15/1 AND A.15/2 AND
A.15/10 AND A.4/16 AND A.12/59 AND A.21/1 AND (A.22/15 OR A.22/18) THEN R ELSE
N/A UE supports NR and IMS voice over NR and MTSI and MTSI speech and AMR-WB
and EVS and preconditions and disabling preconditions and NG114 v1.0 and (EVS
Configuration B0 or EVS Configuration A1) C61 IF A.18/5 AND [93] A.4.3.7-1/32
AND A.15/1 AND A.15/3 AND A.4/16 AND A.21/1 THEN R ELSE N/A NR and IMS voice
over NR and MTSI speech and MTSI video and preconditions and NG.114 v1.0
* * *
###### ## Annex A (normative): ICS proforma for 3^rd^ Generation User
Equipment supporting IP multimedia call control based on SIP and SDP
Notwithstanding the provisions of the copyright related to the text of the
present document, The Organizational Partners of 3GPP grant that users of the
present document may freely reproduce the ICS proforma in this annex so that
it can be used for its intended purposes and may further publish the completed
ICS.
## A.1 Guidance for completing the ICS proforma
### A.1.1 Purposes and structure
The purpose of this ICS proforma is to provide a mechanism whereby a supplier
of an implementation of the requirements defined in relevant specifications
may provide information about the implementation in a standardised manner.
The ICS proforma is subdivided into clauses for the following categories of
information:
\- instructions for completing the ICS proforma;
\- identification of the implementation;
\- identification of the protocol;
\- ICS proforma tables (for example: UE roles specific to additional
capabilities, Major capabilities etc).
### A.1.2 Abbreviations and conventions
This annex does not reflect dynamic conformance requirements but static ones.
In particular, a condition for support of a PDU parameter does not reflect
requirements about the syntax of the PDU (i.e. the presence of a parameter)
but the capability of the implementation to support the parameter.
In the sending direction, the support of a parameter means that the
implementation is able to send this parameter (but it does not mean that the
implementation always sends it).
In the receiving direction, it means that the implementation supports the
whole semantic of the parameter that is described in the main part of this
specification.
As a consequence, PDU parameter tables in this annex are not the same as the
tables describing the syntax of a PDU in the reference specification, e.g. RFC
3261 [15] tables 2 and 3. It is not rare to see a parameter which is optional
in the syntax but mandatory in subclause below.
The ICS proforma contained in this annex is comprised of information in
tabular form in accordance with the guidelines presented in ISO/IEC 9646‑7
[8].
##### Item column {#item-column .H6}
The item column contains a number which identifies the item in the table.
##### Item description column {#item-description-column .H6}
The item description column describes in free text each respective item (e.g.
parameters, timers, etc.). It implicitly means "is \
supported by the implementation?".
##### Reference column {#reference-column .H6}
The reference column gives reference to the relevant 3GPP core specifications
and optional IMS profile documents (e.g. GSMA PRD IR.92).
##### Status column {#status-column .H6}
The various statii used in this annex are in accordance with the rules in
table A.1. The status column can also be used for IMS profile documents.
Table A.1: Key to status codes
* * *
Status code Status name Meaning m mandatory the capability shall be supported.
It is a static view of the fact that the conformance requirements related to
the capability in the reference specification are mandatory requirements. This
does not mean that a given behaviour shall always be observed (this would be a
dynamic view), but that it shall be observed when the implementation is placed
in conditions where the conformance requirements from the reference
specification compel it to do so. For instance, if the support for a parameter
in a sent PDU is mandatory, it does not mean that it shall always be present,
but that it shall be present according to the description of the behaviour in
the reference specification (dynamic conformance requirement). o optional the
capability may or may not be supported. It is an implementation choice. n/a
not applicable it is impossible to use the capability. No answer in the
support column is required. x prohibited (excluded) It is not allowed to use
the capability. This is more common for a profile. c \ conditional
the requirement on the capability (\"m\", \"o\", \"n/a\" or \"x\") depends on
the support of other optional or conditional items. \ is the
identifier of the conditional expression. o.\ qualified optional for
mutually exclusive or selectable options from a set. \ is the
identifier of the group of options, and the logic of selection of the options.
* * *
##### Release column {#release-column .H6}
The release column indicates the earliest release from which the capability or
option is relevant.
##### Mnemonic column {#mnemonic-column .H6}
The Mnemonic column contains mnemonic identifiers for each item.
##### Support column {#support-column .H6}
The support column shall be filled in by the supplier of the implementation.
The following common notations, defined in ISO/IEC 9646‑7 [8], are used for
the support column:
Y or y supported by the implementation
N or n not supported by the implementation
N/A, n/a or ‑ no answer required (allowed only if the status is N/A, directly
or after evaluation of a conditional status)
##### References to items {#references-to-items .H6}
For each possible item answer (answer in the support column) within the ICS
proforma there exists a unique reference, used, for example, in the
conditional expressions. It is defined as the table identifier, followed by a
solidus character "/", followed by the item number in the table.
EXAMPLE: A.5/4 is the reference to the answer of item 4 in table A.5.
### A.1.3 Instructions for completing the ICS proforma
The supplier of the implementation may complete the ICS proforma in each of
the spaces provided. More detailed instructions are given at the beginning of
the different clauses of the ICS proforma.
## A.2 Identification of the User Equipment
Identification of the User Equipment should be filled in so as to provide as
much detail as possible regarding version numbers and configuration options.
The product supplier information and client information should both be filled
in if they are different.
A person who can answer queries regarding information supplied in the ICS
should be named as the contact person.
### A.2.1 Date of the statement
### A.2.2 User Equipment Under Test (UEUT) identification
UEUT name:
Hardware configuration:
Software configuration:
### A.2.3 Product supplier
Name:
Address:
Telephone number:
Facsimile number:
E-mail address:
Additional information:
### A.2.4 Client
Name:
Address:
Telephone number:
Facsimile number:
E-mail address:
Additional information:
### A.2.5 ICS contact person
Name:
Telephone number:
Facsimile number:
E-mail address:
Additional information:
## A.3 Identification of the protocol
This ICS proforma applies to the 3GPP standards listed in the normative
references clause of the present document.
## A.4 ICS proforma tables
NOTE: Tables A.2, A. 3A and A. 4 have been based on tables with the same
number in TS 24.229 [10]. In order to facilitate traceability, table and item
numbers are the same as those in the corresponding tables in TS 24.229 [10].
### A.4.1 Roles
Table A.2: Roles
+------+------------+----------------------+--------+---------+---------+ | Item | UE roles | Ref. | Status | Release | Support | +------+------------+----------------------+--------+---------+---------+ | 1 | User agent | 24.229 [10], A.1.3 | m | Rel-5 | | | | | | | | | | | | RFC 3261 [15] | | | | +------+------------+----------------------+--------+---------+---------+
Table A.3A: UE roles specific to additional capabilities
* * *
Item UE roles Ref. Status Release Mnemonic Support 50 Multimedia telephony
service participant 24.173 [55] o Rel-8 pc_MultimediaTelephonyService  
IR.92 [83], 2.2.1 m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
61 SM-over-IP sender 24.341 [66] o Rel-8 pc_SMS_IP_MO  
IR.92 [83], 2.5 m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
62 SM-over-IP receiver 24.341 [66] o Rel-8 pc_SMS_IP_MT  
IR.92 [83], 2.5 m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
63 Void  
64 Concatenated SM-over-IP sender 23.040 [94], 9.2.3.24.1 o Rel-8
pc_Concatenated_SMS_IP_MO  
65 Concatenated SM-over-IP receiver 23.040 [94], 9.2.3.24.1 o Rel-8
pc_Concatenated_SMS_IP_MT
* * *
### A.4.2 ICS related to SIP
#### A.4.2.1 Major capabilities
Prerequisite: A.2/1 - - user agent role.
Table A.4: Major capabilities
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Item | Does | Ref. | Status | Release | M | Support | | | the | | | | nemonic | | | | impleme | | | | | | | | ntation | | | | | | | | support | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Capab | | | | | | | | ilities | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | main | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | rotocol | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2B | ini | 24.229 | o | Rel-5 | pc_I | | | | tiating | [10], | | | nitiate | | | | a | A | | | Session | | | | s | .2.1.2; | | | | | | | ession? | | | | | | | | | RFC | | | | | | | | 3261 | | | | | | | | [15], | | | | | | | | 13 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2C | ini | 24.229 | c43 | Rel-8 | | | | | tiating | [10], | | | | | | | a | A | | | | | | | session | .2.1.2; | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | require | RFC | | | | | | | local | 3262 | | | | | | | and/or | [27] | | | | | | | remote | UE is | | | | | | | r | capable | | | | | | | esource | of | | | | | | | reser | ob | | | | | | | vation? | taining | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | ocation | | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | **Exten | | | | | | | | sions** | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 16 | inte | 24.229 | C44 | Rel-8 | pc\ | | | | gration | [10], | | | _Precon | | | | of | A | | | ditions | | | | r | .2.1.2; | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | man | RFC | | | | | | | agement | 3312 | | | | | | | and | [26] | | | | | | | SIP? | | | | | | | | (use of | | | | | | | | precond | | | | | | | | itions) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.92 | m | | | | | | | [83], | | | | | | | | 2.4.1 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96], | | | | | | | | 2.3.5 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 53 | ob | 24.229 | m (Note | Rel-7 | pc_I | | | | taining | [10], | 1) | | MS_GRU | | | | and | A.2.1.2 | | | UsInSIP | | | | using | | | | | | | | GRUUs | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | Session | | | | | | | | Ini | | | | | | | | tiation | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | rotocol | | | | | | | | (SIP) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | * | | | | | | | | _Condit | | | | | | | | ions/Op | | | | | | | | tions_ * | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | c43: IF | | | | | | | | A.4/2B | | | | | | | | THEN o | | | | | | | | ELSE | | | | | | | | n/a - - | | | | | | | | ini | | | | | | | | tiating | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | ssions. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | c44: IF | | | | | | | | A.4/2C | | | | | | | | THEN m | | | | | | | | ELSE o | | | | | | | | - - | | | | | | | | ini | | | | | | | | tiating | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | require | | | | | | | | local | | | | | | | | and/or | | | | | | | | remote | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | reser | | | | | | | | vation. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | If a UE | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | unable | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | become | | | | | | | | engaged | | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | pote | | | | | | | | ntially | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | equires | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | ability | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | dentify | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | nteract | | | | | | | | with a | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | pecific | | | | | | | | UE even | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | ultiple | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | share | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | single | | | | | | | | Public | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | | then | | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | | can be | | | | | | | | \" o\" | | | | | | | | instead | | | | | | | | of \" | | | | | | | | m\". | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | xamples | | | | | | | | include | | | | | | | | te | | | | | | | | lemetry | | | | | | | | applic | | | | | | | | ations, | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | point-t | | | | | | | | o-point | | | | | | | | commun | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | desired | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | users. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#### A.4.2.2 Void
#### A.4.2.3 Security
Table A.6a: Security scheme
* * *
Item Security scheme Reference Status Release Mnemonic Support 1 GIBA 24.229
[10] o.1 Rel-8 pc_IMS_GIBA_Sec  
2 IMS security (IMS AKA plus IPsec ESP) 24.229 [10] o.1 Rel-8 pc_IMS_Sec  
m Rel-15  
3 GBA for XCAP authentication 33.220 [82] 4.5; 33.222 [63]; 24.109 [64] o.2
Rel-8 pc_HttpGBAAuthentication  
4 HTTP Digest for XCAP authentication RFC 2617 [65] o.2 Rel-8
pc_HttpDigestAuthentication  
5 SIP Digest without TLS 33.203 [12] o.3 Rel-8 pc_SIP_Digest  
6 SIP Digest with TLS 33.203 [12] o.3 Rel-8 pc_SIP_Digest_TLS  
7 NASS-IMS-bundled authentication 33.203 [12] o.3 Rel-8 pc_NASS_IMS  
**Conditions/Options**  
o.1 At least one of these options has to be supported if A.18/1 or A18/4  
o.2 At least one of these options has to be supported if the UE supports XCAP  
o.3 At least one of these options has to be supported if A.18/3
* * *
NOTE: Support of GPRS-IMS-Bundled authentication (GIBA) is considered as an
interim security solution for IMS security (mandatory requirement as specified
in TS 24.229 [10]). IMS security refer to IMS AKA plus IPsec ESP as specified
in TS 24.229 [10].
#### A.4.2.4 Addressing
Table A.7: IP address format
* * *
Item IP address format Ref. Status Release Mnemonic Support 1 IPv4 23.221
[13], 5.1 o Rel-5 pc_IPv4  
2 IPv6 23.221 [13], 5.1 m Rel-5 pc_IPv6  
NOTE 1: For testing purposes, at least one of these IP address format has to
be supported by the UE
* * *
#### A.4.2.5 SIP Compression
Table A.8: SIP Compression
* * *
Item Ref. Status Release Mnemonic Support 1 Void  
2 Void  
3 Void  
4 Void  
5 Indicate the willingness to receive the responses and requests compressed
from initial REGISTER onwards by using the \" comp=sigcomp\" parameter 24.229
[10], 8.1.1 o Rel-5 pc_IndicateSigcomp
* * *
### A.4.3 Void
### A.4.4 Void
### A.4.5 Additional information
Table A.12: Additional information
+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | Item | Add | Re | Status | Release | M | Support | | | itional | ference | | | nemonic | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-5 | pc_ | | | | capable | [10], | | | Initiat | | | | of | 9.2.1 | | | esDedic | | | | being | | | | atedPDP | | | | con | | | | Context | | | | figured | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | nitiate | | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | | dicated | | | | | | | | PDP | | | | | | | | Context | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-5 | p | | | | capable | [10], | | | c_Init | | | | of | 9.2.1 | | | iateP_ | | | | being | | | | CSCFDis | | | | con | | | | covery\ | | | | figured | | | | _viaPCO | | | | to | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | nitiate | | | | | | | | P-CSCF | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | scovery | | | | | | | | via PCO | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 6 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-5 | pc_ | | | | capable | [10], | | | Initiat | | | | of | 9.2.1 | | | eP_CSC | | | | being | | | | FDiscov | | | | con | | | | ery_vi | | | | figured | | | | aDHCPv6 | | | | to | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | nitiate | | | | | | | | P-CSCF | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | scovery | | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | | DHCPv6 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-5 | pc_P_ | | | | s | [10], | | | CSCFDis | | | | upports | 9.2.1 | | | covery\ | | | | P-CSCF | | | | _viaPCO | | | | di | | | | | | | | scovery | | | | | | | | via PCO | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 9 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 10 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-5 | pc\ | | | | s | [10], | | | _P_CSC | | | | upports | 9.2.1 | | | FDiscov | | | | P-CSCF | | | | ery_vi | | | | di | | | | aDHCPv6 | | | | scovery | | | | | | | | via | | | | | | | | DHCPv6 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 11 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-5 | pc | | | | capable | [10], | | | _Bidir | | | | of | 5.1.6 | | | ecVoice | | | | ini | | | | OverIMS | | | | tiating | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | bidire | | | | | | | | ctional | | | | | | | | voice | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 14 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 15 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 16 | UE | 23.981 | o | Rel-6 | | | | | S | [18], | | | | | | | upports | 5.2.1 | | | | | | | \" IPv6 | | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | mbedded | | | | | | | | IPv4 | | | | | | | | ad | | | | | | | | dress\" | | | | | | | | in PCO | | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 17 | UE | 23.981 | o | Rel-6 | | | | | S | [18], | | | | | | | upports | 5.2.1 | | | | | | | IPv4 | | | | | | | | address | | | | | | | | in PCO | | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 18 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 19 | UE | 24.173 | o | Rel-7 | | | | | s | [55], | | | | | | | upports | Annex F | | | | | | | UI | | | | | | | | capable | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | showing | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Message | | | | | | | | Waiting | | | | | | | | Ind | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 20 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 21 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 22 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 23 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 24 | UE | 24.604 | o | Rel-8 | | | | | s | [68], | | | | | | | upports | 4.9.1.4 | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | reply | | | | | | | | timer | | | | | | | | setting | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.92 | m | | | | | | | [83], | | | | | | | | 2.3.8 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 25 | UE | 26.114 | o | Rel-7 | | | | | s | [56], | | | | | | | upports | Annex G | | | | | | | sending | | | | | | | | DTMF | | | | | | | | events | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | RTP | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.92 | m | | | | | | | [83], | | | | | | | | 3.3 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 26 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 27 | UE is | 24.229 | o | Rel-9 | pc_IM | | | | capable | [10] | | | S_Geol | | | | of | 4.7, | | | ocation | | | | obtain | 36.509 | | | | | | | ing | [79] | | | | | | | l | 4.1, | | | | | | | ocation | 5.5.2, | | | | | | | info | 34.109 | | | | | | | rmation | [78] | | | | | | | | 5.4.2 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 28 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 29 | UE | C. | o | | pc_CS | | | | s | S0005-E | | | _Em_C | | | | upports | [74] | | | all_in | | | | em | | | | _1xRTT | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | speech | | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | 1xRTT | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 30 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 31 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-9 | | | | | s | [10], | | | | | | | upports | 4.2.B.2 | | | | | | | end- | | | | | | | | to-acce | | | | | | | | ss-edge | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ecurity | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | SDES | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 32 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-13 | pc_I | | | | s | [10], | | | MS_Vid | | | | upports | 5.1 | | | eo_Fea | | | | video | .1.2.1, | | | tureTag | | | | media | 5 | | | | | | | feature | .1.3.1, | | | | | | | tag | 5.1.4 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.94 | m | | | | | | | [75], | | | | | | | | 2.2 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 33 | UE | 23.167 | o | Rel-9 | pc_Com | | | | s | [76], | | | municat | | | | upports | 7.1.1 | | | ionHold | | | | Commun | | | | _Durin | | | | ication | | | | gEmerge | | | | Hold | | | | ncyCall | | | | during | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | call | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 34 | UE | 24.237 | o | Rel-10 | pc_I | | | | in | [77], | | | MS_SRV | | | | dicates | 12 | | | CCAlert | | | | g.3gpp. | .2.3B.1 | | | | | | | srvcc-a | | | | | | | | lerting | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | feature | | | | | | | | tag in | | | | | | | | INVITE | | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | | or 180 | | | | | | | | (R | | | | | | | | inging) | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esponse | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 35 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 36 | UE | 24.237 | o | Rel-12 | pc\ | | | | in | [77] | | | _BSRVCC | | | | dicates | 6 | | | | | | | g | A.2.2.2 | | | | | | | .3gpp.p | | | | | | | | s2cs-sr | | | | | | | | vcc-ori | | | | | | | | g-pre-a | | | | | | | | lerting | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | feature | | | | | | | | tag in | | | | | | | | INVITE | | | | | | | | request | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 37 | UE | 24.623 | o | Rel-8 | pc_XC | | | | in | [81], | | | AP_Use | | | | dicates | Annex | | | rnameIs | | | | O | B.2 | | | Configu | | | | MA-TS-X | | | | redInUE | | | | DM_MO- | | | | | | | | V1_1-2 | | | | | | | | 0080627 | | | | | | | | -A.doc, | | | | | | | | section | | | | | | | | 5.2.8 | | | | | | | | \"Node: | | | | | | | | /\/ | | | | | | | | AAUT | | | | | | | | HNAME\" | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | figured | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 38 | The UE | IR.92 | m | | pc_XC | | | | use the | [83] | | | AP_XUI | | | | default | | | | isDefau | | | | public | | | | ltPubli | | | | user | | | | cUserId | | | | i | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eceived | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | P-Ass | | | | | | | | ociated | | | | | | | | -URI | | | | | | | | header | | | | | | | | in 200 | | | | | | | | OK for | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | EGISTER | | | | | | | | as XCAP | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | | (XUI) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | 24.623 | o | Rel-8 | | | | | | [81] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 39 | UE has | 24.229 | o | Rel-5 | pc | | | | the | [10], | | | _IMS_ | | | | method | 5.1.1.6 | | | Deregis | | | | that | | | | tration | | | | support | | | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | | | deregis | | | | | | | | tration | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 40 | UE | 24.237 | o | Rel-11 | p | | | | s | [77], | | | c_IMS\ | | | | upports | 6.2.3 | | | _CS_PS | | | | Cs to | | | | _SRVCC | | | | PS | | | | | | | | SRVCC | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 41 | UE | 24.237 | o | Rel-11 | pc_IM | | | | s | [77], | | | S_CS_ | | | | upports | 6.2.3 | | | PS_SRV | | | | Cs to | | | | CCAlert | | | | PS | | | | | | | | SRVCC | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | lerting | | | | | | | | state | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 42 | UE | 24.237 | o | Rel-11 | p | | | | s | [77], | | | c_IMS\ | | | | upports | 6.2.3 | | | _CS_PS | | | | Cs to | | | | _SRVCC | | | | PS | | | | MidCall | | | | SRVCC | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | MSC | | | | | | | | server | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ssisted | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | id-call | | | | | | | | feature | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 43 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 44 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 45 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-8 | pc_Ear | | | | s | [10], | | | lyMedia | | | | upports | 5.1.3 | | | | | | | early | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 46 | UE | 24.237 | c1 | Rel-11 | | | | | in | [77], | | | | | | | dicates | 6.2.2 | | | | | | | g.3 | | | | | | | | gpp.acc | | | | | | | | esstype | | | | | | | | media | | | | | | | | feature | | | | | | | | tag in | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | EGISTER | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 47 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 48 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 49 | The UE | IR.51 | o | Rel-11 | pc_WLA | If PICS | | | uses | [84], | | | N_XCAP | is | | | XCAP | 4.6 | | | _witho | true, | | | without | | | | ut_PDN | Wi-Fi | | | PDN | | | | | access | | | con | | | | | without | | | nection | | | | | PDN | | | in WLAN | | | | | con | | | | | | | | nection | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | pplies. | | | | | | | | Oth | | | | | | | | erwise, | | | | | | | | EPC-int | | | | | | | | egrated | | | | | | | | WLAN | | | | | | | | applies | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 50 | The UE | | o | Rel-12 | pc_f | In the | | | uses | | | | ixed_b | context | | | XCAP in | | | | roadban | of the | | | fixed | | | | d_XCAP | present | | | br | | | | | specifi | | | oadband | | | | | cation, | | | access | | | | | a UE | | | | | | | | sup | | | | | | | | porting | | | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | | | bro | | | | | | | | adband, | | | | | | | | A.18/3, | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | PICS to | | | | | | | | true. | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 51 | The UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-8 | pc_Sam | | | | uses | [10] | | | e_IMPU | | | | same | | | | | | | | public | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | From/To | | | | | | | | as in | | | | | | | | initial | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | EGISTER | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.92 | m | | | | | | | [83], | | | | | | | | 2.2.1 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 52 | UE | 23.167 | o | Rel-9 | pc_ | | | | rea | [76], | | | IMS_af | | | | ttempts | 4.1 | | | ter_Em | | | | IMS | | | | Reg_re | | | | em | | | | jection | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | | without | | | | | | | | regis | | | | | | | | tration | | | | | | | | after | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | jection | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | regist | | | | | | | | ration. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (For | | | | | | | | Rel-14, | | | | | | | | this is | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | licable | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | jection | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | dicates | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | onymous | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | upport) | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | m | Rel-14 | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 53 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 54 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-14 | pc_EPS | | | | s | [10], | | | _IMS_ | | | | upports | 5. | | | eCall_ | | | | IMS | 1.6.11, | | | Capable | | | | eCall | L. | | | | | | | type of | 2.2.6.2 | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ervices | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | EPS | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 55 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-14 | pc_ | | | | s | [10], | | | EPS_IM | | | | upports | 5. | | | S_eCal | | | | IMS | 1.6.11, | | | l_Only | | | | eCall | L. | | | | | | | Only | 2.2.6.2 | | | | | | | type of | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ervices | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | EPS | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 56 | UE | 24.229 | m | Rel-13 | pc_I | | | | s | [10], | | | MS_Aud | | | | upports | 5.1 | | | io_Fea | | | | audio | .1.2.1, | | | tureTag | | | | media | 5 | | | | | | | feature | .1.3.1, | | | | | | | tag | 5.1.4 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.92 | m | | | | | | | [83], | | | | | | | | 2.2.1, | | | | | | | | 2.2.4 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 57 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-6 | pc | | | | s | [10], | | | _IMS_ | | | | upports | 5.1.2A, | | | Session | | | | Session | 5 | | | _Timer | | | | Timer | .2.7.2, | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | .2.7.3, | | | | | | | | 5.4.5.3 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.92 | m | | | | | | | [83], | | | | | | | | 2.2.8 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 58 | UE | 27.007 | o | Rel-15 | pc\ | | | | s | [97], | | | _Enable | | | | upports | 8.72 | | | _Disab | | | | enab | | | | le_SMS | | | | ling/di | | | | overIMS | | | | sabling | | | | | | | | SMS | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 59 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-15 | pc\ | | | | s | [10], | | | _IMS_D | | | | upports | 5.1.5A | | | isable\ | | | | di | | | | _Precon | | | | sabling | | | | ditions | | | | precon | | | | | | | | ditions | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 60 | UE uses | 24.229 | o | Rel-15 | pc | | | | Session | [10] | | | _IMS_ | | | | Timer | | | | Session | | | | for its | | | | _Timer | | | | benefit | | | | _own_ | | | | alone | | | | benefit | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | o | | | | | | | [96] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | RFC | o | | | | | | | 4028 | | | | | | | | [86] | | | | | | | | cl 7.2 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 61 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-15 | pc_I | | | | s | [10] | | | MS_Ses | | | | upports | | | | sion_T | | | | usage | | | | imer_r | | | | of | | | | eINVITE | | | | re | | | | | | | | -INVITE | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | session | | | | | | | | refresh | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | o | | | | | | | [96] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | RFC | o | | | | | | | 4028 | | | | | | | | [86] | | | | | | | | cl 7.2 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 62 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 63 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-16 | pc_5GS | | | | s | [10], | | | _IMS_ | | | | upports | 5. | | | eCall_ | | | | IMS | 1.6.11, | | | Capable | | | | eCall | U. | | | | | | | type of | 2.2.6.2 | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ervices | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | 5GS | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 64 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-16 | pc_ | | | | s | [10], | | | 5GS_IM | | | | upports | 5. | | | S_eCal | | | | IMS | 1.6.11, | | | l_Only | | | | eCall | U. | | | | | | | Only | 2.2.6.2 | | | | | | | type of | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ervices | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | 5GS | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 65 | UE | 24.229 | o | Rel-13 | pc_WLA | | | | s | [10], | | | N_IMS\ | | | | upports | 5.1.6, | | | _Emerge | | | | IMS | R.2.2.6 | | | ncyCall | | | | em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | call | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | WLAN | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cond | | | | | | | | itions/ | | | | | | | | Options | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | c1: IF | | | | | | | | [73] | | | | | | | | A.4 | | | | | | | | .4-1/32 | | | | | | | | THEN m | | | | | | | | ELSE o | | | | | | | | - - SC | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | dicates | | | | | | | | acce | | | | | | | | sstype. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | As an | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | ception | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | NG.114 | | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | | of MTSI | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | Call is | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | tional. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+
### A.4.6 Additional information for IPv4
Table A.13: Additional information for IPv4
* * *
Precondition: This table is only applicable if A.7/1 IPv4 is supported  
Item Additional information for IPv4 Reference Status Release Mnemonic Support
1 UE capable of being configured to initiate P-CSCF discovery via DHCPv4
23.981 [18], 5.2.1 o Rel-5 pc_InitiateP_CSCFDiscovery_viaDHCPv4  
2 UE supports P-CSCF discovery via DHCPv4 23.981 [18], 5.2.1 o Rel-5
pc_P_CSCFDiscovery_viaDHCPv4
* * *
### A.4.7 MTSI media
Table A.15: MTSI media
+---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | Item | Media | Re | Status | Release | M | Support | | | | ference | | | nemonic | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | Speech | 26.114 | o | Rel-7 | pc | | | | | [56], | | | _MTSI\ | | | | | 5.2.1 | | | _Speech | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.92 | m | | | | | | | [83], | | | | | | | | 3.2 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR 51 | m | | | | | | | [84], | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.108 | m | | | | | | | [87] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 | Speech, | 26.114 | o | Rel-7 | pc | | | | AMR | [56], | | | _MTSI\ | | | | w | 5.2.1 | | | _Speech | | | | ideband | | | | _AMRWB | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.51 | m | | | | | | | [84], | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.92 | m | | | | | | | [83], | | | | | | | | 3.2 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | Video | 26.114 | o | Rel-7 | p | | | | | [56], | | | c_MTSI | | | | | 5.2.2 | | | _Video | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.94 | m | | | | | | | [75], | | | | | | | | 3.3 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.51 | m | | | | | | | [84], | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4 | Video, | 26.114 | o | Rel-7 | | | | | H.263 | [56], | | | | | | | Profile | 5.2.2 | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | Video, | 26.114 | o | Rel-7 | | | | | MPEG-4 | [56], | | | | | | | | 5.2.2 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 6 | Video, | 26.114 | o | Rel-7 | | | | | H.264 | [56], | | | | | | | | 5.2.2 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | Void | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 9 | Video | 26.114 | o | Rel-8 | pc_Vid | | | | codec | [56], | | | eoCodec | | | | H.264 | 5.2.2 | | | H264CBP | | | | CBP | | | | | | | | Level | | | | | | | | 1.2 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.94 | m | | | | | | | [75], | | | | | | | | 3.3 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | IR.51 | m | | | | | | | [84], | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 10 | Speech, | 26.114 | o | Rel-12 | pc_MTS | | | | EVS | [56] | | | I_Spee | | | | | | | | ch_EVS | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 11 | Video | 26.114 | m | Rel-15 | p | | | | codec | [56], | | | c_Vide | | | | H.265 | 5.2.2 | | | oCodecH | | | | (HEVC), | | | | 265Lv31 | | | | Main | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | rofile, | | | | | | | | Main | | | | | | | | Tier, | | | | | | | | Level | | | | | | | | 3.1 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | Video | 26.114 | o | Rel-15 | pc_ | | | | codec | [56], | | | VideoCo | | | | H.264 | 5.2.2 | | | decH264 | | | | (AVC) | | | | CHPLv31 | | | | CHP | | | | | | | | Level | | | | | | | | 3.1 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | Video | 26.114 | m | Rel-15 | pc_ | | | | codec | [56], | | | VideoCo | | | | H.264 | 5.2.2 | | | decH264 | | | | (AVC) | | | | CBPLv31 | | | | CBP | | | | | | | | Level | | | | | | | | 3.1 | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | NG.114 | m | Rel-15 | | | | | | [96] | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | As an | | | | | | | | ex | | | | | | | | ception | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | NG.114 | | | | | | | | support | | | | | | | | of MTSI | | | | | | | | Video | | | | | | | | Call is | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | tional. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+
### A.4.8 MTSI supplementary services
Table A.16: MTSI supplementary services
* * *
Item Service Reference Status Release Mnemonic Support 1 Originating
Identification Presentation 24.173 [55], Annex A o Rel-7 pc_MTSI_OIP  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
2 Originating Identification Restriction 24.173 [55], Annex A o Rel-7
pc_MTSI_OIR  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.108 [87] m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
2A Originating Identification Restriction - Configuration 24.173 [55], Annex A
o Rel-7 pc_MTSI_OIR_C  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 o  
NG.114 [96] o Rel-15  
3 Terminating Identification Presentation 24.173 [55], Annex B o Rel-7
pc_MTSI_TIP  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.114 [96] o Rel-15  
4 Terminating Identification Restriction 24.173 [55], Annex B o Rel-7
pc_MTSI_TIR  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.108 [87] m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
4A Terminating Identification Restriction - Configuration 24.173 [55], Annex A
o Rel-7 pc_MTSI_TIR_C  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 o  
NG.114 [96] o Rel-15  
5 Communication Diversion 24.173 [55], Annex C o Rel-7 pc_MTSI_CommDivert  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.108 [87] m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
6 Communication Hold 24.173 [55], Annex D o Rel-7 pc_MTSI_CommHold  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
7 Incoming Communication Barring 24.173 [55], Annex E o Rel-7
pc_MTSI_Incoming_CB  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
8 Message Waiting Indication 24.173 [55], Annex F o Rel-7 pc_MTSI_MessageWait  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.108 [87] m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
9 Conference 24.173 [55], Annex G o Rel-7 pc_MTSI_Conference  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
10 Void  
11 Explicit Communication Transfer - consultative transfer 24.173 [55], Annex
H o Rel-7 pc_IMS_ExplicitConsultativeTransfer  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
12 Anonymous Communication Rejection 24.173 [55], Annex E o Rel-7 pc_MTSI_ACR  
13 Communication Waiting 24.615 [69] o Rel-7 pc_MTSI_CommWaiting  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.108 [87] m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
14 Three way session 24.147 [19] o Rel-8 pc_IMS_TWS  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
15 Outgoing Communication Barring 24.173 [55], Annex E o Rel-7
pc_MTSI_Outgoing_CB  
IR.92 [83], 2.3 m  
IR.51 [84], 2.3 m  
NG.114 [96] m Rel-15  
16 Void  
17 Void  
18 SIP based user configuration 24.238 [85], 432 o Rel-7
pc_SIP_Based_UserConfiguration  
19 USSI 24.390 [90] o Rel-12 pc_USSI  
IR.92 [83], Annex D o  
NG.114 [96] o Rel-15
* * *
### A.4.9 MTSI media change
Table A.17: MTSI media change
* * *
Item Media change Ref. Status Release Mnemonic Support 1 Text, add video
remove video o Rel-7
* * *
### A.4.10 UE Implementation Types
Table A.18: UE Access Technologies
* * *
Item UE Access Technologies Reference Status Release Mnemonic Support 1 E-UTRA
36.101 [70] o Rel-8 pc_eFDD or pc_eTDD, both as defined in TS 36.523-2 [73]
Table A.4.1-1  
2 UTRA 21.904 [71], 5 o R99 pc_UTRA, as defined in TS 36.523-2 [73] Table
A.4.1-1  
3 Fixed Broadband 24.229 [10], Annex E o Rel-7 pc_FixedBroadband  
4 WLAN IEEE Std 802.11 o pc_WLAN  
5 NR 38.101-1 [91], 38.101-2 [92] o Rel-15 pc_NG_RAN_NR as defined in TS
38.508-2 [93] Table A.4.1-3
* * *
### A.4.11 Special Conformance Testing Functions
Table A.19: Special Conformance Testing Functions
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Item** | * | **Ref.** | **R |** Mn | **S | | | *Special | | elease** | emonic**| upport** | | | Con | | | | | | | formance | | | | | | | Testing | | | | | | | Fun | | | | | | | ctions** | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 1 | Update | 34.109 | Rel-10 | See | | | | UE | [78], | | 36.523-2 | | | | Location | 5.4.2 | | [73] | | | | Inf | | | | | | | ormation | 36.509 | | | | | | | [79], | | | | | | | 5.5.2 | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
### A.4.12 NG.102
Table A.20: NG.102 capabilities
* * *
**Item** **Ref.** **Status** **Release** **Mnemonic** **Support** 1 Combined
Registration E-UTRA NG.102 [89] o n/a pc_NG102_Combined_Registration_EUTRA  
2 Dual Registration E-UTRA NG.102 [89] o n/a pc_NG102_Dual_Registration_EUTRA  
3 Combined Registration WLAN NG.102 [89] o n/a
pc_NG102_Combined_Registration_WLAN  
4 Dual Registration WLAN NG.102 [89] o n/a pc_NG102_Dual_Registration_WLAN  
5 Voice Call after combined registration E-UTRA NG.102 [89] o n/a
pc_NG102_Call_Combined_Registration_EUTRA  
6 Voice call after dual registration E-UTRA NG.102 [89] o n/a
pc_NG102_Call_Dual_Registration_EUTRA  
7 Voice Call after combined registration WLAN NG.102 [89] o n/a
pc_NG102_Call_Combined_Registration_WLAN  
8 Voice call after dual registration WLAN NG.102 [89] o n/a
pc_NG102_Call_Dual_Registration_WLAN  
9 RCS chat after combined registration E-UTRA NG.102 [89] o n/a
pc_NG102_Chat_Combined_Registration_EUTRA  
10 RCS chat after dual registration E-UTRA NG.102 [89] o n/a
pc_NG102_Chat_Dual_Registration_EUTRA  
11 RCS chat after combined registration WLAN NG.102 [89] o n/a
pc_NG102_Chat_Combined_Registration_WLAN  
12 RCS chat after dual registration WLAN NG.102 [89] o n/a
pc_NG102_Chat_Dual_Registration_WLAN
* * *
### A.4.13 NG.114 versions
Table A.21: NG.114 versions
* * *
**Item** **Ref.** **Status** **Release** **Mnemonic** **Support** 1 Version
1.0 as of 07 August 2020 NG.114 v1.0 [96] o n/a pc_NG114_v1_0  
2 Version 2.0 as of 07 August 2021 NG.114 v2.0 [98] o n/a pc_NG114_v2_0
* * *
### A.4.14 NG.114 capabilities
Table A.22: NG.114 capabilities
* * *
**Item** **Ref.** **Status** **Release** **Mnemonic** **Support** 1 mmtel ICSI
value NG.114 v1.0 [96] m n/a pc_NG114_v1_0_mmtel  
2 audio feature tag NG.114 v1.0 [96] m n/a pc_NG114_v1_0_audio  
3 video feature tag NG.114 v1.0 [96] m n/a pc_NG114_v1_0_video  
4 Void  
5 Void  
6 Void  
7 Void  
8 Annex C.3 default configuration for voice exempt NG.114 v2.0 [98] m n/a
pc_NG114_v1_0_default_config_voice_exempt  
9 Annex C.3 default configuration for video exempt NG.114 v2.0 [98] m n/a
pc_NG114_v2_0_default_config_video_exempt  
10 Annex C.3 default configuration for EVS/Br NG.114 v1.0 [96] m n/a
pc_NG114_v1_0_default_config_evs_br  
11 Annex C.3 default configuration for EVS/Bw NG.114 v1.0 [96] m n/a
pc_NG114_v1_0_default_config_evs_bw  
12 Void  
13 Void  
14 Forking behavior NG.114 v1.0 [96] m n/a pc_NG114_v1_0_forking  
15 EVS Configuration B0 NG.114 v1.0 [96] o pc_NG114_v1_0_EVS_B0  
16 EVS Configuration B1 NG.114 v1.0 [96] o pc_NG114_v1_0_EVS_B1  
17 EVS Configuration B2 NG.114 v1.0 [96] o pc_NG114_v1_0_EVS_B2  
18 EVS Configuration A1 NG.114 v1.0 [96] o pc_NG114_v1_0_EVS_A1
* * *
#