# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The charging supplementary service is described in TS 22.086 [2]. These
services are designed to supply to a mobile user sufficient information to
allow a real‑time estimate to be made of the bill which will eventually be
levied in the home PLMN on the Mobile Station (MS) subscriber.
In the case of certain MS uses, for example a mobile payphone, this estimate
could be subject to further processing (e.g. to present the charges in
currency, rather than units, this may include an additional mark up). This
additional processing is not described in this document in order to avoid
constraining the evolution of the MS product in this area.
This document gives an overall view of how this supplementary service shall
operate both in the PLMN and within the MS. Text given in this document is
required to define functionality and is not intended to constrain
implementation.
## 1.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) Supplementary Services ‑ Stage
1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.172: \"Technical realization of Circuit Switched (CS)
multimedia service; UDI/RDI fallback and service modification; Stage 2\".
## 1.2 Definitions and abbreviations
In addition to the following, abbreviations used in the present document are
listed in TS 21.905 [1].
**Mark up (MU):**
An increase over the basic charge e.g. to provide extra revenue or to cover
additional costs.
**Service Provider (SP):**
The organization through which the subscriber obtains PLMN services. This may
be the network operator or possibly a separate body.
**Home Units (HU):**
The published basic telecommunication unit as published by the HPLMN. This has
a published value expressed in the currency of the Home country.
**Local PLMN (LPLMN):**
The LPLMN is the HPLMN or VPLMN depending on the location of the MS at the
time and is the PLMN with which the MS is interworking via the radio
interface.
**Local Units (LU):**
The published basic telecommunication unit as published by the LPLMN. This has
a published value expressed in the currency of the local country.
**Price per Unit and Currency Table (PUCT):**
The PUCT is the value of the Home unit in a currency chosen by the subscriber.
The PUCT is stored in the SIM. The value of the PUCT can be set by the
subscriber and may exceed the value published by the HPLMN. The PUCT value
does not have any impact on the charges raised by the HPLMN.
**Current Call Meter (CCM):**
The accumulated charge as computed by the MS, expressed in terms of Home
units.
**Accumulated Call Meter (ACM):**
The accumulated charge for both the current call and all preceding calls as
computed by the MS, expressed in terms of Home units. The ACM is stored in the
SIM/USIM.
**ACM Maximum value (ACMmax):**
The ACMmax sets the upper limit for the ACM. The ACMmax is stored in the
SIM/USIM. The value of the ACMmax can be set by the subscriber.
**Charging point (CHP):**
The time at which charging commences i.e. at the point when the called party
answers or the equivalent.
**End of charge point (CEND):**
The time at which the calling, or called, party stops charging by the
termination of the call or by an equivalent procedure invoked by the network
or by failure of the radio path.
**Advice of Charge (AOC):**
The charge as computed by the MS, expressed in terms of Home Units.
**Segment:**
A charging element as defined by ITU-T, in octets (up to 64).
# 2 Introduction
The principle of this service is that the MS shall be capable of indicating
the cost of a call in home units as a basic service. This is the Advice of
Charge (AOC).
The ability for the MS to perform further processing on AOC is not precluded.
If the subscriber wishes, the MS shall indicate the value of CCM, ACM, ACMmax
in the currency she has indicated using the PUCT.
At the charging point, the MS is informed of the charging rate.
The MS shall then use its independent internal clock to time the call from the
charging point to the end of call i.e. the chargeable duration (CDUR) is
measured by the MS. In the case of multiple calls this applies separately for
each call (see subclause 4.3 l). The time taken attempting to perform call
reestablishment is not included in CDUR (see subclause 4.3 m).
By using the calculations described in clause 4, the MS shall be able to
derive the number of home units used.
Due to the independence of the calculated value, an exact one‑to‑one relation
with the bill cannot be guaranteed. This discrepancy is due to the short
delays in signalling between the MS and the network, e.g. transmission of
charging point and end of call signals.
In deriving the present document the following principles are assumed:
i) For mobile originated calls, the mobile user pays for the connection to the
dialled number, as per the published tariff of the Local PLMN, plus a mark‑up
defined by the HPLMN to cover additional administration costs, when roaming.
It is assumed that the MS subscriber will **not** be charged for the forwarded
leg if the dialled number has set call forwarding. If additional charging is
required for this forwarded leg, then it is assumed that such charging will be
applied only to the called party. This follows current telecommunications
practice.
ii) For mobile terminated calls, any charge set for incoming calls is that
based on the tariff as published by the HPLMN.
The tariff as published for the roaming extension charges is assumed to be
time and date invariant. For the avoidance of doubt, this assumption does not
preclude routine tariff changes.
iii) Charge rates for calls originating within a PLMN vary depending upon, for
example, location, destination, service, time of day, type of day and any mark
ups.
iv) The units indicated in the advice of charge are always given in terms of
Home units, the value of which is defined and published by the HPLMN,
regardless of the PLMN in which they were incurred or the call direction or
the type of call including supplementary service and data calls.
# 3 Charge Advice Information
The MS is supplied with the necessary Charge Advice Information (CAI) at the
charging point on a per call basis, in a signalling message over the radio
interface.
The MS uses the CAI elements to compute the AOC value for the relevant call.
Thus the signalling CAI not only provides charging information, but indicates
the charging point and hence initiates the timing of the chargeable duration.
The information sent to the MS from the MSC consists of seven elements as
follows:
Table 1: Information elements
* * *
Element Dimensions Description MIN MAX RES e1 u/i Units per interval 0 819.1
0.1 e2 t/i Seconds/time interval 0 819.1 0.1 e3 ‑ Scaling Factor 0 81.91 0.01
e4 u Unit increment 0 819.1 0.1 e5 u/d Units per data interval 0 819.1 0.1 e6
seg/d Segments/data interval 0 8191 1 e7 t/i Initial secs/t interval 0 819.1
0.1
* * *
where:
> u = units; t = time; i = interval; seg = segments; d = data interval.
The CAI Message need only contain those elements required for the particular
situation. If elements are missing from the initial CAI message of a call,
they shall be treated as zero.
**Element e1 ‑**
This element defines the number of units incremented per interval. It is set
in terms of LPLMN units/interval to a resolution as defined in the table above
under RES.
**Element e2 ‑**
This element defines the time interval for unitization, and is specified in
seconds, to a resolution as defined in the table above under RES.
**Element e3 ‑**
This element defines the scaling factor to convert from LPLMN units to HPLMN
units. It is a dimensionless multiplier given to a resolution as defined in
the table above under RES.
**Element e4 ‑**
This element defines the number of units to be incremented on receipt of the
message containing the CAI elements. It is specified in units of the LPLMN to
a resolution as defined in the table above under RES.
**Element e5 ‑**
This element defines the number of units incremented per data interval. It is
set in terms of LPLMN units/interval, to a resolution as defined in the table
above under RES.
**Element e6 ‑**
This element defines the data usage interval for unitization, and is specified
in segments (SEG), to a resolution as defined in the table above under RES.,
for Dedicated Access to the PSPDN (whether directly or via Dedicated PAD). It
does not apply to circuit switched access to modems or PADs, (except Dedicated
PAD\'s) or MS to MS calls.
**Element e7 ‑**
This element defines the initial time interval for unitization, and is
specified in seconds, to a resolution as defined in the table above under RES.
# 4 Functional operation in MS
Simple operation in the MS is described by the equation:‑
> AoC = e3 * { e4 + e1*INT(CDUR/(e7,e2)) + e5*INT(SEG/e6) }
>
> = scaling * { constant + time related + data related }
where:
AoC is the Advice of Charge in home units.
CDUR is the Chargeable DURation as measured by the MS.
SEG is the SEGment count as counted by the MS.
INT(v) is the function to take the INTeger value of v.
* indicates multiply operator.
e7,e2 indicate first e7 then e2 selected as described below.
## 4.1 Handling of the CAI elements
For the detailed mechanisms, the conditions given under subclause 4.3 (Special
Processing) must be observed. The following therefore describes the process
for a simple single call scenario, for either an incoming or outgoing call for
the MS in any PLMN, including HPLMN:‑
On receipt of the CAI message, charging computation commences.
**INITIAL/FIXED CHARGE:**
Element e4*e3 defines the number of HPLMN units to be incremented in the
Current Call Meter (CCM, see below) on receipt of the CAI message.
**INITIAL TIME RELATED CHARGE:**
On first receipt of the CAI message, timing commences immediately and MS timer
CDUR is incremented, from zero, with a precision of at least 0.1 seconds. When
CDUR reaches e7 (see special processing for the case where e7 is equal to
zero) i.e. a full interval has been timed, then e1*e3 HPLMN units are added to
the CCM. CDUR is then reset to zero to allow timing of the next interval to
commence based on CAI element e2. Element e7 is not used further, unless it is
updated via a new CAI message.
**TIME RELATED CHARGE:**
On expiry of the interval defined by e7; e2 is applied and timing re‑commences
immediately. MS timer CDUR is incremented, from zero, with a precision of at
least 0.1 seconds. When CDUR reaches e2 i.e. a full interval has been timed,
then e1*e3 HPLMN units are added to the CCM. CDUR is then reset to zero to
allow timing of the next interval to commence, based on e2.
**DATA RELATED CHARGE:**
On first receipt of non‑zero element e6, data segment counting commences
immediately and MS counter SEG is incremented, from zero, by unity for each
segment transferred. When SEG reaches e6 i.e. a full data interval has been
counted, then e5*e3 HPLMN units are added to the CCM. SEG is then reset to
zero to allow counting of the next data interval to commence.
NOTE 1: Elements e1, e7 and e2 have no effect on the initial charge or fixed
charges applied i.e. are independent of e4.
NOTE 2: It should be noted that e1 in conjunction with e2 increases charging
range compared to a regime based on e2 only. (i.e. e1 fixed at unity). This
benefit is secondary to the support of call charging for roamers, which is the
main function of e1.
NOTE 3: e1 improves the precision for high cost calls, where the interval, as
defined by e2, may need to be excessively small, e.g. long haul international
calls or INMARSAT. i.e. e1 can be increased instead of reducing e2, with some
loss of accuracy of correlation with the actual bill.
NOTE 4: Element e5, for data usage charging, is equivalent to e1 (time related
charging) and provides similar benefits for the support of data usage charges
for roamers and high cost data calls.
NOTE 5: Rules for handling of CAI elements in the case of multiple calls are
given in subclause 4.3 l.
## 4.2 Handling of call meters
Two meters are defined.
### 4.2.1 The Current Call Meter (CCM)
This is required to accumulate the charging units generated by the current
call and is capable of advising:
a) The current charge due for the call(s) in progress.
b) At the end of the call(s), the charge equivalent to the current call record
in an itemized bill.
The CCM shall hold the value of the last call AOC, until the initiation of an
outgoing call or acceptance of an incoming call, at which point it shall be
reset to zero, regardless of the success of the initiation/acceptance attempt.
This information is deleted when the MS is switched off or the SIM/USIM is
removed.
The CCM is essential for the correct functioning of AOC, see subclauses 4.1
and 4.3, and is a component of the Mobile Equipment. The charging computation
shall cease immediately on termination of a call, as indicated by the user or
the network, or on failure of the call.
For multiple calls, CCM will advise the total charge of all the calls made
and/or received during occupation of a traffic channel.
### 4.2.2 The Accumulated Call Meter (ACM)
The Accumulated Call Meter accumulates the total units for both the current
call and all preceding calls. The ACM is a function contained within the
SIM/USIM. It is optional, but is essential for certain applications.
For security reasons, the SIM/USIM only allows the value of the ACM to be
incremented, not decremented. Resetting of the ACM shall only be possible
after presentation of PIN2.
If the ACMmax (see subclause 4.2.3) is valid, and the ACM becomes equal to or
exceeds the value of the ACMmax, then all calls in progress, chargeable to the
user (i.e. those calls that have a non‑zero AoC associated with them), shall
be terminated by the ME once the chargeable interval determined by the CAI has
elapsed. The ACM will be updated with the new value, which may be greater than
the ACMmax value. The reason why the call has terminated shall be given to the
user by means of an appropriate indication given to the user.
If the ACMmax is valid and the ACM is equal to or greater than the value of
ACMmax, then no outgoing calls can be placed, except Emergency calls.
If the ACMmax is valid and the ACM is equal to or greater than the value of
ACMmax, and an incoming call is received and subsequently a non‑zero CAI is
received for that call, then the call shall be terminated by the ME with an
appropriate indication given to the user.
### 4.2.3 The ACM Maximum Value (ACMmax)
This is the value that the subscriber can set, to limit the units which may be
consumed by a user. The MS may provide for the means to set or update the
ACMmax, using PIN2. The ACMmax is not valid if set to zero.
NOTE: The network operator should make clear to the subscriber that the ACMmax
must not be set to a value close to the maximum value possible in the encoding
of ACMmax . The network operators should provide guidance as to what the
maximum value for the ACMmax may be.
### 4.2.4 The Price per Unit and Currency Table (PUCT)
This is intended to enable the MS to calculate the cost of a call in a
currency chosen by the subscriber. The subscriber may set the value of the
home unit in the PUCT differently to the value of the unit published by the
HPLMN in order to cover extra cost. An indication of the currency in use is
part of the PUCT .
## 4.3 Special processing
a) If e7 is zero or not sent in the CAI message, e2 applies and e7 is not
used.
b) If e2 or e6 are set to zero, the relevant INT function shall handle the
singularity by returning zero, thus disabling the relevant unitization process
(call or data part).
c) On receipt of a subsequent e4, the MS shall transfer the value of e4*e3 to
the CCM, by addition of e4*e3 to the current contents of the CCM.
d) When CDUR reaches e2 (or e7 as appropriate), e1*e3 is added to the CCM and
CDUR is reset to zero, except when conditions given in (a) and (b) above,
apply.
e) On receipt of new e1, e2 or e7 during a call, these new values are held in
abeyance, until the value of the associated MS timer CDUR has reached the
current e2 or e7 value as appropriate, and the processing as described in
special processing item d) above has been completed. The new e1, e2 and/or e7
are then brought into operation. e7 is applied followed by e2, conditions a)
and b) above determining the detailed processing.
Any update of e1, e2 and/or e7 during the time before CDUR is reset, shall
supersede any values already held in abeyance.
If CDUR is not actively timing (i.e. due to e2 being zero, e7 being zero or
the processing of e7 has been completed), then a new value of e2 and/or e7 is
applied immediately as per a normal new call.
f) When SEG reaches e6, e5*e3 is added to the CCM and SEG is reset to zero,
except where e6 is zero, where condition (b) above applies.
g) On receipt of a new e5 or e6 during the call, these new elements are held
in abeyance, until the value of the associated MS counter SEG has reached the
old e6 value, and the processing as described in special processing item (f)
above has been completed. The resulting zero SEG and new e5 and e6 are then
brought into operation.
Any update of e5 or e6 during the time before SEG is reset, shall supersede
any values already held in abeyance.
If the old value of e6 was zero, then the new value of e5 and e6 is applied
immediately.
h) The ACM shall be incremented when the CCM is incremented or once every 5
seconds, which ever is the longer period. Although the CCM is maintained with
an accuracy of three places of decimals, the ACM shall be incremented and
stored as integer units (i.e. no decimal places). The ACM shall be incremented
by the difference between the present value of the CCM (rounded up) and the
value of the CCM (rounded up) at the previous ACM incrementation.
i) A zero value for any of the CAI elements is valid and dealt with as
described above.
j) Free calls should be implemented by sending a CAI message with appropriate
zero elements.
k) On receipt of any CAI message from the network, provided the MS supports
AoC, the MS it shall confirm receipt of the CAI message. An MS not supporting
AoC as defined in TS 22.24 and TS 22.086 [2] shall not confirm receipt of the
message.
l) During multiple calls the network shall send, and the MS shall receive, CAI
elements for each call separately. The CCM shall record the sum of all the
charges for the services being used currently.
m) If the MS detects a radio link failure the MS shall suspend CDUR. If a
subsequent call reestablishment is successful, CDUR shall be resumed when call
reestablishment is complete.
## 4.4 Interactions with SCUDIF supplementary service
When the MS requires a bearer change, e.g. from Audio to Video or vice versa,
the SCUDIF Mode modify procedure is performed as described in TS 23.172 [3].
Depending on the operator's policy the success of the procedure may trigger a
Facility message to convey new values for the CAI parameters. On receipt of
new CAI values triggered by a service change based on the SCUDIF supplementary
service, the MS shall reset CDUR and continue incrementing the CCM using the
new CAI parameters as stated in subclause 4.3 of this specification. The MS
shall add initial units to the CCM and measure units on a time basis using the
new values.
# 5 Functional operation in PLMN
For applicable calls, the PLMN shall send the CAI message to the MS
immediately the called party answers. The PLMN derives the values of the
elements to be sent in the CAI message in the following way:
## 5.1 Outgoing calls
The local PLMN, be it the HPLMN or the VPLMN, always sets values of e1, e2,
e4, e5, e6 and e7 in terms of units of the LPLMN and according to its own
tariff structure.
Element e3 is set according to variables of the LPLMN and the relevant HPLMN.
If the LPLMN is the HPLMN (i.e. the MS is in its Home PLMN) then e3 shall be
simplified to unity.
There shall be only one value of e3 for a given combination of HPLMN and
VPLMN. This value may be simply loaded into the VMSC of the LPLMN using the
Man Machine Interface commands, since it is not expected to vary frequently
and is independent of the type of outgoing call.
## 5.2 Incoming calls
For incoming calls the HPLMN determines the tariff and this tariff is
dependent on the LPLMN of the MS. Therefore all the CAI elements are set
according to the HPLMN tariff as a function of LPLMN.
In the case of the LPLMN being the HPLMN these elements may be set to zero
assuming the HPLMN does not charge for incoming calls.
For roaming (i.e. where the LPLMN is not the HPLMN), in order to charge for
incoming calls, the VPLMN must be provided with specific CAI values as defined
by each HPLMN (e1i through e7i inclusive). This may be achieved by loading the
offered HPLMN derived values via the VPLMN MMI.
Each VPLMN will require a set of 7 values per HPLMN with which the VPLMN has a
roaming agreement i.e.:
e1i(h), e2i(h), e3(h), e4i(h), e5i(h), e6i(h) and e7i(h).
These are derived by:
e1i(h)=e1H(h)/e3(h);
e4i(h)=e4H(h)/e3(h);
e5i(h)=e5H(h)/e3(h);
where :
> h represents the \'h\'th HPLMN with a roaming relationship with the VPLMN;
>
> i indicates the CAI element as determined by the \'h\'th HPLMN, for the
> charging of incoming calls;
the same value of e3 is used for both incoming and outgoing calls;
exH(h) represents the value of the element x, given in terms of HPLMN units;
exi(h) represents the value of the element x as handled by the VPLMN.
#