# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification.
# 1 Scope
Existing systems have largely standardised the complete sets of bearer
services, teleservices and supplementary services which they provide. 3GPP
specifications specify service capabilities rather than services, allowing
service differentiation and system continuity. This Technical Specification
(TS) describes how and what kind of services the user has access to.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
## 2.1 Normative references
[1] 3GPP TS 22.001: \"Principles of circuit telecommunication services
supported by a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 02.002: \"Circuit Bearer services supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.038: \" SIM toolkit Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.057: \"Mobile Execution Environment (MExE); Service
description; Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) stage 1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.078: \"Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced
Logic (CAMEL); Service definition - Stage 1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service principles\".
[10] Void
[11] 3GPP TS 22.135: \"Multicall, stage 1\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.102: \"3G Security, Security Architecture\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.107: \"QoS Concept and Architecture; Stage 2\".
[15] Open Mobile Alliance (OMA): OMA-RD-Parlay_Service_Access-V1_0-20100427-A
[16] 3GPP TS 22.340: \"IP Multimedia System (IMS) messaging; Stage 1\".
## 2.2 Informative references
[12] ITU-T Recommendation F.700 (11/2000): \"Framework Recommendation for
multimedia services\".
[17] ITU-T Recommendation E.105 (08/1992): \"International telephone service\"
[18] ITU-T Recommendation E.800 (09/2008): \"Definitions of terms related to
quality of service\"
[19] ITU-T Recommendation G.114 (05/2003): \"One-way transmission time\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of this TS, the following definitions apply:
**Basic telecommunication service :** this term is used as a common reference
to both bearer services and teleservices.
**Bearer service :** is a type of telecommunication service that provides the
capability of transmission of signals between access points.
**Call :** a logical association between several users (this could be
connection oriented or connection less).
**Connection :** is a communication channel between two or more end-points
(e.g. terminal, server etc.).
**Mobile termination :** the mobile termination is the component of the user
equipment which supports functions specific to management of the radio
interface (Um).
**Multimedia service :** Multimedia services are services that handle several
types of media. For some services, synchronisation between the media is
necessary (e.g. synchronised audio and video). A multimedia service may
involve multiple parties, multiple connections, and the addition or deletion
of resources and users within a single call.
**Nomadic Operating Mode :** Mode of operation where the terminal is
transportable but being operated while stationary and may in addition require
user co-operation (e.g. close to open spaces, antenna setup...).
**Quality of Service :** the collective effect of service performances which
determine the degree of satisfaction of a user of a service. It is
characterised by the combined aspects of performance factors applicable to all
services, such as;
service operability performance;
\- service accessibility performance;
\- service retention performance;
\- service integrity performance; and
\- other factors specific to each service.
**Service Capabilities:** Bearers defined by parameters, and/or mechanisms
needed to realise services. These are within networks and under network
control.
**Service Capability Feature:** Functionality offered by service capabilities
that are accessible via the standardised application interface
**Services:** Services are made up of different service capability features.
**Supplementary service :** is a service which modifies or supplements a basic
telecommunication service. Consequently, it cannot be offered to a user as a
standalone service. It shall be offered together with or in association with a
basic telecommunication service. The same supplementary service may be common
to a number of basic telecommunication services.
**Teleservice;** is a type of telecommunication service that provides the
complete capability, including terminal equipment functions, for communication
between users according to standardised protocols and transmission
capabilities established by agreement between operators.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of this TS, the following abbreviations apply;
BER Bit Error Rate
CAMEL Customised Application for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
DTMF Dual Tone Multiple Frequency
TR Technical Report
TS Technical Specification
ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
FAX Facsimile
FER Frame Erasure Rate
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
GERAN GSM / EDGE Radio Access Network.
HE Home Environment
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
IN Intelligent Network
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
ITU International Telecommunication Union
LCS Location Services
MExE Mobile Execution Environment
MMI Man Machine Interface
MO Mobile Origination
MT Mobile Termination
PC Personal Computer
PIN Personal Identity Number
PNP Private Numbering Plan
POTS Plain Old Telephony Service
QoS Quality of Service
USIM User Service Identity Module
SMS Short Message Service
SAT SIM Application Toolkit
SN Serving Network
SoLSA Support of Localised Service Area
UE User Equipment
# 4 Framework for the description of telecommunication services and
applications
## 4.1 General
Telecommunication services defined by 3GPP specifications are the
communication capabilities made available to users by home environment and
serving network. A PLMN provides, in co-operation with other networks, a set
of network capabilities which are defined by standardised protocols and
functions and enable telecommunication services to be offered to users.
A service provision by a HE/SN to a user may cover the whole or only part of
the means required to fully support the service.
The service classification and description which follow are independent of
different possible arrangements for the ownership and provision to the user of
the means required to support a service.
## 4.2 Basic telecommunication services
Basic telecommunication services are divided in two broad categories;
\- bearer services, which are telecommunication services providing the
capability of transmission of signals between access points;
  * teleservices, which are telecommunication services providing the complete capability, including terminal equipment functions, for communication between users according to protocols established by agreement between network operators.
The communication link between the access points may consist of PLMN, one or
more transit networks and a terminating network. The networks between the two
access points typically use different means for bearer control.
Figure 1 illustrates these definitions.
NOTE 1: In order to limit the complexity of the figure, only one transit
network is shown.
NOTE 2: The terminating network type may include a PLMN, either the
originating one or another one.
NOTE 3: The bearer service terminates in the user equipment.
NOTE 4: The terminating network may be another network such as: PSTN, ISDN, IP
networks/LANs and X.25
Figure 1: Basic telecommunication services supported by a PLMN
### 4.2.1 Bearer services
The characterisation of a bearer service is made by using a set of
characteristics that distinguishes it from other bearer services. Particular
values are assigned to each characteristic when a given bearer service is
described and defined.
The service characteristics as they apply at a given reference point where the
user accesses the bearer service.
In the general case networks between the two access points use different
control mechanisms. In this case the bearer services of each network
throughout the communication link have to be translated at the network
interfaces to realize an end to end bearer service.
A list of definitions of attributes and values used for bearer services is
contained in clause 5.
The bearer services are negotiable and can be used flexibly by applications.
### 4.2.2 Teleservices
Section 6 defines both standardised and non-standardised teleservices. Some
teleservices are standardised because that interworking with other systems
have been recognised as a requirement. Other teleservices will not be
standardised. A decoupling between lower layer (i.e. bearer attributes) and
higher layer capabilities will be necessary for the development of
teleservices.
## 4.3 Supplementary services
A supplementary service modifies or supplements a basic telecommunication
service. Consequently, it cannot be offered to a user as a stand alone
service. It shall be offered together or in association with a basic
telecommunication service. The same supplementary service may be applicable to
a number of basic telecommunication services.
Two methods are used for the characterisation of supplementary services;
\- The first method is used for the description of existing standardised
supplementary services. These services are specified through the detailing of
each of the operations involved in service provision and service usage (the
provision/withdrawal, registration/erasure, activation/deactivation,
invocation and interrogation operations). Clause 7 lists these services.
\- The second method enables the provision of HE/SN specific supplementary
services. To make this possible, services can be built using service
capability features which are accessed via the standardised application
interface.
A PLMN shall be able to handle multiple supplementary services within a call.
Interactions shall be handled when several supplementary services are
activated in the same call.. When multiple supplementary services can be
activated concurrently, some prioritisation of the services will be necessary.
Certain services may override or deactivate other services.
Interactions between operator specific supplementary services are not defined.
The following issues need consideration when interactions between services
occur;
\- Different phases of a call.
\- A service spanning on more than one network.
\- Service interactions that may occur between services offered to a single
user, as well as between services offered to different interacting users.
NOTE: The methods defined for characterisation of services are description
methods. They do not imply or restrict different implementations.
## 4.4 Service Capabilities
Service capabilities are based on functionality and mechanisms/toolkits such
as provided by SAT [5], MExE [6], IN and CAMEL [8]. These service capabilities
can be made visible to the applications through an application interface. See
clause 8 for service capability features.
# 5 Bearer Services
## 5.1 Definition of bearer services
Bearer services provide the capability for information transfer between access
points and involve only low layer functions. These functions are sometimes
referred as low layer capabilities (in reference to OSI layers). The user may
choose any set of high layer protocols for his communication and the PLMN does
not ascertain compatibility at these layers between users.
In the general case a communication link between access points provides a
general service for information transport. The communication link may span
over different networks such as Internet, Intranets, LANs and ATM based
transit networks, having network specific means for bearer control. Each
network contributes to the end-to-end QoS perceived by the end-user.
PS and CS domains provide a specific set of bearer capabilities. The Circuit
bearer services are described in 22.002 [2]. The packet services (GPRS) is
described in 3GPP TS 22.060 [7]. Following chapters describe the overall
requirements for both the CS and PS domain bearers and also for the bearers
used by teleservices.
## 5.2 Description of bearer services
Bearer services are characterised by a set of end-to-end characteristics with
requirements on QoS. The characteristics and requirements shall cover major
network scenarios, i.e. the cases when the terminating network is PSTN, ISDN,
IP networks/LANs, X.25 and a PLMN.
Quality of Service is the quality of a requested service (Teleservice or
Bearer Service or any other service, e.g. customer care) as perceived by the
customer (ITU-T Recommendation E.800 [18]). QoS is always meant end-to-end.
Network Performance of several network elements of the originating and
terminating network(s) contribute to the QoS as perceived by the customer
including terminals and terminal attachments. In order to offer the customer a
certain QoS the serving network need to take into account network performance
components of their network, reflect the performance of the terminal and ad
sufficient margin for the terminating networks in case network performance
requirements cannot be negotiated.
As far as the QoS to the subscriber is concerned network elements have to
provide sufficient performance (reflecting possible performance constraints in
terminating networks) so that the PLMN cannot be considered as a bottleneck.
This section outlines the requirements on bearer services in two main groups;
\- Requirements on information transfer, which characterise the networks
transfer capabilities for transferring user data between two or more access
points.
\- Information quality characteristics, which describe the quality of the user
information transferred between two or more access points.
It shall be possible to negotiate / re negotiate the characteristics of a
bearer service at session / connection establishment and during an on going
session / connection.
It shall be possible to allocate a particular QoS to any specific service of
the user. The association between services and QoS can be handled either
network based or UE based. In the case of a UE based association it shall be
possible to be programmed by the Home Environment operator into the ME or the
USIM. If the association exists in the UE the specific QoS for the invoked
service shall be requested at session / connection establishment.
### 5.2.1 Information transfer
**Connection oriented / connectionless services**
Both Connection oriented and connectionless services shall be supported.
**Traffic type:** It is required that the bearer service provides one of the
following:
\- guaranteed/constant bit rate,
\- non-guaranteed/dynamically variable bit rate, and
\- real time dynamically variable bit rate with a minimum guaranteed bit
rate..
Real time and non real time applications shall be supported.
\- Real time video, audio and speech shall be supported. This implies the:
\- ability to provide a real time stream of guaranteed bit rate, end to end
delay and delay variation.
\- ability to provide a real time conversational service of guaranteed bit
rate, end to end delay and delay variation.
\- Non real time interactive and file transfer service shall be supported.
This implies the:
\- ability to support message transport with differentiation as regards QoS
between different users.
\- Multimedia applications shall be supported. This implies the:
\- ability to support several user flows to/from one user having different
traffic types (e.g. real time, non real time)
**Traffic characteristics**
It shall be possible for an application to specify its traffic requirements to
the network by requesting a bearer service with one of the following
configurations
1) Point-to-Point
\- Uni-Directional
\- Bi-Directional
\- Symmetric
\- Asymmetric
2) Uni-Directional Point-to-Multipoint
\- Multicast
\- Broadcast
A multicast topology is one in which sink parties are specified before the
connection is established, or by subsequent operations to add or remove
parties from the connection. The source of the connection shall always be
aware of all parties to which the connection travels.
A broadcast topology is one in which the sink parties are not always known to
the source. The connection to individual sink parties is not under the control
of the source, but is by request of each sink party.
NOTE: Point-to-multipoint services are not supported by release 99
specifications.
In the case of a mobile termination with several active bearer services
simultaneously, it shall be possible for each bearer service to have
independent configurations and source/sink parties.
### 5.2.2 Information Quality
Information quality a characterises the bit integrity and delay requirements
of the applications.
Other parameters may be needed.
**Maximum transfer delay**
Transfer delay is the time between the request to transfer the information at
one access point to its delivery at the other access point. In clause 5.5
requirements on maximum transfer delay is defined.
**Delay variation**
The delay variation of the information received information over the bearer
has to be controlled to support real-time services. The possible values for
delay variation are not a limited set, but a continuous range of values.
**Bit error ratio**
The ratio between incorrect and total transferred information bits. The
possible values for Bit error ratio are not a limited set, but a continuous
range of values.
**Data rate**
The data rate is the amount of data transferred between the two access points
in a given period of time.
## 5.3 Supported bit rates
It shall be possible for one application to specify its traffic requirements
to the network by requesting a bearer service with any of the specified
traffic type, traffic characteristics, maximum transfer delay, delay
variation, bit error ratios & data rates. It shall be possible for the network
to satisfy these requirements without wasting resources on the radio and
network interfaces due to granularity limitations in bit rates.
It shall be possible for one mobile termination to have several active bearer
services simultaneously, each of which could be connection oriented or
connectionless.
The only limiting factor for satisfying application requirements shall be the
cumulative bit rate per mobile termination at a given instant (i.e. when
summing the bit rates of one mobile termination's simultaneous connection
oriented and connectionless traffic, irrespective of the traffic being real
time or non real time) in each radio environment:
\- At least 144 kbits/s in satellite radio environment (Note 1).
\- At least 144 kbits/s in rural outdoor radio environment.
\- At least 384 kbits/s in urban/suburban outdoor radio environments.
\- Greater than 2 Mbits/s in urban/suburban outdoor radio environments (Note 2
and 3).
\- At least 2048 kbits/s in indoor/low range outdoor radio environment. (Note
2)
\- Greater than 2 Mbits/s in indoor/low range outdoor radio environment (Note
2 and 3).
NOTE 1: This Peak Bit Rate may only be achieved in a nomadic operating mode.
NOTE 2: Not supported by GERAN.
NOTE 3: Peak instantaneous rate for UTRAN supporting HSDPA.
## 5.4 Range of QoS requirements
It shall be possible for one application to specify its QoS requirements to
the network by requesting a bearer service with any of the specified traffic
type, traffic characteristics maximum transfer delay, delay variation, bit
error ratios & data rates.
The following table indicates the range of values that shall be supported.
These requirements are valid for both connection and connectionless traffic.
It shall be possible for the network to satisfy these requirements without
wasting resources on the radio and network interfaces due to granularity
limitations in QoS.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Real Time (Constant | Non Real Time | | | Delay) | (Variable Delay) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Operating |** BER/Max Transfer | **BER/Max Transfer | | environment** | Delay**| Delay** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Satellite** | Max Transfer Delay | Max Transfer Delay | | | less than 400 ms | 1200 ms or more | | **(Terminal relative | | | | speed to ground up | BER 10-3 - 10-7 | (Note 2) | | to 1000 km/h for | | | | plane)** | (Note 1) | BER = 10-5 to 10-8 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Rural outdoor** | Max Transfer Delay | Max Transfer Delay | | | 20 - 300 ms | 150 ms or more | | **(Terminal relative | | | | speed to ground up | BER 10-3 - 10-7 | (Note 2) | | to 500 km/h) (Note | | | | 3)** | (Note 1) | BER = 10-5 to 10-8 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Urban/ Suburban | Max Transfer Delay | Max Transfer Delay | | outdoor** | 20 - 300 ms | 150 ms or more | | | | | | **(Terminal relative | BER 10-3 - 10-7 | (Note 2) | | speed to ground up | | | | to 120 km/h)** | (Note 1) | BER = 10-5 to 10-8 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Indoor/ Low range | Max Transfer Delay | Max Transfer Delay | | outdoor** | 20 - 300 ms | 150 ms or more | | | | | | **(Terminal relative | BER 10-3 - 10-7 | (Note 2) | | speed to ground up | | | | to 10 km/h)** | (Note 1) | BER = 10-5 to 10-8 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: There is | | | | likely to be a | | | | compromise between | | | | BER and delay. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: The Max | | | | Transfer Delay | | | | should be here | | | | regarded as the | | | | target value for 95% | | | | of the data. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: The value of | | | | 500 km/h as the | | | | maximum speed to be | | | | supported in the | | | | rural outdoor | | | | environment was | | | | selected in order to | | | | provide service on | | | | high speed vehicles | | | | (e.g. trains). This | | | | is not meant to be | | | | the typical value | | | | for this environment | | | | (250 km/h is more | | | | typical). | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 5.5 Supported End User QoS
This section outlines the QoS requirements that shall be provided to the end
user / applications and describes them as requirements between communicating
entities (i.e. end to end). The QoS values in the tables represent end to end
performance, including mobile to mobile calls and satellite components. Delay
values represent one -way delay (i.e. from originating entity to terminating
entity). [ ]{.underline} The values included in the following tables are
commonly accepted values from an end-user viewpoint [12]. The delay
contribution within the mobile network should be kept to minimum since there
may be additional delay contributions from external networks.
Figure 2 below summarises the major groups of application in terms of QoS
requirements. Applications and new applications may be applicable to one more
groups. However, there is no strict one-to-one mapping between the groups of
application/service defined in this TS and the traffic classes as defined in
TS 23.107 [14]. For instance, an Interactive application/service can very well
use a bearer of the Conversational traffic class if the application/service or
the user has tight requirements on delay.
Figure 2: Summary of applications in terms of QoS requirements
The following tables further elaborate end user / application QoS
requirements.
Table 1: End-user Performance Expectations - Conversational / Real-time
Services
+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Medium | Appl | Degree | Data | Key | | | | | ication | of | rate | perf | | | | | | s | | ormance | | | | | | ymmetry | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | | values | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | End | Delay | Info | | | | | | -to-end | | rmation | | | | | | One-way | Va | loss | | | | | | | riation | | | | | | | Delay | within | | | | | | | | a call | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Convers | Two-way | 4-25 | \<150 | \< 1 | \< 3% | | | ational | | kb/s | msec | msec | FER | | | voice | | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | eferred | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \<400 | | | | | | | | msec | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | Note 1 | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Video | Vid | Two-way | 32-384 | \< 150 | | \< 1% | | | eophone | | kb/s | msec | | FER | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | eferred | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \<400 | | | | | | | | msec | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Li | | | | | | | | p-synch | | | | | | | | : \< | | | | | | | | 100 | | | | | | | | msec | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | Te | Two-way | \<28.8 | \< 250 | N.A | Zero | | | lemetry | | kb/s | msec | | | | | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | two-way | | | | | | | | control | | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | r | Two-way | \< 60 | \< 75 | N.A | \< 3% | | | ealtime | | kb/s | msec | | FER | | | games | | | pr | | pre | | | | | Note 2 | eferred | | ferred, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \< 5% | | | | | | | | FER | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2 | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | Telnet | Two-way | \< 1 KB | \< 250 | N.A | Zero | | | | | | msec | | | | | | (asym | | | | | | | | metric) | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
NOTE 1: The overall one way delay in the mobile network (from UE to PLMN
border) is approximately 100msec.
NOTE 2: _These values are considered the most demanding ones with respect to
delay requirements (e.g. supporting First Person Shooter games). Other types
of games may require higher or lower data rates and more or less information
loss but can tolerate longer end-to-end delay_
Table 2: End-user Performance Expectations - Interactive Services
+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Medium | Appl | Degree | Data | Key | | | | | ication | of | rate | perf | | | | | | s | | ormance | | | | | | ymmetry | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | | values | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | One-way | Delay | Info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | Delay | Va | loss | | | | | | | riation | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Voice | Pr | 4-13 | \< 1 | \< 1 | \< 3% | | | me | imarily | kb/s | sec for | msec | FER | | | ssaging | | | p | | | | | | one-way | | layback | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | \< 2 | | | | | | | | sec for | | | | | | | | record | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | Web-b | Pr | | \< 4 | N.A | Zero | | | rowsing | imarily | | sec | | | | | | one-way | | /page | | | | | - HTML | | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | Tran | Two-way | | \< 4 | N.A | Zero | | | saction | | | sec | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ervices | | | | | | | | -- high | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | riority | | | | | | | | e.g. | | | | | | | | e-co | | | | | | | | mmerce, | | | | | | | | ATM | | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | E-mail | Pr | | \< 4 | N.A | Zero | | | | imarily | | sec | | | | | (server | | | | | | | | access) | One-way | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 3: End-user Performance Expectations - Streaming Services
+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Medium | Appl | Degree | Data | Key | | | | | ication | of | rate | perf | | | | | | s | | ormance | | | | | | ymmetry | | par | | | | | | | | ameters | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | target | | | | | | | | values | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | | S | Tr | Packet | | | | | | tart-up | ansport | loss at | | | | | | | delay | session | | | | | | Delay | | layer | | | | | | | Va | | | | | | | | riation | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Audio | Speech, | Pr | 5-128 | \< 10 | \< 2sec | \< 1% | | | mixed | imarily | kb/s | sec | | Packet | | | speech | one-way | | | | loss | | | and | | | | | ratio | | | music, | | | | | | | | medium | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | high | | | | | | | | quality | | | | | | | | music | | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Video | Movie | Pr | 20-384 | \< 10 | \<2 sec | \< 2% | | | clips, | imarily | kb/s | sec | | Packet | | | survei | one-way | | | | loss | | | llance, | | | | | ratio | | | re | | | | | | | | al-time | | | | | | | | video | | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | Bulk | Pr | \< 384 | \< 10 | N.A | Zero | | | data | imarily | kb/s | sec | | | | | trans | one-way | | | | | | | fer/ret | | | | | | | | rieval, | | | | | | | | layout | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | ynchron | | | | | | | | isation | | | | | | | | info | | | | | | | | rmation | | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Data | Still | Pr | | \< 10 | N.A | Zero | | | image | imarily | | sec | | | | | | one-way | | | | | +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 5.6 Radio Interface optimisation
The following requirements shall lead the radio interface optimisation
process;
\- support of high bit rate (around the Peak Bit Rate), bursty, asymmetric,
non-real time bearer capabilities;
\- support of high bit rate (around the Peak Bit Rate), bursty, asymmetric,
real time bearer capabilities;
\- the ability to extend or reduce the bandwidth associated with a bearer
capability in order to adapt to bit rate or radio condition variations, and to
add or drop service components.
However, the services provided by existing systems (speech in particular)
shall be supported in a spectrally efficient manner (at least as efficiently
as included in GSM specifications) for the same quality of service.
In order to allow the support of flexible, bandwidth on demand services,
bearer services should be provided with the finest possible granularity that
can be efficiently supported.
## 5.7 Service Based QoS Control of IP based Services
Many IP based services and applications will negotiate the resources required
in an end to end manner on the application level. It is essential for the PLMN
to provide the capability of ensuring that the resources provided and charged
for shall be in line with that authorized by the service and subscription.
The PLMN
\- shall be able to dynamically allocate QoS according to service needs and
subscription information.
\- shall be able to give differentiated policing for the traffic within an
APN. That is, the policing shall be on a per service flow basis (i.e. on the
basis of specific flows of IP packets identified by the service).
\- shall control the requested QoS parameters based on the invoked service
needs and subscription information.
\- shall facilitate service-flow level charging.
Any solution:
\- shall support roaming users
\- should minimise UE dependencies and optimize usage of network resources
## 5.8 QoS control for IP bearer service
In order to have efficient use of radio resources shared amongst terminals, it
shall be possible for a PLMN to apply a limit to the cumulative bit rate per
subscriber at a given instant for non-real time services (i.e. when summing
the bit rates of one subscriber's simultaneous non-real time traffic).
## 5.9 Ability to effectively handle a variety of different types of IP
traffic
The PLMN shall support both IPv4 and IPv6 connectivity. IPv4 only, IPv6 only
and dual mode (IPv4/IPv6) terminals should be supported. Interworking between
terminals, servers and access systems supporting different versions of IP
shall be possible. Mobility between access systems supporting different IP
versions shall be supported with minimal network/terminal impacts.
The PLMN shall support simultaneous IPv4 and IPv6 usage for a single bearer
connecting to the same PDN through the same APN.
The operator shall be able to control whether or not an IPv4 only terminal is
allowed access to the network.
_Service continuity of subscriber IP sessions shall be supported during UE
handovers from one IP access network to another IP access network, regardless
of whether the new IP access network supports the same version of IP as the
old IP access network._
The PLMN shall be able to handle user-to-server traffic, user-to-user traffic
and user-to-group traffic.
The PLMN shall be able to handle different types of IP traffic, such as real-
time (e.g. VoIP), non-real time traffic (e.g. Web browsing), and mission
critical traffic (e.g. M-Commerce).
{width="5.695138888888889in" height="3.073611111111111in"}
Figure 1: Traffic models of omnipresent services
## 5.10 IP address support
The PLMN shall have the ability to support both private and public IPv4 and
IPv6 addresses. User device IP addresses should normally be allocated
dynamically by the network operator and managed without user intervention. For
business critical applications, and for firewall configuration simplification
purposes, it shall be possible for a user to be allocated a static IP address;
the static address shall be assigned by the network operator. Details of an
assigned static IP address shall be maintained with the subscriber's records
in the HLR/HSS.
# 6 Teleservices
## 6.1 Definition of teleservices
Teleservices provide the full capabilities for communications by means of
terminal equipment, network functions and possibly functions provided by
dedicated centres.
## 6.2 Description of teleservices
The basic reference for the description of teleservices is the ITU-T
Recommendation F.700 [12]. It provides a generic, network independent,
description of multimedia services. The methodology used covers both single
media and multimedia services, the single media services being a particular
type of multimedia services. Multimedia services are classified into
categories with similar functional characteristics. The six categories are
multimedia conference services, multimedia conversational services, multimedia
distribution services, multimedia retrieval services, multimedia messaging
services and multimedia collection services.
The rest of clause 6 describes the teleservices and options that shall be
provided.
A teleservice can be viewed as set of upper layer capabilities utilising the
lower layer capabilities described by the set of attributes in clause 5.
Multimedia teleservices support the transfer (and in some case retrieval,
messaging, distribution) of several types of information (service components).
For this reason, there are service attributes (relating to all the components
of a teleservice) and service component attributes (relating to only one
service component).
## 6.3 Support of teleservices
The realisation of teleservices requires the association of terminal and
network capabilities. In the terminals and in the network, both upper layer
capabilities and lower layer capabilities are necessary. The term upper layer
capabilities is used because it relates to the OSI upper layers. Decoupling
between upper layers and lower layers (transfer) is required. Even if this de-
coupling may impact radio interface optimisation, it is nevertheless the only
way of designing a system that is not outdated;
\- Each time the information rate associated with an already supported
teleservice is decreased by more efficient source coding techniques.
\- Each time a new service is introduced that requires transfer capabilities
not used by currently available teleservices.
Taking the example of two application that exchange information through a
teleservice, the upper layer capabilities can be located in various places;
\- In the two terminals if the two applications are connected to a PLMN.
Figure 2: PLMN teleservice
In the terminal of the application connected to a PLMN and in the upper layer
interworking unit that is at the border of the PLMN and the target network if
one application is connected to a PLMN and the other one is connected to
another type of system. The upper layer interworking unit makes the adaptation
between the PLMN and the target network at a service level.
Figure 3; Teleservice with upper layer interworking
In the terminal of the application connected to a PLMN and in the terminal of
the application connected to a target network if one application is connected
to a PLMN and the other one is connected to another type of system, but only
lower layer interconnecting unit is used at the border of the two networks. In
this case, the interconnecting unit makes the adaptation between the PLMN and
the target network at the transmission level.
Figure 4; Teleservice with lower layer interworking
## 6.4 Existing Teleservices supported by PLMN
The subset of standardised teleservices shall be supported for interworking
with teleservices provided on other networks. The means to support the
following set of teleservices will be standardised:
\- Speech;
\- Emergency call;
\- Short message service;
3GPP TS 22.003 [3] describes the circuit teleservices.
### 6.4.1 Speech
The speech service as defined in international standards should be supported.
The international reference for the speech is ITU-T Recommendation E.105 [17].
Networks should contain interworking units which allow calls to be received
from or destined to users of existing networks like PSTN or ISDN. This will
include interworking units for generation of DTMF or other tones (the entire
DTMF tone set would at minimum be available) and detection of DTMF tones.
A default speech codec shall be specified to provide speech service. The
selected speech codec shall be capable of operating with minimum discernible
loss of speech on handover between the GERAN and UTRAN.
### 6.4.2 Emergency Call
This service will use a speech component and may additionally include a data
component. There are however compared to telephony reduced authentication
requirements and a requirement for specific routing. Additionally Emergency
Calls may have higher priority than normal calls. See 3GPP TS 22.101[9] for
further details.
### 6.4.3 Short Message Service - Point to Point (SMS-PP)
A short message service point to point shall be supported. The short message
service shall be provided seamlessly (as far as the user or the users terminal
equipment is concerned) across the UTRAN and GERAN. A UE may, and the network
shall, support the transport of SMS over WLAN and other IP Connectivity Access
Networks (IP-CANs).
When short message services are transported over a generic IP-CAN:
\- appropriate security mechanisms shall be supported;
\- users registered from an SMS-capable UE will receive the SMS service over a
generic IP-CAN while maintaining the format and functionality of SMS messages;
\- the UE shall indicate its ability to send/receive SMS messages at
registration;
\- existing services that use SMS functionality shall not be degraded;
\- the user experience shall be the same as across UTRAN and GERAN access.
Users registered from a UE capable of using another messaging service such as
Immediate Messaging but not registered to receive the SMS service over a
generic IP-CAN, will receive the SMS service using the other messaging service
when service-level interworking is provided and if operator policy allows it.
In case operator policy does not allow service-level interworking, then the
message may be transported over CS or PS.
NOTE: The requirements for SMS-Immediate Messaging service-level interworking
are defined in the 3GPP TS 22.340 [16].
When the sender's identity is verified by the network operator, it shall be
possible to convey this information as well as the verified identity of the
sender (e.g. sender name), together with the SMS message, to the recipient.
### 6.4.4 Short Message Service - Cell Broadcast (SMS-CB)
A short message service cell broadcast shall be provided seamlessly (as far as
the user or the users terminal equipment is concerned) across the UTRAN and
GERAN.
## 6.5 Internet Access
3GPP specifications shall provide the means to interwork with external data
networks. This interworking shall satisfy, within the constraints introduced
by the mobile radio environment, the QoS requirements of the interworked-with
network. The Internet is seen as the most important interworked-with network,
therefore the specification of an optimised access to Internet will be part of
the 3GPP specifications. The most important benefits achieved by the
definition of Internet Access would be:
\- Optimised transmission of IP traffic over the radio interface to minimise
the amount of information transmitted.
\- Optimised usage of encryption protocols/algorithms over the radio
interface.
\- Inter-operation of QoS mechanisms.
For the purposes of optimised access to Internet one or more of the generic
bearers will be used. The QoS mechanisms defined for packet access mode will
be harmonised with those defined for Internet (e.g. Differentiated Services).
# 7 Supplementary Services
Supplementary services are used to complement and personalise the usage of
basic telecommunication services (bearer services and teleservices). The
capabilities standardised shall enable all the supplementary services
specified in 3GPP TS 22.004 [4] to be provided.
# 8 Service Capability features
**Services Capability Features** are open, technology independent building
blocks accessible via a standardised application interface. This interface
shall be applicable for a number of different business and applications
domains (including besides the telecommunication network operators also
service provider, third party service providers acting as HE-VASPs, etc.).
All of these businesses have different requirements, ranging from simple
telephony and call routing, virtual private networks, fully interactive
multimedia to using UE based applications.
The service capability features shall enable applications to make use of the
service capabilities (e.g. CAMEL, MExE, etc) of the underlying network in an
open and secure way.
Application/Clients access the service capability features via the
standardised application interface. This means that a single service
capability feature is accessible and visible to application/clients via the
method/operation invocations in the interface.
Two different types of service capability features can be distinguished:
**\- Framework service capability features** : these shall provide commonly
used utilities, necessary for the non-framework service capability features to
be accessible, secure, resilient and manageable.
**\- Non-Framework service capability features** : these shall enable the
applications to make use of the functionality of the underlying network
capabilities (e.g. User Location service capability features).
For further information see OMA Parlay Service Access Requirements [15].
## 8.1 Framework service capability features
Framework service capability features will be used e.g. for authentication,
registration, notification, etc. and provide functionality that is independent
of any particular type of service. Other commonly used service capability
features may be added later.
Examples of Framework Service Capability features are (OMA Parlay Service
Access Requirements [15]):
\- Authentication
\- User-Network Authentication
\- Application-Network Authentication
\- User-Application Authentication
\- Authorisation
\- Application-Network Authorisation
\- User-Application Authorisation
\- Registration
\- Discovery
\- Notification.
## 8.2 Non-Framework service capability features
The Non-Framework service capability features represent the total collection
of service capability features that are not included in the Framework. These
non-framework service capability features enable the application to make use
of the functionality provided by the network and service capabilities.
Service capability features shall be defined as much as possible in a generic
way to hide the network specific implementation. To achieve this, it is
necessary to identify the functionality that is provided by more than one
service capabilities. For example, User Location can be produced in several
underlying ways. This functionality can be captured once when defined the
service capability features in a generic way. It is important that the generic
part becomes as large as possible.
When applications use the generic service capability features, these
applications become independent of (portable over) underlying service
capabilities. Applications shall however still be able to request service
capability features specific to a service capability (e.g. Call Setup from
CAMEL). This will increase dependency of the used service capability.
Examples of Non-Framework service capability features are (OMA Parlay Service
Access Requirements [15]):
\- Session Control
\- Security/Privacy
\- Address Translation
\- Location
The precision of the location shall be network design dependent, i.e. an
operator choice. This precision may vary from one part of a network to
another. It may be chosen to be as low as hundreds of meters in some place and
as accurate as 5 meters in other place. It is required that a minimum
precision of around 50 meters can be achieved in all types of terrestrial
radio environment. Technical issues may constrain the precision to be mobile
state dependent as well (mobile idle / mobile in communication). Several
design optional features (e.g. size of the cell, adaptive antenna technique,
path loss estimation technique...) shall allow the network operator to reach
cost effectively the target precision.
Because there may be very different uses of the location information;
\- It shall be possible to make the information available to the user, HE/SN
and value added service providers. The user shall be able to restrict access
to the location information (permanently or on a per call basis). The
restriction can be overridden by the network operator when appropriate (e.g.
emergency calls).
\- It shall be possible to set the delay to get the location information (the
situation is quite different whether the information is needed for call
routing or if it is needed by a user application).
\- It shall be possible to select the frequency of the location information
update.
\- to identify and report when the user's terminal enters or leaves a
specified geographic area.
\- It shall be possible to specify the area as a circular zone (centre and
radius) to a resolution that will be limited by the accuracy capability of the
part of the serving network where the user is registered.
\- User Status
\- Terminal Capabilities
\- Messaging
\- Data Download
\- User Profile Management
\- Charging
# 9 Standardised Protocols and Capabilities
This clause introduces a list of standardised protocols and capabilities that
shall be supported for the control and creation of services. The access
protocols and the execution environment described below are essential.
## 9.1 Access protocols
The access protocols shall allow the support of multimedia services. These
services are characterised by the ability to dynamically change the number of
participants and the number of connections during a call. The characteristics
of the connections (confer the list of attributes used to describe a
connection) may differ from one connection to another. They are negotiated
during call set-up. They may be independently and dynamically re-negotiated on
application (the telecommunication requirements of the application changes) or
network initiative (change of network load conditions, during a handover
procedure) during the call.
The application may require synchronisation between some of the connections.
Later, this synchronisation shall not be lost during handover procedures.
Whenever a call is terminated in other types of networks, the negotiation
shall take into account the limitations of these networks. Interworking shall
be possible with PLMN, PSTN, ISDN and Internet networks. The access protocols
shall allow a user equipment to have several calls active simultaneously.
## 9.2 Execution Environment
The execution environment is a set of standardised capabilities that shall
allow the support of HE/SN specific services (i.e. both applications,
teleservices and supplementary services). The execution environment shall be
distributed between the IC card, terminal and network nodes. The terminal and
the serving network capabilities shall be the only limiting factor for the
support of the services designed to run on the execution environment. The
execution environment is composed of the following building blocks;
\- A standardised content description language for support of HE/SN specific
user interfaces (both for information output and user input). This is intended
only for platforms which are terminals.
\- A standardised procedural language for support of HE/SN specific scripts.
This language shall be common to all types of platforms. The scripts could be
used for e.g. improving the user interface, adding new features to the
terminal like the latest version of a codec, controlling the execution of a
service.
\- Standardised application programming interfaces for opening platform
resources and capabilities to the scripts written with the standardised
procedural language. These interfaces would be platform type dependent. The
interfaces shall include primitives for accessing to the basic control
functions, as illustrated on the figures 5 and 6 below.
Figure 5: Execution Environment in the User Equipment
Figure 6: Execution Environment in the Network
\- Call states, messages, information elements, values of information elements
shall serve as triggers for subsequent interaction with service logic. The
list of triggers shall incorporate those provided by CAMEL, SIM Toolkit, MExE.
\- Means to turn triggers on and off, and associate them with service logic
will be standardised.
\- A standardised certification scheme and security model with several levels
of trusts in order to control the scripts access rights to the platform
resources and capabilities. This would be used to allow e.g. the SP and the HE
only to access to SIM/USIM data.
\- Standardised protocols for allowing the download of content description
pages and scripts in the platform.
# 10 Access dependent services and features
This section describes the features that will be dependent on the mode of
radio access.
In general different access networks provide different capabilities with
different QoS.
\- Multicall, as specified in 3GPP TS 22.135 [11], is supported only via
UTRAN.
\- Packet switched traffic using GPRS over GERAN will have a maximum rate in
the order of 384kb/sec.
\- Packet switched traffic using UTRAN will have a maximum rate in the order
of 2Mb/sec.
\- Packet switched traffic using HSDPA provides very high speed downlink
packet access over the air interface supporting streaming, interactive and
background packet data services etc. HSDPA will support packet data services
in urban environments and indoor environments. However HSDPA service support
is not be limited to these environments. HSDPA will be optimised at speeds
typical of urban environments but shall apply at other speeds also. Full
mobility will be supported, i.e., mobility should be supported for high-speed
cases also, but optimisation should be for low-speed to medium-speed
scenarios.
\- ASCI teleservices, 3GPP TS 22.003 [3] are only available in GERAN A/Gb mode
of operation.
\- SoLSA feature is only available in GERAN A/Gb mode of operation.
\- The accuracy of the determination of location may differ between the
various access technologies.
\- At GERAN reception of CBS messages for a UE is not supported if it is
connected in the CS domain or in the PS domain when data is currently
transmitted.
\- Transparent (T) mode of facsimile , as specified in 3GPP TS 22.003 [3], is
only supported by GERAN A/Gb mode of operation.
\- Non-transparent (NT) mode of facsimile, as specified in 3GPP TS 22.003 [3],
is only supported by UTRAN.
\- There are some differences at data rates and interworking scenarios between
GERAN and UTRAN support of circuit bearer services . For further details see
3GPP TS 22.002 [2].
# 11 Certificates
Certificates may be used for a global scale authorization infrastructure for
various applications and services based on the 3GPP system security
architecture. Services may be provided by parties that are not necessarily
trusted by the cellular operators nor by cellular subscribers. Therefore
technical means to securely deliver and authenticate services from other
parties are necessary. For 3GPP, only the certificates issued by operators are
relevant. There are two types of such certificates: subscriber certificates
are issued to cellular subscribers and operator CA certificates are self-
signed or issued to other operators. Issuing subscriber certificates allows
operators to offer authorization and accounting of other services. Operator CA
certificates obtained via a trusted channel can be used as root certificates.
In addition to these certificates, there are other types of certificates. For
example, service provider certificates (provided by service providers), and
third party certificates (provided by third parties, e.g. Value Added Service
Providers) etc. These certificates are described and standardized by other
fora such as IETF PKIX working group and WAP forum.
Authorization of such services may be based on credentials like digital
signatures. The service provider and the network operator shall use subscriber
certificates to verify these credentials. The UE may also use operator CA
certificates and other certificates to verify the credentials supplied by
service providers and third parties. Operator-issued certificates in 3GPP must
be such that they are compatible with other systems that allow the storage,
selection, and use of certificates (e.g., WAP, LCS).
Example usage scenarios of the subscriber certificate feature are payment via
subscriber phone bill and location information offered by the operator to
other service providers. It should be noted that the service using this
feature may be outside of scope of 3GPP or implemented using existing 3GPP
toolkits.
The 3GPP system shall provide support for issuing certificates to the UE over
the authenticated network connection. This feature shall be based on existing
3GPP system security principles and mechanisms as far as possible. The
certificate management procedures must be authenticated and integrity-
protected. It shall be possible to issue certificates for service usage both
in the home and visited networks. It should be possible for the home operator
to exercise control over service usage in the visited network.
For further information on certificates see TS 33.102[13].
###### ## Annex A (informative): Examples of services built from service
capabilities features
**Call Barring**
In standard GSM, the Call Barring services allow to prevent outgoing calls to
certain sets of destinations, based on the number dialled and whether the user
is roaming. It is proposed that this service allows to block outgoing calls
based on a wider range of parameters which could include factors such as the
time of day, day of week, location, type of call requested, cost of the
service and/or destination. This would allow to develop Call Barring services
tailored to business and personal markets to avoid abuse.
This service is invoked during the initial outgoing call set-up procedure and
allow the call to be blocked prior to incurring any charges. This Service can
be applied to any teleservice for both connection-oriented and connectionless-
oriented services.
**Call Filtering/Forwarding**
In standard GSM, there is no call filtering service. All calls are presented
to the user unless a call forwarding service is used to re-direct calls; there
is no different call handling depending on the incoming call parameters
(although differentiation on call type (voice/data) is possible).
The call filtering service allows the control of whether incoming calls are
accepted, forwarded or terminated. The parameters which can be used to
determine the final destination of a call may include the caller ID (CLI),
original number dialled, time of day, current user location/network, user
profile settings and current state of the terminal.
This service shall be two-stage; immediate call filtering (handled regardless
of whether the terminal is online or not) and late call filtering (handled
only if the terminal is online). It shall be possible to create and operate
new call filtering services which can access any of the key parameters to
handle calls in this way.
**Hold**
This service allows an established call to be maintained, whilst suspending
use of the bearer from the incoming access point of the network. This saves on
both air interface and network traffic resources when a call is temporarily
suspended. The incoming access point in the network means either the
originating terminal, or interworking point with another network.
**Transfer**
This service allows either an established or held call to be redirected to
another destination. This may either be used by setting up a new call to the
destination first, or simply redirecting the existing call to the new
destination. It shall be possible to revert such a call back to the diverting
terminal at any time before it is accepted (answered) by the new destination.
The system shall ensure that an optimal traffic route is used after the call
has been answered by its new (final) destination.
**Call-back When Free**
This service can be invoked where a call (or a connectionless message) cannot
be delivered to its destination because it is in use. The system shall inform
the requesting entity when the destination is next able to accept the call,
allowing a new call to be originated. This allows existing GSM services, such
as Call-back When Free to be implemented. Where multiple requests are
outstanding for a terminal which becomes available, the system shall determine
in which order the requests are handled, probably in a serial manner. Ideally,
it shall be possible to create the service logic which determines the order
used from a range of accessible parameters.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Description and analysis of communication
schemes
This annex gives a high level classification and description of communications
requirements from end users and applications.
# B.1 Communication schemes
The requirements on bearer services are based on an analysis of user and
application needs. Four end-user groups are identified according to four
distinctly different communication schemes; Conversational - real time,
Interactive services, Streaming services and Background services.
# B.2 QoS related performance requirements for example end user applications
A typical user is not concerned with how a particular service is provided.
However, the user is interested in comparing one service with another in terms
of universal, user-oriented performance parameters which apply to any end-to-
end service. From a user\'s perspective, performance should be expressed by
parameters which:
\- Focus on user-perceivable effects, rather than their causes within the
network
\- Are independent of the networks internal design
\- Take into account all aspects of the service from the user\'s point of view
which can be objectively measured at the service access point
\- Can be assured to a user by the service providers(s)
With these considerations in mind, this section examines the requirements of
typical end user applications that can be expected.
## B.2.1 Performance requirements for conversational real-time
The most well known use of this scheme is telephony speech (e.g. GSM), but
with Internet and multimedia a number of new applications will require this
scheme, for example voice over IP and video conferencing tools. Real time
conversation is always performed between peers (or groups) of live (human)
end-users. This is the only scheme where the required characteristics are
strictly given by human perception (the senses). Therefore this scheme raises
the strongest and most stringent QoS requirements.
The real time conversation scheme is characterised by that the transfer time
shall be low because of the conversational nature of the scheme and at the
same time that the time relation (variation) between information entities of
the stream shall be preserved in the same way as for real time streams. The
maximum transfer delay is given by the human perception of video and audio
conversation. Therefore the limit for acceptable transfer delay is very
strict, as failure to provide low enough transfer delay will result in
unacceptable lack of quality. The transfer delay requirement is therefore both
significantly lower and more stringent than the round trip delay of the
interactive traffic case.
Real time conversation - fundamental characteristics for QoS:
\- preserve time relation (variation) between information entities of the
stream
\- conversational pattern (stringent and low delay)
The resulting overall requirement for this communication scheme is to support
conversational real time services with low transfer delay as given by the
human perception. (There are less hard requirements on packet loss ratio.)
A real-time streaming application is one that delivers time-based information
in real-time, where time-based information is user data that has an intrinsic
time component. Video, audio and animation are examples of time-based
information, in that they consist of a continuous sequence of data blocks that
shall be presented to the user in the right sequence at pre-determined
instants.
**Conversational voice**
Audio transfer delay requirements depends on the level of interactivity of the
end users. To preclude difficulties related to the dynamics of voice
communications, ITU-T Recommendation G.114 [19] recommends the following
general limits for one-way transmission time (assuming echo control already
taken care of):
0 to 150 ms preferred range [\<30ms, user does not notice any delay at all,
\<100ms, user does not notice delay if echo cancellation is provided and there
are no distortions on the link]
150 to 400 ms acceptable range (but with increasing degradation)
above 400 ms unacceptable range
The human ear is highly intolerant of short-term delay variation (jitter) it
is therefore paramount that this is reduced as lower level as is practical. A
limit as low as 1 msec is suggested as a target.
Requirements for information loss are influenced by the fact that the human
ear is tolerant to a certain amount of distortion of a speech signal. It is
has been suggested in studies that acceptable performance is typically
obtained with frame erasure rates (FER) up to 3 %.
A connection for a conversation normally requires the allocation of
symmetrical communication resources, with the average hold time of a call
being in the region of 2 minutes.
**Videophone**
Videophone implies a full-duplex system, carrying both video and audio and
intended for use in a conversational environment. As such, in principle the
same delay requirements as for conversational voice will apply, i.e. no echo
and minimal effect on conversational dynamics, with the added requirement that
the audio and video must be synchronised within certain limits to provide
"lip-synch" (i.e. synchronisation of the speaker\'s lips with the words being
heard by the end user). In fact, due to the long delays incurred in even the
latest video codecs, it will be difficult to meet these requirements.
Once again, the human eye is tolerant to some loss of information, so that
some degree of packet loss is acceptable depending on the specific video coder
and amount of error protection used. It is expected that the latest video
codecs will provide acceptable video quality with frame erasure rates up to
about 1%.
**Interactive games**
Requirements for interactive games are obviously very dependent on the
specific game, but it is clear that demanding applications will require very
short delays, and a value of 250 msec is proposed, consistent with demanding
interactive applications.
**Two-way control telemetry**
Two-way control telemetry is included here as an example of a data service
which does require a real-time streaming performance. Clearly, two-way control
implies very tight limits on allowable delay and a value of 250 msec is
proposed, but a key differentiator from the voice and video services in this
category is the zero tolerance for information loss (obvious if you are
controlling an important industrial process, for example).
**Telnet**
Telnet is included here with a requirement for a short delay in order to
provide essentially instantaneous character echo-back.
## B.2.2 Performance requirements for Interactive Services
When the end-user, that is either a machine or a human, is on line requesting
data from remote equipment (e.g. a server), this scheme applies. Examples of
human interaction with the remote equipment are: web browsing, data base
retrieval, server access. Examples of machines interaction with remote
equipment are: polling for measurement records and automatic data base
enquiries (tele-machines).
Interactive traffic is the other classical data communication scheme that on
an overall level is characterised by the request response pattern of the end-
user. At the message destination there is an entity expecting the message
(response) within a certain time. Round trip delay time is therefore one of
the key attributes. Another characteristic is that the content of the packets
must be transparently transferred (with low bit error rate).
Interactive traffic - fundamental characteristics for QoS:
\- request response pattern
\- preserve payload content
The resulting overall requirement for this communication scheme is to support
interactive non-real time services with low round-trip delay.
**Voice messaging and dictation**
Requirements for information loss are essentially the same as for
conversational voice, but a key difference here is that there is more
tolerance for delay since there is no direct conversation involved. The main
issue, therefore becomes one of how much delay can be tolerated between the
user issuing a command to replay a voice message and the actual start of the
audio. There is no precise data on this, but a delay of the order of a few
seconds appears reasonable for this application.
**Data**
Although there may be some exceptions, as a general rule it is assumed that
from a user point of view, a prime requirement for any data transfer
application is to guarantee essentially zero loss of information. At the same
time, delay variation is not applicable. The different applications therefore
tend to distinguish themselves on the basis of the delay which can be
tolerated by the end-user from the time the source content is requested until
it is presented to the user.
**Web-browsing**
In this category we will refer to retrieving and viewing the HTML component of
a Web page, other components eg images, audio/video clips are dealt with under
their separate categories. From the user point of view, the main performance
factor is how fast a page appears after it has been requested. A value of 2-4
seconds per page is proposed, however improvement on these figures to a target
figure of 0.5 seconds wound be desirable.
**High-priority transaction services (E-commerce)**
The main performance requirement here is to provide a sense of immediacy to
the user that the transaction is proceeding smoothly. A value of 2-4 seconds
is suggested to be acceptable to most users.
**E-mail (server access)**
E-mail is generally thought to be a store and forward service which in
principle can tolerate delays of several minutes or even hours. However, it is
important to differentiate between communications between the user and the
local email server and server to server transfer. When the user communicates
with the local mail server, there is an expectation that the mail will be
transferred quite rapidly, although not necessarily instantaneously.
Consistent with the research findings on delay tolerance for Web-browsing, a
requirement of 2-4 seconds is proposed.
## B.2.3 Performance requirements for streaming services
When the user is looking at (listening to) video (audio) the scheme streams
applies. The real time data flow is always aiming at a live (human)
destination. It is a one way transport.
This scheme is one of the newcomers in data communication, raising a number of
new requirements in both telecommunication and data communication systems.
First of all it is a mainly unidirectional stream with high continuous
utilisation (i.e. having few idle/silent periods.) It is also characterised by
that the time relations (variation) between information entities (i.e.
samples, packets) within a flow must be preserved, although it does not have
any requirements on low transfer delay.
The delay variation of the end-to-end flow must be limited, to preserve the
time relation (variation) between information entities of the stream. But as
the stream normally is time aligned at the receiving end (in the user
equipment), the highest acceptable delay variation over the transmission media
is given by the capability of the time alignment function of the application.
Acceptable delay variation is thus much greater than the delay variation given
by the limits of human perception.
Real time streams - fundamental characteristics for QoS:
\- unidirectional continuous stream
\- preserve time relation (variation) between information entities of the
stream
The resulting overall requirement for this communication scheme is to support
streaming real time services having unidirectional data flows with continuous
utilisation. (There are less stringent requirements on delay and packet loss
ratio, i.e. the ratio of lost or corrupted packets out of all packets sent.)
**Audio streaming**
Audio streaming is expected to provide better quality than conventional
telephony, and requirements for information loss in terms of packet loss will
be correspondingly tighter. However, as with voice messaging, there is no
conversational element involved and delay requirements can be relaxed, even
more so than for voice-messaging.
**One-way video**
The main distinguishing feature of one-way video is that there is no
conversational element involved, meaning that the delay requirement will not
be so stringent, and can follow that of streaming audio.
**Bulk data**
This category includes file transfers, and is clearly influenced by the size
of the file. As long as there is an indication that the file transfer is
proceeding, it is reasonable to assume some what longer tolerance to delay
than for a single Web-page.
**Still image**
This category includes a variety of encoding formats, some of which may be
tolerant to information loss since they will be viewed by a human eye.
However, given that even single bit errors can cause large disturbances in
other still image formats, it is argued that this category should in general
have zero information loss. However, delay requirements for still image
transfer are not stringent, given that the image tends to be built up as it is
being received, which provides an indication that data transfer is proceeding.
**Telemetry (monitoring)**
Monitoring covers a wide range of applications, but in this category it is
taken to apply to relatively low priority activities, e.g. status updating,
rather than control.
## B.2.4 Performance requirements for Background applications
When the end-user, that typically is a computer, sends and receives data-files
in the background, this scheme applies. Examples are background delivery of
E-mails, SMS, download of databases and reception of measurement records.
Background traffic is one of the classical data communication schemes that on
an overall level is characterised by that the destination is not expecting the
data within a certain time. The scheme is thus more or less delivery time
insensitive. Another characteristic is that the content of the packets must be
transparently transferred (with low bit error rate).
Background traffic - fundamental characteristics for QoS:
\- the destination is not expecting the data within a certain time
\- preserve payload content
The resulting overall requirement for this communication scheme is to support
non-real time services without any special requirement on delay.
A background application is one that does not carry delay information. In
principle, the only requirement for applications in this category is that
information should be delivered to the user essentially error free. However,
there is still a delay constraint, since data is effectively useless if it is
received too late for any practical purpose.
**Fax**
Fax is included in this category since it is not normally intended to be an
accompaniment to real-time communication. Nevertheless, there is an
expectation in most business scenarios that a fax will be received within
about 30 seconds. The information loss requirement is based on established
wireline requirements for a Group 3 fax. As for the symmetry this should
provide the required through put in the sending direction and the control
signalling in backwards direction, hence an asymmetric connection is required.
**Low priority transaction services**
An example in this category is Short Message Service (SMS). 30 seconds is
proposed as an acceptable delivery delay value.
**Email (server to server)**
This category is included for completeness, since as mentioned earlier, the
prime interest in email is in the access time. There is a wide spread in user
expectation, with a median value of several hours.
# B.3 Adaptability and bearer service negotiation
Applications using the _interactive_ or _real time conversational_
communication schemes can also be described according to their possibilities
for adapting to different environmental conditions as follows:
\- Rigid applications; these applications can not adapt at all (e.g. GSM full
rate speech.)
\- Adaptive applications; these applications can adapt to the environment;
they therefore require the network to support service negotiation. (e.g.
multi-rate speech codecs)
\- Elastic applications; these applications adapt totally to the environment
and do therefore not require service negotiation (e.g. web browsing).
The resulting overall requirement is to support service negotiation.
###### ## Annex C (informative) : Change history