# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The response to emergency situations (e.g., floods, hurricanes, earthquakes,
terrorist attacks) depends on the communication capabilities of public
networks. In most cases, emergency responders use private radio systems to aid
in the logistics of providing critically needed restoration services. However,
certain government and emergency management officials and other authorised
users have to rely on public network services when the communication
capability of the serving network may be impaired, for example due to
congestion or partial network infrastructure outages, perhaps due to a direct
or indirect result of the emergency situation.
Multimedia Priority Service, supported by the 3GPP system set of services and
features, is one element creating the ability to deliver calls or complete
sessions of a high priority nature from mobile to mobile networks, mobile to
fixed networks, and fixed to mobile networks.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the service requirements for Multimedia
Priority Service (MPS).
The scope of this document is to specify those requirements of MPS necessary
to provide an end-to-end service and to interwork with external networks where
needed. Service interactions with external networks are considered within the
scope of this document although these interactions may be specified in other
standards.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 22.952: \"Priority Service Guide\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 2\".
[5] 3GPP TS 24.067: \"enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption service
(eMLPP); Stage 3\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for next generation new services
and markets\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**MPS session:** A session for which priority treatment is applied for
allocating and maintaining radio and network resources.
**MPS-subscribed UE:** A UE having MPS subscription.
**Priority Treatment:** Refers to mechanisms and features that increase the
success rate for MPS session invocation, establishment and maintenance until
release.
**Service User:** An individual authorized to use MPS and who has been granted
a user priority level assignment by a regional/national authority (i.e., an
agency authorised to issue priority assignments), and has a subscription to a
mobile network operator that supports the MPS feature.
NOTE A Service User is not always restricted to a human user of the service
(e.g., in the case of IoT, it could be a specialized application using MPS
through machine interactions that may not directly involve a human Service
User).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
**DTS** Data Transport Service
**MMTEL** Multimedia Telephony
**MPS** Multimedia Priority Service
**OTT** Over-The-Top
**PIN** Personal Identification Number
**VPN** Virtual Private Network
# 4 General description
MPS is applicable in EPS and 5GS systems.
MPS provides priority treatment to increase the probability of an authorized
Service User's Voice, Video, and Data communication session being successful.
Some form of priority treatment is applied to the MPS invocation and session
establishment, and continues to be applied until the MPS session is released.
The priority treatment may be applied before the invocation if a greater
probability of success in receiving, recognizing, and processing the
invocation is needed.
MPS allows qualified and authorized users to obtain priority access to the
next available radio channel on a priority basis before other PLMN users,
during situations when PLMN congestion is blocking session establishment
attempts. In addition, MPS supports priority sessions on an \"end-to-end\"
priority basis.
MPS is intended to be utilised for Voice, Video, and Data bearer services,
including the Data Transport Service, in the Packet-switched (PS) domain and
the IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS). It also involves priority transitioning of
MPS service (e.g., Voice) to the CS domain when the network does not support
the requested service in the PS domain. MPS Voice, Video and Data sessions are
based on providing priority treatment to the corresponding commercial services
offered to the public.
MPS is also intended to be utilized for IoT communications through machine
interactions that may not directly involve a human Service User.
MPS includes network functions that fall into the following broad categories:
Service Invocation: The process to recognize and identify a request for an MPS
session. AN MPS Service Provider network recognizes an MPS invocation based on
the presence of an MPS-unique identifier entered by the originating Service
User in the service request received by the network from the UE, or based on
the subscription profile of the originating UE, or as a regional/operator
option the subscription profile of the terminating UE.
NOTE: The option related to "subscription profile of the terminating UE" may
not involve end-to-end priority because this option is based on providing
priority only in the terminating network based on the terminating UE
subscription profile.
Authorization: The process to verify that a Service User is authorized for
MPS. This includes capabilities to verify authorization to receive priority
treatment in the radio access network and to access the MPS application
service (MPS Voice, Video, and Data).
End-to-End Priority Treatment: The process of providing priority treatment in
all parts of the path, from one endpoint to the other endpoint(s). End-to-end
priority treatment includes priority treatment by all MPS capable networks
involved in the MPS session path, the origination network and the termination
network as well as any transit networks in between.
Invocation-to-Release Priority Treatment: The process of providing priority
treatment to all phases of a session, from invocation until release, including
all steps in between.
The combination of End-to-End Priority Treatment and Invocation-to-Release
Priority Treatment includes both pre- and post-authorization treatment and
includes the following aspects:
1) Priority processing of the Service User's MPS invocation,
2) Admission control and allocation of network resources (including bearer
resources) in origination, termination, and transit networks, including
handovers,
3) Transport of signaling and media packets,
4) Priority processing within EPS, 5GS and CN, and
5) Processing of the Service Users release of an MPS service session.
Network Interconnection and Protocol Interworking: A Service User's MPS
invocation and session establishment will involve transport and processing,
and the end-to-end signaling and media path may traverse multiple MPS Service
Provider networks. These end-to-end cases include, but are not limited to:
1) Voice, video, and data services over EPS or 5GS, including signaling for
call/session establishment and media;
2) EPS/5GS interworking with the CS domain, including a) calls originated in
the CS domain and terminated in EPS/5GS, and b) calls from EPS/5GS to the CS
domain;
3) CS Fallback from EPS, for one or both ends of call, with maintenance of
existing PS domain MPS services, either in EPS or in a legacy system, e.g.,
the GPRS Core; and
4) Access to MPS data and video services not under IMS control.
# 5 High level requirements
## 5.1 General
The system shall provide preferential treatment based on the subscription for
MPS for:
\- An authorized Service User using a UE with an MPS subscription,
> NOTE 1: In this case of an UE with an MPS subscription, subscription related
> information stored in the UE is used, e.g., membership in a special access
> class as per TS 22.011 [6] is used for E-UTRAN access to the EPC and
> membership in Access Identity 1 as per TS 22.261 [7] is used for 5GS (NR and
> E-UTRA access to the 5GC).
\- An authorized Service User using a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription, and
> NOTE 2: In this case, the Service User is not identified by the subscription
> related information stored in the UE (e.g., the Service User borrows a UE
> that does not have an MPS subscription). In this case, radio interface
> priority may not be provided for the initial request for invocation of MPS.
> It is provided only after MPS is established for the MPS Voice, Video or
> Data session.
\- An authorized IoT device with an MPS subscription.
> NOTE 3: In this case of an IoT device with an MPS subscription, subscription
> related information stored in the IoT device is used to allow
> invocation/revocation of MPS through machine interactions that may not
> directly involve a human MPS Service User.
Upon invocation of MPS, the system shall provide preferential treatment for
access and core network resources associated with the session (i.e.,
signalling and media bearer related resources within a domain and across
domains), including, when applicable, priority treatment towards an enterprise
network supporting MPS.
> NOTE 4: 'enterprise network' (mentioned above, and in other following
> sections) may be a 3GPP or non-3GPP network.
A Service User is assigned a priority level by a regional/national authority
i.e., agency authorised to issue priority levels. Upon MPS invocation the
calling Service User\'s priority level is used to identify the priority to be
used for the session being established.
Pre-emption of active sessions shall be subject to regional/national
regulatory requirements.
Subject to regional/national regulatory policy, a PLMN should have the
capability to retain public access as a fundamental function. Therefore, MPS
traffic volumes should be limited (e.g. not to exceed a regional/national
specified percentage of any concentrated network resource, such as eNodeB
capacity), so as not to compromise this function.
## 5.2 Priority session treatment in originating network
When an MPS session is originated by a Service User, the session shall receive
priority treatment (priority access to signalling and media bearer resources
for voice, video, and data) in the originating PLMN based on the originating
Service User priority information (i.e., priority indication and priority
level).
When an MPS session is requested by a Service User and the originating network
supporting session establishment cannot assign the necessary resources to the
MPS session, the MPS session request shall be:
\- Queued,
\- Processed for the next available resource in accordance with the calling
Service User\'s priority level and session initiation time.
The network shall support the capability to inform the calling Service User
about the status of the MPS session (e.g., tones or signalling messages can be
used to indicate that the session request has been queued).
If the queued MPS session times out, then normal session processing applies.
## 5.3 Priority session progression
For an MPS session, a Service User shall receive priority session
treatment/progression through the PLMN(s). In case the MPS session traverses
or terminates in other networks (e.g., the PSTN), the network providing
priority session treatment/progression shall support the capability to
indicate to the other network that this is an MPS session.
NOTE: If there is no agreement on priority handling between networks, the
priority does not carry across network boundaries.
## 5.4 Priority session treatment in terminating network
When a terminating network receives an incoming MPS session establishment
attempt, the MPS session shall receive priority treatment (priority access to
signalling and media bearer resources for voice, video, and data) in the
terminating PLMN, based on the originating Service User priority information.
When requested, this includes MPS treatment towards an enterprise network
supporting MPS.
As an operator option, the terminating network may invoke priority treatment
for an incoming session from a non-MPS subscriber to an MPS subscriber (see
clause 4).
When the terminating network supporting session establishment cannot assign
the necessary resources to the MPS session, the MPS session request shall be:
\- Queued,
\- Processed for the next available resource in accordance with the Service
User\'s priority level and session arrival time.
The network shall support the capability to inform the calling Service User
about the status of the MPS session (e.g., tones or signalling messages can be
used to indicate that the session request has been queued).
If the queued MPS session times out, then normal session processing applies.
## 5.4a Priority Data Bearer Service
The Priority Data Bearer Service provides MPS priority for data and video
services not under IMS control.
When a Service User invokes Priority Data Bearer Service for transport of any
data packets to and from that Service User, the network should give priority
in admission/upgrade of the Priority Data Bearer(s) and in packet data
scheduling in the event of congestion (for new sessions and upgrade to
existing sessions), subject to regional/national regulatory policy.
Specifically:
\- A Priority Data Bearer service session shall be given priority for
admission/upgrade over non-Priority Data Bearer sessions during times of
congestion;
\- Data packets belonging to a Priority Data Bearer service shall not be
dropped before data packets belonging to a non-Priority Data Bearer service
session, when the network is experiencing congestion, subject to the
limitation imposed by public access. Priority Data Bearer session QoS, as
required for the type of service invoked (e.g., packet delay), should be
maintained throughout the activity of the data session.
MPS for Data Transport Service (DTS) is a generic priority packet transport
service that applies independently of the specific data application being
used. In the case of EPS, MPS for DTS enables the prioritization of all
traffic on the default bearer upon request. It may also apply to other bearers
based on operator policy and regulatory rules. In the case of 5GS, MPS for DTS
enables the prioritization of all traffic on the QoS Flow associated with the
default QoS rule upon request. It may also apply to other QoS flows based on
operator policy and regulatory rules. MPS for DTS is a specific example of
Priority Data Bearer Service. MPS for DTS service specific requirements are
described in clause 9.3.
NOTE: MPS for streaming video can be provided as an Over The Top (OTT) service
using the MPS for DTS service.
## 5.5 Priority levels
The Service User shall be assigned one of \"n\" user priority levels. The
priority levels are defined with 1 being the highest priority level and \"n\"
being the lowest priority level.
The 3GPP network shall be able to support at least 5 user priority levels.
Assignment of priority levels is a matter of regional/national and operator
policy.
In case of interconnecting networks that have different priority levels,
mappings between priority levels should be established.
## 5.6 Invocation on demand
MPS priority shall be invoked only when requested by the Service User.
However, certain priority treatments are provided prior to invocation as
specified in Section 5.13.
MPS is applied when idle resources required for an origination session request
are not available.
If idle resources are available when MPS is requested, the request shall be
allowed to proceed as normal, but marked as an MPS request.
An indication of an MPS session should be propagated towards the terminating
network regardless of the availability of resources in the originating
network.
## 5.7 Multimedia priority service code/identifier
MPS shall be requested by including an MPS code/identifier in the session
origination request, or optionally, by using an MPS input string (e.g., an MPS
public user identity).
## 5.8 Roaming
MPS shall be supported when the Service User is roaming and the visited
network and home network support MPS, and roaming agreements are in place for
MPS.
### 5.8.1 Roaming within the home country
The system shall support MPS when a UE with an MPS subscription is roaming
within the home country and the visited and home network support MPS, and
roaming agreements are in place for MPS.
NOTE 1: Roaming within a home country is subject to national/regional rules
and operator policy.
NOTE 2: The subscription related information stored in the UE is used for
roaming within the home country. Membership in a special access class as per
TS 22.011 [6] is used for EUTRAN access to the EPC and membership in Access
Identity 1 as per TS 22.261 [7] clause 6.22.2.2 is used for 5G (NR and E-UTRAN
access to the 5GC).
### 5.8.2 Roaming outside the home country
The system shall support MPS when a UE with an MPS subscription is roaming
outside of the home country and the visited and home network support MPS, and
roaming agreements are in place for MPS.
NOTE 1: Roaming outside a home country is subject to national/regional rules
and operator policy.
NOTE 2: The UE subscription in the home PLMN is configured for MPS with the
visited PLMN outside the home country as specified in TS 22.261 [7] clause
6.22.2.2, for 5GS (E-UTRA and NR access to the 5GC).
NOTE 3: The home PLMN can configure the UE to discover and select a network
supporting MPS when roaming outside of the home country (e.g., the UE is
configured to select a specific MPS capable visited PLMN when roaming in a
country that may have multiple PLMNs where some are MPS capable and some are
not MPS capable).
## 5.9 Handover
MPS shall be supported during and after the handover (i.e., sessions shall
continue to get priority treatment in the network during and after the
handover). Resource allocation for the session during handover shall receive
priority treatment (priority access to signalling and media bearer resources
for voice, video, and data) in the target cell based on the Service User
priority information (i.e., priority indication and priority level).
For handover of an MPS voice call to CS, only the active, or if all calls are
on hold, only the most recently active voice call shall be transferred and
receive the priority treatment in CS. Any remaining non-MPS voice sessions in
PS may be released. Any remaining MPS sessions, e.g., MPS data, in PS shall
not be released.
## 5.10 Interworking with CS domain
### 5.10.1 Mobile origination in the CS domain -> MPS mobile termination
For a Priority Service voice call, as described in [2] and as specified in [3,
4, 5], originated by a Service User in the CS Domain, MPS shall support
priority Mobile Termination of the session in the IMS. The priority
information received from the CS domain shall be mapped and used in the IMS
accordingly.
### 5.10.2 MPS mobile origination -> mobile termination to the CS domain
For an MPS voice session originated by a Service User in the IMS, MPS shall
support priority delivery of the voice session to the serving CS Domain. The
calling Service User priority level shall be sent to the CS Domain.
### 5.10.3 CS Fallback from LTE
Circuit Switched (CS) fallback from LTE needs to be given priority in the LTE
system to support MPS voice in cells where voice is not supported in the PS
domain. Priority treatment applies to both mobile originated calls and mobile
terminated calls.
When an MPS Service User in LTE originates a voice call intended to be
supported in the CS domain, and when configured by the operator, the LTE
system shall provide priority treatment in the signalling and resource
allocations needed to support priority CS fallback.
When a terminating LTE network receives indication of an incoming call to the
CS domain, the LTE system shall provide priority treatment in the signalling
and resource allocations needed to support priority CS fallback.
## 5.11 Network Management Functions
Based on regional/national requirements and network operator policy, an MPS
session shall be exempted from network management controls up to the point
where further exemption would cause network instability. Congestion controls,
overload controls, load balancing, and load re-balancing shall not adversely
impact MPS.
## 5.12 Policy Control
The 3GPP network shall be able to make and enforce policy decisions regarding
relative treatment of MPS application services (Voice, Video and Data) for
admission control subject to regional/national regulatory requirements and
operator policy.
The 3GPP network shall be able to make and enforce policy decisions regarding
relative treatment of MPS application services traffic depending on the media
type subject to regional/national regulatory requirements and operator policy
(e.g., based on operator policy or regulation, Voice may have higher priority
than Video or Data).
## 5.13 Priority before service invocation
### 5.13.1 Overview of priority before service invocation
Providing priority treatment to MPS-subscribed UEs during
attachment/registration for radio access and network connectivity before the
MPS application service session invocation requests improves the probability
of an MPS session request being successful. This involves providing priority
treatment for the signalling during the UE attachment for radio access and
network connectivity based on a subscription profile. Prior to accessing
subscription related information in the network, subscription related
information stored in the UE is used, e.g., membership in the special access
class required to be reserved for MPS use as per 3GPP TS 22.011 [6], or the
special Access Identity used for MPS as per 3GPP TS 22.261 [7]. Without such
priority treatment, a Service User's UE might fail to gain radio access
network and CN connectivity which in turn means that there is no access to the
MPS application services (Voice, Video, and Data). Priority treatment before
MPS session request increases the probability of successful MPS session
establishment and any associated process for the Service User authorization
(e.g., credential collection).
### 5.13.2 Requirement for priority before service invocation
The 3GPP network shall be able to provide priority treatment to an MPS-
subscribed UE before the MPS application service invocation (e.g., priority
treatment for the default and IMS signalling bearers establishment based on a
subscription profile).
The 3GPP network shall be able to provide priority requests for access and
attachment to the 3GPP network from an MPS-subscribed UE, including those
procedures applied prior to and during the access of subscription related
information (e.g., based on the UE membership in a special access class for
MPS, or when allowed to operate with Access Identity 1 as per 3GPP TS 22.261
[7]).
## 5.14 Recovery/Restoration
The 3GPP system shall allow operational measures to expedite service recovery
and restoration (i.e., service restoration after failure/unavailability).
Should a disruption occur, MPS shall be re-provisioned, repaired, or restored
to required service levels on a priority basis subject to regional/national
regulatory requirements and operator policy.
## 5.15 Quality of Service (QoS)
In certain cases, the QoS characteristics (e.g., packet delay and packet loss)
for an MPS session may be the same as the underlying communication service
(e.g., voice, video or data) used to support the MPS session, with the MPS
session being provided priority treatment subject to regional/national
regulatory and operator policies. In other cases, there may be a need to
request specific QoS characteristics for the MPS session (e.g., specific data
communications as described in clause 5.4a, 9.3).
The 3GPP network shall allow selection and/or configuration of QoS rule(s)
appropriate for MPS Voice, Video and Data.
The 3GPP network shall allow enforcement of QoS rule(s) for MPS Voice, Video
and Data.
The system shall support means to retain MPS invoked on Voice, Video and Data
sessions during transient network degradation conditions and recovery (e.g.,
during short radio link interruption), and re-verify any recovered MPS session
afterwards.
## 5.16 Inter-network aspects
The system shall allow MPS priorities to be signalled across interconnected
networks.
NOTE 1: Support of MPS services across networks is based on policy and
agreements between the network operators.
NOTE 2: Intermediate 3GPP networks not supporting MPS (e.g., transit networks
between an originating network and terminating network) should allow MPS
priorities to be signalled transparently, based on operator policy and
agreements for MPS.
The system shall support means to identify that an incoming voice, video, or
data session from another network is an MPS session and to handle it with
priority.
The system shall support measures to verify policy and admit an incoming MPS
Voice, Video or Data session received from another network with priority.
# 6 MMI aspects
In the case when MPS invocation is based on the presence of an MPS-specific
service code entered by the originating Service User, this specific service
code must be defined for the 3GPP network to recognize such an invocation.
The 3GPP network supporting on-demand invocation of MPS shall recognize a
service code indicating a request for MPS.
NOTE: A Service User roaming within or outside the home country must use an
MPS-specific service code recognized by the visited PLMN, to indicate a
request for MPS based on the agreements between the home and visited PLMNs for
MPS.
The choice of an MPS-specific service code is a regional/national and operator
matter.
# 7 Security and privacy
## 7.1 General
Operators support and use a wide range of security tools and capabilities to
protect the 3GPP system and all supported application services. It is
important that appropriate measures be taken to ensure that the use of these
security capabilities does not negatively impact MPS.
Use of security mechanisms (e.g., intrusion detection / prevention systems,
deep packet inspection, and encryption) shall not interfere with priority
treatment mechanisms supporting authorized MPS usage.
## 7.2 Access Control
Access to MPS shall be determined based on the subscriber\'s profile. A level
of authorisation in addition to authorisation to use the IMS is required.
Unauthorized access to MPS shall be prevented.
## 7.3 Integrity
The 3GPP system shall be capable of providing integrity protection to MPS
signalling and media bearers for voice, video, and data.
## 7.4 Confidentiality/Privacy
The 3GPP system shall be capable of providing confidentiality protection to
MPS signalling and media bearers for voice, video, and data as appropriate.
The 3GPP system shall be capable of maintaining anonymity of the originating
Service User to the terminating party, if requested by the originating Service
User.
## 7.5 Use of Encryption
If encryption is used on MPS communication, priority information shall be
accessible to all network elements which have to understand and process that
priority information.
## 7.6 Attestation of Authorized MPS Priority
A 3GPP system receiving a session with MPS priority from another network needs
to verify that the session is authorized for MPS priority.
The originating 3GPP system shall provide a means to securely attest to MPS
authorization for the session.
The 3GPP system shall provide a means to securely verify the attestation of
MPS authorization received from the originating network for the session.
# 8 Charging aspects
A network supporting MPS shall be capable of recording the following charging
information, in addition to non-MPS information:
\- MPS invocation attempt and successful session set-up,
\- Session bearers (originations and/or terminations) on which MPS was used to
gain access to resources,
\- Recording of MPS information, e.g., priority level.
The system shall associate MPS related charging events with the MPS
subscription.
# 9 Service specific aspects
## 9.1 MPS for MMTEL voice
### 9.1.1 General
MPS for MMTEL voice provides the Service User with priority voice
communication sessions in periods of severe network congestion during which
normal commercial voice service is degraded.
The system shall support:
\- MPS for MMTEL voice and voice conference calls for an authorized Service
User using a UE with a subscription for MPS,
> NOTE 1: In this case of an UE with an MPS subscription, subscription related
> information stored in the UE is used, e.g., membership in a special access
> class as per TS 22.011 [6] is used for EUTRAN access to the EPC and
> membership in Access Identity 1 as per TS 22.261 [7] is used for 5G (NR and
> E-UTRAN access to the 5GC).
\- MPS for MMTEL voice and voice conference calls for an authorized Service
User using a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, and
> NOTE 2: In this case, the Service User is not identified by the subscription
> information stored in the UE (e.g., the Service User borrows a UE that does
> not have an MPS subscription). In this case, radio interface priority is not
> provided for the initial request for invocation of MPS. It is provided only
> after MPS is established for the MMTEL voice call.
\- MPS for all participants of an authorized MMTEL voice conference call.
> NOTE 3: MPS for all participants of an MMTEL voice conference call allows a
> Service User (i.e., the host) to establish an MMTEL voice conference with
> MPS for all participants, or upgrade on ongoing MMTEL voice conference to
> MPS for all participants regardless of their subscription to MPS.
### 9.1.2 Invocation and revocation
#### 9.1.2.1 Invocation
A Service User, using a UE with an MPS subscription, can invoke MPS to request
priority for an MMTEL voice/conference call, e.g., when the normal MMTEL call
cannot be established, or to upgrade an already established normal MMTEL call
to MPS.
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE with an MPS
subscription to:
\- initiate MPS for an MMTEL voice call or an MPS MMTEL voice conference call,
or
\- request upgrade of an established MMTEL voice call, or an established MMTEL
voice conference call to MPS.
NOTE 1: MPS invocation using a UE with an MPS subscription is done using a
predetermined method (e.g., by the Service User inclusion of an MPS-unique
identifier or feature code as part of the request to establish an MPS for
MMTEL voice call).
A Service User, using a UE with an MPS subscription, can invoke MPS to request
priority for an MMTEL voice call or conference call during roaming, e.g., when
the normal MMTEL voice/conference call cannot be established, or to upgrade an
already established normal MMTEL call to MPS.
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE with an MPS
subscription to:
\- initiate MPS for an MMTEL voice call, or an MPS MMTEL voice conference call
when roaming within the home country and outside the home country, or
\- requests upgrade of an established MMTEL voice call, or an established
MMTEL voice conference call to MPS when roaming within the home country and
outside the home country.
NOTE 2: MPS invocation using a UE with an MPS subscription is done using a
predetermined method (e.g., by the Service User inclusion of an MPS-unique
identifier or feature code as part of the request to establish an MPS for
MMTEL voice call) that is recognized by the visited PLMN.
A Service User using a UE that does not have an MPS subscription can invoke
MPS to request priority for an MMTEL voice call or MMTEL voice conference
call, e.g., when the normal MMTEL voice call or MMTEL voice conference call
cannot be established.
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE that does not
have a subscription for MPS to initiate MPS for an MMTEL voice call or MMTEL
voice conference call.
NOTE 3: MPS invocation using a UE that does not have an MPS subscription is
done using a predetermined method that is outside the scope of 3GPP (e.g., by
the Service User use of a predetermined access number, such as a special
telephone number).
A Service User who is the host of a MMTEL voice conference can invoke MPS to
upgrade the entire MMTEL voice conference call to obtain priority treatment
for all participants on the MMTEL voice conference call, e.g., when the normal
MMTEL voice conference call cannot be established, or to upgrade an already
established normal MMTEL conference call to MPS.
The system shall support means for a Service User to:
\- initiate MPS for all participants of an MMTEL voice conference call, or
\- request upgrade of all participants of an ongoing MMTEL voice conference
call to MPS.
The system shall provide MPS for a late participant joining an MPS for MMTEL
voice conference after MPS was activated for all participants.
NOTE 4: When MPS is invoked for all participants of a MMTEL voice conference,
the user priority level is based on the host MPS Service User, except in cases
where an individual participant used MPS to join the conference with a higher
user priority level, the higher user priority level is kept.
NOTE 5: The invocation of MPS for all participants may be done using a
customized feature of a voice conference service (available only to the host)
that indicates a request for priority to the system.
#### 9.1.2.2 Revocation
The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS for the following cases:
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL voice call, or an MPS MMTEL voice > conference call from a UE with an MPS subscription, and the UE > shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL voice > service),
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL voice call, or an MPS MMTEL voice > conference call from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, > and the UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal > voice service), and
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL voice conference call where MPS was > provided to all participants on the voice conference call, and the > UEs shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL > voice service).
The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS for an individual participant leaving an
ongoing MPS for MMTEL voice conference where MPS is activated for all
participants.
When an MPS MMTEL voice call or an MPS MMTEL voice conference call is not
explicitly ended, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power
down), the system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that MPS
priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
### 9.1.3 Authentication and authorization
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorize an MPS MMTEL
voice or voice conference call request from a UE with an MPS subscription.
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorize a Service User
request for an MPS MMTEL voice or voice conference call from a UE that does
not have an MPS subscription.
NOTE 1: The method for authenticating and authorizing the Service User using a
UE that does not have an MPS subscription is predetermined. As part of the
authentication and authorization process, the Service User provides MPS
credentials (e.g., a calling card number, PIN or security token) specifically
assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription.
The system shall support means for a visited PLMN, including a visited PLMN
within or outside of the home country, to verify with the home PLMN that a UE
is authorized for MPS, and to authorize an MPS for MMTEL voice or voice
conference call.
NOTE 2: The method for authenticating and authorizing UE for MPS when roaming
is based on operator policy and roaming agreements between the visited PLMN
and home PLMN for MPS as per clause 5.8.
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorize a Service User
request to establish or upgrade all participants of an MMTEL voice conference
call to MPS priority.
### 9.1.4 Signalling
The system shall provide priority treatment to the invocation signalling in
the network once the request by the Service User for MPS for an MMTEL voice or
MMTEL voice conference call is identified by the system.
The system shall support a means for MPS activation when normal MMTEL voice
service is congested at the request of the Service User.
The system shall provide priority treatment to the affected signalling when
MPS is activated for an MMTEL voice call, or MMTEL voice conference call.
### 9.1.5 Media
The system shall provide priority treatment to the audio media flows, when MPS
is activated for an MMTEL voice call or MMTEL voice conference call.
## 9.2 MPS for MMTEL video
### 9.2.1 General
The primary purpose of MPS for MMTEL video is to provide the Service User with
priority video communication sessions in periods of severe network congestion
during which normal commercial video service is degraded.
The system shall support:
\- MPS for MMTEL video and video conference calls for an authorized Service
User using a UE with a subscription for MPS,
> NOTE 1: In the case of an UE with an MPS subscription, subscription related
> information stored in the UE is used, e.g., membership in a special access
> class as per TS 22.011 [6] is used for EUTRAN access to the EPC and
> membership in Access Identity 1 as per TS 22.261 [7] is used for 5G (NR and
> E-UTRAN access to the 5GC).
\- MPS for MMTEL video and video conference calls for an authorized Service
User using a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, and
> NOTE 2: In this case, the Service User is not identified by the subscription
> information stored in the UE (e.g., the Service User borrows a UE that does
> not have an MPS subscription). In this case, radio interface priority is not
> provided for the initial request for invocation of MPS. It is provided only
> after MPS is established for the MPS for MMTEL video session.
\- MPS for all participants of an authorized MMTEL video conference call.
> NOTE 3: MPS for all participants of an MMTEL video conference call allows a
> Service User (i.e., the host) to establish an MMTEL video conference with
> MPS for all participants, or upgrade on ongoing MMTEL video conference to
> MPS for all participants regardless of their subscription to MPS.
### 9.2.2 Invocation and revocation
#### 9.2.2.1 Invocation
A Service User, using a UE with an MPS subscription, can invoke MPS to request
priority for an MMTEL video call or MMTEL video conference call, e.g., when
the normal MMTEL video call cannot be established, or to upgrade an already
established normal MMTEL call to MPS.
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE with an MPS
subscription to:
\- initiate MPS for an MMTEL video call or an MPS MMTEL video conference call,
or
\- request upgrade of an established MMTEL video call, or an established MMTEL
video conference call to MPS.
NOTE 1: MPS invocation using a UE with an MPS subscription is done using a
predetermined method (e.g., by the Service User inclusion of an MPS-unique
identifier or feature code as part of the request to establish an MPS for
MMTEL video call).
NOTE 2: In the case where the MMTEL video call is already established but
becomes unacceptable, the invocation by the Service User to upgrade the MMTEL
video call to MPS may be done using a using a specialized MPS application on
the UE (i.e., as an alternative to releasing and retrying the call which may
fail).
A Service User, using a UE with an MPS subscription, can invoke MPS to request
priority for an MMTEL video call or MMTEL video conference call during
roaming, e.g., when the normal MMTEL video call cannot be established, or to
upgrade an already established normal MMTEL video/conference call to MPS.
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE with an MPS
subscription to:
\- initiate MPS for an MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video conference call
when roaming within the home country and outside the home country, or
\- request upgrade of an established MMTEL video call, or an established MMTEL
video conference call to MPS when roaming within the home country and outside
the home country.
NOTE 3: MPS invocation using a UE with an MPS subscription is done using a
predetermined method (e.g., by the Service User inclusion of an MPS-unique
identifier or feature code as part of the request to establish an MPS for
MMTEL video call) that is recognized by the visited PLMN.
NOTE 4: In the case where the MMTel video call is already established but
becomes unacceptable, the invocation by the Service User to upgrade the MMTel
video call to MPS may be done using a using a specialized MPS application on
the UE (i.e., as an alternative to releasing and retrying the call which may
fail) that is recognized by the visited PLMN.
A Service User, using a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, can invoke
MPS to request priority for an MMTEL video call or MMTEL video conference
call, e.g., when the normal MMTEL video call, or MMTEL video conference call
cannot be established
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE that does not
have a subscription for MPS to initiate MPS for an MMTEL video call or MMTEL
video conference call.
NOTE 5: MPS invocation using a UE that does not have an MPS subscription is
done using a predetermined method (e.g., by the Service User use of a
predetermine access number, such as a special telephone number) and is outside
the scope of 3GPP.
A Service User who is the host of a MMTEL video conference can invoke MPS to
upgrade the entire MMTEL video conference call to obtain priority treatment
for all participants on the MMTEL video conference call, e.g., when the normal
MMTEL video call cannot be established, or to upgrade an already established
normal MMTEL video conference call to MPS.
The system shall support means for a Service User to:
\- initiate MPS for all participants of an MMTEL video conference call, or
\- request upgrade of all participants of an ongoing MMTEL video conference
call to MPS.
The system shall provide MPS for a late participant joining an MPS for MMTEL
video conference after MPS was activated for all participants.
NOTE 6: When MPS is invoked for all participants of a MMTEL video conference,
the user priority level is based on the host MPS Service User, except in cases
where an individual participant used MPS to join the conference with a higher
user priority level, the higher user priority level is kept.
NOTE 7: The invocation of MPS for all participants may be done using a
customized feature of a video conference service (available only to the host)
that indicates a request for priority to the system.
#### 9.2.2.2 Revocation
The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS for the following cases:
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video > conference call from a UE with an MPS subscription, and the UE > shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL video > service),
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video > conference call from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, > and the UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal > video service), and
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL video conference call where MPS was > provided to all participants on the video conference call, and the > UEs shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL > video service).
The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS for an individual participant leaving an
ongoing MPS for MMTEL video conference where MPS is activated for all
participants.
When an MPS MMTEL video call or an MPS MMTEL video conference call is not
explicitly ended, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power
down), the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that
MPS priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
### 9.2.3 Authentication and authorization
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorize an MPS MMTEL
video or video conference call request from a UE with an MPS subscription.
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorize a Service User
request for an MPS MMTEL video or video conference call from a UE that does
not have an MPS subscription.
NOTE 1: The method for authenticating and authorizing the Service User using a
UE that does not have an MPS subscription is predetermined. As part of the
authentication and authorization process, the Service User provides MPS
credentials (e.g., a calling card number, PIN or security token) specifically
assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription.
The system shall support means for a visited PLMN, including a visited PLMN
outside of the home country, to verify with the home PLMN that a UE is
authorized for MPS, and to authorize an MPS for MMTEL video or video
conference call.
NOTE 2: The method for authenticating and authorizing UE for MPS when roaming
is based on operator policy and roaming agreements between the visited PLMN
and home PLMN for MPS as per clause 5.8.
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorize a Service User
request to establish or upgrade all participants of an MMTEL video conference
call to MPS priority.
### 9.2.4 Signalling
The system shall provide priority treatment to the invocation signalling in
the network once the request by the Service User for MPS for an MMTEL video or
MMTEL video conference call is identified by the system.
The system shall support a means for MPS activation when normal MMTEL video
service is congested at the request of the Service User.
The system shall provide priority treatment to the affected signalling when
MPS is activated for an MMTEL video call, or MMTEL video conference call.
### 9.2.5 Media
The system shall provide priority treatment to the audio and video media
flows, when MPS is activated for an MMTEL video call or MMTEL video conference
call.
The system shall support a means to differentiate the priority between the
audio and video streams of a given MPS MMTEL video call.
The system shall support a means to differentiate the priority between the
audio and video streams of MPS participants (Service Users) on an MMTEL video
conference call.
The system shall retain the audio of an MPS for MMTEL video call or MMTEL
video conference call when both the audio and video cannot be supported but
the audio can be supported.
The system shall support priority re-establishment of the video media when an
MPS MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video conference call, is in progress
with only audio media and the conditions which previously blocked the video
media are no longer applicable.
NOTE: This requirement does not imply the need to introduce a new IMS feature.
It adds the need for priority treatment using the existing IMS feature for re-
establishment of the video media.
## 9.3 MPS for DTS
### 9.3.1 General
MPS for Data Transport Service (DTS) is a generic priority packet transport
service that applies independently of the specific data application being
used. It is a specific example of Priority Data Bearer Service described in
clause 5.4a. MPS for DTS provides the Service User with priority for
applications using the default bearer upon request (in the case of EPS), or
QoS flow associated with the default QoS rule upon request (in the case of
5GS), to one or more selected active Packet Data Networks (PDNs)/Data Networks
(DNs), in periods of severe network congestion during which normal commercial
data service is degraded. MPS for DTS may also apply to other bearers (in the
case of EPS) and other QoS Flows (in the case of 5GS) based on operator policy
and regulatory rules.
NOTE 1: Service Data Flows (SDFs) previously mapped to the default bearer (in
case of EPS) / QoS flow associated with the default QoS rule (in case of 5GS),
are upgraded to MPS priority.
The system shall support:
\- MPS for DTS for an authorized Service User using a UE with a subscription
for MPS, and
> NOTE 2: In this case of an UE with an MPS subscription, subscription related
> information stored in the UE is used, e.g., membership in a special access
> class as per TS 22.011 [6] is used for EUTRAN access to the EPC and
> membership in Access Identity 1 as per TS 22.261 [7] is used for 5G (NR and
> E-UTRAN access to the 5GC).
\- MPS for DTS for an authorized Service User using a UE that does not have an
MPS subscription.
> NOTE 3: In this case, the Service User is not identified by the subscription
> related information stored in the UE (e.g., the Service User borrows a UE
> that does not have an MPS subscription). In this case, radio interface
> priority is not provided for the initial request for invocation of MPS. It
> is provided only after MPS is established for the DTS session.
MPS for DTS may be used to by a Service User to obtain priority access (e.g.,
Virtual Private Network (VPN) access) to an enterprise network (e.g., a
private corporate network or private Government Agency network to download
data and/or access enterprise applications such as email, text/chat/presence,
voice and video).
The system shall support for an authorised Service User, an end-to-end MPS for
DTS connection between the MPS subscribed UE and an associated enterprise
network supporting MPS on demand based on operator policy and when agreements
are in place for MPS.
NOTE 4: The end-to-end MPS for DTS connection between the UE and an associated
enterprise network is supported either using a web browser (e.g., use of a
predetermined address (i.e., URL) in a web browser) or using a user-selectable
option provided as part of the VPN client in the UE with an MPS subscription.
MPS for DTS provides an IoT device with subscription to MPS with priority for
applications using a specific default bearer (in the case of EPS), or default
QoS flow (in the case of 5GS), towards a single specified PDN/DN;in the case
of IoT connectivity to an enterprise, MPS also provides priority for the
terminating access network (connected to the enterprise).
The system shall support:
\- MPS for DTS for an authorized IoT device with a subscription for MPS, and
\- an end-to-end MPS for DTS connection between the MPS subscribed IoT device
and an associated enterprise network supporting MPS on demand based on
operator policy when agreements are in place for MPS.
NOTE 5: An MPS specialized application on the MPS subscribed IoT device is
used to support MPS for DTS through machine interactions that may not directly
involve a human Service User.
An authorized enterprise network supporting MPS uses MPS for DTS to activate
priority for remote MPS subscribed UEs and MPS subscribed IoT devices
associated with the enterprise network based on operator policy when
agreements are in place for MPS.
The system shall support:
\- for an authorized enterprise network supporting MPS, activation of MPS for
DTS for remote MPS subscribed UEs associated with the enterprise network on
demand based on operator policy when agreements are in place for MPS, and
\- for an authorized enterprise network supporting MPS, activation of MPS for
DTS for remote MPS subscribed IoT devices associated with the enterprise
network on demand based on operator policy when agreements are in place for
MPS.
NOTE 6: MPS for DTS activation by an authorized enterprise network supporting
MPS involves prearrangement and configuration (i.e., subscription arrangement
identifying the enterprise network authorization for remote activation of DTS
in IoT devices) within the MPS Service Provider PLMN.
### 9.3.2 Invocation and revocation
#### 9.3.2.1 Invocation
A Service User, using a UE with an MPS subscription, can invoke MPS for DTS to
request priority, e.g., when the normal data session cannot be established, or
to upgrade an already established normal data session to MPS.
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE with an MPS
subscription to initiate MPS for a DTS session.
NOTE 1: MPS invocation using a UE with an MPS subscription is done using a
predetermined method (e.g., by the Service User using a web browser to enter a
predetermined address such as an URL).
A Service User, using a UE with an MPS subscription, can invoke MPS to request
priority during roaming, e.g., when the normal data sessions cannot be
established, or to upgrade an already established normal data session to MPS.
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE with an MPS
subscription to initiate MPS for DTS session when roaming within the home
country and outside the home country.
NOTE 2: MPS for DTS invocation using a UE with an MPS subscription is done
using a predetermined method (e.g., by the Service User using a web browser to
enter a predetermined address such as an URL) recognized by the visited PLMN.
A Service User, using a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, can invoke
MPS for DTS to request priority, e.g., when the normal data session cannot be
established, or to upgrade an already established normal data session to MPS.
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE that does not
have a subscription for MPS to initiate MPS for DTS.
NOTE 3: MPS for DTS invocation using a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription is done using a predetermined method (e.g., by the Service User
use of a predetermine URL address) and is outside the scope of 3GPP.
A Service User, using a UE with an MPS subscription, can invoke MPS for DTS to
obtain priority for Virtual Private Network (VPN) access to an enterprise
network (e.g., a Government Agency private enterprise network), e.g., when
normal data session cannot be established or is degraded.
The system shall support means for a Service User using a UE with an MPS
subscription to initiate an MPS for DTS session to an associated enterprise
network supporting MPS on demand based on operator policy and when agreements
are in place for MPS.
NOTE 4: Invocation of MPS for DTS is done either using a web browser (e.g.,
use of a predetermined address (i.e., URL) in a web browser) or using a user-
selectable option provided as part of the VPN client in the UE with an MPS
subscription.
An IoT device with an MPS subscription can invoke MPS for DTS to request
priority when normal data service is degraded.
The system shall support means for an IoT device with an MPS subscription to
initiate an MPS for DTS session to an enterprise network supporting MPS.
NOTE 5: An MPS specialized application on the MPS subscribed IoT device is
responsible for determining whether or not to invoke MPS for DTS in support of
the data communication needs. The MPS specialized application allows
invocation/revocation of the DTS through machine interactions that may not
directly involve a human Service User.
An authorized enterprise network supporting MPS activates MPS for DTS to
request priority for MPS subscribed UEs and MPS subscribed IoT devices
associated with the enterprise network when normal data service is
unacceptable.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized enterprise network
supporting MPS to request activation of MPS for DTS for the following cases:
\- a specific MPS subscribed UE or IoT device, and
\- a group of MPS subscribed UEs or IoT devices.
NOTE 6: MPS for DTS invocation done by the enterprise network supporting MPS
involves prearrangement and configuration (i.e., subscription arrangement
identifying the enterprise network authorization for remote activation of DTS
in IoT devices) within the MPS Service Provider PLMN. For example, an MPS
specialized application hosted in the enterprise network (e.g., IoT
application server) may be responsible for determining whether or not to
invoke MPS for DTS. The MPS specialized application allows
invocation/revocation of the DTS through machine interactions that may not
directly involve a human Service User.
The system shall support receiving and authenticating MPS for DTS invocation
requests from authorized MPS Service Users via public non-3GPP networks.
NOTE 7: The intent of the above requirement is to allow an authorized MPS
Service User to send a request via the Internet to establish an MPS for DTS
session for one or more active PDNs/DNs of a UE.
The system shall support discovery and selection of active data connections
upon receipt of an MPS for DTS invocation request by an authorized MPS Service
User.
#### 9.3.2.2 Revocation
The system shall support means to release an MPS for DTS session for the
cases:
\- an MPS Service User using a UE with an MPS subscription,
\- an MPS Service User using a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, and
\- an IoT device with an MPS subscription.
The system shall support means for an authorized enterprise network supporting
MPS to explicitly request to release an MPS for DTS session or group of MPS
for DTS sessions while maintaining basic connectivity to the MPS subscribed
UE(s) or IoT device(s).
The system shall support means for an MPS Service User to explicitly release
an MPS for DTS session from a UE with an MPS subscription when roaming,
including outside the home country.
If MPS for DTS is not explicitly revoked by the Service User or an IoT device,
the system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS:
> \- upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., power down), or
>
> \- when all the connections pertaining to the MPS for DTS session are
> released (without explicit release of the MPS for DTS session).
The system shall automatically revoke MPS when the maximum allowed duration
for an MPS for DTS session is reached.
### 9.3.3 Authentication and authorization
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorize an MPS for DTS
session request from a UE with an MPS subscription.
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorize a Service User
request for an MPS for DTS session from a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription.
NOTE 1: The method for authenticating and authorizing the Service User using a
UE that does not have an MPS subscription is predetermined. As part of the
authentication and authorization process, the Service User provides MPS
credentials (e.g., PIN or security token) specifically assigned for the
purpose of obtaining MPS from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
The system shall support means for a visited PLMN, including a visited PLMN
outside of the home country, to verify with the home PLMN that a UE is
authorized for MPS, and to authorize an MPS for DTS session.
NOTE 2: The method for authenticating and authorizing UE for MPS when roaming
is based on operator policy and roaming agreements between the visited PLMN
and home PLMN for MPS as per clause 5.8.
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorize an MPS for DTS
session request from an IoT device with an MPS subscription.
The system shall support means to authenticate and authorise an enterprise
network supporting MPS requesting activation of MPS for DTS for the following
cases:
\- a specific MPS subscribed UE or IoT device, and
\- a group of MPS subscribed UEs or IoT devices.
### 9.3.4 Signalling
The system shall provide priority treatment to the invocation signalling in
the network once the MPS for DTS request is identified by the system.
The system shall support a means for MPS for DTS activation when normal data
service is congested.
### 9.3.5 Media
The system shall provide priority treatment to the affected media flows when
an MPS for DTS session is activated.
The system shall provide priority treatment to the affected media flows when
MPS for DTS is activated for the connection between an MPS subscribed UE or
IoT device and an associated enterprise network supporting MPS.
NOTE: Both the MPS subscribed UE or IoT device and the enterprise network must
be served by the same PLMN.
### 9.3.6 QoS
The system shall be capable of supporting a set of default QoS characteristics
for an active MPS for DTS session.
The system shall be capable of verifying authorization for a requested QoS
modification to an active MPS for DTS session.
The system shall be capable of making authorized QoS modifications in support
of MPS for DTS for all media traffic supported via the default bearer (in the
case of EPS), or the default QoS flow (in the case of 5GS).
The system shall support means to allow a Service User to request QoS
modifications for an active MPS for DTS session.
The system shall support means to provide a Service User with an indication
that a requested QoS modification of an active MPS for DTS session was
successful.
### 9.3.7 Security
The system shall support security capabilities to verify an enterprise
network\'s authorization to request MPS for DTS activation.
#