# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies service requirements to enhance 3GPP support
for V2X scenarios in the 3GPP systems (i.e. EPS, 5G).
It includes transport layer support for both safety and non-safety V2X
scenarios:
\- Safety-related V2X scenarios: e.g. automated driving, vehicle platooning
\- Non-safety-related V2X scenarios: e.g., mobile high data rate
entertainment, mobile hotspot/office/home, dynamic digital map update
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.185: \"Service requirements for V2X services\".
[4] SAE International, \"AUTOMATED DRIVING LEVELS OF DRIVING AUTOMATION ARE
DEFINED IN NEW SAE INTERNATIONAL STANDARD J3016\", December 2016; US Homeland
Security Digital Library, \"Self-Driving Cars: Levels of Automation\", March
2017 https://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=801463.
> [5] ISO TS 17419:2014: \"Intelligent Transport Systems - Cooperative systems
> - Classification and management of ITS applications in a global context\".
>
> [6] IEEE Std 1609.0-2013: \"IEEE Guide for Wireless Access in Vehicular
> Environments (WAVE) architecture\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**End-to-end latency:** Time it takes to transfer a given piece of information
from a source to a destination, measured at the application level, **from the
moment it is** transmitted by the source to the moment it is received at the
destination.
**Reliability (%):** The success probability of transmitting X bytes within a
certain delay, which is the time it takes to deliver a small data packet from
the radio protocol layer 2/3 SDU ingress point to the radio protocol layer 2/3
SDU egress point of the radio interface.
**Road Side Unit:** A stationary infrastructure entity supporting V2X
applications that can exchange messages with other entities supporting V2X
applications.
> NOTE: RSU is a term frequently used in existing ITS specifications, and the
> reason for introducing the term in the 3GPP specifications is to make the
> documents easier to read for the ITS industry. RSU is a logical entity that
> supports V2X application logic using the functionality provided by either a
> 3GPP network or an UE (referred to as UE-type RSU).
>
> For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and
> definitions given in ISO TS 17419 [5] apply:
>
> ITS Application Identifier: globally unique, registered number identifying
> an ITS application object
>
> For the purposes of the present document, the following term and definition
> given in IEEE Std 1609.0 [6] apply:
>
> Provider Service Identifier: An identifier of an application-service
> provided by a higher layer entity.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> ITS Intelligent Transport Systems
>
> ITS-AID ITS Application Identifier
>
> LoA Level of Automation
>
> PSID Provider Service Identifier
>
> RSU Road Side Unit
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Categories of requirements to support eV2X scenarios
Different V2X scenarios require the transport of V2X messages with different
performance requirements for the 3GPP system. This Technical Specification
specifies service requirements to enhance 3GPP support for V2X scenarios in
the following six areas:
\- General Aspects: interworking, communication-related requirements valid for
all V2X scenarios
\- Vehicles Platooning
\- Advanced Driving
\- Extended Sensors
> \- Remote Driving
\- Vehicle quality of service Support
Vehicles Platooning enables the vehicles to dynamically form a group
travelling together. All the vehicles in the platoon receive periodic data
from the leading vehicle, in order to carry on platoon operations. This
information allows the distance between vehicles to become extremely small,
i.e., the gap distance translated to time can be very low (sub second).
Platooning applications may allow the vehicles following to be autonomously
driven.
Advanced Driving enables semi-automated or fully-automated driving. Longer
inter-vehicle distance is assumed. Each vehicle and/or RSU shares data
obtained from its local sensors with vehicles in proximity, thus allowing
vehicles to coordinate their trajectories or maneuvers. In addition, each
vehicle shares its driving intention with vehicles in proximity. The benefits
of this use case group are safer traveling, collision avoidance, and improved
traffic efficiency.
Extended Sensors enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video data among vehicles, RSUs, devices of
pedestrians and V2X application servers. The vehicles can enhance the
perception of their environment beyond what their own sensors can detect and
have a more holistic view of the local situation.
Remote Driving enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate a
remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive themselves or a remote
vehicle located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. In addition, access to cloud-based back-
end service platform can be considered for this use case group.
Vehicle quality of service support enables a V2X application to be timely
notified of expected or estimated change of quality of service before actual
change occurs and to enable the 3GPP System to modify the quality of service
in line with V2X application's quality of service needs. Based on the quality
of service information, the V2X application can adapt behaviour to 3GPP
System's conditions. The benefits of this use case group are offerings of
smoother user experience of service.
4.2 Level of Automation
A relevant aspect of advanced V2X applications is the Level of Automation
(LoA), which reflects the functional aspects of the technology and affects the
system performance requirements. In accordance with the levels from SAE [4],
the LoA are: 0 -- No Automation, 1 -- Driver Assistance, 2 -- Partial
Automation, 3 -- Conditional Automation, 4 -- High Automation, 5 -- Full
Automation.
A distinction is drawn between lower levels and higher levels based on whether
the human operator or the automated system is primarily responsible for
monitoring the driving environment.
The 3GPP system provides the performances expected for all levels of
automation
# 5 Requirements
## 5.1 General Requirements
[R.5.1-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the communication range
for a message based on the characteristic of the messages transmitted by a UE
supporting V2X application.
[R.5.1-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to optimize the communication
between UEs supporting V2X application belonging to the same group and in
proximity.
[R.5.1-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the message transfer for
group management operations as requested by the application layer.
NOTE 1: The determination of group membership may be done at the upper layers
and/or lower layers (application and/or Layer 2).
[R.5.1-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer among a
group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[R.5.1-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
two UEs belonging to the same group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[R.5.1-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to support confidentiality and
integrity of message transfer among a group of UEs supporting V2X application.
[R.5.1-007] The 3GPP system shall support relative lateral position accuracy
of 0.1 m between UEs supporting V2X application.
[R.5.1-008] The 3GPP system shall support high connection density for
congested traffic.
NOTE 2: Example estimate is for worst case US Freeway scenario that does not
include arterial roads (i.e. onramps): 5 lanes in each direction or 10 lanes
total per highway, for up to 3 highways intersecting = 3,100 to 4,300 cars per
square kilometer
[R.5.1-009] The 3GPP system shall support efficient coordination of radio
resources used for transport of messages to maximize the utilization of the
available spectrum and to ensure the required reliability.
[R.5.1-010] The 3GPP system shall be able to control the UL and DL reliability
of transport of V2X communications, depending on the requirement of V2X
application
[R.5.1-011] Impact to E-UTRA(N) by UE supporting only NR based V2X
communication shall be minimized.
[R.5.1-012] Impact to NR by UE supporting only E-UTRA based V2X communication
shall be minimized.
[R.5.1-013] The 3GPP system shall be able to support message transfer between
UEs or between a UE and a UE-type RSU, regardless of whether or not they are
subscribers of the same PLMN supporting V2X communications. In case they are
subscribers to different PLMNs, there shall be no service degradation of the
message transfer.
[R.5.1-014] The 3GPP system shall enable discovery and communication between
UEs supporting the same V2X application.
[R.5.1-015] The 3GPP system shall be able to support the operators to select
which 3GPP RAT to use for a V2X application.
NOTE 3: Different V2X applications can be identified by use of different ITS-
AID or PSID.
[R.5.1-016] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE supporting a V2X application to
obtain network access via another UE supporting V2X application.
[R.5.1-017] The 3GPP system shall enable a UE supporting a V2X application to
discover another UE supporting V2X application that can offer access to the
network.
[R.5.1-018] The 3GPP system shall support switching between direct 3GPP
connection and indirect 3GPP connection via a UE supporting a V2X application,
for a UE supporting a V2X application.
[R.5.1-019] The 3GPP system should be able to support confidentiality and
integrity of message transfer between a UE supporting a V2X application and
network, when the UE is using an indirect 3GPP connection.
[R.5.1-020] The 3GPP system shall allow UEs supporting V2X application to use
NR for direct communication when the UEs are not served by a RAN using NR.
[R.5.1-021] The 3GPP system shall allow UEs supporting V2X application to use
E-UTRA for direct communication when the UEs are not served by a RAN using
E-UTRA.
[R.5.1-022] An RSU shall be able to communicate with up to 200 UEs supporting
a V2X application.
NOTE 4: This requirement specifies the number of UEs that RSU should be
capable of handling. The requirement is not applied to the number of UE in a
platoon.
NOTE 5: This requirement is not applied to UE-type RSU.
[R.5.1-023] The 3GPP system shall be able to support confidentiality and
integrity of message transfer between a UE supporting V2X application and a
V2X application server.
[R.5.1-024] The 3GPP system shall provide a mechanism to provide addressing
information (e.g. IP address or FQDN) of V2X application server(s) to the UEs
supporting V2X applications.
[R.5.1-025] The 3GPP system shall allow the UE to use multiple 3GPP RATs (i.e.
NR & E-UTRA) simultaneously for direct communication.
## 5.2 Requirements to support Vehicles Platooning
[R.5.2-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to support up to 5 UEs for a group
of UEs supporting V2X application.
[R.5.2-002] For Vehicle Platooning, the 3GPP system shall be able to support
reliable V2V communications between a specific UE supporting V2X applications
and up to 19 other UEs supporting V2X applications.
NOTE 1: For group of heavy goods vehicle platooning, the number of UEs in a
platoon can be smaller, due to communication range, the length of truck,
inter-truck distance, etc.
[R.5.2-003] The 3GPP system shall support relative longitudinal position
accuracy of less than 0.5 m for UEs supporting V2X application for platooning
in proximity.
Table 5.2-1 Performance requirements for Vehicles Platooning
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Com | Req | Pa | Tx | Max | R | Data | Min | | | munic | # | yload | rate | end-t | eliab | rate | req | | | ation | | (B | (Mes | o-end | ility | ( | uired | | | sce | | ytes) | sage/ | la | (%) | Mbps) | com | | | nario | | | Sec) | tency | | | munic | | | d | | | | | (NOTE | | ation | | | escri | | | | (ms) | 5) | | | | | ption | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | | (me | | | | | | | | | | ters) | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 6) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Sce | D | | | | | | | | | nario | egree | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | C | L | [R | 30 | 30 | 25 | 90 | | | | ooper | owest | .5.2- | 0-400 | | | | | | | ative | d | 004] | | | | | | | | dr | egree | | (NOTE | | | | | | | iving | of | | 2) | | | | | | | for | autom | | | | | | | | | ve | ation | | | | | | | | | hicle | | | | | | | | | | plato | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | exc | | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | group | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | Low\ | [R | 6500 | 50 | 20 | | | 350 | | | d | .5.2- | | | | | | | | | egree | 005] | (NOTE | | | | | | | | of | | 3) | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | Hi | [R | 50 | 30 | 10 | 99.99 | | 80 | | | ghest | .5.2- | -1200 | | | | | | | | d | 006] | | | | | | | | | egree | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | of | | 4) | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | High\ | [R | | | 20 | | 65 | 180 | | | d | .5.2- | | | | | | | | | egree | 007] | | | | | (NOTE | | | | of | | | | | | 3) | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Repo | N/A | [R | 50 | 2 | 500 | | | | | rting | | .5.2- | -1200 | | | | | | | n | | 008] | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | plato | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | a UE | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | RSU. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | I | L | [R | 6000 | 50 | 20 | | | 350 | | nform | ower\ | .5.2- | | | | | | | | ation | d | 009] | (NOTE | | | | | | | sh | egree | | 3) | | | | | | | aring | of | | | | | | | | | for | autom | | | | | | | | | plato | ation | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | RSU. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | H | [R. | | | 20 | | 50 | 180 | | | igher | 5.2-0 | | | | | | | | | d | 010] | | | | | (NOTE | | | | egree | | | | | | 3) | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | | trig | | | | | | | | | | gered | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | iodic | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | pac | | | | | | | | | | kets. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | consi | | | | | | | | | | dered | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | | ludes | | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ooper | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | manoe | | | | | | | | | | uvres | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ooper | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | perce | | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | exch | | | | | | | | | | anged | | | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | | sep | | | | | | | | | | arate | | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | | sages | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | eriod | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | | la | | | | | | | | | | tency | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | | 0ms). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | incl | | | | | | | | | | uding | | | | | | | | | | sec | | | | | | | | | | urity | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | | sages | | | | | | | | | | compo | | | | | | | | | | nent. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | Suffi | | | | | | | | | | cient | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eliab | | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | | vided | | | | | | | | | | even | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | cells | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | aving | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | obt | | | | | | | | | | ained | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | onsid | | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | speed | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | 130 | | | | | | | | | | km/h. | | | | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | | | | veh | | | | | | | | | | icles | | | | | | | | | | in a | | | | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | | | | atoon | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | | direc | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
## 5.3 Requirements to support Advanced Driving
Table 5.3-1 Performance requirements for advanced driving
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | **Com |** Req | **Pa |** Tx | * | **R | * |** Min | | | munic | #**| yload | rate |_Max\ | eliab |_ Data | req | | | ation | | (Byt | (Mess | end-t | ility | rate | uired | | | sce | | es)** | age/S | o-end | (%)**| (Mb | Com | | | nario | | | ec)** | late | | ps)**| munic | | | des | | | | ncy** | * | | ation | | | cript | | | | | _(NOT | | range | | | ion_ _| | | |__( | E3)__| | (mete | | | | | | | ms)__| | | rs)__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4)__| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | ** |__Deg | | | | | | | | | Scena | ree_ _| | | | | | | | | rio_ * | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | C | [R | 2000 | 100\ | 10 | 99.99 | 10 | | | | ooper | .5.3- | | (NOTE | | | | | | | ative | 001] | (NOTE | 5) | | | (NOTE | | | | coll | | 5) | | | | 1) | | | | ision | | | | | | | | | | avoi | | | | | | | | | | dance | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | | licat | | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | I | L | [R | 6500 | 10 | 100 | | | 700 | | nform | ower\ | .5.3- | | | | | | | | ation | d | 002] | (NOTE | | | | | | | sh | egree | | 1) | | | | | | | aring | of | | | | | | | | | for | autom | | | | | | | | | auto | ation | | | | | | | | | mated | | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | H | [R | | | 100 | | 53 | 360 | | | igher | .5.3- | | | | | | | | | d | 003] | | | | | (NOTE | | | | egree | | | | | | 1) | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | I | L | [R | 6000 | 10 | 100 | | | 700 | | nform | ower\ | .5.3- | | | | | | | | ation | d | 004] | (NOTE | | | | | | | sh | egree | | 1) | | | | | | | aring | of | | | | | | | | | for | autom | | | | | | | | | auto | ation | | | | | | | | | mated | | | | | | | | | | dr | | | | | | | | | | iving | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | RSU | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | H | [R | | | 100 | | 50 | 360 | | | igher | .5.3- | | | | | | | | | d | 005] | | | | | (NOTE | | | | egree | | | | | | 1) | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Emer | [R | 2000 | | 3 | 9 | 30 | 500 | | | gency | .5.3- | | | | 9.999 | | | | | traje | 006] | (NOTE | | | | | | | | ctory | | 5) | | | | | | | | alig | | | | | | | | | | nment | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | In | [R | UL: | UL: | | | UL: | | | | terse | .5.3- | 450 | 50 | | | 0. 25 | | | | ction | 007] | | | | | DL: | | | | s | | | | | | 50 | | | | afety | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | nform | | | | | | 2) | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | RSU | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | | plica | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | C | L | [R | 30 | | 25 | 90 | | | | ooper | ower\ | .5.3- | 0-400 | | | | | | | ative | d | 008] | | | | | | | | lane | egree | | | | | | | | | c | of | | | | | | | | | hange | autom | | | | | | | | | be | ation | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | | licat | | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | | H | [R | 12000 | | 10 | 99.99 | | | | | igher | .5.3- | | | | | | | | | d | 009] | | | | | | | | | egree | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | Video | [R | | | | | UL: | | | | sh | .5.3- | | | | | 10 | | | | aring | 010] | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | a UE | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | and a | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | | rver. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | | ludes | | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ooper | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | manoe | | | | | | | | | | uvers | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ooper | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | perce | | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | exch | | | | | | | | | | anged | | | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | | sep | | | | | | | | | | arate | | | | | | | | | | mes | | | | | | | | | | sages | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | eriod | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | e.g., | | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | | la | | | | | | | | | | tency | | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | | 0ms). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | | rring | | | | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | 200 | | | | | | | | | | UEs. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | of 50 | | | | | | | | | | Mbps | | | | | | | | | | DL is | | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | broa | | | | | | | | | | dcast | | | | | | | | | | or is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | aggre | | | | | | | | | | gated | | | | | | | | | | bi | | | | | | | | | | trate | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | uni | | | | | | | | | | cast. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | Suffi | | | | | | | | | | cient | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eliab | | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | | vided | | | | | | | | | | even | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | cells | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | aving | | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | obt | | | | | | | | | | ained | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | onsid | | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | speed | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | 130 | | | | | | | | | | km/h. | | | | | | | | | | Veh | | | | | | | | | | icles | | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | | move | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | diff | | | | | | | | | | erent | | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | | irect | | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | lcula | | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | ooper | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | mane | | | | | | | | | | uvers | | | | | | | | | | only. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+
## 5.4 Requirements to support Extended Sensors
Table 5.4-1 Performance requirements for extended sensors
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | Com | Req | Pa | Tx | Max\ | R | Data | Min | | | munic | # | yload | rate | end-t | eliab | rate | req | | | ation | | (B | (Me | o-end | ility | ( | uired | | | sce | | ytes) | ssage | | (%) | Mbps) | com | | | nario | | | /Sec) | la | | | munic | | | d | | | | tency | | | ation | | | escri | | | | | | | range | | | ption | | | | (ms) | | | (me | | | | | | | | | | ters) | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | Sce | D | | | | | | | | | nario | egree | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | S | L | [R | 1600 | 10 | 100 | 99 | | 1000 | | ensor | ower\ | .5.4- | | | | | | | | i | d | 001] | | | | | | | | nform | egree | | | | | | | | | ation | of | | | | | | | | | sh | autom | | | | | | | | | aring | ation | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | | H | [R | | | 10 | 95 | 25 | | | | igher | .5.4- | | | | | | | | | d | 002] | | | | | (NOTE | | | | egree | | | | | | 1) | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | | | [R | | | 3 | 9 | 50 | 200 | | | | .5.4- | | | | 9.999 | | | | | | 003] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | | | [R | | | 10 | 99.99 | 25 | 500 | | | | .5.4- | | | | | | | | | | 004] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | | | [R | | | 50 | 99 | 10 | 1000 | | | | .5.4- | | | | | | | | | | 005] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | | | [R | | | 10 | 99.99 | 1000 | 50 | | | | .5.4- | | | | | | | | | | 006] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | Video | L | [R | | | 50 | 90 | 10 | 100 | | sh | ower\ | .5.4- | | | | | | | | aring | d | 007] | | | | | | | | be | egree | | | | | | | | | tween | of | | | | | | | | | UEs | autom | | | | | | | | | suppo | ation | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | | H | [R | | | 10 | 99.99 | 700 | 200 | | | igher | .5.4- | | | | | | | | | d | 008] | | | | | | | | | egree | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | | | [R | | | 10 | 99.99 | 90 | 400 | | | | .5.4- | | | | | | | | | | 009] | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | peak | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | rate. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | imm | | | | | | | | | | inent | | | | | | | | | | coll | | | | | | | | | | ision | | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | | ario. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+
## 5.5 Requirements to support Remote Driving
[R.5.5-001] The 3GPP system shall support message exchange between a UE
supporting V2X application and V2X application server for an absolute speed of
up to 250 km/h.
Table 5.5-1 Performance requirements for remote driving
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Co | Req # | Max | Reliability | Data rate | | mmunication | | end-to-end | (%) | (Mbps) | | scenario | | latency | | | | description | | (ms) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Information | [ | 5 | 99.999 | UL: 25 | | exchange | R.5.5-002] | | | | | between a | | | | DL: 1 | | UE | | | | | | supporting | | | | | | V2X | | | | | | application | | | | | | and a V2X | | | | | | Application | | | | | | Server | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
5.6 Requirements to support vehicle quality of service
[R.5.6-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a standardized interface
to V2X applications to enable the V2X application to adjust its service
offerings based on the quality of service of the ongoing connection or on the
estimated quality of service.
[R.5.6-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to authenticate and authorize V2X
application for requesting information on the quality of service of the
ongoing connection or on the estimated quality of service.
[R.5.6-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide quality of service
information to the V2X application in a resource efficient way.
[R.5.6-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to support an efficient and secure
mechanism to gather information (e.g. location information, reliability
information, timing information, latency information, velocity information),
in order to generate information about quality of service in a resource
efficient way.
[R.5.6-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to support continuity of reporting
estimated quality of service for a UE even when the PLMN serving the UE
changes.
[R.5.6-006] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications with
estimated quality of service information for a certain geographic area and
time.
[R.5.6-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a V2X application with
quality of service parameters that can be provisioned for connection for a
certain geographic area in a certain time.
[R.5.6-008] The 3GPP system shall be able to notify V2X applications with
updated estimation of unfulfillment (or re-fulfilment) of quality of service
for a certain geographic area, at least a certain amount of time before when
the actual change occurs.
[R.5.6-009] On request by the V2X application, the 3GPP system shall be able
to provide information on whether connectivity with specific quality of
service is expected to be fulfilled in a certain geographical area and at a
certain time.
[R.5.6-010] The 3GPP network shall notify a V2X application that the current
quality of service of a UE's ongoing communication might be unfulfilled (or
re-fulfilled) in the future.
[R.5.6-011] The 3GPP system shall be able to support negotiating quality of
service alternatives with the V2X application.
[R.5.6-012] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide V2X applications with
updated quality of service from the quality of service alternatives previously
negotiated by the V2X application, when the quality of service of the UE's
ongoing connection changes.
[R.5.6-013] The 3GPP system shall be able to support a V2X application to
request connectivity with specific quality of service parameter for a certain
geographic area and time.
[R.5.6-014] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a V2X application with
response on whether the request of connectivity service with specific quality
of service parameter for a certain geographic area and a certain time is
accepted or not.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Background information on service
Requirements
For each requirement in this specification, Table A-1 indicates reference to
the consolidated potential requirements in TR 22.886:
Table A-1 Reference information for requirements
+------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | **Requirement # in this specification** | **CPR # in TR 22.886** | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-001] | [CPR.G-001] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-002] | [CPR.G-002] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-003] | [CPR.G-003] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-004] | [CPR.G-004] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-005] | [CPR.G-005] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-006] | [CPR.G-006] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-007] | [CPR.G-007] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-008] | [CPR.G-009] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-009] | [CPR.G-010] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-010] | [CPR.G-011] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-011] | [CPR.G-012] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-012] | [CPR.G-013] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-013] | [CPR.G-014] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-014] | [CPR.G-016] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-015] | [CPR.G-017] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-016] | [CPR.G-018] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-017] | [CPR.G-019] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-018] | [CPR.G-020] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-019] | [CPR.G-021] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-020] | [CPR.G-022] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-021] | [CPR.G-022] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-022] | [CPR.G-023] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.1-023] | [CPR.G-025] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-001] | [CPR.P-001] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-002] | [CPR.P-002] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-003] | [CPR.P-003] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-004] | [CPR.P-005] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-004] | [CPR.P-007] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-005] | [CPR.P-009] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-006] | [CPR.P-008] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-006] | [CPR.P-004] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-007] | [CPR.P-010] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-008] | [CPR.P-006] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-009] | [CPR.P-011] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.2-010] | [CPR.P-012] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-001] | [CPR.A-001] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-002] | [CPR.A-002] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-003] | [CPR.A-003] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-004] | [CPR.A-004] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-005] | [CPR.A-005] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-006] | [CPR.A-006] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-007] | [CPR.A-007] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-008] | [CPR.A-008] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-009] | [CPR.A-009] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.3-010] | [CPR.A-010] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.4-001] | [CPR.E-002] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.4-002] | [CPR.E-001] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.4-003] | [CPR.E-003] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.4-004] | [CPR.E-004] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.4-005] | [CPR.E-005] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.4-006] | [CPR.E-006] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.4-007] | [CPR.E-007] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.4-008] | [CPR.E-008] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.4-009] | [CPR.E-008] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.5-001] | [CPR.R-001] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.5-002] | [CPR.R-001] | | | | | | [CPR.R-002] | | | | | | [CPR.R-003] | | | | | | [CPR.R-004] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-001] | [CPR.Q-015] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-002] | [CPR.Q-009] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-003] | [CPR.Q-002] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-004] | [CPR.Q-002] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-005] | [CPR.Q-004] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-006] | [CPR.Q-001] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-007] | [CPR.Q-006] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-008] | [CPR.Q-017] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-009] | [CPR.Q-011] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-010] | [CPR.Q-018] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-011] | [CPR.Q-007] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-012] | [CPR.Q-019] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-013] | [CPR.Q-012] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+ | [R.5.6-014] | [CPR.Q-013] | +------------------------------------------+-------------------------+
###### ## Annex B (informative): Relation between TS 22.185 and this TS
3GPP Technical Specification on Service Requirements for V2X Services [3] was
developed with focus on basic safety aspect and non-safety aspect using LTE-
based technology. This Technical Specification on Enhancement of 3GPP Support
for V2X Services was developed with focus on enhancements of V2X Use Case
scenarios, including more rigorous functional requirements for advanced
features that cannot be achieved by [3].
###### ## Annex C (informative): Relationship between V2X applications and V2X
requirements
In this specification, performance requirements for various scenarios are
defined. KPIs of the various scenarios are not mutually exclusive. When
several V2X applications are simultaneously running in the vehicle, total
performance requirement to serve that vehicle is not the sum of individual
performance requirement of each V2X application:
\- Different use cases or applications may use and share same V2X message. For
example, according to ETSI TS 102.637, information included in a DENM message
can be used by multiple applications such as emergency electronic brake
lights, wrong way driving warning and so on. Thus, there is no need for each
application to generate separately V2X messages.
\- According to ETSI EN 302.665, V2X application layer is separated from V2X
Facilities layer. V2X applications do not have V2X message handling
capabilities, and this is left to V2X Facilities layer. Because V2X Facilities
layer serves all V2X applications, the V2X Facilities layer can optimize V2X
message handling, by considering overall requirements of different V2X
applications.
Figure C-1 shows one of example configuration where multiples V2X applications
and one common V2X message handling entity exist. Because only one driving
wheel, one accelerator and one brake exist in a vehicle, the applications in a
vehicle may either be combined or operate in a harmonized fashion. Then, V2X
messages are also used in a harmonized fashion.
{width="6.146527777777778in" height="3.089583333333333in"}
Figure C-1. Relationship between V2X messages and Applications (illustrative
purpose only)
Annex D (informative):\ Role model for service exposure for Estimation
In relation to the service requirements in section 5.6, following figure shows
the role model for the involved entities. Data gathering entity gathers
relevant data that can be used as an input to estimation entity. The data can
be statistical data, historical data and etc. Based on the data provided by
data gathering entity, estimation entity makes an estimation that is requested
by third parties. The result of estimation is provided from 3GPP system to
third party. While interface from 3GPP system toward third party and interface
among entities within 3GPP system is standardized, how actual estimation
mechanism is performed within estimation entity or how much the estimation is
accurate is out of 3GPP scope.
#