# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
> where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The need to support different kinds of UEs (e.g. for the Internet of Things
(IoT)), services, and technologies is driving the technology revolution to a
high-performance and highly efficient 3GPP system. The drivers include IoT,
Virtual Reality (VR), industrial control, ubiquitous on-demand coverage, as
well as the opportunity to meet customized market needs. These drivers require
enhancements to the devices, services, and technologies well established by
3GPP. The key objective with the 5G system is to be able to support new
deployment scenarios to address diverse market segments.
This document compiles requirements that define a 5G system.
The 5G system is characterised, for example, by:
\- Support for multiple access technologies
\- Scalable and customizable network
\- Advanced Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) (e.g. availability, latency,
reliability, user experienced data rates, area traffic capacity)
\- Flexibility and programmability (e.g. network slicing, diverse mobility
management, Network Function Virtualization)
\- Resource efficiency (both user plane and control plane)
\- Seamless mobility in densely populated and heterogeneous environment
\- Support for real time and non-real time multimedia services and
applications with advanced Quality of Experience (QoE)
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the service and operational requirements for a
5G system, including a UE, NG-RAN, and 5G Core network. Requirements for a 5G
E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity in E-UTRAN connected to EPC are found in TS 22.278
[5].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] NGMN 5G White Paper v1.0, February 2015.
[3] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[4] NGMN, \"Perspectives on Vertical Industries and Implications for 5G,
v2.0\", September 2016.
[5] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.146: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS) user
services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.186: \"Enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X scenarios\".
[10] NGMN, \"Recommendations for NGMN KPIs and Requirements for 5G\", June
2016
[11] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[12] Communication network dependability engineering. IEC 61907:2009.
[13] Soriano, R., Alberto, M., Collazo, J., Gonzales, I., Kupzo, F., Moreno,
L., & Lorenzo, J. OpenNode. Open Architecture for Secondary Nodes of the
Electricity Smartgrid. In Proceedings CIRED 2011 21st International Conference
on Electricity Distribution, CD1. June 2011.
[14] North American Electric Reliability Council. Frequently Asked Questions
(FAQs) Cyber Security Standards CIP--002--1 through CIP--009--1. Available:
http://www.nerc.com/docs/standards/sar/Revised_CIP-002-009_FAQs_06Mar06.pdf.
2006.
[15] McTaggart, Craig, et al. \"Improvements in power system integrity
protection schemes\". Developments in Power System Protection (DPSP 2010).
Managing the Change, 10th IET International Conference on. IET, 2010.
[16] IEEE Power Engineering Society -- Power System Relaying Committee \--
System Protection Subcommittee Working Group C-6. Wide Area Protection and
Emergency Control.
[17] Begovic, Miroslav, et al. \"Wide-area protection and emergency control\".
Proceedings of the IEEE 93.5, pp. 876-891, 2005.
[18] ITU-T Recommendation G.1000 \"Communications quality of service: A
framework and definitions\".
[19] IEC 61907, \"Communication network dependability engineering\".
[20] NIST, \"Framework for Cyber-Physical Systems\", 2016.
[21] 3GPP TS 22.104: \"Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains\".
[22] 3GPP TS 22.262: \"Message Service within the 5G System\".
[23] 3GPP TS 22.289: \"Mobile Communication System for Railways\".
[24] 3GPP TS 22.071: \" Location Services\".
[25] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode\".
[26] 3GPP TS 22.125: \"Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) support in 3GPP \".
[27] 3GPP TS 22.468: \"Group Communication System Enablers (GCSE) \".
[28] 3GPP TS 22.263: \"Service requirements for Video, Imaging and Audio for
Professional Applications (VIAPA)\".
[29] 3GPP TS 22.263: \"Service requirements for Video, Imaging and Audio for
Professional Applications\".
> [30] 3GPP TS 22.179: \"Mission Critical Push to Talk (MCPTT)\".
[31] 3GPP TS 22.268: \"Public Warning System (PWS) requirements\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**5G enhanced positioning area:** a subset of the 5G positioning service area
that is assumed to be provided with additional infrastructure or deploy a
particular set of positioning technologies to enhance positioning services.
NOTE 1: The enhanced positioning service area represents for example a factory
plant, a dense urban area, an area along a road or railway track, a tunnel and
covers both indoor and outdoor environments.
**5G LAN-type service** : a service over the 5G system offering private
communication using IP and/or non-, i.e. UEs that are members of the same 5G
LAN-VN IP type communications.
**5G LAN-virtual network** : a virtual network capable of supporting 5G LAN-
type service.
**5G satellite access network** : 5G access network using at least one
satellite.
**5G positioning service area:** a service area where positioning services
would solely rely on infrastructures and positioning technologies that can be
assumed to be present anywhere where 5G is present (e.g. a country-wide
operator-supplied 5G network, GNSS, position/motion sensors).
NOTE 2: This includes both indoor and any outdoor environments.
**active communication:** a UE is in active communication when it has one or
more connections established. A UE may have any combination of PS connections
(e.g. PDP contexts, active PDN connections).
**activity factor:** percentage value of the amount of simultaneous active UEs
to the total number of UEs where active means the UEs are exchanging data with
the network.
**area traffic capacity:** total traffic throughput served per geographic
area.
**communication service availability** : percentage value of the amount of
time the end-to-end communication service is delivered according to a
specified QoS, divided by the amount of time the system is expected to deliver
the end-to-end service.
NOTE 3: The end point in \"end-to-end\" is the communication service
interface.
NOTE 4: The communication service is considered unavailable if it does not
meet the pertinent QoS requirements. For example, the communication service is
unavailable if a message is not correctly received within a specified time,
which is the sum of maximum allowed end-to-end latency and survival time.
**direct device connection:** the connection between two UEs without any
network entity in the middle.
**direct network connection:** one mode of network connection, where there is
no relay UE between a UE and the 5G network.
**Disaster Condition:** This is the condition that a government decides when
to initiate and terminate, e.g. a natural disaster. When this condition
applies, users may have the opportunity to mitigate service interruptions and
failures.
**Disaster Inbound Roamer:** A user that (a) cannot get service from the PLMN
it would normally be served by, due to failure of service during a Disaster
Condition, and (b) is able to register with other PLMNs.
**Disaster Roaming:** This is the special roaming policy that applies during a
Disaster Condition.
**end-to-end latency:** the time that it takes to transfer a given piece of
information from a source to a destination, measured at the communication
interface, from the moment it is transmitted by the source to the moment it is
successfully received at the destination.
**Hosted Service:** a service containing the operator\'s own application(s)
and/or trusted third-party application(s) in the Service Hosting Environment,
which can be accessed by the user.
**indirect network connection:** one mode of network connection, where there
is a relay UE between a UE and the 5G network.
**IoT device:** a type of UE which is dedicated for a set of specific use
cases or services and which is allowed to make use of certain features
restricted to this type of UEs.
NOTE 5: An IoT device may be optimized for the specific needs of services and
application being executed (e.g. smart home/city, smart utilities, e-Health
and smart wearables). Some IoT devices are not intended for human type
communications.
**network slice:** a set of network functions and corresponding resources
necessary to provide the required telecommunication services and network
capabilities.
**NG-RAN:** a radio access network connecting to the 5G core network which
uses NR, E-UTRA, or both.
**non-public network:** a network that is intended for non-public use.
**NR:** the new 5G radio access technology.
**positioning service availability:** percentage value of the amount of time
the positioning service is delivering the required position-related data
within the performance requirements, divided by the amount of time the system
is expected to deliver the positioning service according to the specification
in the targeted service area.
**positioning service latency:** time elapsed between the event that triggers
the determination of the position-related data and the availability of the
position-related data at the system interface.
**priority service:** a service that requires priority treatment based on
regional/national or operator policies.
**private communication** : a communication between two or more UEs belonging
to a restricted set of UEs**.**
**private network:** an isolated network deployment that does not interact
with a public network.
**private slice:** a dedicated network slice deployment for the sole use by a
specific third-party.
**relative positioning:** relative positioning is to estimate position
relatively to other network elements or relatively to other UEs.
**reliability** : in the context of network layer packet transmissions,
percentage value of the packets successfully delivered to a given system
entity within the time constraint required by the targeted service out of all
the packets transmitted.
**satellite** : a space-borne vehicle embarking a bent pipe payload or a
regenerative payload telecommunication transmitter, placed into Low-Earth
Orbit (LEO) typically at an altitude between 300 km to 2 000 km, Medium-Earth
Orbit (MEO) typically at an altitude between 8 000 to 20 000 k m, or
Geostationary satellite Earth Orbit (GEO) at 35 786 km altitude.
**satellite access:** direct connectivity between the UE and the satellite.
**satellite NG-RAN:** a NG-RAN which uses NR in providing satellite access to
UEs.
**service area:** geographic region where a 3GPP communication service is
accessible.
NOTE 6: The service area can be indoors.
NOTE 7: For some deployments, e.g. in process industry, the vertical dimension
of the service area can be considerable.
**service continuity:** the uninterrupted user experience of a service that is
using an active communication when a UE undergoes an access change without, as
far as possible, the user noticing the change.
NOTE 8: In particular service continuity encompasses the possibility that
after a change the user experience is maintained by a different
telecommunication service (e.g. tele- or bearer service) than before the
change.
NOTE 9: Examples of access changes include the following. For EPS: CS/PS
domain change. For EPS and 5G: radio access change, switching between a direct
network connection and an indirect network connection.
**Service Hosting Environment:** the environment, located inside of 5G network
and fully controlled by the operator, where Hosted Services are offered from.
**survival time:** the time that an application consuming a communication
service may continue without an anticipated message.
**Time to First Fix (TTFF):** time elapsed between the event triggering for
the first time the determination of the position-related data and the
availability of the position-related data at the positioning system interface.
**User Equipment:** An equipment that allows a user access to network services
via 3GPP and/or non-3GPP accesses.
**user experienced data rate:** the minimum data rate required to achieve a
sufficient quality experience, with the exception of scenario for broadcast
like services where the given value is the maximum that is needed.
**wireless backhaul:** a link which provides an interconnection between 5G
network nodes and/or transport network using 5G radio access technology**.**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
5G LAN-VN 5G LAN-Virtual Network
A/S Actuator/Sensor
eFMSS Enhancement to Flexible Mobile Service Steering
eV2X Enhanced V2X
FMSS Flexible Mobile Service Steering
GEO Geostationary satellite Earth Orbit
ICP Internet Content Provider
ID Identification
IMU Inertial Measurement Unit
IOPS Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for Public Safety
LEO Low-Earth Orbit
MCS Mission Critical Services
MCX Mission Critical X, with X = PTT or X = Video or X = Data
MEO Medium-Earth Orbit
MIoT Massive Internet of Things
MMTEL Multimedia Telephony
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
MSGin5G Message Service Within the 5G System
NPN Non-Public Network
RSTP Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol
SEES Service Exposure and Enablement S
SST Slice/Service Type
TTFF Time To First Fix
UAV Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle
# 4 Overview
Unlike previous 3GPP systems that attempted to provide a \'one size fits all\'
system, the 5G system is expected to be able to provide optimized support for
a variety of different services, different traffic loads, and different end
user communities. Various industry white papers, most notably, the NGMN 5G
White Paper [2], describe a multi-faceted 5G system capable of simultaneously
supporting multiple combinations of reliability, latency, throughput,
positioning, and availability. This technology revolution is achievable with
the introduction of new technologies, both in access and the core, such as
flexible, scalable assignment of network resources. In addition to increased
flexibility and optimization, a 5G system needs to support stringent KPIs for
latency, reliability, throughput, etc. Enhancements in the radio interface
contribute to meeting these KPIs as do enhancements in the core network, such
as network slicing, in-network caching and hosting services closer to the end
points.
A 5G system also supports new business models such as those for IoT and
enterprise managed networks. Drivers for the 5G KPIs include services such as
Uncrewed Aerial Vehicle (UAV) control, Augmented Reality (AR), and factory
automation. Network flexibility enhancements support self-contained enterprise
networks, installed and maintained by network operators while being managed by
the enterprise. Enhanced connection modes and evolved security facilitate
support of massive IoT, expected to include tens of millions of UEs sending
and receiving data over the 5G network.
Flexible network operations are the mainstay of the 5G system. The
capabilities to provide this flexibility include network slicing, network
capability exposure, scalability, and diverse mobility. Other network
operations requirements address the necessary control and data plane resource
efficiencies, as well as network configurations that optimize service delivery
by minimizing routing between end users and application servers. Enhanced
charging and security mechanisms handle new types of UEs connecting to the
network in different ways.
Mobile Broadband (MBB) enhancements aim to meet a number of new KPIs. These
pertain to high data rates, high user density, high user mobility, highly
variable data rates, deployment, and coverage. High data rates are driven by
the increasing use of data for services such as streaming (e.g. video, music,
and user generated content), interactive services (e.g. AR), and IoT. These
services come with stringent requirements for user experienced data rates as
well as associated requirements for latency to meet service requirements.
Additionally, increased coverage in densely populated areas such as sports
arenas, urban areas, and transportation hubs has become essential for
pedestrians and users in urban vehicles. New KPIs on traffic and connection
density enable both the transport of high volumes of data traffic per area
(traffic density) and transport of data for a high number of connections (e.g.
UE density or connection density). Many UEs are expected to support a variety
of services which exchange either a very large (e.g. streaming video) or very
small (e.g. data burst) amount of data. The 5G system will handle this
variability in a resource efficient manner. All of these cases introduce new
deployment requirements for indoor and outdoor, local area connectivity, high
user density, wide area connectivity, and UEs travelling at high speeds.
Another aspect of 5G KPIs includes requirements for various combinations of
latency and reliability, as well as higher accuracy for positioning. These
KPIs are driven by support for both commercial and public safety services. On
the commercial side, industrial control, industrial automation, UAV control,
and AR are examples of those services. Services such as UAV control will
require more precise positioning information that includes altitude, speed,
and direction, in addition to horizontal coordinates.
Support for Massive Internet of Things (MIoT) brings many new requirements in
addition to those for the enhanced KPIs. The expansion of connected things
introduces a need for significant improvements in resource efficiency in all
system components (e.g. UEs, IoT devices, radio, access network, core
network).
The 5G system also aims to enhance its capability to meet KPIs that emerging
V2X applications require. For these advanced applications, the requirements,
such as data rate, reliability, latency, communication range and speed, are
made more stringent.
# 5 High-level requirements
## 5.1 Migration to 5G
### 5.1.1 Description
The 5G system supports most of the existing EPS services, in addition to many
new services. The existing EPS services may be accessed using the new 5G
access technologies even where the EPS specifications might indicate E-UTRA(N)
only. Only new or changed service requirements for new or changed services are
specified in this TS. The few EPS capabilities that are not supported by the
5G system are identified in clause 5.1.2.2 below.
### 5.1.2 Requirements
#### 5.1.2.1 Interworking between 5G systems
The 5G system shall support a UE with a 5G subscription roaming into a 5G
Visited Mobile Network which has a roaming agreement with the UE\'s 5G Home
Mobile Network.
The 5G system shall enable a Visited Mobile Network to provide support for
establishing home network provided data connectivity as well as visited
network provided data connectivity.
The 5G system shall enable a Visited Mobile Network to provide support for
services provided in the home network as well as provide services in the
visited network. Whether a service is provided in the visited network or in
the home network is determined on a service by service basis.
The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for a network operator to limit access
to its services for a roaming UE, (e.g. based on roaming agreement).
The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for a network operator to direct a UE
onto a partnership network for routing all or some of the UE user plane and
associated control plane traffic over the partnership network, subject to an
agreement between the operators.
#### 5.1.2.2 Legacy service support
In principle, the 5G system shall support all EPS capabilities (e.g. from TSs
22.011, 22.101, 22.278, 22.185, 22.071, 22.115, 22.153, 22.173, 22.468).
However,
\- voice service continuity from NG-RAN to GERAN shall not be supported,
\- voice service continuity from NG-RAN to UTRAN CS should be supported (see
Note),
\- voice service continuity from GERAN to NG-RAN shall not be supported,
\- voice service continuity from UTRAN to NG-RAN shall not be supported,
\- CS fallback from NG-RAN to GERAN shall not be supported,
\- CS fallback from NG-RAN to UTRAN shall not be supported,
\- seamless handover between NG-RAN and GERAN shall not be supported,
\- seamless handover between NG-RAN and UTRAN shall not be supported,
\- access to a 5G core network via GERAN or UTRAN shall not be supported,
\- video service continuity between 5GS and UMTS shall not be supported,
\- IP address preservation for PS service when UE moves between 5GS and
GSM/UMTS shall not be supported, and
\- Service continuity between 5GS and CDMA2000 shall not be supported.
NOTE: Architectural or protocol changes needed to support voice service
continuity from NG-RAN to UTRAN CS are expected to have minimum impact on
architecture, specifications, or the development of the 5G New Core and New
Radio.
#### 5.1.2.3 Interoperability with legacy 3GPP systems
The 5G system shall support mobility procedures between a 5G core network and
an EPC with minimum impact to the user experience (e.g. QoS, QoE).
# 6 Basic capabilities
## 6.1 Network slicing
### 6.1.1 Description
Network slicing allows the operator to provide customised networks. For
example, there can be different requirements on functionality (e.g. priority,
charging, policy control, security, and mobility), differences in performance
requirements (e.g. latency, mobility, availability, reliability and data
rates), or they can serve only specific users (e.g. MPS users, Public Safety
users, corporate customers, roamers, or hosting an MVNO).
A network slice can provide the functionality of a complete network, including
radio access network functions, core network functions (e.g. potentially from
different vendors) and IMS functions. One network can support one or several
network slices.
### 6.1.2 Requirements
#### 6.1.2.1 General
The serving 5G network shall support providing connectivity to home and
roaming users in the same network slice.
In shared 5G network configuration, each operator shall be able to apply all
the requirements from this clause to their allocated network resources.
The 5G system shall be able to support IMS as part of a network slice.
The 5G system shall be able to support IMS independent of network slices.
#### 6.1.2.2 Management
The 5G system shall allow the operator to create, modify, and delete a network
slice.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to define and update the set of
services and capabilities supported in a network slice.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to configure the information which
associates a UE to a network slice.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to configure the information which
associates a service to a network slice.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to assign a UE to a network slice, to
move a UE from one network slice to another, and to remove a UE from a network
slice based on subscription, UE capabilities, the access technology being used
by the UE, operator\'s policies and services provided by the network slice.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for the VPLMN, as authorized by the
HPLMN, to assign a UE to a network slice with the needed services or to a
default network slice.
The 5G system shall enable a UE to be simultaneously assigned to and access
services from more than one network slice of one operator.
Traffic and services in one network slice shall have no impact on traffic and
services in other network slices in the same network.
Creation, modification, and deletion of a network slice shall have no or
minimal impact on traffic and services in other network slices in the same
network.
The 5G system shall support scaling of a network slice, i.e. adaptation of its
capacity.
The 5G system shall enable the network operator to define a minimum available
capacity for a network slice. Scaling of other network slices on the same
network shall have no impact on the availability of the minimum capacity for
that network slice.
The 5G system shall enable the network operator to define a maximum capacity
(e.g., number of UEs, number of data sessions) for a network slice.
The 5G system shall enable the network operator to define a priority order
between different network slices in case multiple network slices compete for
resources on the same network.
The 5G system shall support means by which the operator can differentiate
policy control, functionality and performance provided in different network
slices.
#### 6.1.2.3 Network slice constraints
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to prevent a UE from trying to access
a radio resource dedicated to a specific private slice for any purpose other
than that authorized by the associated third-party.
NOTE 1: UEs that are not authorized to access a specific private slice will
not be able to access it for emergency calls if the private slice does not
support emergency services.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to configure a specific geographic
area in which a network slice is accessible, i.e. a UE shall be within the
geographical area in order to access the network slice.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to limit a UE to only receiving
service from an authorized slice.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to prevent a UE from registering with
a network slice when the maximum number of UEs for that slice are registered.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to prevent a UE from establishing a
new data session within a network slice when the maximum number of data
sessions for that slice are established.
NOTE 2: Based on national/regional regulations and operator policy, exemptions
can be provided for UEs configured for priority services (e.g., MPS) and for
priority service sessions.
#### 6.1.2.4 Cross-network slice coordination
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to provide time stamps with a common
time base at the monitoring API, for services that cross multiple network
slices and 5G networks.
The 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to coordinate network slices in
multiple 5G networks so that the selected communication services of a non-
public network can be extended through a PLMN (e.g. the service is supported
by a slice in the non-public network and a slice in the PLMN).
The 5G system shall provide a mechanism to enable an MNO to operate a hosted
non-public network and private slice(s) of its PLMN associated with the hosted
non-public network in a combined manner.
## 6.2 Diverse mobility management
### 6.2.1 Description
A key feature of 5G is support for UEs with different mobility management
needs. 5G will support UEs with a range of mobility management needs,
including UEs that are
\- stationary during their entire usable life (e.g. sensors embedded in
infrastructure),
\- stationary during active periods, but nomadic between activations (e.g.
fixed access),
\- mobile within a constrained and well-defined space (e.g. in a factory), and
\- fully mobile.
Moreover, some applications require the network to ensure seamless mobility of
a UE so that mobility is hidden from the application layer to avoid
interruptions in service delivery while other applications have application
specific means to ensure service continuity. But these other applications may
still require the network to minimize interruption time to ensure that their
application-specific means to ensure service continuity work effectively.
With the ever-increasing multimedia broadband data volumes, it is also
important to enable the offloading of IP traffic from the 5G network onto
traditional IP routing networks via an IP anchor node close to the network
edge. As the UE moves, changing the IP anchor node may be needed in order to
reduce the traffic load in the system, reduce end-to-end latency and provide a
better user experience.
The flexible nature of a 5G system will support different mobility management
methods that minimize signalling overhead and optimize access for these
different types of UEs.
### 6.2.2 General requirements
The 5G network shall allow operators to optimize network behaviour (e.g.
mobility management support) based on the mobility patterns (e.g. stationary,
nomadic, spatially restricted mobility, full mobility) of a UE or group of
UEs.
The 5G system shall enable operators to specify and modify the types of
mobility support provided for a UE or group of UEs.
The 5G system shall optimize mobility management support for a UE or group of
UEs that use only mobile originated communications.
The 5G system shall support inter- and/or intra- access technology mobility
procedures within 5GS with minimum impact to the user experience (e.g. QoS,
QoE).
### 6.2.3 Service continuity requirements
The 5G system shall enable packet loss to be minimized during inter- and/or
intra- access technology changes for some or all connections associated with a
UE.
The 5G system shall minimize interruption time during inter- and/or intra-
access technology mobility for some or all connections associated with a UE.
NOTE: The interruption time includes all delays which have impact on service
continuity.
For applications that require the same IP address during the lifetime of the
session, the 5G system shall enable maintaining the IP address assigned to a
UE when moving across different cells and access technologies for connections
associated with a UE.
The 5G system shall enable minimizing impact to the user experience (e.g.
minimization of interruption time) when changing the IP address and IP
anchoring point for some or all connections associated with a UE.
The 5G system shall support service continuity for a remote UE, when the
remote UE changes from a direct network connection to an indirect network
connection and vice-versa.
The 5G system shall support service continuity for a remote UE, when the
remote UE changes from one relay UE to another and both relay UEs use 3GPP
access to the 5G core network.
For a 5G system with satellite access, the following requirements apply:
\- The 5G system shall support service continuity between 5G terrestrial
access network and 5G satellite access networks owned by the same operator or
owned by different operators having an agreement.
### 6.2.4 Roaming related requirements
For a 5G system with satellite access, the following requirements apply:
\- A 5G system with satellite access shall enable roaming of UE supporting
both satellite access and terrestrial access between 5G satellite networks and
5G terrestrial networks.
\- UEs supporting satellite access shall support optimized network selection
and reselection to PLMNs with satellite access, based on home operator policy.
## 6.3 Multiple access technologies
### 6.3.1 Description
The 5G system will support 3GPP access technologies, including one or more NR
and E-UTRA as well as non-3GPP access technologies. Interoperability among the
various access technologies will be imperative. For optimization and resource
efficiency, the 5G system will select the most appropriate 3GPP or non-3GPP
access technology for a service, potentially allowing multiple access
technologies to be used simultaneously for one or more services active on a
UE. New technology such as satellite and wide area base stations will increase
coverage and availability. This clause provides requirements for interworking
with the various combinations of access technologies.
### 6.3.2 Requirements
#### 6.3.2.1 General
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall enable the UE to select, manage,
and efficiently provision services over the 3GPP or non-3GPP access.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support steering a UE to select
certain 3GPP access network(s).
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall be able to dynamically offload
part of the traffic (e.g. from 3GPP RAT to non-3GPP access technology), taking
into account traffic load and traffic type.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall be able to provide simultaneous
data transmission via different access technologies (e.g. NR, E-UTRA,
non-3GPP), to access one or more 3GPP services.
When a UE is using two or more access technologies simultaneously, the 5G
system shall be able to optimally distribute user traffic over select between
access technologies in use, taking into account e.g. service, traffic
characteristics, radio characteristics, and UE\'s moving speed.
The 5G system shall be able to support data transmissions optimized for
different access technologies (e.g. 3GPP, non-3GPP) for UEs that are
simultaneously connected to the network via different accesses.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall be able to add or drop the
various access connections for a UE during a session.
The 5G system shall be able to support mobility between the supported access
networks (e.g. NG-RAN, WLAN, fixed broadband access network, 5G satellite
access network).
The 5G system shall support UEs with multiple radio and single radio
capabilities.
The 5G system shall support dynamic and static network address allocation of a
common network address to the UE over all supported access types.
The 5G system shall support a set of identities for a single user in order to
provide a consistent set of policies and a single set of services across 3GPP
and non-3GPP access types.
The 5G system shall support the capability to operate in licensed and/or
unlicensed bands.
#### 6.3.2.2 E-UTRA access
The 5G system shall be able to support seamless handover between NR and
E-UTRA.
The 5G system shall support UEs with dual radio capability (i.e. a UE that can
transmit on NR and E-UTRA simultaneously) as well as UEs with single radio
capability (i.e. a UE that cannot transmit on NR and E-UTRA simultaneously).
#### 6.3.2.3 Satellite access
The 5G system shall be able to provide services using satellite access.
A 5G system with satellite access shall support different configurations where
the radio access network is either a satellite NG-RAN or a non-3GPP satellite
access network, or both.
A UE supporting satellite access shall be able to provide or assist in
providing its location to the 5G network.
A 5G system with satellite access shall be able to determine a UE\'s location
in order to provide service (e.g. route traffic, support emergency calls) in
accordance with the governing national or regional regulatory requirements
applicable to that UE.
The 5G system with satellite access shall be able to support low power MIoT
type of communications.
#### 6.3.2.4 Fixed broadband access
The 5G system shall be able to efficiently support connectivity using fixed
broadband access.
NOTE: The specification of fixed broadband access network is outside the scope
of 3GPP.
The 5G system shall support use of a relay UE that supports multiple access
types (e.g. 5G RAT, WLAN access, fixed broadband access).
The 5G system shall support use of a home base station that supports multiple
access types (e.g. 5G RAT, WLAN access, fixed broadband access).
## 6.4 Resource efficiency
### 6.4.1 Description
5G introduces the opportunity to design a system to be optimized for
supporting diverse UEs and services. While support for IoT is provided by EPS,
there is room for improvement in efficient resource utilization that can be
designed into a 5G system whereas they are not easily retrofitted into an
existing system. Some of the underlying principles of the potential service
and network operation requirements associated with efficient configuration,
deployment, and use of UEs in the 5G network include bulk provisioning,
resource efficient access, optimization for UE originated data transfer, and
efficiencies based on the reduced needs related to mobility management for
stationary UEs and UEs with restricted range of movement.
As sensors and monitoring UEs are deployed more extensively, the need to
support UEs that send data packages ranging in size from a small status update
in a few bits to streaming video increases. A similar need exists for smart
phones with widely varying amounts of data. Specifically, to support short
data bursts, the network should be able to operate in a mode where there is no
need for a lengthy and high overhead signalling procedure before and after
small amounts of data are sent. The system will, as a result, avoid both a
negative impact to battery life for the UE and wasting signalling resources.
For small form factor UEs it will be challenging to have more than 1 antenna
due to the inability to get good isolation between multiple antennas. Thus,
these UEs need to meet the expected performance in a 5G network with only one
antenna.
Cloud applications like cloud robotics perform computation in the network
rather than in a UE, which requires the system to have high data rate in the
uplink and very low round trip latency. Supposed that high density cloud
robotics will be deployed in the future, the 5G system need to optimize the
resource efficiency for such scenario.
Additional resource efficiencies will contribute to meeting the various KPIs
defined for 5G. Control plane resource efficiencies can be achieved by
optimizing and minimizing signalling overhead, particularly for small data
transmissions. Mechanisms for minimizing user plane resources utilization
include in-network caching and application in a Service Hosting Environment
closer to the end user. These optimization efforts contribute to achieving
lower latency and higher reliability.
Diverse mobility management related resource efficiencies are covered in
clause 6.2.
Security related resource efficiencies are covered in clause 8.8.
### 6.4.2 Requirements
#### 6.4.2.1 General
The 5G system shall minimize control and user plane resource usage for data
transfer from send only UEs.
The 5G system shall minimize control and user plane resource usage for
stationary UEs (e.g. lower signalling to user data resource usage ratio).
The 5G system shall minimize control and user plane resource usage for
transfer of infrequent small data units.
The 5G system shall optimize the resource use of the control plane and/or user
plane for transfer of small data units.
The 5G system shall optimize the resource use of the control plane and/or user
plane for transfer of continuous uplink data that requires both high data rate
(e.g. 10 Mbit/s) and very low end-to-end latency (e.g. 1-10 ms).
The 5G network shall optimize the resource use of the control plane and/or
user plane to support high density connections (e.g. 1 million connections per
square kilometre) taking into account, for example, the following criteria:
\- type of mobility support;
\- communication pattern (e.g. send-only, frequent or infrequent);
\- characteristics of payload (e.g. small or large size data payload);
\- characteristics of application (e.g. provisioning operation, normal data
transfer);
\- UE location;
\- timing pattern of data transfer (e.g. real time or non-delay sensitive).
The 5G system shall efficiently support service discovery mechanisms where UEs
can discover, subject to access rights:
\- status of other UEs (e.g. sound on/off);
\- capabilities of other UEs (e.g. the UE is a relay UE) and/or;
\- services provided by other UEs (e.g. the UE is a colour printer).
The 5G system shall be able to minimise the amount of wireless backhaul
traffic (e.g. consolidating data transmissions to 1 larger rather than many
smaller), when applicable (e.g. providing service in an area subject to power
outages).
The 5G system shall support small form factor UEs with single antenna.
NOTE: Small form factor UEs are typically expected to have the diagonal less
than 1/5 of the lowest supported frequency wave length.
For a 5G system with satellite access, the following requirements apply:
\- The 5G system with satellite access shall support the use of satellite
links between the radio access network and core network, by enhancing the 3GPP
system to handle the latencies introduced by satellite backhaul.
\- A 5G system with satellite access shall be able to support meshed
connectivity between satellites interconnected with intersatellite links.
#### 6.4.2.2 Efficient bulk operations for IoT
The 5G network shall optimize the resource use of the control plane and/or
user plane to support bulk operation for high connection density (e.g. 1
million connections per square kilometre) of multiple UEs.
The 5G system shall support a timely, efficient, and/or reliable mechanism to
transmit the same information to multiple UEs.
#### 6.4.2.3 Efficient management for IoT
The 5G network shall optimize the resource use of the control plane and/or
user plane to manage (e.g. provide service parameters, activate, deactivate) a
UE.
The 5G network shall be able to provide policies for background data transfer
to a UE so that the 5G system can optimally use the control plane and/or user
plane resources.
#### 6.4.2.4 Efficient control plane
The 5G system shall minimize the signalling that is required prior to user
data transmission.
NOTE: The amount of signalling overhead may vary based on the amount of data
to be transmitted, even for the same UE.
## 6.5 Efficient user plane
### 6.5.1 Description
5G is designed to meet diverse services with different and enhanced
performances (e.g. high throughput, low latency and massive connections) and
data traffic model (e.g. IP data traffic, non-IP data traffic, short data
bursts and high throughput data transmissions).
User plane should be more efficient for 5G to support differentiated
requirements. On one hand, a Service Hosting Environment located inside of
operator\'s network can offer Hosted Services closer to the end user to meet
localization requirement like low latency, low bandwidth pressure. These
Hosted Services contain applications provided by operators and/or trusted 3rd
parties. On the other hand, user plane paths can be selected or changed to
improve the user experience or reduce the bandwidth pressure, when a UE or
application changes location during an active communication.
### 6.5.2 Requirements
Based on operator policy, application needs, or both, the 5G system shall
support an efficient user plane path between UEs attached to the same network,
modifying the path as needed when the UE moves during an active communication.
The 5G network shall enable a Service Hosting Environment provided by
operator.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall be able to support routing of
data traffic between a UE attached to the network and an application in a
Service Hosting Environment for specific services, modifying the path as
needed when the UE moves during an active communication.
Based on operator policy, application needs, or both, the 5G system shall
support an efficient user plane path, modifying the path as needed when the UE
moves or application changes location, between a UE in an active communication
and:
\- an application in a Service Hosting Environment; or
\- an application server located outside the operator's network.
The 5G network shall maintain user experience (e.g. QoS, QoE) when a UE in an
active communication moves from a location served by a Service Hosting
Environment to:
\- another location served by a different Service Hosting Environment; or
\- another location served by an application server located outside the
operator's network, and vice versa.
The 5G network shall maintain user experience (e.g. QoS, QoE) when an
application for a UE moves as follows:
\- within a Service Hosting Environment; or
\- from a Service Hosting Environment to another Service Hosting Environment;
or
\- from a Service Hosting Environment to an application server located place
outside the operator's network, and vice versa.
The 5G network shall be able to interact with applications in a Service
Hosting Environment for efficient network resource utilization and offloading
data traffic to the Service Hosting Environment close to the UE\'s point of
attachment to the access network.
The 5G network shall support configurations of the Service Hosting Environment
in the network (e.g. access network, core network), that provide application
access close to the UE\'s point of attachment to the access network.
The 5G system shall support mechanisms to enable a UE to access the closest
Service Hosting Environment for a specific hosted application or service.
The 5G network shall enable instantiation of applications for a UE in a
Service Hosting Environment close to the UE\'s point of attachment to the
access network.
The 5G system shall be able to suspend or stop application instances in a
Service Hosting Environment.
NOTE: Not all applications will always be available in all Service Hosting
Environments. Therefore, it may be needed to instantiate an application at a
Service Hosting Environment nearby for serving a particular UE.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall provide a mechanism such that
one type of traffic (from a specific application or service) to/from a UE can
be offloaded close to the UE\'s point of attachment to the access network,
while not impacting other traffic type to/from that same UE.
For a 5G system with satellite access, the following requirements apply:
  * A 5G system with satellite access shall be able to select the communication link providing the UE with the connectivity that most closely fulfils the agreed QoS
  * A 5G system with satellite access shall be capable of supporting simultaneous use of 5G satellite access network and 5G terrestrial access networks.
  * A 5G system with satellite access shall be able to support both UEs supporting only satellite access and UEs supporting simultaneous connectivity to 5G satellite access network and 5G terrestrial access network.
The 5G System shall enable the discovery of a suitable Hosted Service.
## 6.6 Efficient content delivery
### 6.6.1 Description
Video-based services (e.g. live streaming, VR) and personal data storage
applications have been instrumental for the massive growth in mobile broadband
traffic. Subject to service agreement between the operator and the content
provider, the information of content and content itself can be aware by
operator. In-network content caching provided by the operator, a third-party
or both, can improve user experience, reduce backhaul resource usage and
utilize radio resource efficiently.
The operation of in-network caching includes flexible management of the
location of the content cache within the network and efficient delivery of
content to and from the appropriate content caching application. Examples of
services are the delivery of popular video content from a content caching
application via broadcast, and secure storage of a user\'s personal data or
files using a distributed caching application. Such a service could also
provide a student with a wireless backpack, where students can resume their
work through the same or a different UE at any time, with very fast response
times from the network.
### 6.6.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall enable efficient delivery of content from a content
caching application under the control of the operator (e.g. a cache located
close to the UE).
The 5G system shall support a content caching application in a UE under the
control of the operator.
The 5G system shall support configurations of content caching applications in
the network (e.g. access network, core network), that provide content close to
the UE.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support an efficient mechanism
for selection of a content caching application (e.g. minimize utilization of
radio, backhaul resources and/or application resource) for delivery of the
cached content to the UE.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for the operator to manage content
distribution across content caching applications.
The 5G system shall support delivery of cached content from a content caching
application via the broadcast/multicast service.
For a 5G system with satellite access, the following requirement applies.
\- A 5G system with satellite access shall be able to optimise the delivery of
content from a content caching application by taking advantage of satellites
in supporting ubiquitous service, as well as broadcasting/multicasting on very
large to global coverages.
## 6.7 Priority, QoS, and policy control
### 6.7.1 Description
The 5G network will support many commercial services (e.g. medical) and
regional or national regulatory services (e.g. MPS, Emergency, Public Safety)
with requirements for priority treatment. Some of these services share common
QoS characteristics such as latency and packet loss rate but may have
different priority requirements. For example, UAV control and air traffic
control may have stringent latency and reliability requirements but not
necessarily the same priority requirements. In addition, voice-based services
for MPS and Emergency share common QoS characteristics as applicable for
normal public voice communications yet may have different priority
requirements. The 5G network will need to support mechanisms that enable the
decoupling of the priority of a particular communication from the associated
QoS characteristics such as latency and reliability to allow flexibility to
support different priority services (that need to be configurable to meet
operator needs, consistent with operator policies and corresponding national
and regional regulatory policies).
The network needs to support flexible means to make priority decisions based
on the state of the network (e.g. during disaster events and network
congestion) recognizing that the priority needs may change during a crisis.
The priority of any service may need to be different for a user of that
service based on operational needs and regional or national regulations.
Therefore, the 5G system should allow a flexible means to prioritise and
enforce prioritisation among the services (e.g. MPS, Emergency, medical,
Public Safety) and among the users of these services. The traffic
prioritisation may be enforced by adjusting resource utilization or pre-
empting lower priority traffic.
The network must offer means to provide the required QoS (e.g. reliability,
latency, and bandwidth) for a service and the ability to prioritize resources
when necessary to meet the service requirements. Existing QoS and policy
frameworks handle latency and improve reliability by traffic engineering. In
order to support 5G service requirements, it is necessary for the 5G network
to offer QoS and policy control for reliable communication with latency
required for a service and enable the resource adaptations as necessary.
The network needs to allow multiple services to coexist, including multiple
priority services (e.g. Emergency, MPS and MCS) and must provide means to
prevent a single service from consuming or monopolizing all available network
resources, or impacting the QoS (e.g. availability) of other services
competing for resources on the same network under specific network conditions.
For example, it is necessary to prevent certain services (e.g. citizen-to-
authority Emergency) sessions from monopolizing all available resources during
events such as disaster, emergency, and DDoS attacks from impacting the
availability of other priority services such as MPS and MCS.
Also, as 5G network is expected to operate in a heterogeneous environment with
multiple access technologies, multiple types of UE, etc., it should support a
harmonised QoS and policy framework that applies to multiple accesses.
Further, for QoS control in EPS only covers RAN and core network, but for 5G
network E2E QoS (e.g. RAN, backhaul, core network, network to network
interconnect) is needed to achieve the 5G user experience (e.g. ultra-low
latency, ultra-high bandwidth).
### 6.7.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall allow flexible mechanisms to establish and enforce
priority policies among the different services (e.g. MPS, Emergency, medical,
Public Safety) and users.
NOTE 1: Priority between different services is subject to regional or national
regulatory and operator policies.
The 5G system shall be able to provide the required QoS (e.g. reliability,
end-to-end latency, and bandwidth) for a service and support prioritization of
resources when necessary for that service.
The 5G system shall enable the network operator to define and statically
configure a maximum resource assignment for a specific service that can be
adjusted based on the network state (e.g. during congestion, disaster,
emergency and DDoS events) subject to regional or national regulatory and
operator policies.
The 5G system shall allow decoupling of the priority of a particular
communication from the associated QoS characteristics such as end-to-end
latency and reliability.
The 5G system shall be able to support a harmonised QoS and policy framework
applicable to multiple accesses.
The 5G system shall be able to support E2E (e.g. UE to UE) QoS for a service.
NOTE 2: E2E QoS needs to consider QoS in the access networks, backhaul, core
network, and network to network interconnect.
The 5G system shall be able to support QoS for applications in a Service
Hosting Environment.
A 5G system with multiple access technologies shall be able to select the
combination of access technologies to serve an UE on the basis of the targeted
priority, pre-emption, QoS parameters and access technology availability.
## 6.8 Dynamic policy control
The 5G system shall support the creation and enforcement of prioritisation
policy for users and traffic, during connection setup and when connected.
NOTE: Prioritisation, pre-emption, and precedence of critical traffic
associated with certain priority services (e.g. MPS and Emergency) are subject
to regional/national regulatory and operator policies.
The 5G system shall support optimised signalling for prioritised users and
traffic where such signalling is prioritized over other signalling traffic.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall allow flexible means for
authorized entities to create and enforce priority among the different service
flows.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support a real-time, dynamic,
secure and efficient means for authorized entities (e.g. users, context aware
network functionality) to modify the QoS and policy framework. Such
modifications may have a variable duration.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall maintain a session when
prioritization of that session changes in real time, provided that the new
priority is above the threshold for maintaining the session.
## 6.9 Connectivity models
### 6.9.1 Description
The UE (remote UE) can connect to the network directly (direct network
connection), connect using another UE as a relay UE (indirect network
connection), or connect using both direct and indirect connections. Relay UEs
can be used in many different scenarios and verticals (inHome, SmartFarming,
SmartFactories, Public Safety and others). In these cases, the use of relays
UEs can be used to improve the energy efficiency and coverage of the system.
Remote UEs can be anything from simple wearables, such as sensors embedded in
clothing, to a more sophisticated wearable UE monitoring biometrics. They can
also be non-wearable UEs that communicate in a Personal Area Network such as a
set of home appliances (e.g. smart thermostat and entry key), or the
electronic UEs in an office setting (e.g. smart printers), or a smart flower
pot that can be remotely activated to water the plant.
When a remote UE is attempting to establish an indirect network connection,
there might be several relay UEs that are available in proximity and
supporting selection procedures of an appropriate relay UE among the available
relay UEs is needed.
Indirect network connection covers the use of relay UEs for connecting a
remote UE to the 3GPP network. There can be one or more relay UE(s) (more than
one hop) between the network and the remote UE.
### 6.9.2 Requirements
The following set of requirements complement the requirements listed in 3GPP
TS 22.278 [5], clauses 7B and 7C.
#### 6.9.2.1 General
The 5G system shall support the relaying of traffic between a remote UE and a
gNB using one or more relay UEs.
The 5G system shall support different traffic flows of a remote UE to be
relayed via different indirect network connection paths.
The connection between a remote UE and a relay UE shall be able to use 3GPP
RAT or non-3GPP RAT and use licensed or unlicensed band.
The connection between a remote UE and a relay UE shall be able to use fixed
broadband technology.
The 5G system shall support indirect network connection mode in a VPLMN when a
remote UE and a relay UE subscribe to different PLMNs and both PLMNs have a
roaming agreement with the VPLMN.
The 5G system shall be able to support a UE using simultaneous indirect and
direct network connection mode.
The network operator shall be able to define the maximum number of hops
supported in their networks when using relay UEs.
#### 6.9.2.2 Services and Service Continuity
A 5G system shall be able to support all types of traffic e.g. voice, data,
IoT small data, multimedia, MCX for indirect network connection mode.
The 5G system shall be able to support QoS for a user traffic session between
the remote UE and the network using 3GPP access technology.
The 5G system shall be able to provide indication to a remote UE
(alternatively, an authorized user) on the quality of currently available
indirect network connection paths.
The 5G system shall be able to maintain service continuity of indirect network
connection for a remote UE when the communication path to the network changes
(i.e. change of one or more of the relay UEs, change of the gNB).
#### 6.9.2.3 Permission and Authorization
The 5G system shall enable the network operator to authorize a UE to use
indirect network connection. The authorization shall be able to be restricted
to using only relay UEs belonging to the same network operator. The
authorization shall be able to be restricted to only relay UEs belonging to
the same application layer group.
The 5G system shall enable the network operator to authorize a UE to relay
traffic as relay UE. The authorization shall be able to allow relaying only
for remote UEs belonging to the same network operator. The authorization shall
be able to allow relaying only for remote UEs belonging to the same
application layer group.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for an end user to provide/revoke
permission to an authorized UE to act as a relay UE.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for an authorized third-party to
provide/revoke permission to an authorized UE to act as a relay UE.
The 5G system shall provide a suitable API by which an authorized third-party
shall be able to authorize (multiple) UEs under control of the third-party to
act as a relay UE or remote UE.
The 5G system shall provide a suitable API by which an authorized third-party
shall be able to enable/disable (multiple) UEs under control of the third-
party to act as a relay UE or remote UE.
#### 6.9.2.4 Relay UE Selection
The 3GPP system shall support selection and reselection of relay UEs based on
a combination of different criteria e.g.
\- the characteristics of the traffic that is intended to be relayed (e.g.
expected message frequency and required QoS),
\- the subscriptions of relay UEs and remote UE,
\- the capabilities/capacity/coverage when using the relay UE,
\- the QoS that is achievable by selecting the relay UE[,]{.underline}
\- the power consumption required by relay UE and remote UE[,]{.underline}
\- the pre-paired relay UE[,]{.underline}
\- the [ ]{.underline} 3GPP or non-3GPP access the relay UE uses to connect to
the network,
\- the 3GPP network the relay UE connects to (either directly or indirectly),
\- the overall optimization of the power consumption/performance of the 3GPP
system, or
\- battery capabilities and battery lifetime of the relay UE and the remote
UE.
> NOTE: Reselection may be triggered by any dynamic change in the selection
> criteria, e.g. by the battery of a relay UE getting depleted, a new relay
> capable UE getting in range, a remote UEs requesting additional resources or
> higher QoS, etc.
#### 6.9.2.5 Satellite and Relay UEs
For a 5G system with satellite access, the following requirements apply:
\- A 5G system with satellite access shall be able to support relay UE\'s with
satellite access.
NOTE: The connection between a relay UE and a remote UE is the same regardless
of whether the relay UE is using satellite access or not.
\- A 5G system with satellite access shall support mobility management of
relay UEs and the remote UEs connected to the relay UE between a 5G satellite
access network and a5G terrestrial network, and between 5G satellite access
networks.
\- A 5G system with satellite access shall support joint roaming between
different 5G networks of a relay UE and the remote UEs connected to that relay
UE.
## 6.10 Network capability exposure
### 6.10.1 Description
3GPP SEES and (e)FMSS features allow the operator to expose network
capabilities e.g. QoS policy to third-party ISPs/ICPs. With the advent of 5G,
new network capabilities need to be exposed to the third-party (e.g. to allow
the third-party to customize a dedicated physical or virtual network or a
dedicated network slice for diverse use cases; to allow the third-party to
manage a trusted third-party application in a Service Hosting Environment to
improve user experience, and efficiently utilize backhaul and application
resources).
### 6.10.2 Requirements
The following set of requirements complement the requirements listed in 3GPP
TS 22.101 [6], clause 29.
Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a
trusted third-party to create, modify, and delete network slices used for the
third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted third-party to monitor the network slice used for the third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted third-party to define and update the set of services and
capabilities supported in a network slice used for the third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted third-party to configure the information which associates a UE to a
network slice used for the third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted third-party to configure the information which associates a service
to a network slice used for the third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted third-party to assign a UE to a network slice used for the third-
party, to move a UE from one network slice used for the third-party to another
network slice used for the third-party, and to remove a UE from a network
slice used for the third-party based on subscription, UE capabilities, and
services provided by the network slice.
The 3GPP network shall be able to provide suitable and secure means to enable
an authorized third-party to provide the 3GPP network via encrypted connection
with the expected communication behaviour of UE(s).
NOTE 1: The expected communication behaviour is, for instance, the application
servers a UE is allowed to communicate with, the time a UE is allowed to
communicate, or the allowed geographic area of a UE.
The 3GPP network shall be able to provide suitable and secure means to enable
an authorized third-party to provide via encrypted connection the 3GPP network
with the actions expected from the 3GPP network when detecting behaviour that
falls outside the expected communication behaviour.
NOTE 2: Such actions can be, for instance, to terminate the UE\'s
communication, to block the transferred data between the UE and the not
allowed application.
The 5G network shall be able to provide secure means for providing
communication scheduling information (i.e. the time period the UE(s) will use
a communication service) to an NPN via encrypted connection. This
communication scheduling information is used by the 5G network to perform
network energy saving and network resource optimization.
The 5G network shall provide a mechanism to expose broadcasting capabilities
to trusted third-party broadcasters\' management systems.
Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a
trusted third-party to manage this trusted third-party owned application(s) in
the operator\'s Service Hosting Environment.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a third-party to monitor this trusted third-party owned application(s) in the
operator\'s Service Hosting Environment.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted third-party to scale a network slice used for the third-party, i.e.
to adapt its capacity.
Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
one type of traffic (from trusted third-party owned applications in the
operator\'s Service Hosting Environment) to/from a UE to be offloaded to a
Service Hosting Environment close to the UE\'s location.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow
a trusted third-party application to request appropriate QoE from the network.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall expose a suitable API to an
authorized third-party to provide the information regarding the availability
status of a geographic location that is associated with that third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall expose a suitable API to allow
an authorized third-party to monitor the resource utilisation of the network
service (radio access point and the transport network (front, backhaul)) that
are associated with the third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall expose a suitable API to allow
an authorized third-party to define and reconfigure the properties of the
communication services offered to the third-party.
The 5G system shall support the means for disengagement (tear down) of
communication services by an authorized third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall expose a suitable API to
provide the security logging information of UEs, for example, the active 3GPP
security mechanisms (e.g. data privacy, authentication, integrity protection)
to an authorized third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall provide suitable means to allow
a trusted and authorized third-party to consult security related logging
information for the network slices dedicated to that third-party.
Based on operator policy, the 5G network shall be able to acknowledge within
100 ms a communication service request from an authorized third-party via a
suitable API.
The 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a trusted third-party to
monitor the status (e.g. locations, lifecycle, registration status) of its own
UEs.
NOTE 3: The number of UEs could be in the range from single digit to tens of
thousands.
The 5G network shall provide suitable APIs to allow a trusted third-party to
get the network status information of a private slice dedicated for the third-
party, e.g. the network communication status between the slice and a specific
UE.
The 5G system shall support APIs to allow the non-public network to be managed
by the MNO\'s Operations System.
The 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to allow third-party infrastructure
(i.e. physical/virtual network entities at RAN/core level) to be used in a
private slice.
A 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to enable a third-party to manage its
own non-public network and its private slice(s) in the PLMN in a combined
manner.
The 5G system shall support suitable APIs to allow an MNO to offer automatic
configuration services (for instance, interference management) to non-public
networks deployed by third parties and connected to the MNO\'s Operations
System through standardized interfaces.
## 6.11 Context-aware network
### 6.11.1 Description
A variety of sensors such as accelerometer, gyroscope, magnetometer,
barometer, proximity sensor, and GPS can be integrated in a UE. Also,
different applications running on the UE can have different communication
needs (e.g. different traffic time). In addition, a UE can support different
access technologies such as NR, E-UTRA, WLAN access technology, and fixed
broadband access technology. The information gathered by sensors, the utilized
access technologies, the application context, and the application traffic
characteristics can provide useful information to the applications installed
in the UE and can also help the 5G system utilize resources in an efficient
and optimized way.
### 6.11.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall support network resource utilization efficiently and
network optimization based on system information, including:
\- network conditions, such as network load and congestion information;
\- information on served UEs such as access information (e.g. 3GPP access,
non-3GPP access), cell type (e.g. macro cell, small cell), user experienced
data rate;
\- application\'s characteristics (e.g. expected traffic over time);
\- information on prioritized communication such as user subscription profile
and priority level, priority services (e.g. MPS, Emergency, and Public
Safety), application used for priority communications (e.g. voice, video, and
data) and traffic associated with priority communications (signalling and
media);
\- subject to user consent, enhanced traffic characteristic of UE (e.g.
Mobility information (e.g. no mobility, nomadic, spatially restricted
mobility, full mobility), location, sensor-level information (e.g. direction,
speed, power status, display status, other sensor information installed in the
UE), application-level information (e.g. foreground applications, running
background application, and user settings).
The 5G system shall support mechanisms to collect system information for
network optimization within an operator configured time scale.
## 6.12 Self backhaul
### 6.12.1 Description
The increased density of access nodes needed to meet future performance
objectives poses considerable challenges in deployment and management (e.g.
backhaul availability, backhaul capacity and scalability). The use of wireless
backhaul for such access nodes helps to address some of the challenges.
Wireless self-backhauling in the radio access network can enable simpler
deployment and incremental rollout by reducing reliance on the availability of
wired backhaul at each access node location. Network planning and installation
efforts can be reduced by leveraging plug and play type features -- self-
configuration, self-organizing, and self-optimization.
### 6.12.2 Requirements
The 5G network shall enable operators to support wireless self-backhaul using
NR and E-UTRA.
The 5G network shall support flexible and efficient wireless self-backhaul for
both indoor and outdoor scenarios.
The 5G network shall support flexible partitioning of radio resources between
access and backhaul functions.
The 5G network shall support autonomous configuration of access and wireless
self-backhaul functions.
The 5G network shall support multi-hop wireless self-backhauling.
NOTE 1: This is to enable flexible extension of range and coverage area.
The 5G network shall support autonomous adaptation on wireless self-backhaul
network topologies to minimize service disruptions.
The 5G network shall support topologically redundant connectivity on the
wireless self-backhaul.
NOTE 2: This is to enhance reliability and capacity and reduce end-to-end
latency.
## 6.13 Flexible broadcast/multicast service
### 6.13.1 Description
The proliferation of video services, ad-hoc multicast/broadcast streams,
software delivery over wireless, group communications and broadcast/multicast
IoT applications have created a need for a flexible and dynamic allocation of
radio resources between unicast and multicast services within the network as
well as support for a stand-alone deployment of multicast/broadcast network.
Moreover, enabling such a service over a network for a wide range of inter-
site distances between the radio base stations will enable a more efficient
and effective delivery system for real-time and streaming multicast/broadcast
content over wide geographic areas as well as in specific geographic areas
spanning a limited number of base stations. A flexible multicast/broadcast
service will allow the 5G system to efficiently deliver such services.
### 6.13.2 Requirements
The following set of requirements complement the requirements listed in 3GPP
TS 22.146 [7], TS 22.246 [8] and TS 22.101 [6], clause 32.
The 5G system shall support operation of downlink only broadcast/multicast
over a specific geographic area (e.g. a cell sector, a cell or a group of
cells).
The 5G system shall support operation of a downlink only broadcast/multicast
system over a wide geographic area in a spectrally efficient manner for
stationary and mobile UEs.
The 5G system shall enable the operator to reserve 0% to 100% of radio
resources of one or more radio carriers for the delivery of
broadcast/multicast content.
The 5G network shall allow the UE to receive content via a broadcast/multicast
radio carrier while a concurrent data session is ongoing over another radio
carrier.
The 5G system shall be able to support broadcast/multicast of UHD streaming
video (e.g. 4K/8K UHD).
NOTE 1: Taking into account the bandwidth needs for different streaming video
resolution.
The 5G network shall allow the operator to configure and broadcast multiple
quality levels (i.e. video resolutions) of broadcast/multicast content for the
same user service in a stand-alone 3GPP based broadcast/multicast system.
The 5G network shall support parallel transfer of multiple quality levels
(i.e. video resolutions) of broadcast/multicast content for the same user
service to the same UE taking into account e.g. UE capability, radio
characteristics, application information.
The 5G system shall support parallel transfer of multiple multicast/broadcast
user services to a UE.
The 5G system shall support a stand-alone multicast/broadcast network
comprising of multiple cells with inter-site distances of up to 200 km.
The 5G system shall support multicast/broadcast via a 5G satellite access
network, or via a combination of a 5G satellite access network and other 5G
access networks.
The 5G system shall be able to setup or modify a broadcast/multicast service
area within [1s].
NOTE 2: For MCPTT related KPIs see 3GPP TS 22.179 [30], clause 6.15.
The 5G system shall be able to apply QoS, priority and pre-emption to a
broadcast/multicast service area.
The 5G system shall support downlink parallel transfer of the same content,
via broadcast/multicast and/or unicast, such that all receiver group members
in a given area receive the media at the same time according to user
perception.
NOTE 3: In this context user perception refers to a difference in delay of
typically less than 20 ms.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to inform a media source of relevant
changes in conditions in the system (e.g. capacity, failures).
The 5G system shall provide means for a media source to provide QoS
requirement requests to the broadcast/multicast service.
The 5G system shall provide means for the broadcast/multicast service to
inform the media source of the available QoS, including modification of
available QoS characteristics and availability of the broadcast/multicast
service.
The 5G system shall be able to support broadcast/multicast of voice, data and
video group communication, allowing at least 800 concurrently operating groups
per geographic area.
NOTE 4: In this context \"concurrently operating groups\" means that the
associated media streams are delivered concurrently.
## 6.14 Subscription aspects
### 6.14.1 Description
With the Internet of Things, it is expected that the diversity of IoT devices
(e.g. sensors, UAVs, smart flower pots) and the usage models will largely
vary. Moreover, when the IoT device is manufactured, the deployment location
and specific usage may not be known. Sometimes the IoT devices will be added
to existing subscriptions, other times they may be part of a new subscription
for the user. Sometimes the IoT devices may be leased. During their life cycle
these IoT devices go through different stages, involving the change in
ownership when the IoT device is deployed and possibly afterwards, the
activation of the IoT device by the preferred operator, a possible change of
operators, etc. These stages need to be managed securely and efficiently. A
method of dynamic subscription generation and management is needed in addition
to statically provisioned subscription. Once the subscription is established,
subscription management becomes necessary, for example, to modify the
subscription when the ownership of the IoT device changes, to update or
refresh credentials due to suspected leakage or theft of security keys or as a
preventive measure.
The Internet of Things will also support various connectivity models: The IoT
devices can connect with the network directly or connect with the network
using another IoT device as a relay UE, or they may be capable of using both
types of connections. The direct device connection between the IoT device and
the relay UE can be using 3GPP or non-3GPP RAT. The relay UE can access the
network also using 3GPP or non-3GPP access networks (e.g. WLAN, fixed
broadband access network). In order to identify and manage the IoT devices, a
subscription with the 5G network is needed, even if the access is done via
non-3GPP access.
### 6.14.2 Requirements
An IoT device which is able to access a 5G PLMN in direct network connection
mode using a 3GPP RAT shall have a 3GPP subscription.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to identify a UE as an IoT device based
on UE characteristics (e.g. identified by an equipment identifier or a range
of equipment identifiers) or subscription or the combination of both.
The 5G system shall be able to provide mechanisms to change the association
between a subscription and address/number of an IoT device (e.g. changing the
owner and subscription information associated with the IoT device) within the
same operator and in between different operators in an automated or manual
way.
The 5G system shall be able to support identification of subscriptions
independently of identification of IoT devices. Both identities shall be
secure.
An IoT device which is able to connect to a UE in direct device connection
mode shall have a 3GPP subscription, if the IoT device needs to be
identifiable by the core network (e.g. for IoT device management purposes or
to use indirect network connection mode).
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall support a mechanism to provision
on-demand connectivity (e.g. IP connectivity for remote provisioning). This
on-demand mechanism should enable means for a user to request on-the-spot
network connectivity while providing operators with identification and
security tools for the provided connectivity.
The 5G system shall support a secure mechanism for a home operator to remotely
provision the 3GPP credentials of a uniquely identifiable and verifiably
secure IoT device.
The 5G system shall support a secure mechanism for the network operator of an
NPN to remotely provision the non-3GPP identities and credentials of a
uniquely identifiable and verifiably secure IoT device.
Based on MNO and NPN policy, the 5G system shall support a mechanism to enable
MNO to update the subscription of an authorized UE in order to allow the UE to
connect to a desired NPN. This on-demand mechanism should enable means for a
user to request on-the-spot network connectivity which is authorized by its
MNO.
## 6.15 Energy efficiency
### 6.15.1 Description
Energy efficiency is a critical issue in 5G. The potential to deploy systems
in areas without a reliable energy source requires new methods of managing
energy consumption not only in the UEs but throughout all components of the 5G
system.
Small form factor UEs also typically have a small battery and this not only
puts constrains on general power optimization but also on how the energy is
consumed. With smaller batteries it is more important to understand and follow
the limitations for the both the maximum peak and continuous current drain.
### 6.15.2 Requirements
The 5G access network shall support an energy saving mode with the following
characteristics:
\- the energy saving mode can be activated/deactivated either manually or
automatically;
\- service can be restricted to a group of users (e.g. public safety user,
emergency callers).
NOTE: When in energy saving mode the UE\'s and Access transmit power may be
reduced or turned off (deep sleep mode), end-to-end latency and jitter may be
increased with no impact on set of users or applications still allowed.
The 5G system shall support mechanisms to improve battery life for a UE over
what is possible in EPS.
The 5G system shall optimize the battery consumption of a relay UE via which a
UE is in indirect network connection mode.
The 5G system shall support UEs using small rechargeable and single coin cell
batteries (e.g. considering impact on maximum pulse and continuous current).
## 6.16 Markets requiring minimal service levels
### 6.16.1 Description
A key aspect of 5G system flexibility is the ability to support both the very
high-end markets as well as very low end markets. Some systems will be
deployed in areas where there are constraints on energy resources (e.g.
sporadic access to power) and lower end user expectations for availability,
reliability, and data rates. In such cases, the system needs additional
flexibility to adapt power consumption needs based on fluctuations in power
availability. The system should be efficient in order to provide essential
services in harsh environments (e.g. far remote rural areas, very large
territories) while taking into account the local constraints (adapting
resources consumptions to long distances, dealing with variable conditions and
possibly disconnections). Content delivery should be optimized in order to
reduce constraints on transport networks, on low-end UEs (e.g. small screen,
limited energy consumption), variable network conditions, and client profiles.
### 6.16.2 Requirements
In constrained circumstances (e.g. reduced power supply), the 5G system shall
be able to support a minimal user experience (e.g. user experienced data rate
of [100] kbit/s, E2E latency of 50 ms, lower availability of the network of
95%).
The 5G system shall support centralized automation and management of the
network in order to reduce local management tasks.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to reduce data transfer rate at the
cell edge for very large coverage area (e.g. 100 kbit/s for more than 100 km
cell coverage, 1 Mbit/s for 100 km cell coverage).
The 5G system shall be able to give priority to services (e.g. e-Health) when
resources are limited.
## 6.17 Extreme long range coverage in low density areas
### 6.17.1 Description
A fully connected society is expected in the near future. The network access
everywhere over long distances (e.g. at remote rural areas or at sea)
including both humans and machines need to be supported.
### 6.17.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall support the extreme long-range coverage (up to 100 km) in
low density areas (up to 2 user/km^2^).
The 5G system shall support a minimum user throughput of 1 Mbit/s on DL and
100 kbit/s on UL at the edge of coverage.
The 5G system shall support a minimum cell throughput capacity of 10
Mbit/s/cell on DL (based on an assumption of 1 GB/month/sub).
The 5G system shall support a maximum of [400] ms E2E latency for voice
services at the edge of coverage.
## 6.18 Multi-network connectivity and service delivery across operators
### 6.18.1 Description
Given the multitude of use cases for new verticals and services, each
operator, based on its business model, may deploy a network serving only a
subset of the vertical industries and services. However, this should not
prevent an end-user from accessing all new services and capabilities that will
be accessible via 5G systems. To provide a better user experience for their
subscribers with UEs capable of simultaneous network access, network operators
could contemplate a variety of sharing business models and partnership with
other network and service providers to enable its subscribers to access all
services via multiple networks simultaneously, and with minimum interruption
when moving.
### 6.18.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall enable users to obtain services from more than one network
simultaneously on an on-demand basis.
For a user with a single operator subscription, the use of multiple serving
networks operated by different operators shall be under the control of the
home operator.
When a service is offered by multiple operators, the 5G system shall be able
to maintain service continuity with minimum service interruption when the
serving network is changed to a different serving network operated by a
different operator.
NOTE 1: A business agreement is required between the network operators.
In the event of the same service being offered by multiple operators, unless
directed by the home operator\'s network, the UE shall be prioritized to
receive subscribed services from the home operator\'s network.
NOTE 2: If the service is unavailable (e.g. due to lack of network coverage)
from the home operator\'s network, the UE may be able to receive the service
from another operator\'s network.
NOTE 3: QoS provided by the partner operator\'s network for the same service
will be based on the agreement between the two operators and could be
different than that provided by the home operator\'s network.
## 6.19 3GPP access network selection
### 6.19.1 Description
The 5G system will support the concept of \"network slices\" where different
NG-RANs potentially are connected to network slices of different SSTs. A 5G UE
can provide assistance information (e.g. SST) to enable the network to select
one or more network slices. A 5G system is foreseen to support one or more
SSTs, but possibly not all existing SSTs.
A 5G network operator controls and is responsible for what SSTs that should be
available to a specific UE and subscription combination, based on associated
subscription type, network operator policies, network capabilities and UE
capabilities. The network operator can populate the Operator Controlled PLMN
Selector list with associated access technology identifiers, stored in the 5G
UE, with the PLMN/RAT combinations enabling access to the SSTs that are
available to the 5G UE with associated subscription.
The UE uses the list of PLMN/RAT combinations for PLMN selection, if
available, typically during roaming situations. In non-roaming situations, the
UE and subscription combination typically matches the HPLMN/EHPLMN
capabilities and policies, from a SST perspective. That is, a 5G UE accessing
its HPLMN/EHPLMN should be able to access SSTs according to UE capabilities
and the related subscription.
Optionally, a 5G system supports, subject to operator policies, a User
Controlled PLMN Selector list that enables the 5G UE user to specify preferred
PLMNs with associated access technology identifier in priority order. The user
may have obtained information about suitable PLMN/RAT combination that would
support services preferred by the user.
### 6.19.2 Requirements
The following set of requirements complement the requirements listed in 3GPP
TS 22.011 [3], clause 3.2.
The 5G system shall support selection among any available PLMN/RAT
combinations, identified through their respective PLMN identifier and Radio
Access Technology identifier, in a prioritised order. The priority order may,
subject to operator policies, be provisioned in an Operator Controlled PLMN
Selector lists with associated RAT identifiers, stored in the 5G UE.
The 5G system shall support, subject to operator policies, a User Controlled
PLMN Selector list stored in the 5G UE, allowing the UE user to specify
preferred PLMNs with associated RAT identifier in priority order.
## 6.20 eV2X aspects
### 6.20.1 Description
The 3GPP system is expected to support various enhanced V2X scenarios.
Vehicles Platooning enables the vehicles to dynamically form a group
travelling together. All the vehicles in the platoon receive periodic data
from the leading vehicle, in order to carry on platoon operations. This
information allows the distance between vehicles to become extremely small,
i.e. the gap distance translated to time can be very low (sub second).
Platooning applications may allow the vehicles following to be autonomously
driven.
Advanced Driving enables semi-automated or fully-automated driving. Longer
inter-vehicle distance is assumed. Each vehicle and/or RSU shares data
obtained from its local sensors with vehicles in proximity, thus allowing
vehicles to coordinate their trajectories or manoeuvres. In addition, each
vehicle shares its driving intention with vehicles in proximity. The benefits
of this use case group are safer traveling, collision avoidance, and improved
traffic efficiency.
Extended Sensors enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video data among vehicles, Road Site Units, UEs
of pedestrians and V2X application servers. The vehicles can enhance the
perception of their environment beyond what their own sensors can detect and
have a more holistic view of the local situation.
Remote Driving enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate a
remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive themselves or a remote
vehicle located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. In addition, access to cloud-based back-
end service platform can be considered for this use case group.
### 6.20.2 Requirements
The 3GPP system supports the transport of messages with different performance
requirements to support V2X scenarios. The associated requirements are
described in eV2X 3GPP TS 22.186 [9].
## 6.21 NG-RAN Sharing
### 6.21.1 Description
The increased density of access nodes needed to meet future performance
objectives poses considerable challenges in deployment and acquiring spectrum
and antenna locations. RAN sharing is seen as a technical solution to these
issues.
### 6.21.2 Requirements
Requirements related to NG-RAN sharing are described in 3GPP TS 22.101 [6],
clause 28.2.
A 5G satellite access network shall support NG-RAN sharing.
## 6.22 Unified access control
### 6.22.1 Description
Depending on operator\'s policies, deployment scenarios, subscriber profiles,
and available services, different criterion will be used in determining which
access attempt should be allowed or blocked when congestion occurs in the 5G
System. These different criteria for access control are associated with Access
Identities and Access Categories. The 5G system will provide a single unified
access control where operators control accesses based on these two.
In unified access control, each access attempt is categorized into one or more
of the Access Identities and one of the Access Categories. Based on the access
control information applicable for the corresponding Access Identity and
Access Category of the access attempt, the UE performs a test whether the
actual access attempt can be made or not.
The unified access control supports extensibility to allow inclusion of
additional standardized Access Identities and Access Categories and supports
flexibility to allow operators to define operator-defined Access Categories
using their own criterion (e.g. network slicing, application, and application
server).
NOTE: Clauses 4.1 through 4.4a of TS 22.011 are obsolete and replaced by
clause 6.22.2 of this specification. However, when a UE is configured for EAB
according to TS 22.011, the UE is also configured for delay tolerant service
for 5G system.
### 6.22.2 Requirements
#### 6.22.2.1 General
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall be able to prevent UEs from
accessing the network using relevant barring parameters that vary depending on
Access Identity and Access Category. Access Identities are configured at the
UE as listed in Table 6.22.2.2-1. Access Categories are defined by the
combination of conditions related to UE and the type of access attempt as
listed in Table 6.22.2.3-1. One or more Access Identities and only one Access
Category are selected and tested for an access attempt.
The 5G network shall be able to broadcast barring control information (i.e. a
list of barring parameters associated with an Access Identity and an Access
Category) in one or more areas of the RAN.
The UE shall be able to determine whether or not a particular new access
attempt is allowed based on barring parameters that the UE receives from the
broadcast barring control information and the configuration in the UE.
In the case of multiple core networks sharing the same RAN, the RAN shall be
able to apply access control for the different core networks individually.
The unified access control framework shall be applicable both to UEs accessing
the 5G CN using E-UTRA and to UEs accessing the 5G CN using NR.
The unified access control framework shall be applicable to UEs in RRC Idle,
RRC Inactive, and RRC Connected at the time of initiating a new access attempt
(e.g. new session request).
NOTE 1: \"new session request\" in RRC Connected refers to events, e.g. new
MMTEL voice or video session, sending of SMS (SMS over IP, or SMS over NAS),
sending of IMS registration related signalling, new PDU session establishment,
existing PDU session modification, and service request to re-establish the
user plane for an existing PDU session.
The 5G system shall support means by which the operator can define operator-
defined Access Categories to be mutually exclusive.
NOTE 2: Examples of criterion of operator-defined Access Categories are
network slicing, application, and application server.
The unified access control framework shall be applicable to inbound roamers to
a PLMN.
The serving network should be able to provide the definition of operator-
defined Access Categories to the UE.
#### 6.22.2.2 Access identities
Table 6.22.2.2-1: Access Identities
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Access Identity number** | **UE configuration** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 0 | UE is not configured with any | | | parameters from this table | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 1 (NOTE 1) | UE is configured for Multimedia | | | Priority Service (MPS). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 2 (NOTE 2) | UE is configured for Mission | | | Critical Service (MCS). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 3 | UE for which Disaster Condition | | | applies (note 4) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 4-10 | Reserved for future use | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 11 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 11 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 12 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 12 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 13 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 13 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 14 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 14 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | 15 (NOTE 3) | Access Class 15 is configured in | | | the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | NOTE 1: Access Identity 1 is | | | used by UEs configured for MPS, | | | in the networks where the | | | configuration is valid. The | | | networks where the configuration | | | is valid are NPN or HPLMN, PLMNs | | | equivalent to HPLMN, and visited | | | PLMNs of the home country.\ | | | Access Identity 1 is also valid | | | when the UE is explicitly | | | authorized by the network based | | | on specific configured NPNs or | | | based on specific configured | | | PLMNs inside and outside the | | | home country. | | | | | | NOTE 2: Access Identity 2 is | | | used by UEs configured for MCS, | | | in the networks where the | | | configuration is valid. The | | | networks where the configuration | | | is valid are NPN or HPLMN or | | | PLMNs equivalent to HPLMN and | | | visited PLMNs of the home | | | country. Access Identity 2 is | | | also valid when the UE is | | | explicitly authorized by the | | | network based on specific | | | configured NPNs or based on | | | specific configured PLMNs inside | | | and outside the home country. | | | | | | NOTE 3: Access Identities 11 and | | | 15 are valid in Home PLMN only | | | if the EHPLMN list is not | | | present or in any EHPLMN. Access | | | Identities 12, 13 and 14 are | | | valid in Home PLMN and visited | | | PLMNs of home country only. For | | | this purpose, the home country | | | is defined as the country of the | | | MCC part of the SUPI. | | | | | | NOTE 3a: Access Identities 11 to | | | 15 are valid in an NPN. | | | | | | NOTE 4: The configuration is | | | valid for PLMNs that indicate to | | | potential Disaster Inbound | | | Roamers that the UEs can access | | | the PLMN. See clause 6.31. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Any number of these Access Identities may be barred at any one time.
#### 6.22.2.3 Access categories
Table 6.22.2.3-1: Access Categories
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Access Category |** Conditions related | **Type of access | | number** | to UE**| attempt** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 0 | All | MO signalling | | | | resulting from | | | | paging | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 (NOTE 1) | UE is configured for | All except for | | | delay tolerant | Emergency, or MO | | | service and subject | exception data | | | to access control | | | | for Access Category | | | | 1, which is judged | | | | based on relation of | | | | UE's HPLMN and the | | | | selected PLMN or | | | | based on the UE's | | | | NPN. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 | All | Emergency | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | All except for the | MO signalling on NAS | | | conditions in Access | level resulting from | | | Category 1. | other than paging | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4 | All except for the | MMTEL voice (NOTE 3) | | | conditions in Access | | | | Category 1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | All except for the | MMTEL video | | | conditions in Access | | | | Category 1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6 | All except for the | SMS | | | conditions in Access | | | | Category 1. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 7 | All except for the | MO data that do not | | | conditions in Access | belong to any other | | | Category 1. | Access Categories | | | | (NOTE 4) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 8 | All except for the | MO signalling on RRC | | | conditions in Access | level resulting from | | | Category 1 | other than paging | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 9 | All except for the | MO IMS registration | | | conditions in Access | related signalling | | | Category 1 | (NOTE 5) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 (NOTE 6) | All | MO exception data | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 11-31 | | Reserved | | | | standardized Access | | | | Categories | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 32-63 (NOTE 2) | All | Based on operator | | | | classification | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: The barring | | | | parameter for Access | | | | Category 1 is | | | | accompanied with | | | | information that | | | | define whether | | | | Access Category | | | | applies to UEs | | | | within one of the | | | | following | | | | categories:\ | | | | a) UEs that are | | | | configured for delay | | | | tolerant service;\ | | | | b) UEs that are | | | | configured for delay | | | | tolerant service and | | | | are neither in their | | | | HPLMN nor in a PLMN | | | | that is equivalent | | | | to it;\ | | | | c) UEs that are | | | | configured for delay | | | | tolerant service and | | | | are neither in the | | | | PLMN listed as most | | | | preferred PLMN of | | | | the country where | | | | the UE is roaming in | | | | the operator-defined | | | | PLMN selector list | | | | on the SIM/USIM, nor | | | | in their HPLMN nor | | | | in a PLMN that is | | | | equivalent to their | | | | HPLMN.\ | | | | When a UE is | | | | configured for EAB, | | | | the UE is also | | | | configured for delay | | | | tolerant service. In | | | | case a UE is | | | | configured both for | | | | EAB and for EAB | | | | override, when upper | | | | layer indicates to | | | | override Access | | | | Category 1, then | | | | Access Category 1 is | | | | not applicable. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: When there | | | | is an Access | | | | Category based on | | | | operator | | | | classification and a | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category to both of | | | | which an access | | | | attempt can be | | | | categorized, and the | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category is neither | | | | 0 nor 2, the UE | | | | applies the Access | | | | Category based on | | | | operator | | | | classification. When | | | | there are an Access | | | | Category based on | | | | operator | | | | classification and a | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category to both of | | | | which an access | | | | attempt can be | | | | categorized, and the | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category is 0 or 2, | | | | the UE applies the | | | | standardized Access | | | | Category. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Includes | | | | Real-Time Text | | | | (RTT). | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: Includes IMS | | | | Messaging. | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: Includes IMS | | | | registration related | | | | signalling, e.g. IMS | | | | initial | | | | registration, | | | | re-registration, and | | | | subscription | | | | refresh. | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: Applies to | | | | access of a | | | | NB-IoT-capable UEto | | | | a NB-IOT cell | | | | connected to 5GC | | | | when the UE is | | | | authorized to send | | | | exception data. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Access Category 0 in Table 6.22.2.3-1shall not be barred, irrespective of
Access Identities.
NOTE: The network can control the amount of access attempts relating to Access
Category 0 by controlling whether to send paging or not.
## 6.23 QoS monitoring
### 6.23.1 Description
The QoS requirements specified for particular services such as URLLC services,
vertical automation communication services, and V2X, mandate QoS guarantees
from the network. However, the network may not be able to always guarantee the
required QoS of the service. An example reason for this shortcoming is that
the latency and/or packet error rate increase due to interference in a radio
cell. In such cases, it is critical that the application and/or application
server is notified in a timely manner. Hence, the 5G system should be able to
support QoS monitoring/assurance for URLLC services, V2X and vertical
automation.
For more information on QoS assurance see Annex F.
Vertical automation systems are locally distributed and are typically served
by wired and wireless communication networks of different types and with
different characteristics. If the operation of the system or one of its sub-
processes does not work properly, there is a need for quickly finding and
eliminating the related error or fault in order to avoid significant operation
and thus financial losses. To that end, automation devices and applications
implement diagnosis and error-analysis algorithms, as well as predictive
maintenance features.
Due to their inherent challenges, wireless communication systems are usually
under suspicion in case an error occurs in a distributed automation
application. Therefore, diagnosis and fault analysis features for 5G systems
are required. The 5G system needs to provide sufficient monitoring information
as input for such diagnosis features.
QoS monitoring can be used for the following activities:
\- assessing and assuring the dependability of network operation;
\- assessing and assuring the dependability of the communication services;
\- excluding particular communication errors;
\- identifying communication errors;
\- analysing the location of an error including the geographic location of the
involved network component (UE; front-haul component; core node);
\- activation of application-related countermeasures.
### 6.23.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for supporting real-time E2E QoS
monitoring within a system.
NOTE 1: The end points in E2E are the termination points of the communication
service within the boundary of the 5G system.
The 5G network shall provide an interface to an application for QoS monitoring
(e.g. to initiate QoS monitoring, request QoS parameters, events, logging
information).
The 5G system shall be able to provide real time QoS parameters and events
information to an authorized application/network entity.
NOTE 2: The QoS parameters to be monitored and reported can include latency
(e.g. UL/DL or round trip), jitter, and packet loss rate.
The 5G system shall be able to log the history of the communication events.
This includes for examples parts of the SLA that are not met, timestamp of the
events, and event position (e.g. UEs and radio access points associated with
the events).
The 5G system shall support different levels of granularity for QoS monitoring
(e.g. per flow or set of flows).
The 5G system shall be able to provide event notification upon detecting an
error that the negotiated QoS level cannot be met/guaranteed.
The 5G system shall be able to provide information that identifies the type
and the location of a communication error (e.g. cell ID).
The 5G system shall be able to provide notification of communication events to
authorized entities per pre-defined patterns (e.g. every time the bandwidth
drops below a pre-defined threshold for QoS parameters the authorized entity
is notified, and the event is logged).
The 5G system shall be able to respond to a request from an authorized entity
to provide real-time QoS monitoring information within a specified time after
receiving the request (e.g. within 5 s).
The 5G system shall support an update/refresh rate for real time QoS
monitoring with a specified value (e.g., at least one update per second).
The 5G system shall be able to provide statistical information of service
parameters and error types while a communication service is in operation.
The 5G system shall provide information on the current availability of a
specific communication service in a particular area (e.g. cell ID) upon
request of an authorized entity.
## 6.24 Ethernet transport services
### 6.24.1 Description
This clause includes common, fundamental Ethernet transport requirements, and
any requirements necessary to support a 5G LAN-type service. The requirements
applicable to the 5G system for supporting cyber-physical applications using
Ethernet are described in 3GPP TS 22.104 [21].
### 6.24.2 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to support an Ethernet transport service.
The 5G network shall support the routing of non-IP packet (e.g. Ethernet
frame) efficiently for private communication between UEs within a 5G LAN-type
service.
The 5G network shall be able to provide the required QoS (e.g. reliability,
latency, and bandwidth) for non-IP packet (e.g. Ethernet frame) for private
communication between UEs within a 5G LAN-type service.
The Ethernet transport service shall support routing based on information
extracted from Virtual LAN (VLAN) ID by the 3GPP system.
The Ethernet transport service shall support the transport of Ethernet frames
between UEs that Ethernet devices are connected to.
The Ethernet transport service shall support the transport of Ethernet frames
between a UE that an Ethernet device is connected to and an Ethernet network
in DN (Data Network).
NOTE: If more than one Ethernet devices need to be connected to a UE, they can
be connected using an Ethernet switch between the devices and the UE.
The Ethernet transport service shall support the transport of Ethernet
broadcast frames.
The Ethernet transport service shall support traffic filtering and
prioritization based on source and destination MAC addresses.
The Ethernet transport service shall support traffic filtering and
prioritization based on Ethertype (including multiple Ethertypes in double
tagging).
The Ethernet transport service shall support traffic filtering and
prioritization based on 802.1Q VLAN tags (including double tagging).
The Ethernet transport service shall support routing based on information
extracted by the 3GPP system from the Bridge Protocol Data Units created in
the Ethernet network based on a Spanning Tree Protocol (e.g. RSTP).
## 6.25 Non-public networks
### 6.25.1 Description
Non-public networks are intended for the sole use of a private entity such as
an enterprise, and may be deployed in a variety of configurations, utilising
both virtual and physical elements. Specifically, they may be deployed as
completely standalone networks, they may be hosted by a PLMN, or they may be
offered as a slice of a PLMN.
In any of these deployment options, it is expected that unauthorized UEs,
those that are not associated with the enterprise, will not attempt to access
the non-public network, which could result in resources being used to reject
that UE and thereby not be available for the UEs of the enterprise. It is also
expected that UEs of the enterprise will not attempt to access a network they
are not authorized to access. For example, some enterprise UEs may be
restricted to only access the non-public network of the enterprise, even if
PLMN coverage is available in the same geographic area. Other enterprise UEs
may be able to access both a non-public network and a PLMN where specifically
allowed.
### 6.25.2 Requirements
The5G system shall support non-public networks.
The 5G system shall support non-public networks that provide coverage within a
specific geographic area.
The 5G system shall support both physical and virtual non-public networks.
The 5G system shall support standalone operation of a non-public network, i.e.
a non-public network may be able to operate without dependency on a PLMN.
Subject to an agreement between the operators and service providers, operator
policies and the regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G system
shall support for non-public network subscribers:
\- access to subscribed PLMN services via the non-public network;
\- seamless service continuity for subscribed PLMN services between a non-
public network and a PLMN;
\- access to selected non-public network services via a PLMN;
\- seamless service continuity for non-public network services between a non-
public network and a PLMN.
Subject to regional or national regulatory requirements for emergency
services, 5G system shall be able to support IMS emergency services for non-
public networks.
Subject to regional or national regulatory requirements for PWS (see TS 22.268
[31]), the 5G system shall be able to support PWS for non-public networks.
A non-public network subscriber to access a PLMN service shall have a service
subscription using 3GPP identifiers and credentials provided or accepted by a
PLMN.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for a UE to identify and select a non-
public network.
NOTE: Different network selection mechanisms may be used for physical vs
virtual non-public networks.
The 5G system shall support identifiers for a large number of non-public
networks to minimize collision likelihood between assigned identifiers.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to prevent a UE with a subscription to
a non-public network from automatically selecting and attaching to a PLMN or
non-public network it is not authorized to select.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to prevent a UE with a subscription to
a PLMN from automatically selecting and attaching to a non-public network it
is not authorized to select.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for a PLMN to control whether a user
of a UE can manually select a non-public network hosted by this PLMN that the
UE is not authorized to select automatically.
The 5G system may broadcast a human readable network name that a UE may
display for manual selection of a non-public network.
The 5G system shall support a change of host of a non-public network from one
PLMN to another PLMN without changing the network selection information stored
in the UEs of the non-public network.
The 5G system shall enable an NPN to support multiple third-party service
providers.
In the event of a loss of communication between RAN and core network, the 5G
system shall be able to provide capability to securely re-connect an NPN
network function within a short period of time (\ NOTE 1a: The requirement above applies also to the case of a UE registered
> to a non-subscribed (standalone) NPN, in order to select a higher priority
> PLMN or NPN.
The UE shall be able to delay conforming to steering of roaming control
information from the HPLMN while it is engaged in priority service (e.g.
emergency call, MPS session), or a service defined by HPLMN policy not to be
interrupted (e.g. MMTEL voice/video call).
> NOTE 2: The HPLMN policy can take into account the user\'s preference for
> the service(s) not to be interrupted. User preferences can be communicated
> utilizing non-standard operator-specific mechanisms, e.g. web-based.
The mechanism mentioned above in this clause shall be available to the HPLMN
even if the VPLMN the UE is registered on is compliant to an earlier release
of the 5G system.
The 5G system shall support mechanisms to enable a credentials holder (e.g.
HPLMN or subscribed standalone NPN) to send steering of roaming information to
a UE for selecting standalone NPNs (e.g prioritized list of preferred NPNs).
## 6.31 Minimization of Service Interruption
### 6.31.1 Description
A mobile network may fail to provide service in the event of a disaster (for
example a fire.) The requirements listed in this clause provide the 5GS with
the capability to mitigate interruption of service. UEs may obtain service in
the event of a disaster, if there are PLMN operators prepared to offer
service. The minimization of service interruption is constrained to a
particular time and place. To reduce the impact to the 5G System of supporting
Disaster Roaming, the potential congestion resulting from an influx or outflux
of Disaster Inbound Roamers is taken into account.
### 6.31.2 Requirements
#### 6.31.2.1 General
Subject to regulatory requirements or operator\'s policy, 3GPP system shall be
able to enable a UE of a given PLMN to obtain connectivity service (e.g. voice
call, mobile data service) from another PLMN for the area where a Disaster
Condition applies.
#### 6.31.2.2 Disaster Condition
The 3GPP system shall enable UEs to obtain information that a Disaster
Condition applies to a particular PLMN or PLMNs.
NOTE: If a UE has no coverage of its HPLMN, then obtains information that a
Disaster Condition applies to the UE\'s HPLMN, the UE can register with a PLMN
offering Disaster Roaming service.
The 3GPP system shall support means for a PLMN operator to be aware of the
area where Disaster Condition applies.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support provision of service to Disaster
Inbound Roamer only within the specific region where Disaster Condition
applies.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide efficient means for a network to
inform Disaster Inbound roamers that a Disaster Condition is no longer
applicable.
Subject to regulatory requirements or operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall
support a PLMN operator to be made aware of the failure or recovery of other
PLMN(s) in the same country when the Disaster Condition is applies, or when
the Disaster Condition is not applicable.
#### 6.31.2.3 Disaster Roaming
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to enable a UE to access PLMNs
in a forbidden PLMN list if a Disaster condition applies and no other PLMN is
available except for PLMNs in the forbidden PLMN list.
The 3GPP system shall provide means to enable that a Disaster Condition
applies to UEs of a specific PLMN.
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a resource efficient means for a PLMN
to indicate to potential Disaster Inbound Roamers whether they can access the
PLMN or not.
Disaster Inbound Roamers shall perform network reselection when a Disaster
Condition has ended.
The 3GPP system shall minimize congestion caused by Disaster Roaming.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for the HPLMN to control whether a UE,
with HPLMN subscription, should apply Disaster Roaming when a Disaster
Condition arises (in the HPLMN or a VPLMN).
3GPP system shall be able to collect charging information for a Disaster
Inbound Roamer with information about the applied disaster condition.
6.32 UAV aspects
### 6.32.1 Description
The 3GPP system is expected to support various enhanced UAV scenarios,
especially for a wide range of applications and scenarios by using low
altitude UAVs in various commercial and government sectors.
### 6.32.2 Requirements
The 3GPP system supports service requirements and KPIs related to command and
control (C2), payload (e.g. camera) and the operation of radio access nodes
on-board of UAVs. The associated requirements are described in 3GPP TS 22.125
[26].
6.33 Video, imaging and audio for professional applications
6.33.1 Description
Audio-Visual (AV) production includes television and radio studios, live news-
gathering, sports events, music festivals, among others. Typically, numerous
wireless devices such as microphones, in-ear monitoring systems or cameras are
used in these scenarios. In the future, the wireless communication service for
such devices are expected to be provided by a 5G system. AV production
applications require a high degree of confidence, since they are related to
the capturing and transmission of data at the beginning of a production chain.
This differs drastically when compared to other multimedia services because
the communication errors will be propagated to the entire audience that is
consuming that content both live and on recorded medias. Furthermore, the
transmitted data is often post-processed with filters which could actually
amplify defects that would be otherwise not noticed by humans. Therefore,
these applications call for uncompressed or slightly compressed data, and very
low probability of errors. These devices will also be used alongside existing
technologies which have a high level of performance and so any new
technologies will need to match or improve upon the existing workflows to
drive adoption of the technology.
The 3GPP system already plays an important role in the distribution of AV
media content and services. Release 14 contains substantial enhancements to
deliver TV services of various kinds, from linear TV programmes for mass
audiences to custom-tailored on-demand services for mobile consumption.
However, it is expected that also in the domain of AV content and service
production, 3GPP systems will become an important tool for a market sector
with steadily growing global revenues. There are several areas in which 3GPP
networks may help to produce AV content and services in an efficient and
flexible manner.
6.33.2 Requirements
The 5G system supports the communication services for video, imaging and audio
for professional applications. The associated requirements are described in
3GPP TS 22.263 [28].
6.34 Critical medical applications
6.34.1 Description
The 5G system is expected to meet the service requirements for critical
medical applications where critical medical applications denote medical
devices and applications involved in the delivery of care for patient's
survival. Additionally, as the medical industry undergoes a shift to value-
based healthcare, where companies and healthcare providers have to move to
business models based on providing clinical value with cost efficiency, the 5G
system can help to adopt new and more efficient care delivery models in order
to reduce administrative and supply costs.
On this matter, 5G technology can especially have an important impact by:
\- enabling superior monitoring capability means thus improving the
effectiveness of preventive care,
\- enabling shifting care location from hospitals to homes and other lower
cost facilities,
\- improving operating room planning, enabling streamlining equipment usage
and simplifying operating theater implementation,
\- Enhancing cooperation in critical situations between ambulance and hospital
staff.
6.34.2 Requirements
The 5G system shall support the communication services for critical medical
applications. The associated requirements are described:
\- in 3GPP TS 22.104 [21] for the requirements related to controlling both
local or remote robotic diagnosis or surgery systems,
\- in 3GPP TS 22.263 [29] for the requirements related to high quality medical
imaging and augmented reality systems located in hybrid operating rooms, in
remote healthcare facilities or ambulances,
\- in 3GPP TS 22.261 clause 7.5 for the requirements on the support of tele-
diagnosis or tele-monitoring systems,
\- in 3GPP TS 22.261 clauses 6.10, 8.2 and 8.9 for the requirements on the
security of medical data that fulfil regulatory requirements.
# 7 Performance requirements
## 7.1 High data rates and traffic densities
Several scenarios require the support of very high data rates or traffic
densities of the 5G system. The scenarios address different service areas:
urban and rural areas, office and home, and special deployments (e.g. massive
gatherings, broadcast, residential, and high-speed vehicles). The scenarios
and their performance requirements can be found in table 7.1-1.
\- Urban macro -- The general wide-area scenario in urban area
\- Rural macro -- The general wide-area scenario in rural area
\- Indoor hotspot -- The scenario for offices and homes, and residential
deployments.
\- Broadband access in a crowd -- The scenario for very dense crowds, for
example, at stadiums or concerts. In addition to a very high connection
density the users want to share what they see and hear, putting a higher
requirement on the uplink than the downlink.
\- Dense urban -- The scenario for pedestrian users, and users in urban
vehicles, for example, in offices, city centres, shopping centres, and
residential areas. The users in vehicles can be connected either directly or
via an onboard base station to the network.
\- Broadcast-like services -- The scenario for stationary users, pedestrian
users, and users in vehicles, for example, in offices, city centres, shopping
centres, residential areas, rural areas and in high speed trains. The
passengers in vehicles can be connected either directly or via an onboard base
station to the network.
\- High-speed train -- The scenario for users in trains. The users can be
connected either directly or via an onboard base station to the network.
\- High-speed vehicle -- The scenario for users in road vehicles. The users
can be connected either directly or via an onboard base station to the
network.
\- Airplanes connectivity -- The scenario for users in airplanes. The users
can be connected either directly or via an onboard base station to the
network.
Table 7.1-1 Performance requirements for high data rate and traffic density
scenarios.
| Scenario | Experienced data rate (DL) | Experienced data rate (UL) | Area traffic capacity (DL) | Area traffic capacity (UL) | Overall user density | Activity factor | UE speed | Coverage  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 | Urban macro | 50 Mbit/s | 25 Mbit/s | 100 Gbit/s/km2 (note 4) | 50 Gbit/s/km2 (note 4) | 10 000/km2 | 20 % | Pedestrians and users in vehicles (up to 120 km/h | Full network (note 1)  
2 | Rural macro | 50 Mbit/s | 25 Mbit/s | 1 Gbit/s/km2 (note 4) | 500 Mbit/s/km2 (note 4) | 100/km2 | 20 % | Pedestrians and users in vehicles (up to 120 km/h | Full network (note 1)  
3 | Indoor hotspot | 1 Gbit/s | 500 Mbit/s | 15 Tbit/s/km2 | 2 Tbit/s/km2 | 250 000/km2 | note 2 | Pedestrians | Office and residential (note 2) (note 3)  
4 | Broadband access in a crowd | 25 Mbit/s | 50 Mbit/s | [3,75] Tbit/s/km2 | [7,5] Tbit/s/km2 | [500 000]/km2 | 30 % | Pedestrians | Confined area  
5 | Dense urban | 300 Mbit/s | 50 Mbit/s | 750 Gbit/s/km2 (note 4) | 125 Gbit/s/km2 (note 4) | 25 000/km2 | 10 % | Pedestrians and users in vehicles (up to 60 km/h) | Downtown (note 1)  
6 | Broadcast-like services | Maximum 200 Mbit/s (per TV channel) | N/A or modest (e.g. 500 kbit/s per user) | N/A | N/A | [15] TV channels of [20 Mbit/s] on one carrier | N/A | Stationary users, pedestrians and users in vehicles (up to 500 km/h) | Full network (note 1)  
7 | High-speed train | 50 Mbit/s | 25 Mbit/s | 15 Gbit/s/train | 7,5 Gbit/s/train | 1 000/train | 30 % | Users in trains (up to 500 km/h) | Along railways (note 1)  
8 | High-speed vehicle | 50 Mbit/s | 25 Mbit/s | [100] Gbit/s/km2 | [50] Gbit/s/km2 | 4 000/km2 | 50 % | Users in vehicles (up to 250 km/h) | Along roads (note 1)  
9 | Airplanes connectivity | 15 Mbit/s | 7,5 Mbit/s | 1,2 Gbit/s/plane | 600 Mbit/s/plane | 400/plane | 20 % | Users in airplanes (up to 1 000 km/h) | (note 1)  
NOTE 1: For users in vehicles, the UE can be connected to the network directly, or via an on-board moving base station. NOTE 2: A certain traffic mix is assumed; only some users use services that require the highest data rates [2]. NOTE 3: For interactive audio and video services, for example, virtual meetings, the required two-way end-to-end latency (UL and DL) is 2‑4 ms while the corresponding experienced data rate needs to be up to 8K 3D video [300 Mbit/s] in uplink and downlink. NOTE 4: These values are derived based on overall user density. Detailed information can be found in [10]. NOTE 5: All the values in this table are targeted values and not strict requirements. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 7.2 Low latency and high reliability
### 7.2.1 Overview
Several scenarios require the support of very low latency and very high
communications service availability. Note that this implies a very high
reliability. The overall service latency depends on the delay on the radio
interface, transmission within the 5G system, transmission to a server which
may be outside the 5G system, and data processing. Some of these factors
depend directly on the 5G system itself, whereas for others the impact can be
reduced by suitable interconnections between the 5G system and services or
servers outside of the 5G system, for example, to allow local hosting of the
services.
### 7.2.2 Scenarios and KPIs
Different deployments of URLLC capabilities will depend on the 3GPP system
being able to meet specific sets of KPIs with different values and ranges
applicable for each attribute. A common, yet flexible, 5G approach to URLLC
will enable the 5G system to meet the specific sets of KPIs needed in a given
implementation. To provide clear and precise requirements for specific types
of services, the corresponding KPI requirements are included in other
specifications as follows:
> \- Cyber-physical control applications in vertical domains can be found in
> 22.104 [21].
>
> \- V2X can be found in 22.186 [9].
>
> \- Rail communications can be found in 22.289 [23].
Some scenarios requiring very low latency and very high communication service
availability are described below:
\- Motion control -- Conventional motion control is characterised by high
requirements on the communications system regarding latency, reliability, and
availability. Systems supporting motion control are usually deployed in
geographically limited areas but may also be deployed in wider areas (e.g.
city- or country-wide networks), access to them may be limited to authorized
users, and they may be isolated from networks or network resources used by
other cellular customers.
\- Discrete automation -- Discrete automation is characterised by high
requirements on the communications system regarding reliability and
availability. Systems supporting discrete automation are usually deployed in
geographically limited areas, access to them may be limited to authorized
users, and they may be isolated from networks or network resources used by
other cellular customers.
\- Process automation -- Automation for (reactive) flows, e.g. refineries and
water distribution networks. Process automation is characterized by high
requirements on the communications system regarding communication service
availability. Systems supporting process automation are usually deployed in
geographically limited areas, access to them is usually limited to authorized
users, and it will usually be served by non-public networks.
\- Automation for electricity distribution (mainly medium and high voltage).
Electricity distribution is characterized by high requirements on the
communications service availability. In contrast to the above use cases,
electricity distribution is deeply immersed into the public space. Since
electricity distribution is an essential infrastructure, it will, as a rule,
be served by non-public networks.
\- Wireless road-side infrastructure backhaul in intelligent transport systems
-- Automation solutions for the infrastructure supporting street-based
traffic. This use case addresses the connection of the road-side
infrastructure, e.g. roadside units, with other infrastructure, e.g. a traffic
guidance system. As is the case for automation electricity, the nodes are
deeply immersed into the public space.
\- Remote control -- Remote control is characterised by a UE being operated
remotely by a human or a computer. For example, Remote Driving enables a
remote driver or a V2X application to operate a remote vehicle with no driver
or a remote vehicle located in a dangerous environment.
\- Rail communications (e.g. railway, rail-bound mass transit) have been using
3GPP based mobile communication (e.g. GSM-R) already for some time, while
there is still a driver on-board of the train. The next step of the evolution
will be providing fully automated train operation that requires highly
reliable communication with moderate latencies but at very high speeds of up
to 500 km/h.
For specific requirements, refer to the specifications noted above [21], [9],
[23].
### 7.2.3 Other requirements
#### 7.2.3.1 (void)
#### 7.2.3.2 Wireless road-side infrastructure backhaul
Intelligent Transport Systems embrace a wide variety of communications-related
applications that are intended to increase travel safety, minimize
environmental impact, improve traffic management, and maximize the benefits of
transportation to both commercial users and the general public.
Road-side infrastructure such as traffic light controllers, roadside units,
traffic monitoring in urban areas and along highways and streets is wirelessly
connected to traffic control centres for management and control purposes. The
backhaul communication between the road-side infrastructure and the traffic
control centre requires low-latency, high communication service availability,
and high-capacity connections for reliable distribution of data. Road-side
infrastructure is deployed alongside streets in urban areas and alongside
major roads and highways every 1-2 km.
To support wireless road-side infrastructure backhaul the 5G system shall
support the performance requirements in table 7.2.3.2-1.
Table 7.2.3.2-1 Performance requirements for wireless ITS infrastructure
backhaul scenario
Scenario | Max. allowed end-to-end latency (note 1) | Survival time | Communication service availability (note 2) | Reliability (note 2) | User experienced data rate | Payload size (note 3) | Traffic density  
(note 4) | Connection density  
(note 5) | Service area dimension  
(note 6)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
wireless road-side infrastructure backhaul | 30 ms | 100 ms | 99,9999% | 99,999% | 10 Mbit/s | Small to big | 10 Gbit/s/km2 | 1 000/km2 | 2 km along a road  
NOTE 1: This is the maximum end-to-end latency allowed for the 5G system to deliver the service in the case the end-to-end latency is completely allocated to the 5G system from the UE to the Interface to Data Network. NOTE 2: Communication service availability relates to the service interfaces, and reliability relates to a given system entity. One or more retransmissions of network layer packets may take place in order to satisfy the reliability requirement. NOTE 3: Small: payload typically ≤ 256 bytes NOTE 4: Based on the assumption that all connected applications within the service volume require the user experienced data rate. NOTE 5: Under the assumption of 100% 5G penetration. NOTE 6: Estimates of maximum dimensions; the last figure is the vertical dimension. NOTE 7: All the values in this table are example values and not strict requirements. Deployment configurations should be taken into account when considering service offerings that meet the targets. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 7.3 High-accuracy positioning
### 7.3.1 Description
Adaptability and flexibility are among the key features of the 5G system to
serve a wide diversity of verticals and services, in different environments
(e.g. rural, urban, indoor). This applies to high-accuracy positioning and
translates into the ability to satisfy different levels of services and
requirements, for instance on performance (e.g. accuracy, positioning service
availability, positioning service latency) and on functionality (e.g.
security).
### 7.3.2 Requirements
#### 7.3.2.1 General
The 5G System shall provide different 5G positioning services with
configurable performances working points (e.g. accuracy, positioning service
availability, positioning service latency, energy consumption, update rate,
TTFF) according to the needs of users, operators and third parties.
The 5G system shall support the combination of 3GPP and non-3GPP positioning
technologies to achieve performances of the 5G positioning services better
than those achieved using only 3GPP positioning technologies.
NOTE 1: For instance, the combination of 3GPP positioning technologies with
non-3GPP positioning technologies such as GNSS (e.g. Beidou, Galileo, GLONASS,
and GPS), Terrestrial Beacon Systems (TBS), sensors (e.g. barometer, IMU),
WLAN/Bluetooth-based positioning, can support the improvement of accuracy,
positioning service availability, reliability and/or confidence level, the
reduction of positioning service latency, the increase of the update rate of
the position-related data, increase the coverage (service area).
NOTE 2: The combination can vary over time to optimise the performances, and
can be the combination of multiple positioning technologies at the same epoch
and/or the combination of multiple positioning technologies at different
epochs.
The corresponding positioning information shall be acquired in a timely
fashion, be reliable, and be available (e.g. it is possible to determine the
position).
UEs shall be able to share positioning information between each other e.g. to
a controller if the location information cannot be processed or used locally.
#### 7.3.2.2 Requirements for horizontal and vertical positioning service
levels
The 5G system shall be able to provide positioning services with the
performances requirements reported in Table 7.3.2.2-1.
NOTE: The requirements do not preclude any type of UE, including specific UE
such as for example V2X, MTC.
Table 7.3.2.2-1 Performance requirements for Horizontal and Vertical
positioning service levels
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **P |** A | ** | **P | P | * | | | | | ositi | bsolu | Accur | ositi | ositi | *Cove | | | | | oning | te(A) | acy** | oning | oning | rage, | | | | | se | or | | se | se | e | | | | | rvice | R | **(95 | rvice | rvice | nviro | | | | | le | elati | % | avai | * | nment | | | | | vel** | ve(R) | confi | labil | _late | of | | | | | | pos | dence | ity_ _| ncy_ _| use | | | | | | ition | lev | | | and | | | | | | ing_ _| el)__| | | UE | | | | | | | | | | veloc | | | | | | | | | | ity_ _| | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | ** |__Ver | | |__5G |__5G | | | | | Horiz | tical | | | p | enh | | | | | ontal | Accur | | | ositi | anced | | | | | Accur | acy_ _| | | oning | p | | | | | acy_ _| | | | se | ositi | | | | | | ** | | | rvice | oning | | | | | | (note | | | a | se | | | | | | 1)__| | | rea_ _| rvice | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rea_ _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | | 2)__| | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | |__Ou |__Ind | | | | | | | | | tdoor | oor_ _| | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | tunn | | | | | | | | | | els_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | A | 10 m | 3 m | 95 % | 1 s | I | NA | I | | | | | | | | ndoor | | ndoor | | | | | | | | - up | | - up | | | | | | | | to 30 | | to 30 | | | | | | | | km/h | | km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Ou | | | | | | | | | | tdoor | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | rural | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | rban) | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 250 | | | | | | | | | | km/h | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | A | 3 m | 3 m | 99 % | 1 s | Ou | Ou | I | | | | | | | | tdoor | tdoor | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | | ( | ( | to 30 | | | | | | | | rural | dense | km/h | | | | | | | | and | u | | | | | | | | | u | rban) | | | | | | | | | rban) | up to | | | | | | | | | up to | 60 | | | | | | | | | 500 | km/h | | | | | | | | | km/h | | | | | | | | | | for | Along | | | | | | | | | t | roads | | | | | | | | | rains | up to | | | | | | | | | and | 250 | | | | | | | | | up to | km/h | | | | | | | | | 250 | and | | | | | | | | | km/h | along | | | | | | | | | for | rai | | | | | | | | | other | lways | | | | | | | | | veh | up to | | | | | | | | | icles | 500 | | | | | | | | | | km/h | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | A | 1 m | 2 m | 99 % | 1 s | Ou | Ou | I | | | | | | | | tdoor | tdoor | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | | ( | ( | to 30 | | | | | | | | rural | dense | km/h | | | | | | | | and | u | | | | | | | | | u | rban) | | | | | | | | | rban) | up to | | | | | | | | | up to | 60 | | | | | | | | | 500 | km/h | | | | | | | | | km/h | | | | | | | | | | for | Along | | | | | | | | | t | roads | | | | | | | | | rains | up to | | | | | | | | | and | 250 | | | | | | | | | up to | km/h | | | | | | | | | 250 | and | | | | | | | | | km/h | along | | | | | | | | | for | rai | | | | | | | | | other | lways | | | | | | | | | veh | up to | | | | | | | | | icles | 500 | | | | | | | | | | km/h | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | A | 1 m | 2 m | 99,9 | 15 ms | NA | NA | I | | | | | | % | | | | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | | | | to 30 | | | | | | | | | | km/h | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | A | 0,3 m | 2 m | 99 % | 1 s | Ou | Ou | I | | | | | | | | tdoor | tdoor | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | | (r | ( | to 30 | | | | | | | | ural) | dense | km/h | | | | | | | | up to | u | | | | | | | | | 250 | rban) | | | | | | | | | km/h | up to | | | | | | | | | | 60 | | | | | | | | | | km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Along | | | | | | | | | | roads | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | along | | | | | | | | | | rai | | | | | | | | | | lways | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 250 | | | | | | | | | | km/h | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | A | 0,3 m | 2 m | 99,9 | 10 ms | NA | Ou | I | | | | | | % | | | tdoor | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | - up | | | | | | | | | ( | to 30 | | | | | | | | | dense | km/h | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | rban) | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 60 | | | | | | | | | | km/h | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | R | 0,2 m | 0,2 m | 99 % | 1 s | I | | | | | | | | | | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | | tdoor | | | | | | | | | | (r | | | | | | | | | | ural, | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | rban, | | | | | | | | | | dense | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | rban) | | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | | | | km/h | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Rel | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | | UEs | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | 10 m | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 5G | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | nodes | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | 10 m | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | | 3) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | obje | | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ver | | | | | | | | | | tical | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is to | | | | | | | | | | dete | | | | | | | | | | rmine | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | floor | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | | | cases | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | | istin | | | | | | | | | | guish | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | | super | | | | | | | | | | posed | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | racks | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | road | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | rail | | | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | | | cases | | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | brid | | | | | | | | | | ges). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | | ndoor | | | | | | | | | | inc | | | | | | | | | | ludes | | | | | | | | | | loc | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | | buil | | | | | | | | | | dings | | | | | | | | | | such | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | off | | | | | | | | | | ices, | | | | | | | | | | hosp | | | | | | | | | | ital, | | | | | | | | | | indus | | | | | | | | | | trial | | | | | | | | | | build | | | | | | | | | | ings. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: 5G | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | nodes | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | infr | | | | | | | | | | astru | | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | | equi | | | | | | | | | | pment | | | | | | | | | | dep | | | | | | | | | | loyed | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | en | | | | | | | | | | hance | | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | | ositi | | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | | pabil | | | | | | | | | | ities | | | | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | acons | | | | | | | | | | dep | | | | | | | | | | loyed | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | peri | | | | | | | | | | meter | | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | | rende | | | | | | | | | | zvous | | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | | or on | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | side | | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | areho | | | | | | | | | | use). | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 7.3.2.3 Other performance requirements
The 5G system shall be able to provide the 5G positioning services with a TTFF
less than 30 s and, for some 5G positioning services, shall support mechanisms
to provide a TTFF less than 10 s.
NOTE 1: In some services, a TTFF of less than 10s may only be achievable at
the expense of a relaxation of some other performances (e.g. horizontal
accuracy may be 1 m or 3 m after 10 s TTFF, and reach a steady state accuracy
of 0,3 m after 30 s).
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to determine the UE\'s velocity with a
positioning service availability of 99%, an accuracy better than 0,5 m/s for
the speed and an accuracy better than 5 degree for the 3-Dimension direction
of travel.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to determine the UE\'s heading with an
accuracy better than 30 degrees (0,54 rad) and a positioning service
availability of 99,9 % for static users and with an accuracy better than 10
degrees (0,17 rad) and a positioning service availability of 99 % for users up
to 10 km/h.
The 5G system shall support positioning technologies that allow the UE to
operate at Service Level 1 for at least 12 years using less than 1800 mWh of
battery capacity, assuming multiple position updates per hour.
NOTE 2: This requirement aims energy-efficient positioning technologies
draining a minimal energy on the UE battery. It derives from use cases, such
as asset tracking, with a small form-factor battery representative of an IoT
device. This requirement may translate into an energy consumption for the UE's
positioning functions in the order of 20 mJ per fix.
NOTE 3: This requirement does not preclude the use of higher energy
consumption to fulfil higher position update rates than the one above, or
other KPIs than those of Service Level 1 (e.g. more accurate service levels).
## 7.4 KPIs for a 5G system with satellite access
### 7.4.1 Description
Satellite access networks are based on infrastructures integrated on a minimum
of satellites that can be placed in either GEO, MEO or LEO.
The propagation delay associated with these orbit ranges, for the UE to the
satellite path, can be summarized in Table 7.4.1-1:
Table 7.4.1-1: UE to satellite propagation delay
* * *
        UE to satellite Delay \[ms\]   One-Way Max propagation delay \[ms\]   
        Min                            Max
LEO 3 15 30 MEO 27 43 90 GEO 120 140 280
* * *
### 7.4.2 Requirements
A 5G system providing service with satellite access shall be able to support
GEO based satellite access with up to 285 ms end-to-end latency.
NOTE 1: 5 ms network latency is assumed and added to satellite one-way delay.
A 5G system providing service with satellite access shall be able to support
MEO based satellite access with up to 95 ms end-to-end latency.
NOTE **2** : 5 ms network latency is assumed and added to satellite one-way
delay.
A 5G system providing service with satellite access shall be able to support
LEO based satellite access with up to 35 ms end-to-end latency.
NOTE 3: 5 ms network latency is assumed and added to satellite one-way delay.
**A 5G system shall support negotiation on quality of service taking into
account latency penalty to optimise the QoE for UE.**
The 5G system with satellite access shall support high uplink data rates for
5G satellite UEs.
The 5G system with satellite access shall support high downlink data rates for
5G satellite UEs.
The 5G system with satellite access shall support communication service
availabilities of at least 99,99%.
Table 7.4.2-1: Performance requirements for satellite access
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sce | E | E | Area | Area | Ov | Act | UE | UE | | nario | xperi | xperi | tr | tr | erall | ivity | speed | type | | | enced | enced | affic | affic | user | f | | | | | data | data | cap | cap | de | actor | | | | | rate | rate | acity | acity | nsity | | | | | | (DL) | (UL) | | | | | | | | | | | \ | (UL) | | | | | | | | | (DL) | | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | (note | 1) | | | | | | | | | 1) | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Pedes | [1] | [ | 1,5 | 150 | [1 | [1, | Pedes | Han | | trian | M | 100] | Mb | kb | 00]/ | 5] % | trian | dheld | | | bit/s | k | it/s/ | it/s/ | km^2^ | | | | | (note | | bit/s | km^2^ | km^2^ | | | | | | 2) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | P | [ | [ | TBD | TBD | TBD | N/A | 100 | Han | | ublic | 3,5] | 3,5] | | | | | km/h | dheld | | s | Mb | M | | | | | | | | afety | it/ss | bit/s | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Vehi | 50 | 25 | TBD | TBD | TBD | 50 % | Up to | Ve | | cular | M | M | | | | | 250 | hicle | | co | bit/s | bit/s | | | | | km/h | mo | | nnect | | | | | | | | unted | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | | 3) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Airp | 360 | 180 | TBD | TBD | TBD | N/A | Up to | Air | | lanes | Mb | Mb | | | | | 1000 | plane | | co | it/s/ | it/s/ | | | | | km/h | mo | | nnect | plane | plane | | | | | | unted | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (note | | | | | | | | | | 4) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Stati | 50 | 25 | TBD | TBD | TBD | N/A | Stati | Bui | | onary | M | M | | | | | onary | lding | | | bit/s | bit/s | | | | | | mo | | | | | | | | | | unted | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Narro | [2] | \ | 8 | 40 | \ | [ | [Up | IoT | | wband | k | [10] | kb | kb | [400\ | 1] % | to | | | IoT | bit/s | k | it/s/ | it/s/ | ]/km2 | | 100 | | | co | | bit/s | km^2^ | km^2^ | | | k | | | nnect | | | | | | | m/h] | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Note | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Area | | | | | | | | | | cap | | | | | | | | | | acity | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | ave | | | | | | | | | | raged | | | | | | | | | | over | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | sate | | | | | | | | | | llite | | | | | | | | | | beam. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | | | | rates | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | | | | | | treme | | | | | | | | | | long- | | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | arget | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | | 17.2. | | | | | | | | | | User | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | rural | | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | | .1-1. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | Based | | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 7.1-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | | Based | | | | | | | | | | on an | | | | | | | | | | assum | | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | 120 | | | | | | | | | | users | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | plane | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | 5/7.5 | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | 20 % | | | | | | | | | | act | | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | actor | | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | | user | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | | All | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | | tar | | | | | | | | | | geted | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | trict | | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | | uirem | | | | | | | | | | ents. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | ana | | | | | | | | | | lyzed | | | | | | | | | | ind | | | | | | | | | | epend | | | | | | | | | | ently | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | | ario. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 7.5 High-availability IoT traffic
### 7.5.1 Description
Several scenarios require the support of highly reliable machine type
communication such as those, typically (but not restricted to) related to
medical monitoring. They involve different deployment areas, different device
speeds and densities and require a high-availability communication service to
transfer a low data rate uplink data stream from one or several devices to an
application.
Their related performance requirements can be found in table 7.5.2-1.
### 7.5.2 Requirements
Table 7.5.2‑1: Performance requirements for highly reliable machine type
communication
Profile | Characteristic parameter | Influence quantity |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Communication service availability: target value in % | Communication service reliability (Mean Time Between Failure) | End-to-end latency: maximum | Bit rate | Direction | Message Size [byte] | Transfer Interval | Survival Time | UE speed (km/h) | # of UEs connection | Service Area  
Medical monitoring (note 2) | > 99,9999 | > 1 month) |  100 m indoor / deep indoor | 2 to 5  
Containers (note 4) | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 10 s | 15000 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /ship | 15000 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /ship | 15000 containers /ship | 400 m x 60 m x 40 m | > 100 m indoor / outdoor / metallic | 3 to 9  
Freight Wagons | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 10 s | 200 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /train | 200 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /train | 120 wagons /train | 1 km | > 100 m outdoor / tunnel | 10 to 15  
Public Safety (note 5) | 12 Mbit/s | 12 Mbit/s | 30 ms | 20 Mbit/s /building | 40 Mbit/s /building | 30 devices /building | 100 m x 100 m – 3 floors | > 50 m indoor (floor or stairwell) | 2 to 4  
Wearables (note 6) | 10 Mbit/s | 10 Mbit/s | 10 ms | 20 Mbit/s per 100 m2 | 20 Mbit/s per 100 m2 | 10 wearables per 100 m2 | 10 m x 10 m | 10 m indoor / outdoor | 1 to 2  
NOTE 1: Area traffic capacity is determined by high bandwidth consuming devices (e.g. ultra HD TVs, VR headsets), the number of devices has been calculated assuming a family of 4 members. NOTE 2: Highest data rate assumes audio sensors with sampling rate of 192 kHz and 24 bits sample size. NOTE 3: Three meters (gas, water, electricity) per house, medium density of 50 to 70 houses per hectare. NOTE 4: A large containership with a mix of 20 foot and 40 foot containers is assumed. NOTE 5: A mix of MCPTT, MCVideo, and MCData is assumed. Average 3 devices per firefighter / police officer, of which one video device. Area traffic based on 1080 p, 60 fps is 12 Mbit/s video, with an activity factor of 30% in uplink (30% of devices transmit simultaneously at high bitrate) and 15% in downlink. NOTE 6: Communication for wearables is relayed via a UE. This relay UE may use a further relay UE. NOTE 7: End-to-end latency implies that all hops are included. NOTE 8: 'Metallic' implies an environment with a lot of metal obstructions (e.g. machinery, containers). 'Deep indoor' implies that there may be concrete walls / floors between the devices. NOTE 9: All the values in this table are example values and not strict requirements. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# 8 Security
## 8.1 Description
IoT introduces new UEs with different life cycles, including IoT devices with
no user interface (e.g. embedded sensors), long life spans during which an IoT
device may change ownership several times (e.g. consumer goods), and which may
not be pre-provisioned (e.g. consumer goods). These drive a need for secure
mechanisms to dynamically establish or refresh credentials and subscriptions.
New access technologies, including licensed and unlicensed, 3GPP and non-3GPP,
drive a need for access-independent security that is seamlessly available
while the IoT device is active. High-end smartphones, UAVs, and factory
automation drive a need for protection against theft and fraud. A high level
of 5G security is essential for critical communication, e.g. in industrial
automation, industrial IoT, and the Smart Grid. Expansion into enterprise,
vehicular, medical, and public safety markets drive a need for increased end
user privacy protection. 5G security addresses all of these new needs while
continuing to provide security consistent with prior 3GPP systems.
## 8.2 General
The 5G system shall support a secure mechanism to store cached data.
The 5G system shall support a secure mechanism to access a content caching
application.
The 5G system shall support a secure mechanism to access a service or an
application in an operator\'s Service Hosting Environment.
The 5G system shall enable support of an access-independent security
framework.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for the operator to authorize
subscribers of other PLMNs to receive temporary service (e.g. mission critical
services).
The 5G system shall be able to provide temporary service for authorized users
without access to their home network (e.g. IOPS, mission critical services).
The 5G system shall allow the operator to authorize a third-party to create,
modify and delete network slices, subject to an agreement between the third-
party and the network operator.
Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable means to allow a
trusted and authorized third-party to create and modify network slices used
for the third-party with appropriate security policies (e.g. user data privacy
handling, slices isolation, enhanced logging).
The 5G system shall support a secure mechanism to protect relayed data from
being intercepted by a relay UE.
Subject to HPLMN policy as well as its service and operational needs, any USIM
able to access EPS instead of a 5G USIM may be used to authenticate a user in
a 5G system to access supported services according to the user subscription.
The 5G system shall provide integrity protection and confidentiality for
communications between authorized UEs using a 5G LAN-type service.
The 5G LAN-VN shall be able to verify the identity of a UE requesting to join
a specific private communication.
The 5G system shall provide suitable means to allow the use of a trusted
third-party provided encryption between any UE served by a private slice and a
core network entity in that private slice.
The 5G system shall provide suitable means to allow use of a trusted and
authorized third-party provided integrity protection mechanism for data
exchanged between an authorized UE served by a private slice and a core
network entity in that private slice.
The 5G system shall provide suitable means to allow use of a trusted and
authorized third-party provided integrity protection mechanism for data
exchanged between an authorized UE served by a non-public network and a core
network entity in that non-public network.
## 8.3 Authentication
The 5G system shall support an efficient means to authenticate a user to an
IoT device (e.g. biometrics).
The 5G system shall be able to support authentication over a non-3GPP access
technology using 3GPP credentials.
The 5G system shall support operator-controlled alternative authentication
methods (i.e. alternative to AKA) with different types of credentials for
network access for IoT devices in isolated deployment scenarios (e.g. for
industrial automation).
The 5G system shall support a suitable framework (e.g. EAP) allowing
alternative (e.g. to AKA) authentication methods with non-3GPP identities and
credentials to be used for UE network access authentication in non-public
networks.
NOTE: Non-public networks can use 3GPP authentication methods, identities, and
credentials for a UE to access network. Non-public networks are also allowed
to utilize non-AKA based authentication methods such as provided by the EAP
framework, for which the credentials can be stored in the ME.
Subject to an agreement between an MNO and a 3rd party, the 5G system shall
support a mechanism for the PLMN to authenticate and authorize UEs for access
to both a hosted non-public network and private slice(s) of the PLMN
associated with the hosted non-public network.
The 5G network shall support a 3GPP supported mechanism to authenticate legacy
non-3GPP devices for 5G LAN-VN access.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism for the non-public network to
authenticate and authorize UEs for access to network slices of that non-public
network.
The 5G system shall enable an NPN to be able to request a third-party service
provider to perform NPN access network authentication of a UE based on
non-3GPP identities and credentials supplied by the third-party service
provider.
The 5G system shall enable an NPN to be able to request a PLMN to perform NPN
access network authentication of a UE based on 3GPP identities and credentials
supplied by the PLMN.
## 8.4 Authorization
The 5G system shall allow the operator to authorize an IoT device to use one
or more 5G system features that are restricted to IoT devices.
The 5G system shall allow the operator to authorize /de-authorize UEs for
using 5G LAN-type service.
NOTE: When a UE is de-authorized from using 5G LAN-type service, it is removed
from all 5G LAN-VNs.
Based on operator policy, before establishing a direct device connection using
a non-3GPP access technology, IoT devices may use 3GPP credentials to
determine if they are authorized to engage in direct device connection.
Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall provide a means to verify
whether a UE is authorized to use prioritized network access for a specific
service.
## 8.5 Identity management
The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for an operator to allow access from a
UE using a temporary identifier that hides its subscriber identity.
The 5G system shall provide a mechanism for an operator to allow access from a
UE connected in an indirect network connection using a temporary identifier
that hides its subscriber identity.
The HPLMN shall be able to associate a temporary identifier to a UE\'s
subscriber identity.
The 5G system shall be able to protect subscriber identity and other user
identifying information from passive attacks.
Subject to regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall
be able to protect subscriber identity and other user identifying information
from active attacks.
The 5G system shall be able to allow the equipment identifier to be collected
by legitimate entity regardless of UE\'s user interface, when required.
The 5G system shall be able to support identification of subscriptions
independently of identification of equipment.
The 5G system shall support a secure mechanism to collect system information
while ensuring end-user and application privacy (e.g. application level
information is not to be related to an individual user identity or subscriber
identity and UE information is not to be related to an individual subscriber
identity).
Subject to regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall
be able to provide the 5G positioning services while ensuring the protection
of the privacy of the UE\'s user or owner, including the respect of his
consent to the positioning services.
NOTE 1: this includes the ability for the 5G system to provide the positioning
services on demand without having to track continuously the position of the
involved UE.
NOTE 2: the respect of the user\'s consent to some positioning services could
abide by different rules in case of emergency (for example, rules that would
also receive consent from the user, but well before the emergency occurs).
For a private network using 5G technology, the 5G system shall support network
access using identities, credentials, and authentication methods provided and
managed by a third-party and supported by 3GPP.
## 8.6 Regulatory
The 5G system shall support regional or national regulatory requirements for
all supported access networks.
The 5G system shall support Lawful Interception, subject to regional or
national regulatory requirements.
A 5G satellite access network connected to 5G core networks in multiple
countries shall be able to meet the corresponding regulatory requirements from
these countries (e.g. Lawful Interception).
A 5G system shall support regulatory requirements for 5G LAN-type services.
## 8.7 Fraud protection
Subject to regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall
support a secure mechanism for allowing an authorized entity to disable from
normal operation of a UE reported as stolen.
Subject to regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall
support a secure mechanism for allowing an authorized entity to re-enable a
recovered stolen UE to normal operation.
The 5G system shall be able to protect user location information from passive
attacks.
Subject to regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall
be able to protect user location information from active attacks.
Subject to regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall
support mechanisms to protect the production of the user location information
and user positioning-related data against tampering and spoofing.
Subject to regional or national regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall
support mechanisms to detect tampering and spoofing attempts on the production
of the user location information and the user position-related data.
## 8.8 Resource efficiency
The 5G system shall minimize security signalling overhead without compromising
the security level of the 3GPP system.
The 5G system shall support an efficient secure mechanism to transmit the same
data (e.g. service provisioning multiple sensors) to multiple UEs.
## 8.9 Data security and privacy
The 5G system shall support data integrity protection and confidentiality
methods that serve URLLC, high data rates and energy constrained devices.
The 5G system shall support a mechanism to verify the integrity of a message
as well as the authenticity of the sender of the message.
The 5G system shall support encryption for URLLC services within the requested
end-to-end latency.
Subject to regulatory requirements, the 5G system shall enable an MNO to
provide end-to-end integrity protection, confidentiality, and protection
against replay attacks between a UE and third-party application server, such
that the 3GPP network is not able to intercept or modify the data transferred
between a UE and third-party application server.
# 9 Charging aspects
## 9.1 General
The following set of requirements complement the requirements listed in 3GPP
TS 22.115 [11]. The requirements apply for both home and roaming cases.
The 5G core network shall support collection of all charging information on
either a network or a slice basis.
The 5G core network shall support collection of charging information for
alternative authentication mechanisms.
The 5G core network shall support collection of charging information
associated with each serving MNO when multi-network connectivity is used under
the control of the home operator.
The 5G core network shall support charging for services/applications in an
operator's Service Hosting Environment.
The 5G core network shall support charging for content delivered from a
content caching application.
The 5G core network shall support collection of charging information based on
the access type (e.g. 3GPP, non-3GPP, satellite access).
The 5G core network shall support collection of charging information based on
the slice that the UE accesses.
The 5G core network shall support collection of charging information based on
the capacity and performance metrics.
In a 5G system with satellite access, charging call records associated with
satellite access(es) shall include the location of the associated UE(s) with
satellite access
NOTE: The precision of the location of the UE can be based on the capabilities
of the UE or of the network.
The 5G system shall be able to support an indirect network connection even
when the UE is in E-UTRAN or NG-RAN coverage.
## 9.2 5G LAN
A 5G core network shall support collection of charging information for a 5G
LAN-type service based on resource usage (e.g. licensed or unlicensed
spectrum, QoS, applications).
The 5G core network shall support collection of charging information for a 5G
LAN-type service when a UE joins or leaves a specific private communication.
The 5G core network shall support collection of charging information for a 5G
LAN-type service for both home and roaming UEs based on the UE's HPLMN.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Latency needs to support example use cases
from vertical industries
The latency values required to support the potential opportunities in the use
cases on vertical industries are summarised in table A.1-1 based on the NGMN
white paper on vertical industries [4]. Latency in this table refers to the
end-to-end latency at the application layer as defined in clause 3.
Table A.1-1 Latency needs to support example use cases from vertical
industries.
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | * | * | * | **Health |** Media and | | _Services/\ |_ Automotive | _Transport, | and | ente | | Use cases_ _| use cases_ _| logistics, | wellness, | rtainment_ _| | | | IoT use | smart | | | | | cases_ _| cities use | | | | | | cases_ * | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | Expand | Real-time | Live video | Media | | | detectable | sensing, | feed (4K, | production | | | range | reporting, | 8K, 3D for | services | | | beyond on | feedback, | remote | based on | | | board | control, | healthcare | aggregation | | | sensor | remote, | (co | of various | | | capability | asset | nsultation, | media feeds | | | by sharing | tracking, | monitoring) | at servers; | | | views or | monitoring; | and | real-time | | | detected | co | assisted | p | | | objects | ntext-aware | surgery, | eer-to-peer | | | among | services, | real-time | or | | | traffic | reco | commands to | se | | | pa | mmendations | control | rver-client | | | rticipants, | at shopping | medical | sharing of | | | coordinate | mall, | devices for | data | | | t | airport | treatment | (object | | | rajectories | | (e.g. | i | | | among | | medication, | nformation) | | | vehicles, | | surgery); | for | | | sharing | | remote | co | | | coarse | | monitoring, | llaborative | | | driving | | s | gaming, | | | intention, | | urveillance | live | | | real-time | | and | streaming | | | remote | | guidance | at live | | | operation | | for | events | | | of vehicles | | citizens | | | | | | and law | | | | | | enforcement | | | | | | officers. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Latency | For | For massive | For | For live | | | mi | c | real-time | streaming | | | d/long-term | onnectivity | video/ | in crowded | | | environment | for | telepresenc | areas, | | | modelling | ti | e/augmented | services | | | (dynamic | me-critical | reality for | for media | | | high | sensing and | remote | production, | | | -definition | feedback: | healthcare | augmented | | | digital map | | and | reality for | | | update): | \ 95 % | | | reliability | (98% outdoor) | | | | | | | | Other KPI drivers | | | | include: MCX, | | | | confidence, | | | | event-triggered | | | | report | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Road | Use cases involving | Accuracy: 1-3m | | | road vehicles such | horizontal (with | | | as traffic | \ 10 km^-2^), and the number of connections to each ring main
unit is expected to increase swiftly once economical, suitable wireless
connectivity becomes available. We predict connection densities of up to 1.000
km^-2^.
#### D.4.1.2 Security
Due to its central role in virtually every country on earth, electricity
distribution is heavily regulated. Security assessment for, e.g. deployments
in North America, need to adhere to the NERC CIP suite [14]. Technical
implementations are described in standard suites such as IEC 62351.
### D.4.2 Energy distribution -- high voltage
In order to avoid region- or even nation-wide power outages, wide-area power
system protection is on the rise. \"When a major power system disturbance
occurs, protection and control actions are required to stop the power system
degradation, restore the system to a normal state and minimize the impact of
the disturbance. The present control actions are not designed for a fast-
developing disturbance and may be too slow. Local protection systems are not
able to consider the overall system, which may be affected by the disturbance.
Wide area disturbance protection is a concept of using system-wide information
and sending selected local information to a remote location to counteract
propagation of the major disturbances in the power system.\" [15]. Protection
actions include, \"among others, changes in demand (e.g. load shedding),
changes in generation or system configuration to maintain system stability or
integrity and specific actions to maintain or restore acceptable voltage
levels.\" [16]. One specific application is phasor measurement for the
stabilisation of the alternating-current phase in a transport network. For
this, the voltage phase is measured locally and sent to a remote-control
centre. There, this information is processed and automated actions are
triggered. One can be the submission of telegrams to power plants, instructing
them to either accelerate or deaccelerate their power generators in order to
keep the voltage phase in the transport network stable. A comprehensive
overview of this topic can be found elsewhere in the literature [17].
This kind of automation requires very low end-to-end latencies (5 ms) [16]
and―due to its critical importance for the operation of society―a very high
communication service availability (99,9999%).
#### D.4.2.1 Service area and connection density
As is the case for medium-voltage distribution networks (see Annex D.4.1),
connectivity in high-voltage automation has to be provided mainly along the
power line. The distances to be covered can be substantial (hundreds of
kilometres in rural settings), while shorter links are prevalent in
metropolitan areas. The number of connections in wide-area power system
protection is rather low; but―due to the sliver-shaped service area―the
connection density can be rather high (1000 km^-2^).
#### D.4.2.2 Security
Due to its central role in virtually every country on earth, electricity
distribution is heavily regulated. Security assessment for, e.g. deployments
in North America, need to adhere to the NERC CIP suite [14]. Technical
implementations are described in standard suites such as IEC 62351.
## D.5 Intelligent transport systems -- infrastructure backhaul
Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) embrace a wide variety of communications-
related applications that are intended to increase travel safety, minimize
environmental impact, improve traffic management, and maximize the benefits of
transportation to both commercial users and the general public. Over recent
years, the emphasis in intelligent vehicle research has turned to co-operative
systems in which the traffic participants (vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
etc.) communicate with each other and/or with the infrastructure.
Cooperative ITS is the term used to describe technology that allows vehicles
to become connected to each other, and to the infrastructure and other parts
of the transport network. In addition to what drivers can immediately see
around them, and what vehicle sensors can detect, all parts of the transport
system will increasingly be able to share information to improve decision
making. Thus, this technology can improve road safety through avoiding
collisions, but also assist in reducing congestion and improving traffic
flows, and reduce environmental impacts. Once the basic technology is in place
as a platform, an array of applications can be developed.
Cooperative ITS can greatly increase the quality and reliability of
information available about vehicles, their location and the road environment.
In the future, cars will know the location of road works and the switching
phases of traffic lights ahead, and they will be able to react accordingly.
This will make for safer and more convenient travel and faster arrival at the
destination. On-board driver assistance, coupled with two-way communication
between vehicles and between cars and road infrastructure, can help drivers to
better control their vehicle and hence have positive effects in terms of
safety and traffic efficiency. An important role in this plays the so-called
road-side units (RSUs). Vehicles can also function as sensors reporting
weather and road conditions including incidents. In this way cars can be used
as information sources for high-quality information services.
RSUs are connected to the traffic control centre for management and control
purposes. They broadcast e.g. traffic light information (RSU  vehicle) and
traffic information from the traffic-control centre (TCC) via the RSU to the
vehicles (TCC  RSU  vehicle); and collect vehicle probe data for the traffic
control centre (vehicle  RSU  TCC). For reliable distribution of data, low-
latency and high-capacity connections between RSUs (e.g. traffic lights,
traffic signs, etc.) and the TCC is required. This type of application comes
with rather tight end-to-end latency requirements for the communication
service between RSU and TCC (10 ms) since relayed data needs to be processed
in the TCC and, if needed, the results need to be forwarded to neighbouring
RSUs. Also, the availability of the communication service has to be very high
(99,9999%) in order to compete with existing wired technology and in order to
justify the costly deployment and maintenance of RSUs. Furthermore, due to
considerably large aggregation areas (see Annex D.5.1), considerable amounts
of data need to be backhauled to the TCC (up to 10 Mbit/s per RSU).
### D.5.1 Service area and connection density
It is relatively hard to provide estimates for the service area dimension. One
reason is that it depends on the placement of the base station relative to the
RSUs. Also, the RSUs can, in principle, act as relay nodes for each other. The
service area dimension stated in table 7.2.3.2-1 indicates the size of the
typical data collection area of an RSU (2 km along a road), from which the
minimum spacing of RSUs can be inferred. The connection density can be quite
high in case data is relayed between RSUs, i.e. along the road (1000 km^-2^).
###### ## Annex E (informative): (void)
###### ## Annex F (informative): QoS Monitoring
## F.1 QoS monitoring for assurance
This Clause discusses how QoS monitoring information can be used for assurance
purposes. For background information on assurance see [19] and appendix A.3 in
[20].
Assurance consists of four major steps (see Figure F.1-1 and [18]):
  * _Customer\'s QoS requirements_
> These state the level of quality required by the customer of a service. This
> information is divulged to the provider.
  * _Service provider\'s offerings of QoS (or planned/targeted QoS)_
> This is a statement of the level of quality expected to be offered to the
> customer by the service provider.
  * _QoS achieved/delivered_
> This is the level of quality achieved and delivered to the customer.
> Monitoring information is divulged to the customer.
  * _Customer rating of QoS_
> The customer can compare the QoS achieved by the provider with the QoS
> requirements (see above) and its own experience of the QoS. This is a
> crucial step for establishing assurance about the fulfillment of the
> customer\'s requirements.
Figure F.1-1: QoS assurance by use of QoS monitoring information
NOTE: This Figure is based on the trust model in [18].
## F.2 Network Diagnostics
**Network diagnostics** helps with scanning, diagnosing and identifying
problems within a **network**. **Diagnostics includes gathering data and
continuously providing sufficient performance parameters that characterize the
quality of the network connection. This includes data of the physical
connection as well as of logical links and sub-networks. Exposure of relevant
(and possibly aggregated) performance parameters ensures a quick reaction in
case of failure as well as identifying network** connectivity, performance and
other related problems. **Network diagnostic should be able to:**
\- be proactive (to early detect failures) and not only reactive (to deal with
faults that have already occurred).
\- accurately differentiate malfunctions/failures and evaluate their impact on
the service/network.
\- provide clear explanations about what happened.
\- suggest corrective actions, and possibly perform them automatically.
Furthermore, specific connectivity information is also of interest as well as
usage information (e.g. traffic load) of the node (e.g. RAN).
Network diagnostic information needs to be generated automatically and, in
case of a hosted or virtual network deployment, be made available to the
tenant of the network via a suitable API.
###### ## Annex G (informative): Asset Tracking use cases
## G.1 Asset Tracking
Every organisation owns assets (e.g. machines, medical devices, containers,
pallets, trolleys). These assets are often not stationary: they are
transported all over the world by different kinds of vehicles; and the assets
are also moved inside various kinds of buildings.
The ownership of assets may change many times during the life-cycle of the
asset as different stakeholders take possession of the assets and pass them on
to other stakeholders along the supply chain and value chain.
So, many stakeholders want to track their assets anytime and anywhere (indoor
& outdoor) in a global and multi-modal context (e.g. sea, air, road, rail).
The asset tracking topic implies more than just knowing the location of an
asset. Asset tracking includes real time and/or time-stamped monitoring of
several asset-related properties depending on the asset and its content (e.g.
condition of the asset and changes, environmental factors -- temperature,
mechanical shock).
The 5G system provides the capability to better support asset tracking in all
its aspects in particular in term of coverage (need to support full coverage:
e.g. indoor / urban / rural / harsh environments / metallic obstructions on
land, sea) with the support of terrestrial and non- terrestrial network as
well as use of relays when necessary and in term of energy efficiency (15 to
20 years' lifetime of an asset tracking device without changing the battery or
the UE).
## G.2 Battery life expectancy and message size to support example use cases
for asset tracking
For asset tracking it is important to be able to have the asset on the field
during a period corresponding to the life of the asset without changing the UE
or the battery of the UE.
The battery life expectancy, message size and device density values required
to support the potential opportunities in various asset tracking use cases are
summarised in table G.2-1
Table G.2-1: Battery life expectancy and message size to support example use
cases for asset tracking
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Sce | Ba | Ty | Ma | Ty | Ty | D | | | nario | ttery | pical | ximum | pical | pical | evice | | | | Life | Me | | Freq | | de | | | | | ssage | Me | uency | Ba | nsity | | | | Expec | size | ssage | | ttery | | | | | tancy | | size | (n | | | | | | | | | umber | Cap | | | | | (note | | | of | acity | | | | | 1) | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sages | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | day) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | Conta | 12 | 200 | 2500 | 24 | 21,6 | 1,4 | | | iners | years | bytes | bytes | | Wh | de | | | | | | | | | vices | | | (note | | | | | | / | | | 2) | | | | | | m^3^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | W | 20 | 200 | 2500 | 24 | 36 Wh | 0,3 | | | agons | years | bytes | bytes | | | de | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | m^2^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | Pa | 7 | 300 | 300 | 24 | 12 Wh | 4 | | | llets | years | bytes | bytes | | | dev | | | | | | | | | ices/ | | | | | | | | | m^2^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | > 1: | | | | | | | | | > Ba | | | | | | | | | ttery | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | life | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | expec | | | | | | | | | tancy | | | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | | | > be | | | | | | | | | > as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | | | > all | | | | | | | | | > cov | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | condi | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | > on | | | | | | | | | > ty | | | | | | | | | pical | | | | | | | | | > me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > ty | | | | | | | | | pical | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | > 2: | | | | | | | | | > A | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | large | | | | | | | | | > con | | | | | | | | | taine | | | | | | | | | rship | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | > a | | | | | | | | | > mix | | | | | | | | | > of | | | | | | | | | > 20 | | | | | | | | | > ft | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > 40 | | | | | | | | | > ft | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | iners | | | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | | | > ass | | | | | | | | | umed. | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | > 3: | | | | | | | | | > All | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | > v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | > are | | | | | | | | | > tar | | | | | | | | | geted | | | | | | | | | > v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > not | | | | | | | | | > s | | | | | | | | | trict | | | | | | | | | > req | | | | | | | | | uirem | | | | | | | | | ents. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#