# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To ensure competitiveness in a longer time frame an evolution of the overall
3GPP system needs to be considered.
This document compiles requirements to ensure that an Evolved Packet System
can cope with the rapid growth in IP data traffic and demanding requirements
for new multimedia type of applications in terms of performance and quality,
delivered to the user, whilst at the same time enabling cost effective
deployment and operation.
The Evolved Packet System is characterised by:
\- Reduced latency
\- Higher user data rates equating to broadband performance
\- Improved system capacity and coverage
\- Lower operational costs
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the service requirements for the Evolved Packet
System. Requirements for 5G E-UTRA-NR Dual Connectivity in E-UTRAN connected
to EPC, are included in this document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 22.003: \"Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[2] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.258: \"Service Requirements for the All-IP Network (AIPN);
Stage1\".
[4] 3GPP TR 25.913: \"Requirements for Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN
(E-UTRAN)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
[6] ETSI TS 102 250-1: \"Speech Processing, Transmission and Quality Aspects
(STQ); QoS aspects for popular services in GSM and 3G networks: Part 1:
Identification of Quality of Service aspects\".
[7] 3GPP TR 23.882: \"3GPP system architecture evolution (SAE): Report on
technical options and conclusions\".
[8] C.S0001-A Introduction to cdma2000 Standards for Spread Spectrum Systems -
Release A.
[9] C.S0002-A Physical Layer Standard for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems -
Release A.
[10] C.S0003-A Medium Access Control (MAC) Standard for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems - Release A addendum 2.
[11] C.S0004-A Signaling Link Access Control (LAC) Specification for cdma2000
Spread Spectrum Systems -Addendum 2.
[12] C.S0005-A Upper Layer (Layer 3) Signaling Standard for cdma2000 Spread
Spectrum Systems - Release A addendum 2.
[13] C.S0006-A Analog Signaling Standard for cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems
- Addendum 2.
[14] A.S0007 -- A.S0009 Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
Packet Data (HRPD).
[15] A.S0011 -- A.S0017 Interoperability Specification (IOS) for cdma2000
Access Network Interfaces.
[16] X.S0011 cdma2000 Wireless IP Network.
[17] C.S0024-A cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification.
[18] C.S0024-0 cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification.
[19] **Void**.
[20] WiMAX Forum Mobile System Profile, Release 1.0 .
[21] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service Aspects; Service Principles\".
[22] \"Recommendations and Requirements for Networks based on WiMAX Forum
CertifiedTM Products\" (WiMAX stage 1)
[23] \"WiMAX Forum Network Architecture (Stage 2: Architecture Tenets,
Reference Model and Reference Points)\"
[24] \"WiMAX Forum Network Architecture (Stage 3: Detailed Protocols and
Procedures)\"
[25] Void.
[26] S.R0048-A 3G Mobile Equipment Identifier (MEID)
[27] BBF TR-144 - Broadband Multi-Service Architecture & Framework
Requirements
[28] BBF Technical Report TR-126 - Triple-play Services Quality of Experience
(QoE) Requirements
> [29] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
> User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
>
> [30] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[31] 3GPP TR 38.913: \"Study on scenarios and requirements for next generation
access technologies\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply.
**Communication Range:** The range between UEs and /or between UEs and eNBs
such that ProSe Communication is possible.
**Evolved Packet System:** is an evolution of the 3G UMTS characterized by
higher-data-rate, lower-latency, packet-optimized system that supports
multiple RATs. The Evolved Packet System comprises the Evolved Packet Core
together with the evolved radio access network (E-UTRA and E-UTRAN).
**Firewall:** a functional entity which blocks or permits the flow of various
traffic types based on a set of policy rules and definitions
**EPC Path** : the user plane communication path through EPC.
**Open ProSe Discovery** : is ProSe Discovery without explicit permission from
the ProSe-enabled UE being discovered.
**ProSe Broadcast Communication:** a one-to-all ProSe Communication, between
all authorized UEs in proximity, by means of a common ProSe Communication Path
established between these UEs.
**ProSe E-UTRA Communication:** a ProSe Communication using a ProSe E-UTRA
Communication path.
**ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication:** a ProSe Communication using a
ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication path.
**ProSe Communication path:** the communication path supporting ProSe
Communication. The communication path of a ProSe E-UTRA Communication (ProSe
E-UTRA Communication path) could be established e.g. directly between the
ProSe-enabled UEs using E-UTRA, or routed via local eNB(s). The communication
path of a ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication (ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communication path) is established directly between the ProSe-enabled UEs
using WLAN.
**ProSe Group Communication:** a one-to-many ProSe Communication, between more
than two UEs in proximity, by means of a common ProSe Communication path
established between the UEs.
**Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay** : is a form of relay in which a UE
supports Indirect 3GPP Communication between an Evolved ProSe Remote UE and
the network, using E-UTRA or WLAN between the Evolved ProSe Remote UE and the
Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay.
**ProSe UE-to-UE Relay** : is a form of relay in which a Public Safety ProSe-
enabled UE acts as a ProSe E-UTRA Communication relay between two other Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UEs.
**Evolved ProSe Remote UE:** is a UE that is connected to an Evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay using an Indirect 3GPP Communication.
**ProSe-enabled Network:** a network that supports ProSe Discovery and/or
ProSe Communication.
**Proximity:** proximity is determined (\"a UE is in proximity of another
UE\") when given proximity criteria are fulfilled. Proximity criteria can be
different for discovery and communication.
**Range Class** : Rough indication of distance for use in ProSe Discovery, for
example, based on geographical distance, radio conditions.
**Restricted ProSe Discovery** : ProSe Discovery that only takes place with
explicit permission from the ProSe-enabled UE being discovered.
**Service Continuity:** The uninterrupted user experience of a service that is
using an active communication (e.g. an ongoing voice call) when a UE undergoes
a radio access technology change or a CS/PS domain change without, as far as
possible, the user noticing the change.
NOTE: In particular Service Continuity encompasses the possibility that after
a RAT / domain change the user experience is maintained by a different
telecommunication service (e.g. tele- or bearer service) than before the RAT /
domain change.
**Service Reachability:** Functionality to enable user access to PLMN IP-based
services from outside of the PLMN\'s domain via non-3GPP access technologies
that have IP traffic-flow restrictions (e.g. such as firewall functions that
only allow HTTP traffic).
**Indirect 3GPP Communication:** The signalling and communication between a UE
and 3GPP network, where there is an Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay between
the Evolved ProSe Remote UE and the 3GPP network.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] and the following apply.
GW Gateway
GWCN Gateway Core Network
HD High Definition
MNO Mobile Network Operator
MOCN Multi-Operator Core Network
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
ProSe Proximity Services
RCS Rich Communication Services
SHE Service Hosting Environment
SGW/PGW Serving Gateway / Packet data network Gateway
# 4 General description
## 4.1 Objectives
The Evolved Packet System is a higher-data-rate, lower-latency, packet-
optimized system that supports multiple RATs. The focus of the Evolved Packet
System work is on enhancement of Packet Switched technology to cope with rapid
growth in IP traffic.
The objectives of the Evolved Packet System are to:
\- Provide higher data rates, lower latency, high level of security and
enhanced QoS;
\- Support a variety of different access systems (existing and future),
ensuring mobility and service continuity between these access systems;
\- Support access system selection based on a combination of operator
policies, user preference and access network conditions;
\- Realise improvements in basic system performance whilst maintaining the
negotiated QoS across the whole system;
\- Provide capabilities for co-existence with legacy systems and migration to
the Evolved Packet System.
# 5 High-level requirements -- user and operational aspects
## 5.0 General
The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of accommodating a variety of
different access systems thus providing a multi-access system environment to
the user.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide mobility functionality within and
across the different access systems.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide capabilities to support the efficient
integration of E-UTRAN PS Core Network Nodes and GERAN/UTRAN PS Core Network
Nodes.
The Evolved Packet System shall optimize mobility functionality meaning that
it shall offer minimal signalling overhead, minimal handover interruption
time, secure handover procedure and local breakout.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide capabilities to inter-work with a
variety of broadband networks based on IP technologies including those not
specified by 3GPP.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide enhanced performance e.g., low
communication delay, low connection set-up time and high communication
quality.
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to efficiently support a variety of
traffic models e.g. user-to-user, user-to-group and traffic models generated
by ubiquitous services.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide functionality to support outbound
roaming subscribers on other Evolved Packet Systems and legacy networks.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide functionality to support inbound
roaming subscribers from other Evolved Packet Systems and legacy networks.
The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of supporting and inter-working
with PS services provided on Rel-7 and earlier networks. The Evolved Packet
System shall be capable of inter-working with CS services provided on Rel-7
and earlier networks.
The Evolved Packet System shall support service continuity between 3GPP access
systems and also between 3GPP access systems and non 3GPP access systems
whether the UE supports simultaneous radio transmission or not.
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to accommodate fixed access systems
and to inter-work with fixed networks in order to provide service continuity
over fixed/mobile converged networks.
The Evolved Packet System service capability set shall include, as a minimum,
support for the following categories of services that are likely to be used by
the majority of operators:
\- Voice
\- Video
\- Messaging
\- Data file exchange
The Evolved Packet System shall provide for efficient usage of system
resources, especially of radio resources through both signalling and transport
optimization, e.g. overhead, terminal power, radio resources, mobility state,
signalling load.
The Evolved Packet System shall support efficient delivery of text-based
broadcast messages received from a legacy CBC.
The Evolved Packet System shall support E-UTRAN only operators. The system
shall allow these operators to offer national roaming to their subscribers.
The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of uniquely identifying each device
that connects via 3GPP access networks and 3GPP2 access networks. For a dual
mode device supporting both 3GPP and 3GPP2 access technologies, there shall be
a single persistent identifier used to identify the device. This device
identifier shall be the same even when the device moves between 3GPP and 3GPP2
access types.
NOTE: The 3GPP2 device identifier structure is consistent with the IMEI
structure [26].
The EPC shall be capable of restricting access of specific 3GPP devices, 3GPP2
devices and dual mode 3GPP/3GPP2 devices.
## 5.1 Requirements for Fixed Mobile Interworking
The Evolved Packet System shall support the following scenarios: a single
Operator offering both fixed and mobile access; different Operators
collaborating to deliver services across both networks. These scenarios will
be supported by interworking between the access networks.
The Evolved Packet System shall support access to services on the mobile
network via interworking with a fixed access network for the following
scenarios:
\- Residential scenarios for operators that own both wireless and wireline
access networks
\- Residential scenarios for operators that own wireless access networks only
\- Enterprise scenarios with managed connectivity between mobile operators and
enterprise networks
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to support the following functions for
interworking between the fixed access in the above scenarios and Evolved
Packet Core:
\- connectivity,
\- subscriber authentication/authorization,
\- offline charging
\- online charging for traffic routed via the Evolved Packet Core
\- Policy Control and
\- Quality of Service.
The Evolved Packet Core shall support the following for fixed access:
\- policy management,
\- authentication for WLAN terminals and fixed devices,
\- charging
The EPS shall be capable to set operator policies to support simultaneous
access to PLMN services and traffic offloading to the fixed network.
Interworking shall support the following scenarios:
When traffic is routed via EPC
\- When H(e)NB is being used and traffic is offloaded in the local wireline
network
\- When WLAN is being used and traffic is offloaded in the local wireline
network (i.e. non-seamless WLAN offloading)
Additionally the Evolved Packet System shall be able:
\- to minimize QoS and Policy management signalling overhead while
interworking between the fixed access and Evolved Packet Core.
\- to route different simultaneously active PDN connections through different
accesses while interworking between the fixed access and Evolved Packet Core.
\- to route different IP flows belonging to the same PDN connection through
different accesses while interworking between the fixed access and Evolved
Packet Core.
The requirements for mobility in chapter 7.1.3 apply also to interworking
between the fixed access and Evolved Packet Core.
## 5.2 Requirements for Fixed Mobile Convergence
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to accommodate fixed access systems to
provide services over a converged network supporting both fixed and mobile
accesses. The Evolved Packet System shall support common functions (e.g. for
policy management, accounting) when a single operator operates both fixed and
mobile accesses.
The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of providing an equivalent
experience to users consuming converged services on different accesses,
subject to different accesses capabilities.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide the following, while providing
converged services:
\- common operational and management procedures,
\- common subscriber profiles,
\- common services profiles,
\- common charging procedures (e.g. a common post-paid bill).
The Evolved Packet System should optimize QoS and Policy management.
The requirements for mobility in clause 7.1.3 of this specification also apply
to a converged network supporting both fixed and mobile accesses.
The Evolved Packet System shall support requests for allocation and
enforcement of QoS for layer 2 and layer 3 in fixed broadband networks as
defined in [27].
The Evolved Packet System shall support operator network policies for
application sessions to request QoS in fixed broadband networks as defined in
[27].
The Evolved Packet System shall support user requests for authorization of QoS
for application sessions in fixed broadband access network as defined in [27].
The Evolved Packet System shall support policy management for QoS attributes
of fixed broadband access network services (e.g. voice, VPN, IPTV) as defined
in [28].
The Evolved Packet System shall support policy management for unicast and
multicast traffic for fixed devices and IPTV services in fixed broadband
access network as defined in [27].
## 5.3 Requirements for Interworking with Data Application Providers
The Evolved Packet System shall support the following interworking scenarios
between a mobile operator and data application providers:
\- Scenario #1: access/IP connectivity and non-IMS/non-OSA based data
applications provided by the same mobile operator
\- Scenario #2: collaboration between mobile operator providing access/IP
connectivity and non-IMS/non-OSA based data applications provided by 3rd party
providers
\- Scenario #3: no collaboration between mobile operator providing access/IP
connectivity and non-IMS/non-OSA based data applications provided by 3^rd^
party providers
The Evolved Packet System shall support all scenarios in non-roaming and
roaming configurations.
The Evolved Packet System shall support all scenarios for home routed and
local breakout roaming traffic except for authentication and authorization as
identified below.
For scenario#2, the Evolved Packet System shall enable 3rd party data
applications to rely on security derived from the security provided by the
operator.
For scenario#2, the Evolved Packet System shall support authorization and
allocation of resources on 3GPP accesses for 3rd party data applications. The
home network performs authentication and authorisation in the local-breakout
roaming scenario.
The Evolved Packet System shall support policy control interactions between a
mobile operator and data applications for all scenarios triggered by
application layer signalling or by user plane traffic.
For scenario #3, the Evolved Packet System shall support UE initiated requests
for prioritised traffic handling through authorisation and allocation of
resources on 3GPP access for 3^rd^ party data applications. The Evolved Packet
System shall revert to normal traffic handling if the request is not confirmed
by the UE within a specified preview period.
The Evolved Packet System shall support online and offline charging models
(e.g., user pays, application provider pays, etc.) for all scenarios.
# 6 Basic capabilities
## 6.1 Support of IP traffic
### 6.1.1 Support of increased IP traffic demand
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to provide guaranteed QoS for services
and use the resources of the Evolved Packet System with high efficiency i.e.
ensure that quality conditions for a particular communication are fulfilled
without deterioration between the communicating end-points.
### 6.1.2 Void
### 6.1.3 Void
### 6.1.4 Support of basic IP connectivity
Following registration on the network, the Evolved Packet System shall
maintain an IP connectivity with the UE. Following registration, it shall be
possible for an UE to send and receive IP packets.
### 6.1.5 Support of IP multicast service
The Evolved Packet System shall support IP multicast service.
## 6.2 IP session control
The Evolved Packet System shall provide for session mobility and session
adaptation to terminal capabilities, user preferences, subscriber priorities,
network conditions and/or other operator-defined criteria. Session adaptation
shall be under the control of the operator.
The Evolved Packet System shall support session control for multi-party
sessions (e.g. user-to-group) and shall provide a scalable solution.
In order to support the efficient routing of IP traffic, local breakout (see
Section 7.1.2) shall be supported.
The Evolved Packet System shall support a UE having simultaneously more than
one active PDN connections exchanging traffic with more than one peer
(external network or other UE), when the network policies and user
subscription allow it.
If a UE is under the coverage of 3GPP access and one or more non-3GPP
accesses, it shall be possible for the UE to communicate using multiple
accesses simultaneously.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide the system operator with the means to
control the number of simultaneously active PDN connections and combinations
thereof to and from a UE.
A single application running on the UE shall not be required to send and
receive traffic through multiple PDNs.
## 6.3 Quality of Service
The Evolved Packet System shall have the ability to provide a quality of
service equal to or better than the QoS requirements specified for GSM and
UMTS. Quality of Service from the customer\'s perspective is to be considered
in phases as specified in ETSI TS 102 250-1[6].
Figure 2: Phases of service use from customer\'s point of view
Figure 2 shows the different phases (Quality of Service aspects) during
service use from the customer\'s point of view.
The meaning of these QoS aspects are:
1) **Network Access:** The network indication on the display of the mobile is
a signal to the customer that he can use the service of this network operator
(or any other means to indicate to the user that a network is available).
2) **Service Access:** If the customer wants to use a service, the network
operator should provide him as fast as possible access to the service.
3) **Service Integrity:** This describes the Quality of Service during service
use.
4) **Service Retainability:** Service Retainability describes the termination
of services (in accordance with or against the will of the user).
In particular the Evolved Packet System shall provide for the following:
\- There should be no perceptible deterioration of audio quality of a voice
call during and following handover between dissimilar CS and PS access
networks, and transitions between PS access networks supporting different IP
protocol versions.
\- There should be no loss of data, as a result of handovers between
dissimilar fixed and mobile access systems, including those that support
different versions of the IP protocol.
\- There should be no discernable difference in perceived service quality for
users receiving services via unicast and users receiving the same service via
multicast.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support QoS differentiations for unicast
bearers.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support QoS backwards compatibility to
earlier 3GPP QoS releases.
\- It shall be possible for the Evolved Packet System to maintain end-to-end
QoS without modification when the terminal moves from one access system to a
new access system, and the new access system supports the required QoS.
\- It shall be possible for the Evolved Packet System to change QoS, when the
terminal moves from one access system to a new access system and the new
access system can not provide the same QoS as the old access system or the new
access system can provide higher QoS.
\- It shall be possible for the Evolved Packet System to support service
continuity for a terminal changing access system and the new access system
cannot provide the same QoS as the old one.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support transport QoS differentiations for
multicast bearers.
\- It shall be possible for the Evolved Packet System to maintain QoS within a
multicast session without QoS changes for other members of the session when a
terminal joins or leaves the multicast session or moves to a new access
system.
\- The Evolved Packet System network shall support a minimum of 8 levels of
QoS in parallel.
\- The Evolved Packet System network shall support a minimum of 4 parallel RT
QoS levels with the appropriate QoS differentiation.
Note 1: The requirement for the number of simultaneously supported QoS levels
is independent of any MBMS QoS levels.
\- Multiple RT services, with similar QoS requirements, shall be served by the
same RT QoS level and multiple NRT services, with similar QoS requirements,
shall be served by the same NRT QoS level.
The maximum number of parallel RT and NRT services shall not be limited in the
Evolved Packet System including the UE. Only the number of parallel RT and NRT
QoS levels are limited to the upper value supported by the Evolved Packet
System.
\- Differentiated handling based on QoS is needed for different traffic types.
\- The Evolved Packet System shall support parallel operation of RT and NRT
services per user.
Note 2: The different QoS levels provided for RT and NRT services would be
differentiated with regards to e.g. maximum end-to-end delay, packet size,
packet drop percentage, etc. Bandwidth is not used to define a QoS level.
## 6.4 Support of Multicast and Broadcast Services
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to support Multicast and Broadcast
Services which shall be enhanced especially from some aspects, e.g. optimized
service provisioning procedures, better performance compared to current MBMS
system, and support of multiple access systems.
## 6.5 Support of Emergency Calls
The Evolved Packet System shall support IMS emergency calls applicable to the
PS domain, defined in TS 22.101 [21]
## 6.6 Differentiated paging for voice over E-UTRAN terminations
More efficient radio resource usage can be achieved by using a more aggressive
paging profile for voice over E-UTRAN services than for other services using
the IMS signaling bearer, requiring a distinction to be made between voice
over E-UTRAN and non-voice over E-UTRAN traffic.
As a network option, the EPS shall support a mechanism to apply a different
paging policy to E-UTRAN access for voice services vs. other services using
the IMS signaling bearer.
## 6.7 Support of streaming services
A 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to indicate to UEs that operator
streaming services are available.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support UE caching for streaming services.
Based on operator policy, the 3GPP system shall support a mechanism that the
subscribed UE is configured with the list of authorized content providers and
data volume for UE caching of streaming services.
The 3GPP system shall be able to schedule delivery of a download-and-play
service to UE to the off-peak hours.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support local connection to local streaming
servers according to operator's policy.
The 3GPP system shall be able to configure local streaming service area
according to operator's policy.
The 3GPP system shall be able to identify a user is in the specific local
streaming service area.
The 3GPP system shall be able to identify a user is not in the specific local
streaming service area and stop the local streaming service.
The 3GPP system shall be able to deliver streaming content via local service
delivery immediately or postponed according to user's preference.
According to the mobility of the users who do not always stay in one place,
the 3GPP system should be able to adaptively change video server and the route
to continue supply experience for streaming service, e.g. from a local
streaming server to a non-local streaming server, vice versa.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall be able to configure
which context information is related with streaming route.
The 3GPP system shall be able to collect context information related to update
streaming route according to operator's policy.
According to agreement between application server and Operator, the 3GPP
system shall support the operator or the 3rd party to configure which user
profile information belonging to the application server should be shared with
the 3GPP system.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall support the SHE which is
deployed in different local area (no matter belongs to operator or the 3rd
party) to configure which radio environment information can be shared to the
application layer which is hosted in the SHE.
According to operator's policy, the 3GPP system shall support the SHE which is
deployed in different local area (no matter belongs to operator or the 3rd
party) to get radio environment information based on the configuration.
## 6.8 IoT resource efficiency
The 3GPP system shall support efficient transmission of IP data and non-IP
data to/from a UE.
The 3GPP system shall support efficient transmission of small data to/from a
UE.
The 3GPP system shall minimize control and user plane resource usage for
stationary UEs (e.g., lower signalling to user data resources usage ratio).
The 3GPP system shall optimize the resource usage of the control plane and/or
user plane for transfer of small data units.
The 3GPP system shall support methods to minimize the usage of battery
resources at the UE.
## 6.9 Context aware network
The 3GPP system shall support network resource utilization efficiently and
network optimization based on context information, including:
\- network conditions, such as network load and congestion information;
\- information on served UEs such as access information (e.g., 3GPP access,
non-3GPP access), cell type (e.g., macro cell, small cell);
\- information on prioritized communication such as user subscription profile
and priority level, priority services (e.g., MPS, Emergency, and Public
Safety), application used for priority communications (e.g., voice, video, and
data) and traffic associated with priority communications (signalling and
media).
## 6.10 Support of MUSIM UE
### 6.10.1 Description
With the growing demand in the consumer market, some commercially deployed UEs
support more than one USIM (typically two)-. For example, a user can use the
MUSIM UE to install another USIM with local data service when traveling, or to
have both a work related USIM and a personal USIM. With support of MUSIM UEs
in the 3GPP system, the system performance and user experiences are expected
to be improved.
### 6.10.2 Requirements
The 3GPP system shall be able to support a MUSIM UE with multiple USIMs
provided by the same or different Network Operators as described at clause
13.4 in [21].
The 3GPP system shall enable the end user to select the mobile terminated
services that can take priority over ongoing communications associated with
another USIM.
NOTE: Regulatory required services are not subject to this requirement.
The 3GPP system shall enable a MUSIM UE in coordination with the network to
pause and continue an active communication for efficient use of resources.
The 3GPP system shall be able to effectively page MUSIM UEs in order to reduce
missed paging.
# 7 Multi-access and seamless mobility
## 7.1 Mobility management
### 7.1.1 Heterogeneous access systems mobility
{width="7.341666666666667in" height="4.438194444444444in"}
Figure 3: Heterogeneous access system mobility between 3GPP Legacy Systems or
E-UTRAN and non 3GPP Access Systems including Fixed Access systems
The Evolved Packet System shall support mobility between heterogeneous access
systems.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide mobility mechanisms to support
frequent handovers within and across 3GPP legacy systems or E-UTRAN and non
3GPP access systems in order to avoid service degradation.
The Evolved Packet System shall support mobility mechanisms that accommodates
access systems within Rel-7 and earlier.
### 7.1.2 Local breakout
The Evolved Packet System shall allow for local breakout. Local breakout means
that for a user which makes mobility within and across one operator-defined
network region, routing is optimized such that user plane traffic does not
need to leave the current region. An operator may define network regions e.g.,
according to administrative domains. Local breakout is applicable for user-to-
user traffic as well as for 3GPP-operator provided services (including
internet access).
Local breakout shall be allowed independently from the access system being
used.
Local breakout shall be allowed in both the non-roaming and the roaming case.
The use of local breakout shall be authorised by the HPLMN. If local breakout
is not authorised, the user plane traffic shall be handled in the home routed
mode.
### 7.1.3 Fixed Access Systems
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to support fixed access systems with
very limited or no mobility functionality.
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to support mobility within and across
3GPP and non-3GPP access systems including fixed access systems
### 7.1.4 Service continuity
#### 7.1.4.1 General
Service shall be maintained during and following changes of 3GPP access
systems and non 3GPP systems.
Service shall be maintained during and following a change of network in either
direction between a Rel-7 and earlier network and an Evolved Packet System.
It shall be possible to support Inter-PLMN handover with seamless service
continuity within a 3GPP specified access system (UTRAN, E-UTRAN).
When the access system changes, Multicast and Broadcast services shall be able
to continue with their corresponding Multicast and Broadcast services, if the
corresponding services are provided in the target access system.
NOTE: Corresponding Multicast and Broadcast services are the Multicast and
Broadcast services in the target access system which is associated to the
Multicast and Broadcast services in the source access system, providing
similar service experience, e. g. with same content but different bit-rate.
The 3GPP system shall minimise packet loss during inter- and/or intra- access
technology changes for some or all connections associated with a UE.
{width="3.561111111111111in" height="2.1534722222222222in"}
Figure 4: Inter-PLMN handover with seamless service continuity within a 3GPP
specified access system
#### 7.1.4.2 Service continuity at domain and RAT change for TS 11, TS 12 and
equivalent PS service
It shall be possible to support continuity of an established voice call, i.e.
between a TS11, TS12 and an equivalent PS service, when the UE moves between
two different domains and RATs. The user experience shall be as far as
possible unaffected by the change of domain and RAT. The RAT change procedure
executed to enable service continuity for an established voice call shall
target an interruption time not higher than 300 ms.
RAT change and domain selection shall be under the control of the registered
PLMN. When the UE is roaming, it shall be possible for the VPLMN to take into
account any user\'s HPLMN operator policy.
To support service continuity of an established voice call a UE shall not be
required to support simultaneous radio transmission via different 3GPP defined
RATs
NOTE: In the case of CS emergency calls (TS12) the service continuity at
domain and RAT change can only be performed if IMS emergency calls are
supported by the target system.
#### 7.1.4.2A Voice Call Service continuity between 3GPP defined RATs and non
3GPP defined RATs
Continuity of an established voice call, i.e. between a TS11 and an equivalent
PS service, when the UE moves between 3GPP defined RATs and non 3GPP defined
RATs, shall be supported provided that the non-3GPP defined RATs is connected
to the 3GPP system via the Evolved Packet Core.
The user experience shall be as far as possible unaffected by the change of
RAT.
#### 7.1.4.3 Service continuity between E-UTRAN and 3GPP2 accesses on Evolved
Packet Core
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between cdma2000 1xRTT Revision A [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15]
and E-UTRAN.
Note 1: if bi-directional support is not practical, service continuity from
E-UTRAN to cdma2000 1xRTT Revision A should have the higher priority.
Note 2: The CS component of cdma2000 1xRTT Revision A is not expected to be
connected to the Evolved Packet Core.
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between cdma2000 HRPD (1xEV-DO) Revision A [17], [14], [15], [16] and E-UTRAN
for best effort and real-time applications.
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between cdma2000 HRPD (1xEV-DO) Revision 0 [18], [14], [15], [16] and E-UTRAN
for best effort applications.
#### 7.1.4.4 Service continuity between 3GPP and WiMAX access on Evolved
Packet Core
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between Mobile WiMAX [20], [22], [23], [24] and GERAN PS.
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between Mobile WiMAX [20], [22], [23], [24] and UTRAN PS.
The Evolved Packet System shall support bidirectional service continuity
between Mobile WiMAX [20], [22], [23], [24] and E-UTRAN.
NOTE: The above requirements assume that the service continuity takes place
through the Evolved Packet Core.
### 7.1.5 Access network discovery
To avoid unnecessary background scan by the UE and to facilitate service
continuity by the UE it shall be possible for the VPLMN and the HPLMN to
provide the UE with access network information pertaining to locally supported
non-3GPP access technologies, in a resource efficient and secure manner. This
mechanism is meant to facilitate changes, including service continuity,
between 3GPP access systems and non 3GPP access systems and vice versa. The
information may be restricted to the access technologies the UE can use. To
reduce battery drain, a UE should minimise the frequency of scanning for
different access technologies.
When discovering non-3GPP accesses a UE shall be able to receive information
from a non-3GPP access network concerning to which PLMN, or PLMNs, the
non-3GPP access network provides access.
NOTE: The capability to provide such information by a non-3GPP access network
is out of scope of 3GPP.
When a UE receives service via a non-3GPP access it shall be possible for the
PLMN that provides the non-3GPP access to indicate local availability of 3GPP
access to the UE,, in a secure manner, subject to capabilities of the non-3GPP
access network.
### 7.1.6 Steering of access
When a UE is accessing the Evolved Packet Core via E-UTRA, the operator of the
PLMN that provides the access (registered PLMN or RPLMN for short) may request
the UE to use - any or a specific - non-3GPP RAT. Similarly, if a UE is
accessing the Evolved Packet Core via a non-3GPP RAT then the RPLMN may want
to request the UE to use E-UTRA. The reason for such steering may be load
balancing (for camped- and traffic load balancing), operator policy, private
networks/home cells, service based mobility control etc.
The RPLMN shall be able to download on the UE a list of preferred access
technologies in priority order. If, while the UE is registered on that PLMN,
an access technology with higher priority than the one currently used is
detected, the UE shall attempt to use the higher priority access network to
access the RPLMN.
The UE shall only perform access technology selection within the RPLMN.
In case the UE is connected to the PLMN via a non-3GPP access, then the PLMN
reselection procedures specified for that access technology may be executed.
Note 1: The PLMN operator may provide access to the Evolved Packet Core either
through an own access network (E-UTRA or non-3GPP access) or in collaboration
with an access network operator that operates a non-3GPP access network.
Note 2: A specific non-3GPP RAT may e.g. be identified by RAT type and the
access network name (as advertized by the access network), or a list of access
network names.
The HPLMN may also provide the UE with a list of preferred access technologies
in priority order for use in the RPLMN. Only one list of preferred access
technologies can be active at a time and the list provided by the RPLMN takes
precedence over the list provided by the HPLMN. The list of preferred access
technologies received from the VPLMN is specific to that VPLMN and PLMNs
equivalent to it.
### 7.1.7 CS fallback
#### 7.1.7.1 General
For those services delivered via the HPLMN that the HPLMN only supports in the
CS domain (e.g. voice services), when such services are invoked while the UE
is configured to use CS Fallback and registered in the E-UTRAN (either in the
HPLMN or in a VPLMN), it shall be possible for the EPS to request the UE to
perform a change of radio access technology in order to deliver the service
over UTRAN or GERAN or 1xRTT.
In the case of an incoming CS service to a UE that is registered for CS
services and active in E-UTRAN, the EPS shall transfer the CLI to the UE if
available and the calling party has not restricted the presentation, prior to
triggering CS fallback. Depending on UE configuration and when the UE is in
connected mode, the user or an application on behalf of the user may request
to accept or reject CS fallback before performing a change of radio access
technology. The default behaviour of the UE is to accept the CS fallback.
CS fallback shall not be applicable to an Indirect 3GPP Communication.
NOTE: An Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay that is also in a Direct 3GPP
Communication with the network may be subject to CS fallback in the Direct
3GPP Communication. In this case, any Indirect 3GPP Communication supported by
the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay would have to be discontinued.
#### 7.1.7.2 Roaming in a VPLMN not supporting CS fallback
When a UE that is configured to use CS fallback registers over E-UTRAN in a
VPLMN not supporting CS fallback the default behaviour of the UE is to attempt
to select a GERAN/UTRAN/1xRTT CS radio access technology in the VPLMN or in a
PLMN equivalent to the VPLMN. The default behaviour of the UE is not to
autonomously attempt to (re-)select the E-UTRAN for the duration of the time
the UE stays in a VPLMN and PLMNs equivalent to the VPLMN.
The default behaviour may be changed based on user preference settings.
The UE may offer the user to perform a PLMN scan and display the list of
available PLMNs. The selection of a different PLMN is performed using the
manual mode.
### 7.1.8 Service Reachability
The Evolved Packet System may provide functionality to enable user access to
PLMN IP-based services from outside of the PLMN\'s domain via non-3GPP access
technologies under conditions where there are IP traffic-flow restrictions
(e.g. allow only HTTP traffic). Such functionality is known as Service
Reachability.
When the Evolved Packet System provides Service Reachability, the following
requirements apply:
\- pre-existing EPS security shall be maintained; and
\- the third party that placed the IP traffic-flow restriction shall be able
to prohibit Service Reachability by blocking PLMN IP-based services
intentionally.
Note 1: Examples of a third party include enterprises and internet service
providers whose traffic restriction lie outside the operator\'s domain.
Note 2: Service Reachability can also be achieved by the network operator
remotely configuring the elements with firewall function, provided there is a
trust relationship between the network operator and the operator of the
elements with firewall function.
## 7.2 IFOM Service requirements
Simultaneous active mode of operation is an optional capability for multimode
UEs, which support 3GPP and WLAN access. UE supporting simultaneous active
mode of operation between one set of technologies may not be capable to
support simultaneous active mode of operation between a different technology
set (e.g. due to radio interference limitations).
The following requirements apply to the case of UEs with multiple interfaces
which will simultaneously connect to 3GPP access and one single WLAN access.
\- It shall be possible to provide service continuity when the UE moves from
the 3GPP access to WLAN access and vice versa.
\- If the UE is under the coverage of more than one access, including 3GPP and
WLAN accesses and communicates using multiple accesses simultaneously, it
shall be possible to select one access when a flow is started and re-
distribute the flows to/from a UE between accesses while connected.
\- It shall be possible for the operator to enable and control via policies
the simultaneous usage of multiple accesses.
\- It shall be possible to distribute IP flows to/from a UE between available
accesses based on the characteristics of the flows and the capabilities of the
available accesses, subjected to user\'s preferences and operator\'s policies.
\- It shall be possible for the operator to define policies for the control of
the distribution of IP flows between available accesses. Each policy shall
include a list of preferred accesses and whether the policy may be overridden
by the user\'s preferences.
NOTE: The possibility of manual selection or user override is not precluded.
> These policies may be defined per APN, per IP flow class under any APN or
> per IP flow class under a specific APN. The IP flow class identifies a type
> of service (e.g. IMS voice) or an operator defined aggregation of services.
>
> The policies apply with the following priority order:
  1. Policies per IP flow class under a specific APN.
  2. Policies per IP flow class under any APN.
  3. Policies per APN.
\- Distribution of flows to/from a UE between available accesses based on the
characteristics of the flows and/or the capabilities of the available accesses
shall be possible for flows exchanged by both operator controlled (e.g. IMS)
and non operator controlled (e.g. web and mail access) applications/services.
\- It shall be possible to move all the flows to/from a UE out of a certain
access in case the UE loses connectivity with that access (e.g. UE moves out
of coverage of a WLAN access while maintaining connectivity through the 3GPP
access).
\- Re-distribution of flows to/from a UE between accesses may be triggered by
changes to the characteristics of the flows (e.g. QoS requirements) or the
capabilities of the available accesses (e.g. due to network congestion,
mobility event, or UE discovers a new access) during the connection.
# 7A Requirements for Proximity Services
## 7A.0 General
The requirements listed in this clause (7A) exclude GSM and UMTS. Proximity
Services shall not impact either of GSM and UMTS.
## 7A.0A Feature description (Informative)
### 7A.0A.1 ProSe Discovery
ProSe Discovery identifies that ProSe-enabled UEs are in proximity of each
other, using E-UTRA (with or without E-UTRAN) or EPC when permission,
authorisation and proximity criteria are fulfilled. The proximity criteria can
be configured by the operator.
The use of ProSe Discovery must be authorised by the operator, and the
authorisation can be on a \"per UE\" basis, or a \"per UE per application\"
basis. An authorised application can interact with the ProSe Discovery feature
to request the use of certain ProSe Discovery preferences.
The network controls the use of E-UTRAN resources used for ProSe Discovery for
a ProSe-enabled UE served by E-UTRAN.
ProSe Discovery can be used as a standalone process (i.e. it is not
necessarily followed by ProSe Communication) or as an enabler for other
services.
### 7A.0A.2 ProSe Communication
ProSe Communication enables establishment of new communication paths between
two or more ProSe-enabled UEs that are in Communication Range. The ProSe
Communication path could use E-UTRA or WLAN. In the case of WLAN, only ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communication (i.e. when ProSe assists with connection
establishment management and service continuity) is considered part of ProSe
Communication.
The network controls the use of E-UTRAN resources used for ProSe Communication
for a ProSe-enabled UE served by E-UTRAN. The use of ProSe Communication must
be authorised by the operator.
According to operator policy a UE\'s communication path can be switched
between an EPC Path and a ProSe Communication path and a UE can also have
concurrent EPC and ProSe Communication paths.
ProSe Communication is also facilitated by the use of an Evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay, which acts as a relay between E-UTRAN and Evolved ProSe Remote
UEs. The use of this relay function is controlled by the network.
For Public Safety specific usage:
\- ProSe Communication can start without the use of ProSe Discovery if the
Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs are in Communication Range.
\- Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs must be able to establish the communication
path directly between Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs, regardless of whether
the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE is served by E-UTRAN, as well as being able
to participate in ProSe Group Communication or ProSe Broadcast Communication
between two or more Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs which are in proximity.
Any of the involved Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs need to have authorisation
from the operator.
> \- In addition, ProSe Communication can also take place over a ProSe UE-to-
> UE Relay, a form of relay in which a Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE acts as
> a ProSe E-UTRA Communication relay between two other Public Safety ProSe-
> enabled UEs.
## 7A.1 General Requirements for Proximity Services
Based on operator policy and user choice, the proximity of two ProSe-enabled
UEs shall be determinable; for example, using direct radio signals or via the
operator network.
Subject to user and operator settings, the 3GPP system shall be able to
support the usage of WLAN direct discovery.
In the case the ProSe-enabled UE supports WLAN direct discovery, the 3GPP
network shall be able to configure applications in the UE to use E-UTRA direct
discovery or WLAN direct discovery or both for discovering other ProSe-enabled
UEs.
ProSe Discovery shall be able to determine whether or not other ProSe-enabled
UEs are of interest to a discovering ProSe-enabled UE. A ProSe-enabled UE is
of interest to a discovering ProSe-enabled UE if its proximity needs to be
known by one or more authorised applications.
Subject to user and operator settings, a ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to be
discoverable only by other ProSe-enabled UEs in proximity that are explicitly
permitted by the discoverable ProSe-enabled UE.
NOTE: \'explicitly permitted\' refers to Restricted ProSe Discovery.
Subject to user and operator settings, a ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to be
discoverable by all other ProSe-enabled UEs in proximity without explicit
permission. The ProSe-enabled UEs can be served by the same or different PLMN,
including when roaming.
NOTE: \'without explicit permission\' refers to Open ProSe Discovery.
All requirements for ProSe Discovery also apply when one or both of the ProSe-
enabled UEs involved in ProSe Discovery are roaming in a VPLMN.
Operator policy disabling or limiting individual ProSe features shall override
any user choice.
The following requirements apply to the case where ProSe-enabled UEs use
E-UTRA to determine proximity of other ProSe-enabled UEs:
\- The operator shall be able to dynamically control the proximity criteria
for ProSe Discovery. Examples of the criteria include radio range and
geographic range.
\- ProSe Discovery shall support a minimum of three range classes -- for
example short, medium and maximum range.
\- The operator shall be able to authorise per subscription the maximum range
class ProSe Discovery is allowed to use.
\- The ProSe Discovery process shall enable authorised applications to request
and to use a certain range class when discovering other ProSe-enabled UEs.
\- The ProSe Discovery process shall enable authorised applications to request
and to use a certain range class when the ProSe-enabled UE is being discovered
by other ProSe-enabled UEs.
NOTE: For the case where ProSe-enabled UEs use WLAN direct discovery to
determine proximity of other ProSe-enabled UEs, the range is determined by the
underlying technology.
The operator shall be able to dynamically control the proximity criteria for
any ProSe E-UTRA Communication (including ProSe E-UTRA Communication between
two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast
Communication). Examples of the criteria include: Communication Range, channel
conditions, achievable QoS.
The impact of ProSe Discovery and ProSe Communication on E-UTRA radio usage,
network usage and battery consumption should be minimized. This requirement
applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe
Group Communication, ProSe Broadcast Communication, and ProSe-assisted WLAN
direct communication.
ProSe shall support the simultaneous operation of a large number of
applications on a ProSe-enabled UE, ensuring that the 3GPP system provides
ProSe Discovery proximity information only to applications that were
authorised by the 3GPP operator.
An application on a ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to use ProSe Discovery to
request EPC ProSe to determine the proximity of another ProSe-enabled UE; EPC
ProSe shall be able to determine proximity of two ProSe-enabled UEs and inform
the requesting application of their proximity.
The operator shall be able to enable or disable the ProSe Discovery feature in
its network.
The system shall be capable of monitoring communication characteristics (e.g.
channel condition, QoS of the path, volume of traffic etc.) on the ProSe
E-UTRA Communication path, regardless of whether there is an existing data
session on the EPS path. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA
Communication between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and
ProSe Broadcast Communication. The monitored communication characteristics on
the ProSe E-UTRA Communication path (e.g. channel condition, QoS of the path,
volume of traffic etc.) may be different for ProSe E-UTRA Communication
between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast
Communication.
The establishment of a user traffic session on the ProSe E-UTRA Communication
path and the switching of user traffic between a ProSe E-UTRA Communication
path and an EPC Path are under control of the network. This requirement
applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe
Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast Communication.
The Radio Access Network shall control the radio resources associated with the
ProSe E-UTRA Communication path. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA
Communication between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and
ProSe Broadcast Communication.
The ProSe mechanism shall enable the operator to change the communication path
of a user traffic session to a ProSe Communication path or EPC Path without
negatively affecting the QoS of the session. This requirement is not
applicable to ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast Communication.
The ProSe mechanism shall enable the operator to change the communication path
of a user traffic session of a ProSe-enabled UE to a ProSe Communication path
or EPC Path without negatively affecting the communication paths (including
ProSe Communication paths) of other ongoing user traffic sessions of this or
other ProSe-enabled UEs. This requirement is not applicable to ProSe Group
Communication and ProSe Broadcast Communication.
The ProSe mechanism shall enable the operator to change the communication path
of a user traffic session to a ProSe Communication path or EPC Path based upon
the QoS requirements of the session and the QoS requirements of other ongoing
sessions of this or other ProSe-enabled UEs. This requirement is not
applicable to ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast Communication.
The system shall be capable of selecting the most appropriate communications
path (ProSe Communication path or EPC Path), according to operator
preferences. This requirement is not applicable to ProSe Group Communication
and ProSe Broadcast Communication. The criteria for evaluation may include the
following, although not restricted to:
\- System-specific conditions: backhaul link, supporting links or EPC
performance;
\- Cell-specific conditions: for example cell loading;
\- ProSe and EPC Path conditions: Communication Range, channel conditions and
achievable QoS;
\- Service-type conditions: APN, service discriminator.
Subject to operator policy and user consent, the system shall be capable of
establishing a new user traffic session with a ProSe E-UTRA Communication
path, and maintaining both of the ProSe E-UTRA Communication path and the
existing EPC Path, when the UEs are determined to be in Communication Range
allowing ProSe E-UTRA Communication. This requirement applies to any ProSe
E-UTRA Communication between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication
and ProSe Broadcast Communication. The UEs can be:
\- Served by the same PLMN, including when roaming; or
\- Served by different PLMNs, including when roaming.
NOTE: ProSe E-UTRA Communication between UEs served by different PLMNs can be
subject to the availability of suitable radio resources (e.g. shared RAN in a
MOCN/GWCN environment).
The 3GPP system shall be capable of moving a user traffic session from the EPC
Path to a ProSe E-UTRA Communication path, when the ProSe-enabled UEs are
determined to be in Communication Range allowing ProSe E-UTRA Communication.
This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two ProSe-
enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast Communication.
The 3GPP system shall be capable of moving a user traffic session from a ProSe
E-UTRA Communication path to an EPC Path. At a minimum, this functionality
shall support the case when the ProSe E-UTRA Communication path is no longer
feasible. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between
two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast
Communication.
When switching user traffic sessions between the ProSe E-UTRA Communication
and EPC Paths triggered by the network, disruption to the user shall be
minimized. This requirement is not applicable to ProSe Group Communication and
ProSe Broadcast Communication.
When switching user traffic sessions between the ProSe E-UTRA Communication
and EPC Paths triggered by the ProSe-enabled UE, disruption to the user shall
be minimized. This requirement is not applicable to ProSe Group Communication
and ProSe Broadcast Communication.
The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorize the ability of a ProSe-enabled
UE to use ProSe Communication, separately for the HPLMN and for roaming in
VPLMNs. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two
ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication, ProSe Broadcast Communication
and ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication.
The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorize the ability of a ProSe-enabled
UE to use ProSe Communication to communicate with ProSe-enabled UEs served by
a different PLMN. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication
between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication, ProSe Broadcast
Communication and ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication.
The VPLMN operator shall be able to turn on or off the ability for all the
inbound roamers from a specific PLMN to use ProSe Communication. This
requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two ProSe-
enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication, ProSe Broadcast Communication and
ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication.
ProSe proximity information shall be suitable for integration with the
Location and Presence information used by the network to offer its services.
ProSe shall be able to accommodate potentially large numbers of concurrently
participating ProSe-enabled UEs.
ProSe Discovery and ProSe Communication shall be available to ProSe-enabled
UEs that are registered to a PLMN and are served by an E-UTRAN of said PLMN
even if potentially served by different eNBs. Whether or not UEs are served by
the same eNB, E-UTRAN resources involved in ProSe will be under real time 3GPP
network control.
The network shall be able to collect Discovery information from a ProSe-
enabled UE regarding which ProSe-enabled UEs are discovered to be in its
proximity. Restrictions due to regulation on data collection apply.
ProSe shall:
\- Allow a ProSe-enabled UE to selectively discover ProSe-enabled UEs of
interest;
\- Ensure that 3GPP UE/subscriber identifiers are not disclosed to
unauthorised parties when ProSe is used;
\- Allow both granting and revocation of discovery permissions;
\- Enable applications to individually request the setting of discovery
parameters, such as discovery range class.
A minimum set of ProSe Discovery and ProSe Communication capabilities for
applications may be defined and present on ProSe-enabled UEs, providing ProSe
features for applications.
The operator network shall be able to continuously control the use of E-UTRAN
resources for ProSe Discovery and ProSe E-UTRA Communication between UEs, as
long as these UEs are served by E-UTRAN and using operator\'s spectrum. This
requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two ProSe-
enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast Communication.
Potential negative impact of ProSe on the E-UTRAN services should be
minimized. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between
two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication, ProSe Broadcast
Communication, and ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication.
Subject to operator policies MOCN networks shall support establishing ProSe
Communication between ProSe-enabled UEs camping on the same radio access
network but served by different MOCN PLMNs. This requirement applies to any
ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group
Communication, ProSe Broadcast Communication and ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communication.
## 7A.2 Public Safety Specific Requirements for Proximity Services
A Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE with ProSe Discovery enabled for discovery of
other public safety UEs shall be able to discover other discoverable public
safety UEs, without network interaction if allowed by the operator, even when
served by E-UTRAN whether or not ProSe E-UTRA Communication is used (including
whether or not ProSe Group Communication or ProSe Broadcast Communication are
used).
NOTE: A network operator can provide additional services for public safety UEs
that are under 3GPP network coverage, such as providing accurate location
information through GPS data.
A user of a Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to activate or
deactivate the UE\'s ProSe Discovery feature while served by E-UTRAN, if
allowed by the operator whether or not ProSe E-UTRA Communication is used
(including whether or not ProSe Group Communication or ProSe Broadcast
Communication are used).
ProSe shall not be available to ProSe-enabled UEs not served by E-UTRAN,
except in the following cases:
\- Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs can use ProSe when operating on public
safety spectrum even when not served by E-UTRAN. In this case, at least a one-
time pre-authorization to use ProSe is needed.
\- A Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE with ProSe Discovery enabled shall be able
to discover other discoverable Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs when some or
all of the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs involved in ProSe Discovery are not
served by E-UTRAN, whether or not ProSe E-UTRA Communication is used
(including whether or not ProSe Group Communication or ProSe Broadcast
Communication are used).
A Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE shall be capable of determining autonomously
whether or not a discovered ProSe-enabled UE is a public safety UE.
The configuration of a Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE that allows the Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UE to discover other discoverable Public Safety ProSe-
enabled UEs shall be independent from its configuration to allow or not to
allow other Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs to discover it.
Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs whether they are served by E-UTRAN or not,
shall be capable of establishing a secure ProSe E-UTRA Communication on a
ProSe E-UTRA Communication path and exchange user traffic on public safety
spectrum, assuming they are in Communication Range, are authenticated and
authorised. This requirement applies to ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two
Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast
Communication.
ProSe-enabled UEs shall not be able to use ProSe Discovery and/or
Communication services when in Limited Service state, except for Public Safety
ProSe-enabled UEs which shall be treated as out-of-coverage under the
following circumstances:
\- It cannot find a suitable cell of the selected PLMN
\- It receives a \"PLMN not allowed\" response to a registration request
\- It receives a \"GPRS not allowed\" response to a registration request
Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs using UE preconfigured resource shall not
cause interference to a cell if the UE considers the cell as an acceptable
cell and is operating as out-of-coverage as per the circumstances above.
The operator shall be able to authorise, via network control, Public Safety
ProSe-enabled UEs to establish ProSe Communication when at least one of the
two Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs is served by EUTRAN.
The operator shall be able to pre-configure Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs
(e.g., in the USIM or ME) with the permission to use ProSe Discovery and/or
Communication services for Public Safety, without the need for the Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UEs to connect to the network to get this initial
configuration. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication
between two Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and
ProSe Broadcast Communication.
The system shall enable Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs to mutually
authenticate each other when not served by E-UTRAN.
Assuming Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs are in Communication Range, are
authenticated and are authorised, a Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE on public
safety spectrum, whether or not it is served by E-UTRAN, shall be capable of
establishing multiple one-to-one ProSe E-UTRA Communications using multiple
ProSe E-UTRA Communication paths, and of exchanging user traffic with each
Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE across these multiple paths.
A Public Safety ProSe-enabled ProSe-enabled UE, whether or not it is served by
E-UTRAN shall be capable of transmitting data to a group of Public Safety
ProSe-enabled UEs using ProSe Group Communications with a single transmission,
assuming they are within Communication Range, authenticated and authorised.
Authentication shall allow for security-enablement of large groups, regardless
whether group members have discovered each other when served by E-UTRAN or
not.
A Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE whether or not it is served by E-UTRAN shall
be capable of receiving a ProSe Group Communications transmission, of which it
is a group member, regardless of whether or not it has been discovered by the
transmitting Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE.
An authorised Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE, whether or not it is served by
E-UTRAN shall be capable of sending a broadcast message to all authorised
Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs within Communication Range, regardless of
group membership, using ProSe Broadcast Communication in a single
transmission.
An authorised Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE, whether or not it is served by
E-UTRAN, may be capable of acting as a relay for other public safety UEs.
An authorised Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE shall be capable of acting as a
relay for ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two Public Safety ProSe-enabled
UEs, ProSe Broadcast Communication, and ProSe Group Communication.
A ProSe UE-to-UE Relay shall be able to relay data for a group of Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UEs using ProSe Group Communications regardless of their
group membership.
An authorised Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE, whether or not it is served by
E-UTRAN, shall be capable of being enabled/disabled by a user or the system to
act as a relay for other Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs.
The user of a Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE acting as a relay should not
perceive service degradation due to its use as a relay, regardless whether or
not the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE is served by E-UTRAN.
There shall be a maximum of one ProSe UE-to-UE relay between two Public Safety
ProSe-enabled UEs.
A ProSe UE-to-UE Relay serving as a relay for other Public Safety ProSe-
enabled UE shall be able to be served at the same time by the UE serving as a
relay for it.
A ProSe UE-to-UE Relay shall be capable of relaying communications for one or
more Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs that are within Communication Range of
the ProSe UE-to-UE Relay.
A Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE shall be capable of acting as a relay
regardless of whether or not it has been discovered by a Public Safety ProSe-
enabled UE using it as a relay if they are within Communication Range.
In the case where communication is relayed by an Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay between an E-UTRAN and a ProSe-enabled UE there shall be no ProSe UE-to-
UE Relays between the ProSe-enabled UE and E-UTRAN.
An authorised Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE shall be capable of communication
using both the network infrastructure and ProSe Communication with Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UEs not served by E-UTRAN in parallel whether or not
ProSe Discovery is used.
In addition, the system shall be able to move the user traffic session back to
the EPC Path once the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE is served by E-UTRAN. The
user may inhibit the switch back to the EPC Path.
It is desirable that an authorised Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE, whether or
not it is served by E-UTRAN, supports the capability to exchange data via
ProSe from within a building to Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs outside the
building using a power class 3 E-UTRA UE [29].
Authorised Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs, whether being served or not by
E-UTRAN, shall be able to communicate with other authorised Public Safety
ProSe-enabled UEs whether or not ProSe discovery is used.
A Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE shall provide the ability for the end user to
activate/deactivate ProSe E-UTRA Communication whether or not the UE is served
by E-UTRAN and whether or not ProSe discovery is used. This requirement
applies to any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two Public Safety ProSe-
enabled UEs, and to ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast
Communication.
A Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE shall support independent
activation/deactivation of ProSe Discovery and ProSe E-UTRA Communication
whether or not it is served by E-UTRAN. This requirement applies to any ProSe
E-UTRA Communication between two Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group
Communication and ProsSe Broadcast Communication.
Re-authorization and specific configurations, including spectrum
configurations, of Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs shall be subject to public
safety operator policy.
An operator shall be able to configure a Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE with
the permission to be discoverable or not by one or more Public Safety ProSe-
enabled UEs, without prior registration to the network.
Subject to operator policy and/or network authorization, a user of a Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to select the ProSe Communication path
(direct or routed via local eNB) when the Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE is
being served by E-UTRAN. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA
Communication between two Public Safety ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group
Communication and ProSe Broadcast Communications. The network authorization
shall consider the current traffic condition in the specific area.
A Public Safety ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to operate in spectrum
allocated exclusively for ProSe and spectrum allocated for both ProSe and
other services.
## 7A.3 ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication
The Evolved Packet System shall support the following requirements for WLAN to
enable ProSe communication.
Subject to operator policy and user consent, a ProSe-enabled UE with WLAN
capability shall be able to establish ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications with another ProSe-enabled UE when they are within WLAN direct
communications range, based on ProSe Discovery and WLAN configuration
information from the 3GPP EPC.
The 3GPP EPC shall be able to provide configuration information to ProSe-
enabled UEs for the purpose of establishing ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications.
The EPC shall be able to provide configuration information that enables
confidentiality and integrity on the ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications
link.
The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorise ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications for a ProSe-enabled UE, separately for use in the HPLMN and
when roaming in VPLMNs.
The HPLMN operator shall be able to authorise a ProSe-enabled UE to engage in
ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications with a ProSe-enabled UE being served
by a different PLMN.
The VPLMN operator shall be able to turn on or off ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications for inbound roamers.
Both the HPLMN and VPLMN operators shall be able to charge for ProSe-assisted
WLAN direct communications.
When a ProSe-enabled UE uses ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications, both
the HPLMN and VPLMN shall be able to collect accounting data for ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communications including:
\- ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication duration, amount of data
transferred, etc.
Subject to operator policy and user consent the EPC and a ProSe-enabled UE
shall be capable of negotiating the move of a traffic flow between the EPC
Path and the ProSe-assisted WLAN direct path.
There shall be no impact upon the RAN from service continuity procedures for
ProSe-enabled UE traffic sessions that are moved between the infrastructure
and WLAN direct communication paths.
The network shall be able to determine whether two ProSe-enabled UEs are
within WLAN direct communications range and whether the WLAN direct link can
provide the necessary QoS to support the end user application.
The network shall ensure service continuity for ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communications flows and be capable of considering QoS requirements of all
data flows when negotiating a communications path switch for a given end user
application.
The system shall be capable of establishing a new user traffic session for a
ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communications path.
Subject to operator policy and user consent the EPS shall be capable of
maintaining existing E-UTRAN infrastructure communications while ProSe-
assisted WLAN direct communication is established by a given ProSe-enabled UE.
Subject to operator policy and user consent the EPS shall be capable of
establishing new E-UTRAN infrastructure communications while ProSe WLAN
communication is on-going for a given ProSe-enabled UE.
The EPC shall be able to request a UE to perform a path switch between the EPC
Path and WLAN direct path for some or all of the UE\'s traffic sessions based
on the load in the 3GPP network.
# 7B Indirect 3GPP Communication
## 7B.1 Feature description
Indirect 3GPP Communication enables an Evolved ProSe Remote UE (e.g. wearable
device, UE) to connect to the 3GPP network via an Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay. The connection between the Evolved Prose Remote UE and the Evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay can use E-UTRA or WLAN.
The Evolved ProSe Remote UE has the functionality to directly connect to the
EPC without an Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay.The Evolved ProSe Remote UE
will be visible to and controlled by the 3GPP network when connected via an
Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay. The Evolved ProSe Remote UE can use
Indirect 3GPP Communication either in E-UTRAN coverage or out of E-UTRAN
coverage.
The requirements listed in this clause (7B) exclude GSM and UMTS. Indirect
3GPP Communication to the 3GPP network shall not impact either of GSM and
UMTS.
The Evolved ProSe Remote UE and the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay are
served by the same PLMN.
## 7B.2 General Requirements for Indirect 3GPP Communication
The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting Indirect 3GPP Communications
between an Evolved ProSe Remote UE and the 3GPP network via an Evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay. This requirement applies to any Indirect 3GPP
Communication between an Evolved ProSe Remote UE and Evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay, including ProSe Group Communication and ProSe Broadcast
Communication.
There shall be a maximum of one Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay between an
Evolved ProSe Remote UE and E-UTRAN.
The connection between an Evolved ProSe Remote UE and an Evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay shall be able to use E-UTRA or WLAN.
The Evolved ProSe Remote UE supporting only E-UTRA can use Indirect 3GPP
Communication either in E-UTRAN coverage or out of E-UTRAN coverage.
The Evolved ProSe Remote UE supporting E-UTRA and other RAT(s) can use
Indirect 3GPP Communication either in E-UTRAN coverage or out of coverage of
all supported 3GPP RAT(s) of the UE.
A UE shall be capable of acting as an Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
between an Evolved ProSe Remote UE and E-UTRAN if it is authorised by the3GPP
network to act as a relay and served by this E-UTRAN.
An authorised Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay shall be capable of being
enabled/disabled by the 3GPP network to act as a relay to/from E-UTRAN for
other Evolved ProSe Remote UEs unable to access E-UTRAN.
The 3GPP network shall control the Evolved ProSe Remote UE via an Indirect
3GPP Communication using E-UTRA or WLAN. This requirement applies to any
Indirect 3GPP Communication between an Evolved ProSe Remote UE and Evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay, including ProSe Group Communication and ProSe
Broadcast Communication.
The 3GPP network shall be able to identify, authenticate, address and reach an
Evolved ProSe Remote UE when it accesses the 3GPP network via an Indirect 3GPP
Communication.
The 3GPP network shall manage the E-UTRA(N) resources used for the
communication path between the Evolved ProSe Remote UE and the network when it
accesses the 3GPP network via an Indirect 3GPP Communication.
The 3GPP network shall provide efficient use of E-UTRA radio spectrum (i.e.,
not increase interference or power consumption of the in-coverage UE when
shared with out-of-coverage UEs).
The 3GPP network shall provide resource efficient management of shared radio
spectrum for all users (e.g., Public Safety, commercial).
Based on the preference of the end-user of the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay, the 3GPP network shall be able to allow/disallow access from an Evolved
ProSe Remote UE to the network via an Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay.
The 3GPP system shall support the real time user traffic session (e.g.
Multimedia telephony and/or real time video) for an Evolved ProSe Remote UE
when the Evolved ProSe Remote UE is connected to the 3GPP network via an
Indirect 3GPP Communication.
The 3GPP systems shall support small data services (e,g, CIoT, eMTC) for an
Evolved ProSe Remote UE when the Evolved ProSe Remote UE uses an Indirect 3GPP
Communication.
The 3GPP systems shall support data services (e,g, non-real time data) for an
Evolved ProSe Remote UE when the Evolved ProSe Remote UE uses an Indirect 3GPP
Communication.
The 3GPP system shall enable emergency calls via the Evolved ProSe Relay UE in
case that the Evolved ProSe Remote UE supports emergency calls.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support the change for an Evolved ProSe
Remote UE from a direct 3GPP communication to an Indirect 3GPP Communication
and vice-versa.
NOTE: Potential reasons for changing could be to achieve better QoS or battery
efficiency, as well as either the Evolved ProSe Remote UE or Evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay moving in or out of E-UTRAN coverage.
The 3GPP network shall be able to ensure service continuity when the Evolved
ProSe Remote UE changes from a direct 3GPP communication to an Indirect 3GPP
Communication and vice-versa.
The 3GPP system shall be able to support QoS for a user traffic session even
in Indirect 3GPP Communication using E-UTRA.
The support of Indirect 3GPP Communication shall not lead to a significant
increase of complexity of the Evolved Prose Remote UE compared to direct
communication to 3GPP network.
The use of Indirect 3GPP Communication should typically lead to a decrease in
power consumption and shall not lead to an increase in power consumption at
the Evolved ProSe Remote UE when compared to the Evolved ProSe Remote UE using
the direct 3GPP communication for the same traffic.
An Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay shall be able to relay data for a group
of Evolved ProSe Remote UEs using ProSe Group Communications regardless of
their group membership, if authorized by the 3GPP network.
# 7C Requirements for relay UE selection for Evolved ProSe Remote UE access
via an Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
## 7C.1 General
At the time of remote UE selection of Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay, there
might be several Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay capable UEs in proximity of
the Evolved ProSe Remote UE, and available for discovery and relay connection
establishment. The requirements listed in the following sub-sections relate to
the selection of an appropriate Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay to be used
for Evolved ProSe Remote UE access to a 3GPP PLMN.
The 3GPP system shall support selection of one out of potentially several
Evolved ProSe Relay capable UEs, in proximity of the Evolved ProSe Remote UE
and available for discovery and relay connection establishment, through a 3GPP
defined relay UE selection procedure.
The 3GPP system shall support selection of Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relays
with subscriptions with the same owner as the subscription of the Evolved
ProSe Remote UE as well as Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relays with
subscriptions with a different owner than the subscription of the Evolved
ProSe Remote UE.
The 3GPP system shall support pairing of an Evolved ProSe Remote UE and a
specific Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay to allow for fast remote
connectivity setup with UE consent given, and/or MNO control applied, at the
time of pairing.
## 7C.2 Relay UE selection
The 3GPP system shall support selection of an Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay based on a combination of different criteria e.g.,
  * the subcriptions of Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay and Evolved ProSe Remote UE,
  * the capabilities of the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay,
  * [the]{.underline} QoS that is achieveable by selecting the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay[,]{.underline}
  * [the]{.underline} power consumption required by Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and Evolved ProSe Remote UE[,]{.underline}
  * the pre-paired Evolved ProSse UE-to-Network Relay[,]{.underline}
  * [the]{.underline} 3GPP or non-3GPP access the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay uses to connect to the network[, or]{.underline}
  * the 3GPP PLMN the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay connects to.
NOTE: Other criteria can play a role in selection of an Evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay.
The 3GPP network shall be able to control Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
selection either explicitly (e.g. by signalling) or implicitly (e.g. by
provisioning of policies in the Evolved ProSe Remote UE and Evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay).
The 3GPP system shall support pre-configuration of Relay UE discovery
information in addition to pre-configured PLMN selection information, needed
for Relay UE selection, in the Evolved ProSe Remote UEs. It should include the
applicable Relay UE identity to allow identification of to which Evolved ProSe
Relay UE a specific set of information applies.
The 3GPP system shall support provisioning of information in the Evolved ProSe
Remote UE (ME and/or USIM) used for relay UE selection.
The 3GPP system shall support having preferences stored in the Evolved ProSe
Remote UE related to the relay UE selection criteria, configured/controlled by
the home operator, user selectable, or a combination of both.
The 3GPP system shall support mechanisms for allowing an Evolved ProSe Remote
UE to get information regarding which PLMN a specific Evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay connects to, prior to indirect 3GPP connection establishment.
The 3GPP system shall support mechanisms for allowing an Evolved ProSe Remote
UE to get information regarding what PLMNs a specific Evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay connects to, in case of network sharing, prior to indirect 3GPP
connection establishment.
# 8 Performance requirements for the Evolved Packet System
The Evolved Packet System comprises the Evolved Packet Core together with the
evolved radio access network (E-UTRA and E-UTRAN).
The performance objectives for the Evolved Packet System include higher user
data rates, reduced latency, improved system capacity and coverage, reduced
network complexity and lower operating costs.
The Evolved Packet System shall meet or exceed the following performance
criteria:
a) The radio access network shall be capable of supporting instantaneous peak
packet data rates of 100 Mbps on the radio access bearer downlink to the UE
and 50 Mbps on the uplink.
b) The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of providing lower user and
control plane latency when compared to existing 3GPP access networks. The
maximum delay should be comparable to that for fixed broadband Internet access
technologies. [e.g. less than 5ms in ideal conditions]
c) The system shall be capable of supporting large volumes of mixed e.g.
voice, data and multimedia traffic. Enhanced load balancing and steering of
roaming methods should be used to minimise cell congestion.
d) The level of system complexity and mobility management signalling shall be
optimised to reduce infrastructure and operating costs. UE power consumption
shall also be minimised accordingly.
e) For the Evolved Packet System the interruption time during handover of RT
and NRT services shall be kept to minimum and shall not exceed the values
defined in TR 25.913[4].
f) The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of providing low latency mobile
broadband communication services with the following requirements:
\- maximum delay in the EPS of 10 ms for 98% packets,
\- 99,9999% reliability excluding the delayed packets.
g) The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of providing low latency
communication services with maximum delay in the EPS of 10 ms and 99,99%
reliability.
h) The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of providing ultra reliable low
latency communication services (e.g., wireless road-side infrastructure
backhaul as described in TS 22.261 [30]) with maximum delay in the EPS of 30
ms and 99,999% reliability.
i) The Evolved Packet System shall be capable of providing ultra reliable low
latency communication services with maximum delay in the EPS of 5 ms and
99,999% reliability.
j) To support ultra reliable low latency communication services, the Evolved
Packet System shall support the transmission over the radio interface of a
packet of 32 bytes with a reliability of 99,999% and a user plane latency of
1ms, as described in TR 38.913 [31].
# 9 Security and privacy
## 9.1 General
The Evolved Packet System shall provide a high level of security and privacy
for users and Evolved Packet System operators.
## 9.2 Security requirements
The Evolved Packet System shall provide a high level of security, equivalent
or better than Rel-7 3GPP systems.
Any possible lapse in security in one access technology shall not compromise
security of other accesses.
The Evolved Packet System should provide protection against threats and
attacks including those present in the Internet.
The Evolved Packet System shall support information authenticity between the
terminal and Evolved Packet Systems.
The Evolved Packet System shall allow for a network to hide of internal
network elements from the UE.
Security policy shall be under the control of the home operator.
The security solution should not interfere with service delivery or 3GPP
inter-access handovers in a way that is noticeable to end-users or service
providers.
Appropriate traffic protection measures should be provided by the Evolved
Packet System.
The Evolved Packet System shall provide appropriate mechanisms to enable
lawful intercept.
The Evolved Packet System shall ensure that no unauthorized user can obtain a
legitimate IP address that can be used to establish communication or enable
malicious attacks on evolved system entities.
Release 99 or later Releases\' USIM application on the UICC is required to
authenticate a user in an Evolved Packet System and hence allowing the user to
get services in the Evolved Packet System according to her/his subscription.
NOTE: The above requirement is applicable when providing access to the EPC via
E-UTRAN.
Once authenticated via a 3GPP or Evolved Packet System, the USIM shall not be
required to re-authenticate upon changing between these systems, unless
specifically requested by the operator (PLMN).
NOTE: It may be possible to use other applications on the UICC in order to
provide authentication on the 3GPP or Evolved Packet System (e.g. for
connection to IMS). In addition, in case it is desirable to improve the level
of security or to add new security mechanisms for accessing the Evolved Packet
System compared to the one provided in Rel-7, a revised/upgraded application
on the UICC may be required.
## 9.3 Privacy requirements
The Evolved Packet System shall provide several appropriate levels of user
privacy including communication confidentiality, location privacy, and
identity protection.
The privacy of the contents, origin, and destination of a particular
communication shall be protected from disclosure to unauthorised parties.
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to hide the identities of users from
unauthorised third parties.
It shall be possible to provide no disclosure, at any level of granularity, of
location, location-related information, e.g. geographic and routing
information, or information from which a user\'s location can be determined,
to unauthorised parties, including another party on a communication.
## 9.4 ProSe Security, Authorization and Privacy Requirements
The Evolved Packet System shall support the following requirements for ProSe
security, authorization and privacy. The requirements listed in this sub-
clause exclude GSM and UMTS.
When operating ProSe (in both public safety and general cases), the EPS shall
be able to support regional or national regulatory requirements, (e.g. lawful
interception, PWS).
When offering ProSe, the EPS shall respect local regulatory frameworks on the
use of licensed spectrum.
The EPS shall ensure that the confidentiality and integrity of both user data
and network signalling over the ProSe Communication path to a level comparable
with that provided by the existing 3GPP system. This requirement applies to
any ProSe E-UTRA Communication between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group
Communication, ProSe Broadcast Communication and ProSe-assisted WLAN direct
communication.
A mechanism shall be provided to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of
user data and signalling over the ProSe Communication path for Public Safety
UEs not served by E-UTRAN.
Existing 3GPP security mechanisms shall be reused whenever possible and
appropriate.
The level of security provided by the existing EPS shall not be adversely
affected when ProSe is enabled.
The EPS shall protect the confidentiality of the subscriber\'s, UE\'s, and
user\'s permanent identities used in the EPS when ProSe Discovery and/or ProSe
E-UTRA Communication are used. This requirement applies to any ProSe E-UTRA
Communication between two ProSe-enabled UEs, ProSe Group Communication and
ProSe Broadcast Communication. The EPS shall have confidentiality features
that enable the subscriber\'s, UE\'s, and user\'s permanent identities to be
protected when ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication is used.
The system shall ensure the authenticity of the ProSe Discovery information
used by an application that is authorised by the operator and the user.
The EPS shall be able to restrict ProSe Discovery information to the ProSe-
enabled UEs and applications that have been authorised by the users and
operator.
_The permission to be discoverable is given by the user and shall be executed
by the EPS, subject to operator control, on a per-application basis._
Authentication shall allow for security-enablement of large groups, regardless
of whether group members have discovered each other when being served by
E-UTRAN or not.
The operator shall be able to enable or disable its ProSe Discovery feature.
The operator shall be able to authorise discovery operations for each
individual ProSe-enabled UE, including by pre-provisioning of the UE.
The operator shall be able to authorise the ability of a ProSe-enabled UE to
be discoverable by other ProSe-enabled UEs.
The operator shall be able to authorise the ability of a ProSe-enabled UE to
discover other ProSe-enabled UEs.
The operator shall be able to authorise the use of ProSe Discovery information
by an application.
Based on user input, a ProSe-enabled UE shall be able to allow the use of
ProSe Discovery information by an application.
The network shall be able to authorise a third-party application to use ProSe
capability features, by interacting with the ProSe-enabled UE
The operator shall be able to authorise the ability of a ProSe-enabled UE to
discover ProSe-enabled UEs served by the E-UTRAN of other PLMNs.
The VPLMN shall be able to turn on or off the ability for all the inbound
roamers from a specific PLMN to be discovered using ProSe Discovery.
When a ProSe-enabled UE is roaming in a VPLMN, its HPLMN shall be able to
authorise the ProSe-enabled UE to discover and independently be discoverable
by other ProSe-enabled UEs via settings which may be different from those for
the non-roaming case.
The network shall be able to authorise ProSe Discovery preferences (e.g.
discover and/or be discoverable) requested by third-party applications.
The network shall be able to store information of third-party applications
necessary for performing security and charging functions.
## 9.5 Security and Authorization Requirements for Indirect 3GPP Communication
The 3GPP network shall be able to ensure that the end-to-end confidentiality
and integrity of data and signalling between an Evolved ProSe Remote UE and
3GPP core network when the Evolved ProSe Remote UE accesses the 3GPP network
via an Indirect 3GPP Communication comparable with when the Evolved ProSe
Remote UE accesses the 3GPP network via a direct 3GPP communication.
The 3GPP network shall be able to support regional or national regulatory
requirements (e.g. lawful interception, PWS) for a UE independently of whether
the UE accesses the 3GPP network via a direct 3GPP communication or an
Indirect 3GPP Communication.
Based on the HPLMN operator preference, the 3GPP network shall be able to
authorize the ability of an Evolved ProSe Remote UE to access the 3GPP network
via an Indirect 3GPP Communication.
NOTE: Separate authorization should be possible for home and roaming use.
Based on the HPLMN operator preference, the 3GPP network shall be able to
authorize the ability of a UE (Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay) to relay
another UE (Evolved ProSe Remote UE), separately for the HPLMN and for roaming
in VPLMNs.
## 9.6 Security and authorization requirements for streaming service
Security measures shall be provided to protect access to streaming service via
different RATs or operators, e.g. the network sharing.
The 3GPP system shall be able to authorize the streaming delivery based on a
third party services policy.
# 10 Charging Aspects
The Evolved Packet System shall support various charging models including all
those supported by the 3GPP system contained within TS22.115 [5] .
Charging models that shall be supported by the Evolved Packet System include
(non-exhaustive list):
\- calling party pays
\- charging based on assured QoS
\- charging based on the transport
\- charging based on an event
\- charging based on content
\- charging adjustment (e.g. based on subscription bands)
\- alternate party charging
The Evolved Packet System shall also be able to support introduction of new
charging schemes including online and offline schemes, and charging schemes
for the multi-access system environment
Charging mechanisms of the Evolved Packet System shall provide (non-exhaustive
list):
\- Cost effective Control and Charging of IP Flows
\- Perform online charging
\- Support differentiated charging including zero rating of the bearer and
event charging
\- Awareness of subscriber identity, time-of-day, roaming status, QoS, Service
input etc
###### ## Annex A (informative): Requirements for further study
## A.1 Management of access networks
The Evolved Packet System shall be able to allow for self-managing
technologies (e.g. Plug-and-Play) for dynamically adding and removing non-3GPP
defined access networks.\ Such self-managing technologies shall take into
account the Evolved Packet System and access network policies.
E.g. depending on such policies it shall be possible to for the 3GPP system
operator to request encryption of user traffic that is transmitted over the
access network.
Note 1: The non-3GPP access network needs to have defined interworking with
3GPP.
An example could be a WLAN (operated by some WLAN operator) that can, if
needed, automatically be connected to a PLMN. This would enable the PLMN
operator to provide additional access resources on a dynamic basis and to
provide service to more customers (e.g. at mass events).
Note 2: The degree of automation provided for network attachment is yet to be
determined, but is intended to simplify (or completely automate)
administration procedures.
## A.2 Use cases for Fixed Mobile Convergence
A family has purchased a family subscription plan that is independent of
access (e.g. fixed or wireless) and location (e.g. both when at home and away
from home). The subscription contains at least the following components:
  * Internet access: Operator specific service such as firewall and content filtering (parental control) independent of access for selected devices within the family. The service should be available at home, within the home mobile network and when roaming to a visited mobile network.
  * Voice/Multimedia: QoS and mobility between home WLAN and LTE wide area
  * Charging schemas connected to access type, preference and location
  * Video: Premium Video on Demand Service incl. guaranteed bandwidth and QoS regardless of access network.
**Description**
**Use case 1: Internet access with Parental control and personal firewall**
The kids leave their house and take a bus to their grandparents\' house.
The operator specific services, like parental control and personal firewall,
are invoked for specific users and terminals from both fixed network and from
mobile network; this allows the kids to get the same service and filtering
inside the home, in the bus going to grandparents and at the grandparents. In
this use case the grandparents have a separate service provider than the
family but the services will still be provided by the service provider where
the family has a subscription.
**Use case 2: Voice/Multimedia and Charging**
The father travels home after work while talking on the phone with his
colleague.
The ongoing Voice/Multimedia call between the father and his colleague is
maintained while switching over between LTE Wide area and residential fixed
broadband WLAN network. Once the call is switched over to WLAN charging for
home-based access is applied. Bandwidth and QoS is maintained for the duration
of the call to guarantee the same service delivery.
**Use case 3: Video**
The kids in the backseat of the car are watching an Internet TV show on their
laptop using LTE while driving home from the grandparent\'s house.
The TV show is sent from an Internet TV provider. Once home the terminal
detects indoor WLAN coverage where the subscriber has a WLAN Residential
Gateway connected to his Fixed Broadband network. The user or the terminal
automatically may select to switch the IP connection to the wireline broadband
connection and enable the user to resume watching the same TV show on the same
laptop, possibly with a better quality picture as allowed by the available
bandwidth, user-specific policy, network policy and QoS setting.
**Use case 4: H(e)NB/Femtocell**
**A subscriber desires to improve coverage and access speed for their 3GPP
device in their home. They purchase and install a small eNodeB (Femtocell AP)
device for their home which attaches to the home LAN and establishes a
connection back to the subscriber\'s mobile service provider network. The
mobile network provider coordinates with the broadband access provider to
deliver proper bandwidth and QoS to support a good QoE for calls and data
sessions made within the home that access services from the mobile network.
The Femtocell also allows some types of data traffic to be shared with the
home LAN, including traffic for Internet applications. Local traffic can be
discerned and accounted for differently than traffic that is carried on the
mobile network.**
**Use case 5: Application Mobility**
**A subscriber is in a multimedia call on their mobile device, and then wishes
to change the device they are using to a fixed network attached device (e.g.
Set Top Box / TV). The multimedia call is handed over from the mobile network
to the fixed network after the subscriber chooses to transfer the multimedia
call to a STB / TV. Bandwidth and QoS is maintained for the large screen
experience to be meaningful. Accounting and settlement is supported among the
application and network service providers, and reflects the changes to the
access technology and required bandwidth.**
**Use case 6: Common Quota**
A Common Quota (CQ) can be assigned for both fixed and mobile accesses for a
limited time period for a defined set of subscriptions. During each session
the network elements monitor the CQ which may be consumed by one or more
devices over either the wireless or fixed networks.
When a defined percentage of the CQ and/or all the CQ has been consumed, one
or more subscribers in the defined set can be notified of the event (e.g. via
SMS and/or email).
When the CQ has been consumed the access to the services is blocked.
**Use case 7: Video On Demand Service**
Video On Demand (VoD) service is provided to the subscriber via the Set Top
Box to the TV or to the PC. A user orders a VoD service interacting with the
VoD infrastructure, which sends a resource request to the network. The user
may also request mid-session requests triggering the increase/decrease of
network resources. The requests will be accepted or rejected according to the
available network resources.
**Use case 8: Broadband Access Wholesale**
In Broadband network the wholesale scenario is quite important as it may be
required by the regulation, known as unbundling (access, connectivity and
services). For example the operator of the broadband access network lease/sell
transport of the connection through its own network from the user to the buyer
/ leased network. So in the wholesale scenario the renting operator has the
end-to-end Service responsibility to the customer and is viewed as the
\"Retailer\" of the service or application. While the leasing network operator
has the responsibility for the access network and for the connectivity.
###### ## Annex B (Normative): Void
###### ## Annex B1 (Informative): Interworking between Mobile Operators and
Data Application Providers
This Annex provides various scenarios and use cases applicable for
interworking between mobile operators and data applications.
## B1.1 Scenarios
Figure 1 shows the non-roaming scenario where the mobile operator owns the EPS
as well as application layer entities. Access and IP connectivity is provided
by the mobile operator. Application platforms, also provided by the mobile
operator, shown in the figure connect to the core network directly.
Application platforms could be application servers (e.g. Video on Demand
Server, PSS Server, MTC Server, etc.). Applications developed using APIs (e.g.
REST, GSMA OneAPI) and resident on the API Gateway are connected to the
operator core network via the API Gateway. The dashed lines between Operator
CN and IMS as well as API Gateway are already specified.
{width="6.665972222222222in" height="3.6659722222222224in"}
Figure 1: Operator owned non-roaming scenario
Figure 2 provides the non-roaming scenario where the mobile operator does not
own all the application layer entities. Access and IP connectivity is provided
by the mobile operator. The 3rd party Application Platforms in this figure
could be application servers (e.g. Video on Demand Server, PSS Server, MTC
Server, etc.) or could be 3rd party software development platforms. The
horizontal line represents the demarcation between the mobile operator domain
and the 3rd party application provider domain. The mobile operator and 3rd
party application providers may have agreements.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="3.2993055555555557in"}
Figure 2: Collaborative non-roaming scenario
Figure 3 provides the roaming scenario for both the above owned and
collaborative scenarios. This figure shows the home-routed scenario where all
traffic is routed to home mobile operator EPS and applications are delivered
via roaming agreements between mobile operators.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="2.8381944444444445in"}
Figure 3: Operator owned/collaborative roaming scenario -- Home Routed
Figure 4 provides the roaming scenario between mobile operators and 3rd party
application provider domains. In this scenario the application provider has
agreements with visited mobile operator. This figure shows the local-breakout
scenario where all traffic is routed to application domain from the visited
operator network.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="2.6944444444444446in"}
Figure 4: Collaborative roaming scenario -- Local Breakout
## B1.2 Use cases
### B1.2.1 Use cases for owned / collaborated scenarios.
**Pre-conditions**
A data application provider X develops an application customized for streaming
high definition movies to the mobile end user over 3GPP access.
The data application provider X develops this application specifically for a
mobile network operator (MNO) Y. The data application provider X hosts this
application and establishes agreements with a mobile network operator (MNO) Y
to pilot the service. Authentication and charging are provided by the MNO Y.
The data application provider X can collaborate with other MNOs as well.
Alice has subscribed to a 3GPP device and video services from the MNO Y.
**Use case 1: Authentication and Authorization**
Alice gets onto a train for 4-hour long ride to a neighboring country. She
turns on her device and looks at the movie catalog. She decides to view a
movie and selects the movie offered by the data application provider X and
watches it without worrying about the radio access network she is using and
any additional login/password procedures.
**Use case 2: Allocation of resources and other policy interactions**
All along the MNO Y manages the resources and the QoS needed for high
definition movie streaming to Alice. On the train, Alice gets distracted by
the scenery and misses a few scenes. She rewinds and views the missing scenes.
**Use case 3: Simultaneous interactions with multiple application providers**
Alice comes across an interesting gadget in the movie and decides to pause on
that scene and get a higher resolution closeup view. The close up view prompts
an advertisement to pop up for the gadget. Based on this advertisement, Alice
purchases the gadget. She is given the choice of paying immediately or being
charged on her MNO monthly bill. She decides to charge to her MNO bill.
**Use case 4: Roaming**
Alice continues watching the movie and the train crosses the country border.
She starts roaming into another MNO Z, which has roaming agreement with MNO Y.
The movie quality is unaltered in the process of roaming.
**Use case 5: Charging**
She gets a bill from the MNO at the end of the month which includes the price
for the movie she watched on the train and the gadget she purchased.
### B1.2.2 Use cases for non-collaborated scenarios.
#### B1.2.2.1 UE initiates and requests MNO for preferential traffic handling
Pre-conditions
> 1\. Mobile Network Operator Y (MNO Y) has no business relationship nor is
> there any service collaboration with Data Application Provider X (DAP X).
>
> 2\. DAP X develops a free application customized for streaming movies to the
> mobile end user over 3GPP access. DAP X develops the application
> independently from MNO Y and hosts this application outside of MNO Y\'s
> network. The user accesses the service via the network of MNO Y connected to
> DAP X via a transit network. The service is provided to the user
> transparently through MNO Y\'s network.
>
> 3\. The network of MNO Y supports tiered bearers and MNO Y offers prefential
> traffic handling on demand from users with a preview period defined either
> by the operator or the application provider for acceptance of the service.
> MNO Y has a roaming agreement with MNO Z to provide preferential traffic
> handling for users at an extra cost to the user. MNO Y has no knowledge or
> control of the service being delivered by DAP X. Further MNO Y has no
> knowledge of the resources available at DAP X or of those in the transit
> network through which it is connected.
>
> 4\. Alice has subscribed to a 3GPP data service from MNO Y and has
> downloaded the free movie streaming application from DAP X. She has
> purchased credit through the application to enable streaming of content. No
> further authentication of authorisation is required with DAP X in order for
> Alice to receive content. The movie streaming application uses default level
> of resources and QoS (e.g. best effort, or based the subscriber profile)
> from the PLMN.
>
> 5\. Alice is on a train travelling across national boarder from Country A to
> Country B. Country A is served by MNO Y. Country B is served by MNO Z.
Use case 6: Authentication and Authorization
Alice decides to watch a movie. She turns on her device, registers with the
network operated by MNO Y and launches the application to browse the movie
catalogue. She decides to view a movie so she selects it and starts to watch
it.
Use case 7: Allocation of resources and other policy interactions
At some point in the movie (e.g. due to mobility, network congestion, etc)
Alice becomes dissatisfied with the quality of the movie.
Alice requests preferential traffic handling from MNO Y.
Alternative 1. Alice does not notice any improvement in the quality of the
streamed movieand she does not confirm the request for preferential traffic
handling within the preview period.
Alternative 2. Alice notices a marked improvement in the quality of the
streamed movie and she confirms the request for preferential traffic handling.
As the train crosses the national boarder between Country A and Country B,
Alice is notified of the change in MNO and charging.
Alternative 3. Alice decides not to consent for the additional charge. The
quality of the bearer reverts to its default level after the specified consent
period has expired.
Alternative 4. Alice decides to pay additional charge and consents. The
quality of the bearer remains at its present level.
Use case 8: Charging
Alternative 1. Alice receives a bill from MNO Y at the end of the month that
includes roaming charges from MNO Z, but no additional charges for
preferential traffic handling.
Alternative 2 + Alternative 3. Alice receives a bill from MNO Y at the end of
the month that includes roaming charges from MNO Z, and the cost for
preferential traffic handling from MNO Y.
Alternative 2 + Alternative 4. Alice receives a bill from MNO Y at the end of
the month that includes roaming charges from MNO Z, as well as the cost for
preferential traffic handling from MNO Y and the additional cost for
preferential traffic handling from MNO Z.
Alice does not receive any bill from DAP X related to the request for
preferential traffic handling.
#### B1.2.2.2 UE initiates and Data Application Provider requests MNO for
preferential traffic handling
Pre-conditions
> 1\. Mobile Network Operator Y (MNO Y) has a business relationship but no
> service collaboration with Data Application Provider X (DAP X).
>
> Other pre-conditions are as specified for B1.2.2.1
Authentication and Authorization is as per Use Case 6 in B1.2.2.1
Use case 9: Allocation of resources and other policy interactions
At some point in the movie (e.g. due to mobility, network congestion, etc)
Alice becomes dissatisfied with the quality of the movie. Alice requests
preferential traffic handling from DAP X.
Alternatives 1 to are as described in Use case 2 under B1.2.X.
Use case 10: Charging
Alternative 1. Alice receives a bill from MNO Y at the end of the month that
includes roaming charges from MNO Z.
Alternative 2 + Alternative 3. Alice receives her bill from MNO Y at the end
of the month that includes roaming charges from MNO Z. In addition, Alice
receives a statement from DAP X which includes an entry for the cost of
preferential traffic handling from MNO Y.
Alternative 2 + Alternative 4. Alice receives her normal bill from MNO Y at
the end of the month including roaming charges from MNO Z. In addition, Alice
receives a statement from DAP X which includes an entry for the cost of
preferential traffic handling from MNO Y and MNO Z.
###### ## Annex B2 (Informative): Service Reachability
## B2.1 Use case: Blocking Service Reachability
### B2.1.1 Description
This describes a case where the intention of the firewall provider is to
ensure all traffic of a specific type, e.g. VoIP, is blocked even though the
network operator and UE uses Service Reachability.
### B2.1.2 Pre-conditions
\- The network operator provides a VoIP service.
\- The user is subscribed to the VoIP service.
\- The UE is connected to a firewalled WLAN network that is independent from
the network operator.
\- The firewall of the WLAN network blocks VoIP traffic as a result of the
firewall provider policy.
\- The UE and network operator implements Service Reachability.
\- The firewall provider blocks Service Reachability.
\- The network operator and firewall provider are different entities.
\- This scenario applies regardless of whether there is a business
relationship between the network operator and the firewall provider.
### B2.1.3 Service Flow
a) The user attempts to make a voice call using the network operator VoIP
service.
b) The firewall blocks the VoIP call.
c) The UE then uses the Service Reachability functionality to initiate the
call.
d) The firewall blocks the Service Reachability function.
### B2.1.4 Post-conditions
\- User VoIP call attempt fails.
\- The firewall provider policy to block VoIP traffic is maintained.
#