# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the service requirements for operation of the
MCVideo service. MCVideo makes use of capabilities included in Group
Communication System Enablers, Proximity Services, Isolated E‑UTRAN operation
for Public Safety and Mission Critical Services Common Requirements with
additional requirements specific to the MCVideo Service. The MCVideo Service
can be used for public safety applications and maritime safety applications
and also for general commercial applications (e.g. utility companies, railways
and maritime usage). The requirements in this specifications do not apply to
GSM or UMTS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Void.
[3] 3GPP TS 22.280: \"Mission Critical Services Common Requirements
(MCCoRe)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.179: "Mission Critical Push To Talk (MCPTT); Stage 1".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.282: "Mission Critical Data services".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation H.264: Advanced video coding for generic audiovisual
services, v2, 2016".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**MCVideo Quality:** a measure of the distortion or artefacts in a video
signal which impacts the ability of a Mission Critical Organisation to utilise
the video for its intended purpose. For example if the purpose of the video is
to capture license plates on vehicles in a range of outdoor conditions, video
quality is measured in the ability of the video outputs to provide the
specific information across a range of environmental conditions.
**Real Time** : Of or relating to systems that update information at the same
rate as they receive data, enabling them to direct or control a process such
as video recording and display. Sometimes referred to as live or real life
timing of events.
**Real-Time Video:** Video viewed at the same time it is being shot.
**Robot** : A machine that can perform a task automatically or via remote
control such as an unmanned vehicle that can be aerial (e.g., Unmanned aerial
vehicle (UAV), aerial drone), aquatic (e.g., unmanned surface vehicle (USV)),
submarine, (e.g., unmanned underwater vehicles (UUV), underwater drone) or
terrestrial (unmanned ground vehicle (UGV)).
NOTE: Unmanned vehicles typically have a set of sensors to observe the
environment, and either autonomously make decisions about their behavior or
pass the information to a human operator at a different location who controls
the vehicle through teleoperation.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
IOPS Isolated E-UTRAN Operation for Public Safety
MCCoRe Mission Critical Services Common Requirements
MCData Mission Critical Data
MCPTT Mission Critical Push to Talk
MCVideo Mission Critical Video
PTZ Pan-Tilt-Zoom
TVNP TV Network Protocol
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Description of the MCVideo service
MCVideo defines a service for Mission Critical video communication using 3GPP
transport networks. Mission Critical refers to meeting the needs of agencies
providing Public Safety services such as, but not limited to, Police, Fire and
Ambulance services. Those needs include high reachability, availability and
reliability of the service, low latency, real-time operating capabilities,
highly secured operations, inter-operability with other services and systems,
private and group communications, handling of emergencies and ability to
provide prioritization, pre-emption, queuing and QoS. Although the service is
designed for transport over commercial and dedicated 3GPP networks it is not
expected to be limited to use over 3GPP networks. However, performance over
other transport networks has not been considered when producing this document.
MCVideo service includes:
  * Video capture and encoding of the video information;
  * Secure streaming and storing of the video information;
  * Video decoding and rendering of the video information;
  * Processing of the video information, including the ability to annotate video frames and recognize video features;
  * Mission critical and public safety level functionality (e.g. group sessions, affiliations, end-to-end confidentiality, emergency type communications) and performance (e.g. low latency);
  * Transmission and control of the parameters relevant to those functions;
  * Secure operation such that video information can be reasonably un-impeachable when used in evidentiary procedures;
  * Definition and configuration of MCVideo groups and applications;
  * Configuration of the MCVideo users\' profiles and of the MCVideo UEs; and
  * Interoperability with other services and systems.
While the streaming of video is part of the MCVideo Service, the non-real-time
or offline transfer of a video clip stored as a file containing video data is
covered by the MCData Service as defined in 3GPP TS 22.282 [5].
An MCVideo video stream can be associated with a stand alone MCVideo group of
users, or can be one of the streams of a multi-media MCX Service group.
An MCVideo UE is a device that provides video acquisition (e.g. has a camera),
video rendering (has a display) or both and normally also has some encoding /
decoding, communication and storage capabilities.
## 4.2 Comparison with the MCPTT service
MCVideo makes use of many of the same capabilities that were originally
defined for MCPTT in 3GPP TS 22.179 [4] and now are mostly specified at stage
1 in the MCCoRe specification [3]. Such capabilities include, but are not
limited to, Group Communication, Group Management, Affiliation, Security and
Confidentiality. The MCVideo service also allows the same user to have
multiple user profiles defined and to simultaneously use multiple UEs.
However, the MCVideo Service also differs from MCPTT in some respects. In
MCPTT there is a specific way of floor control to assert good order and
appropriate use of priority to control and manage situations where multiple
users in a group might attempt to speak at the same time. Simultaneous speech
can degrade intelligibility of communications. The role of floor control is to
manage who can transmit at a point in time and who will have to wait to speak
to the group. In MCVideo the control approach is more varied. There is
admission control to manage the appropriate access to network resources
according to the user\'s priority and the UE\'s capabilities. In some cases,
this may include control to restrict simultaneous video being sent from
different users in the group (likely to be useful for network capacity/UE
limitations). From a user perspective there is not the same need to restrict
multiple simultaneous transmission and presentation of video within the same
group, as if different streams are available at the UE then the user could
choose which, to look at them simultaneously. It is assumed that users that
are permitted to transmit video are generally allowed to send video to a
group, unless there is a network capacity/UE restriction rule that places
limitations on the number of videos to that group. In this case users would be
trained in appropriate use of that choice.
The point at which video is transmitted to a group may vary, e.g. a user may
press to send video and wait until allowed by the network to stream to the
affiliated group according to the admission control policy. However, the user
may be able to \"force\" the immediate transmission of the video information,
for example, by pressing and holding the button to send video. In this case
the UE will take immediate action to capture the video for onward transmission
as soon as permitted. Also the UE will communicate the immediate nature of the
video to the network, which may choose to authorise the access and then
locally store it for onward transmission or stream it immediately to the
relevant group. In this case the video may be slightly delayed due to the
start up delay. It is also possible for the user to mark their video
communication as Emergency or Imminent Peril and this will immediately elevate
the priority of video communications for this group above non emergency video.
A further way that MCVideo differs from MCPTT is that group members may be
configured not to automatically receive video. Video may be streamed up to the
network and users invited to join when/if convenient/appropriate for them or
only if they have access to a multicast enabled device. An example might be
where a Police Officer driving to an incident is not able to view a video of
the events unfolding, but his partner in the car can usefully receive and view
the video. In this case MCVideo working together with MCPTT will provide a
powerful solution to know which videos to receive for those best placed to
receive them. This user reception function might be used to late join a video
stream or with the store and forward capability for video.
## 4.3 Video surveillance
Surveillance cameras could also use the MCVideo service in which case, in
addition to the existing video storage and monitoring activity already used
for the surveillance camera, authority may be given to users in the MCVideo
system to connect to, control receive and forward video either to an
individual or to a group. Surveillance includes the ability to locally and
remotely activate video streaming automatically or on demand, to control the
positioning, optical and video parameters of the camera and to recognize video
features. The camera may be exclusively in the MCVideo system, or it may be
accessed by connection from the MCVideo Service via an existing external
interface for surveillance camera networks. In this latter case, the external
interface is expected to provide requests for control and onward streaming of
video, which will be managed together with the normal control network for
those cameras. This external interface is outside of the control of 3GPP and
existing standards may be used for part or all of the functionality of this
interface e.g. TVNP.
## 4.4 Group Management/ Communication and Affiliation
MCVideo group communication aspects are very similar to MCPTT. Each user may
be a member of several, even many, groups. Membership is determined by
administration control and provides a user identity based level of authority
to join a group. Each user chooses to affiliate to the groups that they want
to receive video communication from. Once a user has successfully affiliated
to a group they will begin to receive video communications directed to that
group according to the video distribution approach used. A user who wishes to
send video to a group shall select the relevant group and then they may send
video to it.
Groups may interwork with other MCX Service groups, so a single group could be
configured for MCPTT and MCVideo and any other combination of MCX Services.
The present document does not describe how that is managed, it could be a
single group with a single affiliate message and separate attributes for each
service or it may be different groups managed together by administrator
control and linked in the UE to allow single user action to trigger the same
action e.g. affiliate, for each relevant service. It shall be possible for
services actions to be taken independently because some UE may not be capable
of all of the linked services and some users may not be given access to some
services or some groups for some services.
## 4.5 Security
All MCVideo communications, video and supporting signalling and messaging
which start and end entirely within MCVideo systems are protected by the
security mechanisms used for other MCX Services and defined in MCCoRe. MCVideo
communications to and from external end points may be security protected and
routed through the normal MCVideo system and then forwarded into the required
network for onward delivery to the external end point. Alternatively, such
communication could just use the protection and routing provided by the
transport network. Given the potential use of stored video information in
evidentiary procedures, ensuring the integrity, confidentiality and accuracy
of the video information and its associated meta-data is of paramount
importance for MCVideo Data.
## 4.6 Confidentiality:
MCVideo has the same confidentiality requirements as for other MCX Services
and are defined in MCCoRe [3].
## 4.7 User identities and inter-working between MCServices
All users have a unique identity and at least one alias for other MCServices.
A single user can have the same or different aliases for any and every MCX
Service and group that they are members of, but user identities and aliases
for each user resolve to a unique identity even among multiple independent MCX
Services in the same domain (e.g. State or Country. In this way, a user who
identifies another user using one service will be able to make contact using a
different service.
For example, multiple groups and multiple Mission Critical organisations
working in the same building might use a map application, which shows them
where all the other users are. It should be possible for one user to be able
to identify a nearby user from the map and request a video (via the MCVideo
Service) of the situation from a certain vantage in order to take appropriate
action. The other user may be in a combined group for the mapping application
(MCData) but not currently known affiliated in any other group along with the
requesting user. User identities requirements are specified in MCCoRe [3].
It is assumed in the present document that, even when there is no configured
inter-service interworking action, the User ID for any user detected in any
MCService can be used to establish video communication to that user, subject
to the user being authorised for the MCVideo Service and the UE being MCVideo
capable.
## 4.8 Non video aspects of the MCVideo service
### 4.8.1 Relationship with other MCServices
As with MCPTT which has non-speech aspects to the service, in a similar way
there are non-video aspects for the MCVideo service. Many of these services
are in common with MCPTT such as Emergency Alert signalling, Location
messaging etc. but some are also distinct such as video camera control (PTZ --
Pan, Tilt, Zoom).
It may also be possible for some MCCoRe aspects to work in the same way
between MCVideo and MCData, for example store and forward video.
### 4.8.2 Camera control
Camera control is specified in MCVideo but it is not intended to define a new
PTZ protocol. Where protocols exist, these should be assumed for MCVideo e.g.
TVNP for PTZ although TVNP is unlikely to be the only relevant standard so
there should be provision to use alternative standards according to need.
### 4.8.3 Location
As with other MCServices, from time to time MCVideo Service providing UE
location is required. Ideally the same location messaging for a MCService UE
supporting multiple services could be used to update all relevant services at
the same time. Location messaging requirements are defined at stage 1 in
MCCoRe specification [3].
### 4.8.4 Emergency Alert
As with other MCServices, the MCVideo Service will use an Emergency Alert to
indicate an emergency state and to gain transport network priority. When
multiple services are operating together it should be configurable whether the
Emergency state of one service affects or not the Emergency state of another
service. This situation may be complex to handle between groups using
different services. Operational requirements are defined in the Interworking
clause of MCCoRe specification [3].
## 4.9 Video codecs
In general, an MCVideo UE can support several video codecs (or video codec
operating modes) of which some could be optional, some could be
locally/regionally mandated via regulation, and one is globally mandated via
3GPP implicit (by reference) or explicit (by detailed specification)
standardization as the mandatory universal interoperability video codec. If
MCVideo UEs participate in a video session, they may need to negotiate or rely
on defaults or other rules to establish a common video codec for the video
session. Transcoding is not desirable on grounds of complexity and efficiency
and in order to enable end-to-end ciphering.
The MCVideo service supports both combined (for efficiency and
synchronization) and separate (for cases when the video component cannot or
will not be received) handling of video and audio streams.
# 5 MCVideo specific requirements
## 5.1 MCVideo services common for on network and off network
### 5.1.1 Video characteristics
#### 5.1.1.1 Operational recommendations and requirements for video codecs for
the MCVideo service
[R-5.1.1.1-001] The video codecs for the MCVideo service should be able to
compress/record variable (from very low to very high) resolution video
information acquired in real-time:
\- in conditions of varied mobility (from static to highly mobile); and
\- in conditions of optical and thermal illuminations varying from dimly lit
to glare and high brightness.
[R-5.1.1.1-002] The MCVideo service shall use video coding and decoding that
enables license plate reading, facial and fingerprint recognition and overview
of scenes.
[R-5.1.1.1-002a] The MCVideo service shall support MCVideo UEs that are
capable of only receiving videos (e.g. do not have a camera).
[R-5.1.1.1-002b] The MCVideo service shall support MCVideo UEs that are
capable of only transmitting videos (e.g. traffic camera).
[R-5.1.1.1-002c] The MCVideo service shall support MCVideo UEs that are
capable of transmitting and receiving videos.
[R-5.1.1.1-002d] The MCVideo service shall support transportation of all 3GPP
mandated video frame rates and resolutions.
[R-5.1.1.1-003] The video codecs for the MCVideo service should be able to
work effectively in an environment that allows for the transfer of stored or
just acquired video information or both, including the capability of rapidly
trading image resolution and chromaticity for transfer latency and bandwidth.
[R-5.1.1.1-004] MCVideo UEs should support rendering of video clips in
industry-standard widely-used formats.
[R-5.1.1.1-005] The video codecs for the MCVideo service should be able to
decompress video information, in a manner that enables detail-oriented
intelligibility of the information.
[R-5.1.1.1-006] The video encoders for the MCVideo service should provide both
automatic adaptive and manual setting of its working parameters across wide
ranges of values and be able to immediately and predictably reflect the
changes in values.
[R-5.1.1.1-007] The video codecs for the MCVideo service should provide video
compression ratios and quality at least comparable to what it is customarily
and reasonably expected from H.264 [6] compliant video codec implementations.
[R-5.1.1.1-008] Subject to capability, capacity and configuration, it should
be possible for MCVideo UEs to support the generation, storage, transmission
and rendering of uncompressed video information or of video information
losslessly compressed.
[R-5.1.1.1-009] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorised MCVideo User or MCVideo Administrator to configure and to
temporarily reconfigure the preferred video codec, default video resolution
and default video frame rate for an MCVideo Group.
[R-5.1.1.1-010] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorised MCVideo User or MCVideo Administrator to configure, in preference
order, the allowed sets of video codec(s), corresponding video resolution(s)
and video frame rate(s) for an MCVideo Group.
[R-5.1.1.1-011] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for automatic
negotiation between MCVideo UEs for the establishment of a common video codec,
corresponding video resolution(s) and video frame rate(s) for the duration of
an MCVideo communication.
[R-5.1.1.1-012] The MCVideo service shall support video resolution at least
from 320 x 240 at 10 frames per second up to and beyond 1280 x 720 at 30
frames per second.
[R-5.1.1.1-012a] An MCVideo UE that is able to transmit video may support a
video resolution from 320 x 240 at 10 frames per second up to and beyond 1280
x 720 at 30 frames per second.
[R-5.1.1.1-012b] An MCVideo UE that is able to receive videos shall support as
a minimum, the reception, decoding and rendering of all 3GPP mandated video
frame rates and resolutions.
[R-5.1.1.1-013] The MCVideo service should enable high definition rendering of
the video information with quality at least corresponding to video format
1080p (1920 × 1080 pixels HDTV resolution).
[R-5.1.1.1-014] The MCVideo service should support the video capturing and
storing of video information for objects moving at speeds of up to 150 km/h,
with the ability to extract images of quality necessary for license plate
reading.
[R-5.1.1.1-015] The MCVideo service shall support mutual adaptation between
the video codecs and the video information carrying bearer in terms of video
resolution, frame rate and QoS characteristics (e.g. bandwidth, error rate).
[R-5.1.1.1-016] The MCVideo service shall support UE entering the video
communication late to identify the video resolution and frame rate being used
and be able to start video capture, storage, encoding, transmission,
reception, decoding and rendering with minimal delay upon entering the video
communication.
[R-5.1.1.1-017] The MCVideo service should support combined handling of video
and audio information.
[R-5.1.1.1-018] The MCVideo service shall support separate handling of video
and audio information, including the ability to cipher, transport, store and
deliver video and audio separately.
[R-5.1.1.1-019] The MCVideo service shall enable uploaded images to be
integrity protected on a per-frame basis and inter-frame basis.
#### 5.1.1.2 End-user criteria and requirements for the selection of a video
codec for MCVideo service
[R-5.1.1.2-001] A single video codec for global interoperability shall be
specified as mandatory. Other video codecs may be specified as optional where
benefits over the global interoperability video codec are identified.
NOTE: This requirement refers to 3GPP action**.** Local, national and regional
authorities can make additional video codecs mandatory within their
jurisdiction.
[R-5.1.1.2-002] The global interoperability video codec shall be widely
available and have a good in-field track record of availability, reliability,
quality and responsiveness acquired over a substantive period of time of
actual use as prescribed.
[R-5.1.1.2-003] The global interoperability video codec shall have been
extensively tested in all the potentially deployable operation modes.
[R-5.1.1.2-004] The complexity, processing power and energy consumption of the
global interoperability video codec should be in the "small" range for the
specific task at hand, when other video codecs are used for comparison.
[R-5.1.1.2-005] Based on the capabilities of the active UE(s) in possession of
a user, each media component of a transmission received by the user shall be
playable on at least one of the active UEs.
#### 5.1.1.3 Video modes
##### 5.1.1.3.1 Description
Although MCVideo requires low latency video streams not all video streams need
to comply with the same low latency. There are some situations where the
latency is less important but it is very important to capture what is visible
in front of the camera at the precise time. These different requirements do
not necessarily relate to the level of situational Emergency and so there is a
difference in a MCVideo service between Emergency and urgency.
To avoid dimensioning a service to only cope with the most urgent requirements
all the time and to avoid having the user community invoke Emergency just to
mark a video as low latency, video modes are introduced.
##### 5.1.1.3.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.1.3.2-001] Based on authorized user or Administrator designation or
based on profile information, the MCVideo transmissions shall be identifiable
in one of three video modes i) urgent real time, ii) non-urgent real time,
iii) non real time.
[R-5.1.1.3.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User or Administrator to set the video mode for an MCVideo
Group.
[R-5.1.1.3.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User or Administrator to configure the allowed video modes
for an MCVideo Group.
### 5.1.2 Video parameters remote control
#### 5.1.2.1 Remote modification of real time video quality
##### 5.1.2.1.1 Service description
Circumstances can affect the quality of the video connection and it should
therefore be possible to adapt the video connection parameters to those
circumstances in an effective manner.
Mission critical control room operators and dispatchers will use video to
analyse and control incidents in the field. The dispatcher might need to adapt
the video quality to the purpose and for efficient use of 3GPP network
resources. In the same way, an incident might be remotely managed by an
officer in the field, using videos received from users involved in the
incident and other sources. If only an overview of the scene is needed, a low
video quality might be all that is needed. If there is a need to read a
license plate or to recognize something in the scene, a very high definition
video may be required. Those adaptations will have to be done in real time.
##### 5.1.2.1.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.2.1.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for authorized
MCVideo Users to remotely modify video settings in real time, through
parameter modification (e.g. resolution modification) and through codec
renegotiation.
[R-5.1.2.1.2-002] The MCVideo service shall minimize the interruption and
video information loss due to video parameter changes and codec renegotiation
during video capture, transmission and rendering.
[R-5.1.2.1.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for authorized
MCVideo Users to locally modify video quality, through parameter modification.
NOTE: While a dispatcher remotely controls an MCVideo UE in the field, the
local modification of parameters is forbidden.
[R-5.1.2.1.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
Administrator to authorize an MCVideo User to modify the video settings of the
transmitted video stream of another MCVideo User.
[R-5.1.2.1.2-005] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism to negotiate a
change of codec being used during the video transmission.
[R-5.1.2.1.2-006] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
Administrator to authorize an MCVideo User to renegotiate a codec during a
video transmission.
[R-5.1.2.1.2-007] The MCVideo service shall support signaling such that video
capabilities or parameters for a camera can be remotely controlled on an
MCVideo UE (e.g. to capture video, video clips, images of sufficient quality
to perform the purpose intended).
#### 5.1.2.2 Video capabilities information management
##### 5.1.2.2.1 Service description
In order to enable remote control of video cameras in the field, there is a
need to exchange those video capability parameters and to allow control of a
subset of those parameters.
##### 5.1.2.2.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.2.2.2-001] The MCVideo service shall require authentication of the
MCVideo User before granting service access to remotely control the video
capabilities of a remote MCVideo UE.
[R-5.1.2.2.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism by which an
authorized MCVideo User can obtain and display the video capabilities of
another MCVideo UE.
[R-5.1.2.2.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism by which an
authorized MCVideo User can limit what information to receive about a remote
MCVideo UE.
[R-5.1.2.2.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for a MCVideo
Administrator to authorize an MCVideo User to receive and display the
capabilities of a remote MCVideo UE.
[R-5.1.2.2.2-005] The MCVideo service shall support signaling such that a set
of camera capabilities or parameters of an MCVideo UE can be displayed on a
remote MCVideo UE.
### 5.1.3 Video remote control including camera discovery
#### 5.1.3.1 Remote camera control
##### 5.1.3.1.1 Service description
In addition to video parameters control, there is a need to remotely control
the camera views (Pan, Tilt, Zoom). The technical solution need to leverage
already existing standards.
In addition, a user will need to be able to capture and store video from a
remote camera.
##### 5.1.3.1.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.3.1.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
user to remotely control a camera on another MCVideo UE subject to relevant
authorization.
[R-5.1.3.1.2-002] The MCVideo service shall support signalling such that a set
of video capabilities or parameters for a camera can be selected on an MCVideo
UE (e.g. capture video, video clips and images of sufficient quality to
perform the intended purpose).
[R-5.1.3.1.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism through which
an authorized MCVideo User can control camera functions not specifically
related to the video stream e.g. Pan, Tilt and Zoom (PTZ), including being
able to place a capable camera in and out of an automatic detection,
activation and tracking mode.
NOTE: Existing protocols (e.g. TVNP) could be used.
[R-5.1.3.1.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
Administrator to authorize an MCVideo User to remotely activate another
MCVideo User\'s camera.
#### 5.1.3.2 Camera discovery
##### 5.1.3.2.1 Service description
When arriving at an incident and/or affiliating to a group related to the
incident, an authorized user wants to discover the cameras he/she can connect
to and control.
The presence, exact location, addressing information, video coverage area and
capabilities of cameras might not always be known to MCVideo Users. However,
an authorized MCVideo User might want to discover and establish communication
in order to avail himself of the video information provided by such cameras.
The MCVideo service might need to control access of various users (or types of
users) to different sets of cameras. For example, a remotely located medical
expert might be granted access to cameras within ambulances at an incident
scene, but not to security surveillance cameras. Within its allowed set of
cameras, a user mightwant to find a subset that meets certain criteria. This
can be achieved by establishing categories and associating them to various
cameras. An interested user could then specify the categories of interest and
the MCVideo Service would identify to the user cameras of the specified
categories. Examples of categories include certain technical capabilities of
the camera (e.g. self-activated camera, wide field of view etc.)and areas of
use (traffic, security surveillance).
##### 5.1.3.2.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.3.2.2-001] An MCVideo UE shall be capable to discover, negotiate
service, controlling parameters and capabilities, and to start receiving,
storing and displaying video transmitted from another MCVideo UE.
[R-5.1.3.2.2-002] An MCVideo UE shall be discoverable subject to permissions
and authorization, capable of negotiating service, controlling parameters and
capabilities, and remotely controlling another MCVideo UE.
[R-5.1.3.2.2-003] The MCVideo service shall allow an MCVideo User to discover,
determine the status, working parameters and capabilities and to negotiate
service of MCVideo UEs within sets authorized to the MCVideo User.
[R-5.1.3.2.2-004] The MCVideo service shall allow an MCVideo user to discover
an MCVideo UE based on specified categories to which the MCVideo UE belongs.
#### 5.1.3.3 Communications remote control
##### 5.1.3.3.1 Service description
Authorized users will need to be able to remotely control video
communications.
##### 5.1.3.3.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.3.3.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorised MCVideo User to remotely start and stop local recording of video.
[R-5.1.3.3.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorised MCVideo User to remotely set triggers for automatic commencement of
video transmission to authorised MCVideo Users; such triggers to include
motion detection, time of day, face recognition, licence plate recognition,
location and speed.
[R-5.1.3.3.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorised MCVideo User to remotely start and stop playback of recorded video
(including in low resolution fast-forward mode).
[R-5.1.3.3.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorised MCVideo User to remotely initiate transmission of a selected part
of a recorded video to authorised MCVideo Users.
### 5.1.4 Video processing capabilities
#### 5.1.4.1 Service description
There is a need to have processing capabilities in order to enhance the user
experience.
#### 5.1.4.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.4.2-001] The MCVideo system shall have video processing capabilities
including combining different video streams, to show them on a single display
unit, provide digital zoom within a video stream, adapt the size and
resolution of a video stream to the size and resolution of the screen or
window, record video and make stills of different video streams.
[R-5.1.4.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for recording
video content for video processing purpose.
[R-5.1.4.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for capturing
video content using coordinated multiple video cameras.
[R-5.1.4.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for determining
in a reasonably indisputable way whether or not presented video content was
captured with multiple cameras and at the same time.
[R-5.1.4.2-005] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for simultaneous
activation and control of multiple video cameras.
[R-5.1.4.2-006] The MCVideo service should support rendering video content in
stereo 3D.
### 5.1.5 Robots video remote control
#### 5.1.5.1 Service description
Robots will be used more and more to provide unique services to Mission
Critical organizations. Critical communications users need, as a consequence,
a common communication framework to manage videos from robots which can take
advantage of different transport technologies such as a 3GPP system. The
MCVideo service, working in conjunction with existing robot control
capabilities, will provide mechanisms to do that.
The following sub-clause aims at defining requirements to ensure robot video
control communication can be provided through a 3GPP system.
It is expected that there will be different manufacturers for robots. As a
consequence a well-known transport framework is needed in order to ensure easy
integration of new robots.
#### 5.1.5.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.5.2-001] A robot may be equipped with an MCVideo UE and provide
functions of an MCVideo UE, such as remote control of video parameters.
[R-5.1.5.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism to control the
video settings of a robot.
[R-5.1.5.2-003] The MCVideo service shall support aerial unmanned vehicles at
an altitude of up to 150 meter above the floor.
[R-5.1.5.2-004] The MCVideo service, in coordination with the MCData Service,
shall be able to give different priorities to the communication for
controlling the MCVideo UEs, the communication for controlling/driving the
robot, the communication for controlling the video transmission from the robot
and the video transmitted by the robot, depending also on who it is
transmitted to (e.g. pilot, a dispatcher or a group).
[R-5.1.5.2-005] The MCVideo service shall provide a minimum of four levels of
latencies for controlling video:
\- When the MCVideo UE is in an aerial unmanned vehicle, during take-off and
landing, the video control latency shall remain under 100 ms.
\- When the MCVideo UE is in an aerial unmanned vehicle, while flying, the
video control latency shall remain under 300 ms.
\- When the MCVideo UE is in an aquatic or submarine unmanned vehicle, the
video control latency shall remain under 500 ms.
\- When the MCVideo UE is in a terrestrial unmanned vehicle moving at less
than 120km/h, the video control latency shall remain under 400 ms.
NOTE: At this stage of the work, the latency is an end-to-end latency. The
split between network latency and robot latency is left for stage 2.
[R-5.1.5.2-006] The MCVideo service shall provide a latency of the video
transmission less than 500 ms when the video is used by the pilot.
[R-5.1.5.2-007] Void.
### 5.1.6 MCVideo Profile management and administration
#### 5.1.6.1 Service description
This clause describes the specific user profile management for MCVideo.
#### 5.1.6.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.6.2-001] The MCVideo service shall ensure that each MCVideo User has at
least one associated MCVideo User Profile that contains the MCVideo\'s
authorizations for video control, for example permissions to turn on/off
cameras and displays, to enable video and audio transmission to authorized
targets, to use normal controls for recording and/or playing the video, to
raise and lower the resolution and the width of the visual field of the
recording and of the transmission, to change the position of the visual field
of the camera and to activate / deactivate motion sensors that can trigger the
automatic activation of cameras.
### 5.1.7 Capabilities additional to MCCoRe
#### 5.1.7.1 Leaving and rejoining an in progress video communication
##### 5.1.7.1.1 Service description
Considering that video distribution will take significant amount of resources,
and considering an operational user may in many cases not be available to
watch a video, the system needs to provide an efficient means to manage
entering and leaving video communications.
##### 5.1.7.1.2 Requirements
[5.1.7.1.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a means for a receiving
MCVideo User to cancel receipt of a video stream on an MCVideo UE.
[5.1.7.1.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a means for an MCVideo User
to redirect on demand or in pre-determined fashion the receipt of a video
stream between a receiving MCVideo UE and a video mail box.
[5.1.7.1.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a means for an MCVideo User
to rejoin a previously cancelled video stream.
NOTE: This ceases to apply if the video stream has terminated for any reason.
[5.1.7.1.2-004] When an MCVideo User cancels receipt of a video stream and has
no other MCVideo UE receiving that video stream, an indication shall be sent
to the sending MCVideo User as notification that the receiving user in
question has left the video stream.
[5.1.7.1.2-005] When an MCVideo User rejoins an ongoing video stream on a
first MCVideo UE, an indication shall be sent to the sending MCVideo User as
notification that the receiving user in question has rejoined the video
stream.
[5.1.7.1.2-006] If all receiving members of a video stream have left the video
stream, the sending user shall be given an indication that all users have left
and given the choice to end the video stream or continue sending the video for
storage available for subsequent download by other users.
### 5.1.8 MCVideo capability information sharing
#### 5.1.8.1 Service description
Before trying to remotely access the video capabilities of a UE, it might be
useful to know about its capability in order to be sure the operational
purpose can be achieved.
#### 5.1.8.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.8.2-001] Subject to permissions and authorization, the MCVideo service
shall provide a means to share information about video capabilities (e.g.
codecs) of MCVideo UEs under the control of members of a selected group.
[R-5.1.8.2-002] Subject to permissions and authorizations, the MCVideo service
shall provide a means to share current status of MCVideo UE activity (e.g.
receiving video, transmitting video, or recording video) between the members
of a selected group.
### 5.1.9 Video push and pull services
#### 5.1.9.1 Video pull service
##### 5.1.9.1.1 Service description
Users need the capability to pull a video from a source which might be a UE in
the field, or a video storage server . In this service, a user requests
another user to transmit a video stored or directly taken from the camera.
##### 5.1.9.1.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.9.1.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User (e.g. dispatcher) to request an MCVideo UE to transmit
a video to the requester, or to another authorized party or to both (uplink
pull).
#### 5.1.9.2 Video push service
##### 5.1.9.2.1 Service description
Users need the capability to push a video to another user.
##### 5.1.9.2.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.9.2.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User to push video to another MCVideo User.
[R-5.1.9.2.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
administrator to authorize an MCVideo user to push a video to another MCVideo
user.
[R-5.1.9.2.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User to enable and to disable the automatic sending of
notification to a second MCVideo User that a video is being pushed to a third
MCVideo User.
NOTE: The second and the third MCVideo Users can be the same MCVideo User.
[R-5.1.9.2.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
User to enable and to disable being notified about video being pushed to
specific MCVideo Users.
[R-5.1.9.2.2-005] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
User to enable and to disable the reception of video of specific categories.
[R-5.1.9.2.2-006] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User to manage, activate and de-activate a blacklist for
MCVideo push whereby if that authorized user has activated MCVideo push
blacklisting and an incoming MCVideo push is received from an MCVideo user
whose ID is configured in this list then the MCVideo push request from the
sending MCVideo user is denied.
[R-5.1.9.2.2-007] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User to manage, activate and de-activate a whitelist for
MCVideo push whereby if that authorized MCVideo user has activated MCVideo
push whitelisting and an incoming MCVideo push is received from an MCVideo
user whose ID is not configured in this list then the MCVideo push request
from the sending MCVideo user is denied.
NOTE: It is not recommended to have both MCVideo push blacklisting and MCVideo
push whitelisting activated at the same time.
[R-5.1.9.2.2-008] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
User to suspend and to resume receiving an incoming video stream from an
MCVideo push.
[R-5.1.9.2.2-009] The MCVideo video push service shall allow the MCVideo user
to configure the MCVideo UE either to automatically accept an incoming MCVideo
push request or to prompt the user as to whether to manually accept or reject
the incoming MCVideo push request from the sending MCVideo user.
[R-5.1.9.2.2-010] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
administrator to authorize an MCVideo user to use the MCvideo push blacklist
and whitelist feature.
### 5.1.10 Video streams availability and characteristics
#### 5.1.10.1 Service description
Users need to be informed of the existence and the technical and operational
details of group video streams in progress. The user can then decide to join
the stream or not, based on the information provided.
#### 5.1.10.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.10.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User to forward details of a received video stream to other
MCVideo users so that, if authorized, they may also join the MCVideo stream.
[R-5.1.10.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
administrator and for an authorized user, or both, to locally and remotely
assign specific category tags and access permissions to a specific MCVideo UE
(e.g. a certain video camera) within their domain that can be used by
authorized MCVideo Users to discover, select and address that MCVideo UE.
[R-5.1.10.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
administrator and for an authorized user, or both, to locally and remotely
assign specific category tags and access permissions to a specific video clip
within their domain that can be used by authorized MCVideo users to view that
video clip.
[R-5.1.10.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for the
advertising and distribution of category tags associated with a specific
MCVideo UE or a video clip.
[R-5.1.10.2-005] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
User to use and control each of his MCVideo UEs independently of the others.
[R-5.1.10.2-006] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
User to enable and to disable the alerting and displaying of notifications
addressed to MCVideo UEs under his control.
[R-5.1.10.2-007] The MCVideo service shall support a mechanism by which an
external observer is prevented from determining whether or not an MCVideo UE
is performing video capture, transmission, or both.
[R-5.1.10.2-008] The MCVideo service shall be able to provide an integrity
protected timestamped detailed log of all performed and attempted activities
for each user of the MCVideo Service.
[R-5.1.10.2-009] The MCVideo service shall be able to add and integrity
protect meta-data to a video stream (e.g. time stamps, location coordinates,
parameter settings, authorship information) at the time of the video capture
and recording, such that the authenticity and accuracy of the recording cannot
be disputed.
[R-5.1.10.2-010] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism by which limits
on information transfer parameters (e.g. bandwidth) can be set and adjusted
dynamically in order to prevent or alleviate depletion of communication
resources (e.g. congestion).
### 5.1.11 Video conferencing
#### 5.1.11.1 Service description
For small groups working on the same operation, there is a need to have a
video conferencing service. This service allows a group with limited size to
exchange synchronized voice and video.
#### 5.1.11.2 Requirements
[5.1.11.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a video conferencing feature.
[5.1.11.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism to limit the
maximum number of Participants in a video conference.
[5.1.11.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a means for an authorized
User or Administrator to configure the maximum number of participants in a
video conference.
[5.1.11.2-004] Each participant in an MCVideo video conference shall be able
to simultaneously transmit video and associated synchronized voice to all
other video conference participants.
[5.1.11.2-005] Each participant in a video conference, subject to UE display
capabilities, shall be able to receive videos from all other participants.
NOTE: If relevant, the MCVideo service builds a mosaic with all the video
streams and provide the mosaic to all interested participants. All the
associated audio streams will be provided in this case.
[5.1.11.2-006] Each participant in a video conference shall be able to choose
and display a subset of video streams provided by other participants, while
continuing to receive audio streams from all participants.
[5.1.11.2-007] Each participant in a video conference shall be able to disable
video and use the video conferencing service as a voice-only conference
service.
### 5.1.12 Additional security requirements for MCVideo
#### 5.1.12.1 General
Videos for public safety are critical and there is a need for them to be
trustable. For evidentiary purposes Public Safety videos need to be certified
as authentic and not tampered. The integrity of video data is of particular
importance.
#### 5.1.12.2 Requirements
[R-5.1.12.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide means for the generation,
handling and storing of video material with evidentiary potential in a manner
that guarantees its authenticity.
[R-5.1.12.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide means for tamper detection
for video material with evidentiary potential.
[R-5.1.12.2-003] The MCVideo service should provide means for tamper
protection for video material with evidentiary potential.
[R-5.1.12.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism by which
security related information generated based on securely communicated data
from the MCVideo server can be embedded in created videos and subsequently
integrity protected, at the time of the video creation by the MCVideo capable
UE.
[R-5.1.12.2-005] The MCVideo service shall provide the ability for MCVideo
server and MCVideo capable UEs to exchange MCData among themselves via secure
links during the creation of videos.
[R-5.1.12.2-006] MCVideo capable UEs shall be able to use location, time,
subscription identity, device identity and information provided from outside
the UE to generate and use security data for videos created by the UE.
## 5.2 MCVideo services requirements specific to on-network use
### 5.2.1 Video availability notification
#### 5.2.1.1 Service description
This function aims at informing the user when there is a video file which he
could be interested in. The notification might also enclose a description of
the video as well as an indication of its operational importance.
In this service the video has been stored and is not part of an ongoing video
transmission.
#### 5.2.1.2 Requirements
[R-5.2.1.2-001] An authorized MCVideo User shall be able to notify an MCVideo
Group of the availability of a video.
[R-5.2.1.2-002] An authorized MCVideo User shall be able to individually
notify an MCVideo User outside an MCVideo Group that a video is available
independently from any affiliation mechanism.
[R-5.2.1.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User to retrieve and view a video that has been identified
in a notification.
[R-5.2.1.2-004] The MCVideo availability notification may use another service
(e.g. MCData).
[R-5.2.1.2-005] The MCVideo service shall only send video notifications to
MCVideo Users authorized to view the video.
### 5.2.2 Replay of stored video
#### 5.2.2.1 Service description
This function aims at offering video tape functions for a user viewing a video
as well as an opportunity to choose and view video files stored on the server.
#### 5.2.2.2 Requirements
[R-5.2.2.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide an authorization mechanism
for MCVideo Users and MCVideo Groups to view a remotely stored video.
[R-5.2.2.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an
authorized MCVideo User to view a video with simple video player functions
(e.g. pause rewind, forward).
[R-5.2.2.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a list of available and
authorized videos for the MCVideo User.
[R-5.2.2.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a means to associate MCVideo
User authorizations to each file for viewing, modifying and/or deleting the
file.
NOTE: This mechanism might use groups of users.
### 5.2.3 Video storage control
#### 5.2.3.1 Service description
Since mission critical video is sensitive data with varying local regulatory
issues, an MCVideo system cannot allow videos to be viewed or copied by
unauthorized people. As a consequence, there is a need to have a mechanism to
automatically delete videos from a terminal as well as a mechanism to remotely
delete videos from a terminal.
#### 5.2.3.2 Requirements
[R-5.2.3.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a means for an administrator
to remotely select and delete selected videos and associated data of an
MCVideo User from the MCVideo UE.
[R-5.2.3.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a means by which all MCVideo
data (including video related metadata) are periodically deleted from the
MCVideo UE unless an action is taken by an authorized MCVideo User.
[R-5.2.3.2-003] The deletion period shall be configurable.
### 5.2.4 Capabilities additional to MCCoRe
#### 5.2.4.1 Service description
This function aims at restricting use of video services to a specific
authorized MCVideo User.
#### 5.2.4.2 Requirements
[R-5.2.4.2-001] The MCVideo Service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
Administrator to restrict an MCVideo User\'s video communication to MCVideo
use only.
#### 5.2.5 Video control by a dispatcher
#### 5.2.5.1 Service description
Dispatchers need advanced capabilities for managing MCVideo services for
MCVideo Users and fixed cameras under their control.
#### 5.2.5.2 Requirements
[R-5.2.5.2-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for a dispatcher
of an MCVideo Group to request a monitoring camera to transmit a video to the
dispatcher.
[R-5.2.5.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for a dispatcher
of an MCVideo Group to terminate the video transmission from the monitoring
camera to the dispatcher.
[R-5.2.5.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for a dispatcher
of an MCVideo Group to request a monitoring camera to transmit a video to an
authorized user.
[R-5.2.5.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for a dispatcher
of an MCVideo Group to terminate the video transmission from the monitoring
camera to the authorized user.
[R-5.2.5.2-005] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for a dispatcher
to distribute a video to MCVideo Group Members.
[R-5.2.5.2-006] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for a dispatcher
to terminate the video distribution to MCVideo Group Members.
[R-5.2.5.2-007] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for a dispatcher
or an authorized user to build a mosaic from different video sources and
transmit this mosaic in an MCVideo group communication.
[R-5.2.5.2-008] The MCVideo Service shall provide a means to obtain the video
display capabilities available for an MCVideo User.
[R-5.2.5.2-009] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism to ensure that a
target MCVideo User is able to watch a mosaic video before transmission to the
user begins.
### 5.2.6 Transmission control
#### 5.2.6.1 Overview
MCVideo provides a method of working where each video being sent is delivered
as an invitation to the affiliated group members for them to elect to commence
receiving or not as suits their situation. It is far better not to send video
to a user who is unable to view it. Conflicting or simultaneous video
communications would result in simultaneous (or near simultaneous) invitations
to join and the users can choose which video communication, if any, to join.
Forced reception of video can be configured by an authorised user. In this
case, suitably authorised receiving users could be permitted to opt out of
viewing, perhaps because they have a specific task to watch some other stream.
As a consequence a video group communication can allow the user to accept the
video stream before receiving a video and can allow the user to choose from
available video streams amongst a list of ongoing video streams available to
the user.
#### 5.2.6.2 Transmission control requirements
##### 5.2.6.2.1 General
[R-5.2.6.2.1-001] The MCVideo service shall determine which Participant(s) are
allowed to transmit a video stream.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-002] An authorized Participant shall be able to request to
transmit to an MCVideo Group or an individual.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-003] When a request to transmit a video stream to an MCVideo
Group is granted the MCVideo service shall send an invitation to all
affiliated members of the selected group to allow them to accept to receive
the video.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-004] An MCVideo Group shall have the flexibility to be configured
to allow simultaneous transmitting MCVideo Group Members.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-005] MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for the MCVideo
Administrator to configure the maximum number of simultaneous transmissions in
a single MCVideo Group.
NOTE: No limit is a valid setting.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-006] The MCVideo service shall determine who is allowed to
transmit when there are requests to transmit more than the maximum number of
simultaneous communications within the same group.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-007] The MCVideo service may withhold permission to transmit for
service based pre-emptive capacity reasons.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-008] Following an MCVideo service request for permission to
transmit on the Selected MCVideo Group, the Affiliated MCVideo Group Member
that made and was granted the request shall be given an indication of being
granted permission to transmit.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-009] Following an MCVideo Private Communication request for
permission to transmit, an MCVideo User that is allowed to transmit shall be
given an indication that the user is allowed to transmit to the targeted
MCVideo User(s).
[R-5.2.6.2.1-010] When a user is not allowed to start a Group communication
the request may be queued or rejected.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-011] Following an MCVideo Group service request for permission to
transmit on the Selected MCVideo Group, an Affiliated MCVideo Group Member
that made but was not granted the request shall be given an indication that
permission to transmit was queued or rejected.
[R-5.2.6.2.1-012] Following an MCVideo Private Communication request for
permission to transmit, an MCVideo User that is not allowed to transmit shall
be given an indication that the permission to transmit was queued or rejected.
##### 5.2.6.2.2 Receiving video streams
[R-5.2.6.2.2-001] When a video group communication is started using a
particular MCVideo Group all affiliated group members for that same MCVideo
group shall be sent an invitation notifying them of the new video stream.
[R-5.2.6.2.2-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism to include
conditions for acceptance or rejection of the invitation (e.g. forced,
unforced).
[R-5.2.6.2.2-003] In the case of unforced invitation to receive an MCVideo
user shall receive the video stream of a MCVideo communication only after
having accepted the invitation.
[R-5.2.6.2.2-004] MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for the MCVideo
Administrator to configure the maximum number of simultaneous streams received
by an MCVideo User.
NOTE 1: No limit is a valid setting.
[R-5.2.6.2.2-005] As a configuration option, the MCVideo system shall provide
a means for an authorized MCVideo user to automatically receive video
communications.
NOTE 2: When configured for the User to receive a video stream automatically,
the transmission starts without acceptance of the receiving MCVideo User.
[R-5.2.6.2.2-006] As a configuration option, the MCVideo service shall provide
a means for an MCVideo user to automatically receive emergency video streams.
[R-5.2.6.2.2-007] As a configuration option, the MCVideo service shall provide
a means for an authorized MCVideo user to automatically receive imminent peril
video streams.
[R-5.2.6.2.2-008] An authorised user shall be able to configure an MCVideo
group to support individual user/UE opt in to receive communications or
mandatory/automatic reception.
[R-5.2.6.2.2-009] An MCVideo user shall be able to opt in to receive
communications for any recently invited group communications for which the
MCVideo user is affiliated.
NOTE 3: A list of recent invitations to opt in is stored and presented to the
user on demand. Recent might be time limited, size of list limited or any
other limit. Ceased communications is removed from the opt in invitation list.
[R-5.2.6.2.2-010] When a video private communication is started the receiving
participant shall be given the option of accepting or rejecting the
communication.
##### 5.2.6.2.3 Entering an ongoing video stream
[R-5.2.6.2.3-001] The MCVideo service shall provide to the MCVideo User the
list of ongoing/currently transmitting video group communications, for which
he is affiliated, periodically and on demand.
[R-5.2.6.2.3-002] The MCVideo user shall be able to choose one or more video
group communications subject to MCVideo settings and UE capabilities (e.g.
MCVideo UE display capabilities).
[R-5.2.6.2.3-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a means to separately
control the sound of the different video communications received.
##### 5.2.6.2.4 Video streams reconfiguration and termination
[R-5.2.6.2.4-001] The MCVideo service shall make efficient use of resources
(e.g. use of eMBMS).
[R-5.2.6.2.4-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a notification to a
transmitting MCVideo Group Member if there are no other MCVideo Group Members
who have affiliated to the MCVideo Group.
[R-5.2.6.2.4-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a notification to a
transmitting MCVideo Group Member if there are no MCVideo Group Members
receiving their communication.
NOTE: When an opt in communication is commenced, a reasonable time is allowed
for other users to opt to receive the communication before such a notification
is sent.
[R-5.2.6.2.4-004] The MCVideo service may interrupt the transmission of an
MCVideo communication when there is no MCVideo User receiving it.
[R-5.2.6.2.4-005] The MCVideo service may restart the transmission of an
MCVideo communication as soon as any affiliated/authorized user wants to
receive the MCVideo communication.
### 5.2.7 Override
#### 5.2.7.1 Overview
For MCVideo override is possible and useful but is different from MCPTT.
MCVideo might be operated in a combined way with MCPTT. Therefore, it is
likely that the sending user will have the opportunity to state what their
intention is for the video that they send. In this case it might not be
necessary for other regular members of the group to receive the video but the
dispatcher might always receive it. In this situation, when the group
invitation is sent, individual users could request to join the video if it is
useful to them and convenient. Override can then be achieved by the user
realising, from the MCPTT call, that another video is more important and so
switching over to receive the new one.
As an alternative to the invitation approach a forced approach is still
possible but a group force of a video is an unpredictable option as some users
might well be unable to view the video. Forced override is still possible in
MCVideo. The video is announced as an invitation but includes a forced
override indication. The system makes the forced override but, depending on
configuration, the user might be able to review a list of allowed continuing
video streams and go back to the one they are using.
MCVideo might operate in a group way with many members of the group sending
video to a dispatcher (private call) and the dispatcher periodically selecting
and sending video back to the group.
#### 5.2.7.2 General aspects
[R-5.2.7.2-001] The MCVideo Service shall enable an MCVideo Service
Administrator to create a hierarchy for determining which Participants,
Participant types, and urgent transmission types, if any, shall be granted a
request to override an active MCVideo Service transmission.
[R-5.2.7.2-002] The MCVideo Service shall enable an MCVideo Service
Administrator to configure which MCVideo Service Group transmission(s) a
Participant(s) receives for cases where an MCVideo Service transmission can be
overridden and/or to configure to allow the Participant to select from
available video streams.
[R-5.2.7.2-003] The MCVideo service shall enable the MCVideo Service
Administrator to configure the MCVideo Service Group to limit the number of
Participant(s) allowed to transmit at the same time into the same group.
[R-5.2.7.2-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
Service Administrator to configure MCVideo Service Private Communications to
pre-empt or not to pre-empt active received group communications.
[R-5.2.7.2-005] Any hierarchy used for granting a request to override an
active MCVideo Service transmission shall contain at least four (4) levels.
[R-5.2.7.2-006] The transmitting Participant(s) shall be determined by the
relative priorities of the Participants, number of allowed transmissions and
Communication type based on configuration.
[R-5.2.7.2-007] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for
Participants, to override an active MCVideo Service transmission of a
transmitting Participant based on configuration.
[R-5.2.7.2-008] If an MCVideo service transmission is overridden, the MCVideo
Service shall provide a means of notifying the overridden Participant(s) that
the transmission has been overridden.
[R-5.2.7.2-009] If the MCVideo Service Group limit for the number of
Participant(s) allowed to communicate at the same time into the same group
would otherwise be exceeded, the MCVideo service shall revoke transmit
permissions for non-emergency communications using the relative priorities of
the Participants, emergency state and video mode based on configuration.
### 5.2.8 Communication termination
[R-5.2.8-001] The MCVideo service shall enable an authorized MCVideo User to
terminate the permission to transmit of a transmitting Participant at any
time.
[R-5.2.8-002] A transmitting Participant shall be able to indicate to the
MCVideo service that the Participant no longer wants to transmit.
[R-5.2.8-003] If a receiving Participant of an MCVideo Service Group
Communication is pre-empted, the MCVideo Service may terminate the
communication or continue the communication with an indication to the
transmitting Participant that one or more receiving Participants was pre-
empted.
NOTE 1: If the transmitting participant is pre-empted the communication stops.
[R-5.2.8-004] If MCVideo User(s) are pre-empted from an on-going MCVideo
service communication as there is insufficient capacity to support their on-
going participation, the MCVideo service may ensure that the MCVideo User(s)
receive a notification that they have been removed from the communication for
reasons of lack of capacity.
[R-5.2.8-005] The MCVideo service shall have a configurable limit for the
length of time that a Participant transmits from a single request to transmit.
NOTE 2: Infinite is a valid setting for the transmit time limit.
[R-5.2.8-006] The MCVideo service shall enable an MCVideo Administrator to
configure the limit for the length of time that a Participant transmits from a
single request to transmit.
[R-5.2.8-007] The MCVideo service may provide a notification of intent to
terminate a communication e.g. to give the user time to request a time limit
extension.
[R-5.2.8-008] The MCVideo service may terminate a communication without
previously sending a notification.
[R-5.2.8-009] The MCVideo service may include an indication of termination
reason (e.g. time limit, administrator action) with any notification of intent
to terminate or actual termination.
[R-5.2.8-010] An MCVideo UE shall provide, to the User, a notification of
termination or intent to terminate including any reason given.
[R-5.2.8-011] The MCVideo service may include a request for more information
with any notification of intent to terminate communication.
NOTE 3: For example, to allow the user to request additional time, if
required.
[R-5.2.8-012] An MCVideo UE shall respond to a request for more information.
[R-5.2.8-012a] The response to a request for more information may include
request for more time, indicate no foreseen end to the communication.
[R-5.2.8-013] The MCVideo service shall terminate an MCVideo Service Group
Communication if any termination condition is met (e.g. last Participant
leaving, second last Participant leaving, initiator leaving, time limit) or
the minimum number of Affiliated MCVideo Service Group Members are not
present.
## 5.3 MCVideo services requirements specific to off-network use
### 5.3.1 Private Communication Off-Network
#### 5.3.1.1 Overview
Private Communications allow two MCVideo Users to communicate directly with
each other without the use of MCVideo Groups. They leverage many of the
functions and features of MCVideo Group Communication, such as MCVideo User
identity and alias information, location information, encryption, privacy,
priority, and administrative control. This capability establishes the ability
to transmit unidirectional video between two MCVideo Users, but could be used
to create a bi-directional video conferencing capability.
Two commencement modes of Private Communication are supported: Manual
Commencement Private Communication and Automatic Commencement Private
Communication.
Manual Commencement Private Communication mimics a telephone conversation
where the receiving party receives a notification that they are being
requested to join a Private Communication, and the receiving party might
accept, reject, or ignore the Communication request. Once the Communication
setup is accepted, the Private Communication is established.
Automatic Commencement Private Communication mimics the immediate setup and
propagation of Group Communication operation between two users where the
transmitting party initiates an Automatic Commencement Private Communication
to another user and sends video without any additional Communication setup
delay beyond Group Communication. If available and able to accept the Private
Communication from the transmitting party, the receiving party immediately
joins the Private Communication and processes the Communication transmitting
party\'s video.
#### 5.3.1.2 Private Communication Off-Network general requirements
[R-5.3.1.2-001] The MCVideo service shall support Private Communications Off-
Network.
[R-5.3.1.2-002] The MCVideo Service shall provide a mechanism for the Private
Communication to be set up with the MCVideo UE designated by the receiving
MCVideo User to be used for Private Communications when the receiving MCVideo
User has signed on to the MCVideo service with multiple MCVideo UEs.
#### 5.3.1.3 Private Communication Off-Network commencement requirements
[R-5.3.1.3-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
User to cancel an MCVideo Private Communication prior to the Communication
setup.
[R-5.3.1.3-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a means by which an
authorized MCVideo User initiates an MCVideo Private Communication.
[R-5.3.1.3-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a means by which an MCVideo
UE initiates an MCVideo Private Communication to any MCVideo User for which
the MCVideo UE\'s current MCVideo User is authorized.
> NOTE: For off-network use, only an MCVideo UE within communication range
> (possibly via a ProSe UE-to-UE Relay) receives the transmission.
[R-5.3.1.3-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a means by which an MCVideo
User initiates an Automatic Commencement Private Communication to any MCVideo
User for which the MCVideo User is authorized.
#### 5.3.1.4 Private Communication Off-Network termination
[R-5.3.1.4-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
User to reject an MCVideo Private Communication.
[R-5.3.1.4-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a means by which an MCVideo
User ends a Private Communication in which the MCVideo User is a Participant.
#### 5.3.1.5 Private Communication Off-Network administration
[R-5.3.1.5-001] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
Administrator to configure which MCVideo Users, within their authority, are
authorized to place a Manual Commencement Private Communication.
[R-5.3.1.5-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
Administrator to configure which MCVideo Users, within their authority, are
authorized to place an Automatic Commencement Private Communication.
[R-5.3.1.5-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
Administrator to configure for a particular authorized MCVideo User, a set of
MCVideo Users under the same authority to which an MCVideo Private
Communication can be made.
[R-5.3.1.5-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for an MCVideo
Administrator to configure the maximum duration for MCVideo Private
Communications for MCVideo Users within their authority.
### 5.3.2 MCVideo Transmission Control Off-Network
#### 5.3.2.1 Overview
MCVideo Transmission Control Off-Network provides a necessary capability for
an authorized user of the
MCVideo service to request to transmit, receive an indication of being allowed
to transmit or not being allowed to transmit and terminate a request to
transmit when the MCVideo user no longer wants to transmit. A transmit time
limit is provided which allows an MCVideo Administrator to configure the
limits for any transmission related to a single request to transmit. MCVideo
Transmission Control Off-Network also provides an override capability based on
a priority hierarchy to override an active MCVideo transmission of a
transmitting Participant based on configuration.
#### 5.3.2.2 General Aspects
[R-5.3.2.2-001] The MCVideo service when operating off-network shall determine
at a point in time which off-network Participant(s) are allowed to transmit to
other off-network Participants.
[R-5.3.2.2-002] An MCVideo Group shall have the flexibility to be configured
to allow simultaneous transmitting MCVideo Group Members.
[R-5.3.2.2-003] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for the MCVideo
Service Administrator to configure the maximum number of simultaneous
communications received by an off-network MCVideo User in a single MCVideo
Group.
#### 5.3.2.3 Requesting Permission to Transmit
[R-5.3.2.3-001] An authorized Participant shall be able to request to transmit
to an MCVideo Group or an individual MCVideo User.
[R-5.3.2.3-002] The MCVideo service shall determine which Participant(s) are
permitted to transmit when there are simultaneous requests for permission to
transmit within the same group.
[R-5.3.2.3-003] Following an MCVideo request for permission to transmit on the
Selected MCVideo Group, any Affiliated MCVideo User that made and was granted
the request shall be given an indication of being allowed to transmit.
[R-5.3.2.3-004] Following an MCVideo request for permission to transmit on the
Selected MCVideo Group, any Affiliated MCVideo User that made and was not
granted the request shall be given an indication that permission to transmit
was not given at that time.
[R-5.3.2.3-005] The MCVideo service when operating off-network shall provide a
mechanism for an MCVideo Participant to cancel its MCVideo request to transmit
at any stage, including before the request has been granted.
[R-5.3.2.3-006] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for the MCVideo
Administrator to configure parameter(s) relating to the automatic termination
of an off-network MCVideo service request to transmit.
#### 5.3.2.4 Override
[R-5.3.2.4-001] An MCVideo UE shall be pre-provisioned by an MCVideo
Administrator and/or authorized user with the necessary information in order
that override may operate during off-network MCVideo communication.
[R-5.3.2.4-002] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for MCVideo
Administrators to create a priority hierarchy for determining what
Participants, Participant types, and urgent transmission types, when operating
off the network, be granted a request to override an active off-network
MCVideo transmission.
[R-5.3.2.4-003] The priority hierarchy used for granting a request to override
an active MCVideo transmission shall contain at least four (4) levels.
[R-5.3.2.4-004] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism for
Participants, to override an active MCVideo transmission of a transmitting
Participant based on configuration.
[R-5.3.2.4-005] If an MCVideo transmission is overridden, the MCVideo Service
shall provide a means of notifying the overridden Participant(s) that the
transmission has been overridden.
[R-5.3.2.4-006] The MCVideo service shall provide a mechanism to enable an
MCVideo Administrator to configure which MCVideo Group transmission(s) a
Participant(s) receives, for cases where an MCVideo transmission can be
overridden.
[R-5.3.2.4-007] If the MCVideo Group has been configured to only allow the
overriding transmitting Participant to transmit, the MCVideo service shall
revoke the transmit permission of the overridden transmitting Participant.
#### 5.3.2.5 Terminating Permission to Transmit
[R-5.3.2.5-001] A transmitting Participant shall be able to indicate to the
off-network MCVideo service that the Participant no longer wants to transmit.
[R-5.3.2.5-002] The off-network MCVideo service shall provide an indication to
receiving Participants that the transmitting Participant has finished
transmitting.
#### 5.3.2.6 Transmit Time Limit
[R-5.3.2.6-001] The Off-Network MCVideo Service shall provide a mechanism for
an MCVideo UE to be pre-provisioned by an MCVideo Administrator and/or
authorized user with the necessary information in order that a transmit time
limit function may operate during off-network MCVideo communication.
[R-5.3.2.6-002] The Off-Network MCVideo Service shall enable an MCVideo
Administrator to configure the limits (e.g. elapsed time, quantity of data)
for any transmission related to a single request to transmit.
[R-5.3.2.6-003] The Off-Network MCVideo Service shall have configurable limits
(e.g. elapsed time, quantity of data), including indefinite, for any
transmission related to a single request to transmit (e.g. elapsed time,
quantity of data).
[R-5.3.2.6-004] The Off-Network MCVideo Service shall provide an indication to
the transmitting Participant a configurable amount before the transmit limit
is reached.
[R-5.3.2.6-005] The Off-Network MCVideo Service shall provide an indication to
the transmitting Participant that the Participant\'s transmit limit has been
reached.
[R-5.3.2.6-006] The Off-Network MCVideo Service shall remove the permission to
transmit from the transmitting Participant when the Participant\'s transmit
limit has been reached.
## 5.4 Performance and quality requirements for on-network and off-network
### 5.4.1 MCVideo device and camera moving at high speed
#### 5.4.1.1 Service description
Motion affects the length of time a desired target is shown in the video
frame, and can cause the target to blur. The level of motion in a particular
piece of video content can have a huge impact on the performance of a video
coder. A moving camera might also produce video that is much more difficult to
encode efficiently.
For public safety applications, if the video is considered "mission critical,"
the loss or interruption of a video stream or any significant delay in the
delivery of the video stream might be unacceptable for processing by the video
decoder. Therefore, if a source of video content is in motion and handovers
between radio coverage areas are necessary, then it is important that the
handovers are handled in a manner to minimize loss, interruption and delay of
the video stream.
#### 5.4.1.2 Requirements
[R-5.4.1.2-001] The MCVideo Service shall support one-to-one video
communications between authorized MCVideo UEs when the transmitting and/or
receiving MCVideo UEs are moving at different speeds, from 0 km/h to 160km/h.
[R-5.4.1.2-002] The MCVideo Service shall support group video communications
between authorized MCVideo UEs when the transmitting and/or receiving MCVideo
UEs are moving at different speeds, from 0 km/h to 160km/h.
NOTE: It is assumed that communications in high speed trains might be possible
with special design.
### 5.4.2 Latencies
[R-5.4.2-001] The MCVideo Service shall ensure that transmission of urgent
real time video transmissions shall be started within 2 seconds after the
request.
[R-5.4.2-002] The MCVideo Service shall ensure that the end-to-end delay from
transmitting MCVideo UE to receiving MCVideo UE or console for urgent real
time video transmissions shall be no more than 1 s.
[R-5.4.2-003] A sending MCVideo UE may be configured to begin storing video
immediately from the time the user requests an MCVideo transmission. In this
case the end to end delay shall not exceed 1 s plus the commencement delay (up
to 2 s).
[R-5.4.2-004] The MCVideo Service shall ensure that the end-to-end delay from
transmitted MCVideo UE to receiving MCVideo UE or console for non-urgent real
time priority video transmissions shall be no more than 10 s.
[R-5.4.2-005] Synchronisation between video and audio when played at the
MCVideo receiving UE or console shall be within 50 ms.
# 6 Interworking
## 6.1 Interworking with non 3GPP video systems
[R-6.1-001] The MCVideo service shall, be able to interwork with non 3GPP
systems subject to capabilities and compatibilities limitations using
standardized interface(s).
#