# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document focuses on 5G communication services targeting the
critical medical applications and enabling wireless connectivity between those
applications and medical devices.
Those communication services are often submitted to (but not limited to) very
low latency, high reliability, and high availability requirements and may be
operated on a shared network infrastructure that also provides resources to
other less demanding communication services.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) supplement 202
(Real Time Video)
[3] 3GPP TS 22.104: Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains
[4] ANSI/AAMI/IEC TIR80001-2-2:2012: Application of risk management for IT-
networks incorporating medical devices --- Part 2-2: Guidance for the
disclosure and communication of medical device security needs, risks and
controls
[5] IEC TR 80001-2-3: Application of risk management for IT-networks
incorporating medical devices -- Part 2-3: Guidance for wireless networks
[6] Allied Market Research. Operating Room Integration Market by Device Type
(Audio & Video Management System, Display System, Documentation & Recording
System, and Others), Application (Urology, Surgery, Neuro, and Others), and
End User (Hospital and Clinic) - Global Opportunity Analysis and Industry
Forecast, 2017-2025.
[7] J. White. The connected hospital: Wireless technology shapes the future of
healthcare - healthcare-information-technology/the-connected-hospital-
wireless-technology-shapes-the-future-of-healthcare.html
[8] Markets and Markets. Wireless Health Market by Technology, Component,
Application, & by End Users -- Analysis. Available at:
http://www.marketsandmarkets.com/Market-Reports/wireless-healthcare-
market-551.html. Accessed Jun. 16, 2016.
[9] M. Perez, F.Quiaios, P. Andrivon, D. Husson, M. Dufaut, J. Felblinger.
Paradigms and experimental set-up for the determination of the acceptable
delay in Telesurgery. Conference of the IEEE EMBS. August 23-26, 2007.
[10] Emergency Medicine Journal: The relationship between distance to hospital
and patient mortality in emergencies: an observational study.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2464671/
[11] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[12] World Health Organization \"Global Health Observatory (GHO) data\":
https://www.who.int/gho/health_financing/en/
[13] Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research, \"Healthcare's Holy Grail:
Better Outcomes at Lower Costs,\" February 2017
[14] Transparency Market Research, \"Wireless Communications/Technologies in
Healthcare Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends and
Forecast 2015 - 2023\"
[15] Giulianotti P, Gorodner V, Sbrana F, Tzvetanov I, Jeon H, Bianco F, et
al. Robotic transabdominal kidney transplantation in a morbidly obese patient.
Am J Transplant. 2010;10:1478--82.
[16] Oberholzer J, Giulianotti P, Danielson KK, Spaggiari M, Bejarano-Pineda
L, Bianco F, et al. Minimally invasive robotic kidney transplantation for
obese patients previously denied access to transplantation. Am J Transplant.
2013;13:721--8.
[17] Christopher N, Brian M, Rajni PW L, Christopher M. Pre-clinical remote
telesurgery trial of a da Vinci telesurgery prototype. Int J Med Robotics
Comput Assist Surg 2008; 4: 304--309.
[18] Joseph L Dieleman PhD et al, National spending on health by source for
184 countries between 2013 and 2040; The Lancet, 2016
[19] Karen Taylor, Worldwide: 2017 Global Healthcare Outlook: Making Progress
Against Persistent Challenges, 2017
[20] https://www.statista.com/statistics/671374/global-telemedicine-market-
size/
[21] http://www.bbc.com/future/story/20140516-i-operate-on-people-400km-away
[22] Towards 5G Enabled Tactile Robotic Telesurgery Qi Zhang, Jianhui Liu and
Guodong Zhao
[23] https://www.omicsonline.org/open-access/telesurgery-and-robotic-surgery-
ethical-and-legal-aspect-2376-0214-1000355.php?aid=54752
[24] Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (Text with
EEA relevance)
[25] U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office for Civil Rights --
Health Information Patient Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule
[26] 111^th^ Congress of United States of America -- Health Information
Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act
[27] Pre-Hospital Ultrasound: Current Indications and Future Perspectives,
Zanatta et al., International Journal of Critical Care and Emergency Medicine
2016, 2:019, Volume 2 \| Issue 2, ISSN: 474-3674
[28] https://www.fourcc.org/yuv.php
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Biometric data** : personal data resulting from specific technical
processing relating to the physical, physiological or behavioural
characteristics of a natural person, which allow or confirm the unique
identification of that natural person, such as facial images or dactyloscopic
data.
NOTE 1: This definition is taken from [24].
**Clock synchronicity:** the maximum allowed time offset within a
synchronisation domain between the master clock and any individual UE clock.
NOTE 2: Clock synchronicity (or synchronicity) is used as KPI of clock
synchronisation services.
NOTE 3: This definition is taken from clause 3.1 in 3GPP TS 22.104 [3].
**Clock synchronisation service:** the service to align otherwise independent
user-specific UE clocks.
NOTE 4: This definition is taken from clause 3.1 in 3GPP TS 22.104 [3].
**Communication service availability** : percentage value of the amount of
time the end-to-end communication service is delivered according to an agreed
QoS, divided by the amount of time the system is expected to deliver the end-
to-end service according to the specification in a specific area.
NOTE 5: The end point in \"end-to-end\" is assumed to be the communication
service interface.
NOTE 6: The communication service is considered unavailable if it does not
meet the pertinent QoS requirements. If availability is one of these
requirements, the following rule applies: the system is considered unavailable
in case an expected message is not received within a specified time, which, at
minimum, is the sum of maximum allowed end-to-end latency and survival time.
NOTE 7: This definition was taken from clause 3.1 in 3GPP TS 22.261 [11].
**Communication service reliability:** ability of the communication service to
perform as required for a given time interval, under given conditions.
NOTE 8: Given conditions would include aspects that affect reliability, such
as: mode of operation, stress levels, and environmental conditions.
> NOTE 9: Reliability may be quantified using appropriate measures such as
> meantime to failure, or the probability of no failure within a specified
> period of time.
NOTE 10: This definition is based on 3GPP TS 22.104 [3].
**Controller:** means the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or
other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and
means of the processing of personal data; where the purposes and means of such
processing are determined by Union or Member State law, the controller or the
specific criteria for its nomination may be provided for by Union or Member
State law
NOTE 11: This definition is taken from [24].
**Data Subject:** an individual, of any nationality and age, who is the
subject of the personal data
NOTE 12: This definition is taken from [24].
**End-to-end latency:** the time that takes to transfer a given piece of
information from a source to a destination, measured at the communication
service interface, from the moment it is transmitted by the source to the
moment it is successfully received at the destination.
NOTE 13: This definition is based on 3GPP TS 22.261 [11].
**Genetic data** : personal data relating to inherited or acquired genetic
characteristics of a natural person which give unique information about the
physiology or the health of that natural person and which result, in
particular, from an analysis of a biological sample from the natural person in
question.
NOTE 14: This definition is taken from [24].
**Imaging system latency:** the time that takes to generate an image from a
source, to apply a certain amount of processing, to transfer it to a
destination and then to render the resulting image on a suitable display
device, as measured from the moment a specific event happens in the operating
field to the moment that very same event is displayed on a screen.
**Medical data:** personal data related to the physical or mental health of a
natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveal
information about his or her health status.
NOTE 15: This definition is taken from [24].
**Non-public network:** a network that is intended for non-public use.
NOTE 16: This definition was taken from clause 3.1 in 3GPP TS 22.261 [11].
**Personal data:** information relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person; an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified,
directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identity such as a
name, an identification, location data, an online identifier or to one or more
factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic,
cultural or social identity of that natural person
NOTE 17: This definition is taken from [24].
**Private slice:** a dedicated network slice deployment for the sole use by a
specific 3^rd^ party.
NOTE 18: This definition was taken from clause 3.1 in 3GPP TS 22.261 [11].
**Processing:** obtaining, recording, holding, or carrying out any operation
on personal data. It includes organisation or alteration; retrieval or use;
disclosure and anonymization, blocking or destruction. Most operations in
relation to personal data will constitute processing.
> NOTE 19: This definition is taken from [24].
**Processor** : a natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other
body which processes personal data on behalf of the controller
NOTE 20: This definition is taken from [24].
**Survival time:** the time that an application consuming a communication
service may continue without an anticipated message.
NOTE 21: This definition was taken from clause 3.1 in 3GPP TS 22.261 [11].
**Teleoperation system latency:** the round trip time that takes to generate
control commands at a robotic control console, send those commands over a
communication service to a target robot, execute the robot's actuators
processes accordingly, sample the new robot system status, transmit that
status back over the same communication service and render it to the operator
through the control console equipment, measured from the moment the operator
performs an action to the moment he can sense the result of that same action.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
BMI Body Mass Index
CABG Coronary Artery Bypass Graft
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate
CT Computed Tomography
DICOM Digital Imaging and COMmunications
ECG ElectroCardioGraphy
EHR Electronic Health Records
ER Emergency Room
ERC Emergency Room Center
ESRD End Stage Renal Disease
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation
HDR High Dynamic Range
HFR High Frame Rate
HIPAA Health Information Patient Accountability Act
HITECH Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health
LAD coronary Left Anterior Descending coronary
MRI Magnetic Resonance Imaging
MSP Mobile Specialist Practise
MTA Medical Technical Assistant
OR Operating Room
RAKT Robotic Aided Kidney Transplant
RTV Real Time Video
SDI Serial Digital Interface
SMPTE Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers
SSI Surgical Site Infection
US Ultra Sound
# 4 Overview
The current average spending in the healthcare sector is around 10% of GDP
worldwide, with a \$7,200 billion market in 2105 according to the World Health
Organization [12]. According to Goldman Sachs [13], \$650 billion in savings
can be expected by 2025 through a shift in focus from volume-based healthcare
to value-based healthcare.
This means that the traditional value chain for the medical device industry,
which historically has been driven by innovation and research and development,
is currently witnessing a shift in the landscape. As governments and health
insurers worldwide implement measures to control costs, public hospitals are
operating on tighter budgets, while private facilities are receiving lower
reimbursements. In the developed world, decisions that used to be the sole
preserve of doctors are now also made by regulators, hospital administrators,
and other non-clinicians. This broader set of influencers comes with different
objectives, e.g. the prioritization of cost effectiveness or even just costs.
As an example, the US medical device industry has been working on traditional
business models based on innovation where physicians have been the target
audience willing to pay for products with incremental improvements. The
efficacy and safety of the products have been the most important criteria for
their commercial success. But lately, the shift to value-based healthcare has
led medical devices companies to move to business models based on providing
clinical value with cost efficiency.
Technological progress and better infrastructures, in particular high-quality
wireless networks, have fed this business model transformation, allowing
coordinated therapies, services, and health analytics and enabling efficient
outcome measurement solutions. In addition, as depicted in [14], the
healthcare industry has moved from the traditional paper-record keeping method
to electronic or e-records that has bolstered the demand for wireless
communications.
On this matter, 5G can have an important impact by enabling personalization of
healthcare through wirelessly and continuously collecting patient's monitoring
data for processing and centralized storage. In fact, this superior monitoring
capability means that 5G can substantially improve the effectiveness of
preventive care:
  * As 5G facilitates information collection, information transmission > and big data analytics, this is one of the essential ingredients > helping healthcare provision to change from a \"volume-based\" > model in which providers of health care are compensated for > quantity, not quality, to a \"value-based\" model in which > compensation is linked to the value delivered.
  * Additionally, improvements in well-being and quality of life, which > are not always captured in conventional economic measurements such > as the GDP, play a key role in work force productivity.
Also, 5G enables shifting care location from hospitals to homes and others
lower cost facilities which mechanically translates into additional savings.
Additionally, another example showing that 5G can enable cost savings required
by the medical industry can be found inside hospitals where wireless
transmission of low latency data streams improves operating room planning,
enable streamlining equipment usage and simplifies operating theater
implementation.
Healthcare systems dictate the means by which people and institutions pay for
and receive health services. Interactions between industry's players, driven
by who actually pay for healthcare services through which mechanisms, depends
on the model that is used. The picture below shows how telco's can integrate
the medical ecosystem in case of the National Health Insurance Model (one of
the most widely adopted worldwide):
{width="4.66875in" height="2.8645833333333335in"}
Figure 4-1: National Health Insurance Model
In this technical report we specifically focus on critical medical
applications, which is a generic term covering medical devices and
applications involved in the delivery of care for patient's survival. In this
context 5G can help healthcare providers that face revenue pressures both to
adopt new and more efficient care delivery models and to shift to outpatient
services in order to reduce administrative and supply costs.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Introduction
Use cases generated as part of this study are categorized as follow:
\- Use cases covering the delivery of critical care in the context of a
hospital or a medical facility where the medical team and the patients are
collocated. Those use cases are captured in the \"static -- local\" or
\"moving -- local\" sections of this document depending on whether devices or
people are moving while the care is delivered. In these use cases, devices and
people consume indoor communication services delivered by non-public networks.
It is expected that, in this context, 5G non-public networks provides
communication services with similar functionalities to Local Area Networks
(5GLANs) to medical equipment.
\- Use cases covering the delivery of critical care where medical specialists
and patients are located at different places. This, in particular, covers
medical services delivered by first rescuers. Those use cases are captured in
the \"static-remote\" and \"moving-remote\" sections of this document
depending on whether devices or people are moving while the care is delivered.
In this context, devices and people consume communication services delivered
by PLMNs where a mobile network operator can use network slicing as a means to
provide a virtual private network, or private slice.
## 5.2 Static -- Local
### 5.2.1 Description of Modality
#### 5.2.1.1 Overview
Use cases under this modality take place e.g. into hybrid operating rooms.
Hybrid operating rooms (OR) are in general equipped with advanced imaging
systems such as e.g. fixed C-arms (x-ray generator and intensifiers), CT scans
(Computer Tomography) and MRI scans (Magnetic Resonance Imaging). The whole
idea is that advanced imaging enables minimally-invasive surgery that is
intended to be less traumatic for the patient as it minimizes incisions and
allows to perform surgery procedure through one or several small cuts. This is
as an example useful for cardio-vascular surgery or neurosurgery to place deep
brain stimulation electrodes.
Due to its many benefits for the patients, image guided surgery is now the
main stream for many specialties from cardiology to gastroenterology or
ophthalmology. This is the underlying force for a very dynamic market
predicted to reach \$4,163 million by 2025 and experiencing a sustained growth
of 11.2% from 2018 to 2025 (see [6]).
But, as of now, a lack of real interfaces between technologies and devices
inside operating rooms is putting progress at risk. In fact, devices and
software must be able to work together to create a truly digitally integrated
system in the operating room. Multiple vendors are proposing integrated OR
proprietary solutions but they are often limited to their particular
standpoint, depending on the category of equipment they usually provide: OR
tables and lighting providers, anaesthesia and monitoring equipment,
endoscopes or microscopes, medical imaging (X-Ray, ultrasounds), video
monitors and streaming. No category dominates others with the capacity to
impose a particular solution that could be adopted by all. This roadblock to
full digitalization is addressed by standards like e.g. DICOM supplement 202:
RTV which leverages on SMPTE (ST 2110 family of standards) to enable the
deployment of equipment in a distributed way. The intention is to connect
various video or multi-frame sources to various destinations, through a
standard IP switch, instead of using a proprietary video switch. This is shown
on the figure below (see [[2]]{.smallcaps}):
{width="6.747222222222222in" height="2.8055555555555554in"}
Figure 5.2.1.1-1: Overview diagram of an Operating Room (O.R.)
Carriage of audio-visual signals in their digital form has historically been
achieved using coaxial cables that interconnect equipment through Serial
Digital Interface (SDI) ports. The SDI technology provides a reliable
transport method to carry a multiplex of video, audio and metadata with strict
timing relationships but as new image formats such as Ultra High Definition
(UHD) get introduced, the corresponding SDI bit-rates increases way beyond
10Gb/s and the cost of equipment that need to be used at different points in a
video system to embed, de-embed, process, condition, distribute, etc. the SDI
signals becomes a major concern. The emergence of professional video over IP
solutions, enabling high quality and very low latency performance, now calls
for a reengineering of ORs, usually a long and costly process but that can be
accelerated thanks to the adoption of wireless communications whose
flexibility also reduces installation costs.
Witnessing the increasing interest of health industry actor in wireless
technologies, [8] predicts that the global wireless health market is projected
to grow from \$39 Billion in 2015 to \$110 Billion by 2020. More specifically,
[7] points out the increasingly prevalence of wireless technology in hospital
which has led to the vision of the connected hospital, a fully integrated
hospital where caregivers use wireless medical equipment to provide the best
quality of care to patients and automatically feed Electronic Health Records
(EHR) systems. As a natural evolution, for wireless technologies that can cope
with hospitals' difficult RF environment and can provide needed security
warranties, it is expected that they can be a promising opportunity enabling
surgeons to benefit from advanced imaging/control systems directly in
operating rooms while still keeping the flexibility of wireless connectivity.
In practice, one can also expect the following benefits from going wireless in
O.R.:
\- Equipment sharing between operating rooms in the same hospital which makes
procedures planning easier and allows hospitals to deploy an efficient
resource optimization strategy,
\- On-demand addition of complementary imaging equipment in case of incident
during a surgery procedure which eventually leads to better care provided to
patients,
\- Suppression of a range of cables connecting a multitude of medical devices,
constituting as many obstacles, that makes the job of a surgical team easier
and reduces the infection risk.
In addition, hybrid O.R. trend makes operating rooms increasingly congested
and complex with a multitude (up to 100) of medical devices and monitors from
different vendors. In addition to surgical tables, surgical lighting, and room
lighting positioned throughout the OR, multiple surgical displays,
communication system monitors, camera systems, image capturing devices, and
medical printers are all quickly becoming associated with a modern OR.
Installing a hybrid O.R. represents therefore a significant cost, not only
coming from the advanced imaging systems themselves, but also from the complex
cabling infrastructure and the multiple translation systems that are needed to
make all those proprietary devices communicating together. Enabling wireless
connectivity in O.R. simplifies the underlying infrastructure, helps
streamlining the whole setup and reducing associated installation costs.
#### 5.2.1.2 Synchronization aspects
As a general principle, since images and metadata are transported on a packet
switched based network and are generated by different sources, sources and
video receivers shall be finely synchronized on the same clock synchronisation
service. This synchronization is often achieved through dedicated protocols
such as e.g. PTP version 2 offering sub-microsecond clock accuracy.
Note that during surgery procedures, surgeons sometimes need to switch between
different medical image sources on the same monitor. A smooth image transition
at source switching involves line level synchronization and translates into \ located at network edge,
  * T3 = Application processing time. In this case, there might be a 3D > patient body pre-operative model at work that prevents instruments > to enter into certain critical pre-defined zones.
  * T4 = End-to-end latency from the medical application located at the > network edge to the robot,
  * T5 = Time to render control commands into real instruments > movements,
In the direction from the robot to the console:
  * T6 = Time for instrument control feedback (effort, velocity, > position) and/or image generation,
  * T7 = End-to-end latency from the robot to the medical application > located at network edge,
  * T8 = Application processing time. It may correspond to image > processing delays or to haptic feedback generation based on > instrument location, velocity, effort measurements data issued by > surgical instruments and 3D pre-operative patient body model.
  * T9 = End-to-end latency from the medical application located at the > network edge to the console,
  * T10 = Time to render haptic and visual feedback through the surgeon > console.
The overall teleoperation system latency is therefore defined as T1 + T2 \+ T3
+ T4 + T5 + T6 + T7 + T8 + T9 + T10.
Studies conducted on state-of-the-art robotic surgery systems (see [9]) allow
to derive the following findings:
  * The maximum tolerable teleoperation system latency, up to which > surgeons can still improve their performance through repeating the > same simple task over and over again has been found to be around > 300 ms. However, the effective latency is distinctly noticeable > during the course of the operative procedures and can only be > compensated by a slowing of movements and by operations of type > move-pause-move-pause.
  * Longer latencies extend the operating time especially in case of > complex surgery procedures such as laparoscopic kidney transplant, > which is, technically speaking, an operation deemed as very > demanding.
Depending on the skills of individual surgeons, on the complexity of the
procedure that is tele-operated, on the importance to complete the surgery in
a limited time, and depending on whether a short or no learning curve is
mandated (to make the technology accessible to less experienced surgeons) much
more stringent requirements for the teleoperation system latency may be
appropriate.
Breakdown of the different delays when going through all the sub-systems
constituting the robotic system is a very complex issue and depends heavily on
the different technologies implemented for those sub-systems. However,
progress in actuators and sensors seems to be pointing to (T1 + T5) = (T6 +
T10) being below 10 ms and we can apply same rule as in section 5.2.1.3.1 for
the breakdown of the remaining time budget between transport time and
application processing time: 25%/75%.
In this document latencies are evaluated according to the accepted error in
the perception of surgical instruments' position that is introduced at a given
hand speed. Then, considering that robotic systems can scale surgeons hand
speed down to a 3:1 ratio, this allows to derive an overall outer control loop
teleoperation system latency of 50 ms using principles and error targets
explained in section 5.2.1.3.1. This leaves us therefore with roughly 2 ms
end-to-end latency constraint on each of the four radio links involved in the
robotic sub-systems connectivity.
Also, note that surgeons may be able to adapt to the overall teleoperation
system latency through training under a constant delay. However, it is
challenging to conduct telesurgery with variable latency.
### 5.2.2 Duplicating Video on additional monitors
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
In the context of image guided surgery, two operators are directly
contributing to the procedure:
  * A surgeon performing the operation itself, using relevant instruments;
  * An assistant controlling the imaging system (e.g., laparoscope).
In some situations, both operators prefer not to stand at the same side of the
patient. And because the control image has to be in front of each operator,
two monitors are required, a primary one, directly connected to the imaging
system, and the second one being on the other side. The picture below gives an
example of work zones inside an operating room for reference:
{width="3.9305555555555554in" height="2.484722222222222in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: Example of operating work zones
As shown on Figure 5.2.2.1-1: Example of operating work zonesFigure 5.2.2.1-1,
additional operators (e.g., surgery nurse) may also have to see what is
happening in order to anticipate actions (e.g., providing instrument).
The live video image has to be transferred on additional monitors with a
minimal latency, without modifying the image itself (resolution...). The
latency between the monitors should be compatible with collaborative activity
on surgery where the surgeon is for example operating based on the second
monitor and the assistant is controlling the endoscope based on the primary
monitor. All equipment is synchronized thanks to the Grand Master common
clock.
It is expected that some scopes will produce 8K uncompressed video, with the
perspective to support also HDR (High Dynamic Range) for larger colour gamut
management (up to 10 bits per channel) as well as HFR (High Frame Rate), i.e.;
up to 120 fps.
The acceptable end-to-end latency is calculated based on considerations
explained in section 5.2.1.3 and breaks down into 1ms on the path from the
laparoscope to the application and 1ms on the path from the application to the
monitors.
Estimation of targeted communication service availability is based on the
probability of successful transmission of images within latency constraints
discussed above. Considering that consecutive frame loss or delay may
translate into a wrong estimated distance and may result in serious injury to
the patient, we want this event to only happen with a very low probability
during at least the duration of a procedure, e.g. twelve hours. Note that in
this use case, a total of 240 images per second are exchanged over the 5G
communication service (120 images per second in each direction).
#### 5.2.2.2 Pre-conditions
The patient is lying on the operating table and the surgery team is ready to
start the procedure. Each needed equipment (laparoscope, monitors ...) is:
\- Powered up,
\- Subscribed to 5G-LAN type services deployed by the hospital IT
infrastructure manager,
\- Configured on which private groups they shall use to communicate with each
other,
\- Attached to the non-public 5G network covering the operating room.
In addition, the monitors are subscribed to a URLLC point-to-multipoint
communication service dedicated to transport high data rate downlink video
streams.
The application that handles the video stream generated by the laparoscope is
up and running and instantiated on private IT resources inside the hospital at
a short network distance from the operating room.
#### 5.2.2.3 Service Flows
The surgeon performs small incisions in the patient's abdominal wall to insert
a laparoscope equipped with a small video camera and a cold light source.
Other small diameter instruments (grasper and scissors) are introduced in
order to take a sample of tissue from one of the patient's organ and the
patient abdomen is insufflated with carbon dioxide gas.
1) As the laparoscope progresses into the patient's abdomen, 8K video > stream
is generated by the camera and sent out through a URLLC 5G > communication
service to a medical application instantiated at > network edge.
2) The application distributes the video stream generated by the > laparoscope
to the authorized devices (video monitors) through the > broadcast URLLC 5G
communication service.
#### 5.2.2.4 Post-conditions
Images are displayed by each monitor without any noticeable delay and allow
the surgery team to cooperate efficiently during the whole procedure.
#### 5.2.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Table 5.2.2.5‑1: Applicable existing communication service functional
requirements
* * *
Reference number Requirement text Application / transport Comment 6.24 Set of
requirements related to the management of 5G LAN-type services and to the
transport of Ethernet frames between UEs belonging to the same 5G-LAN-type
service. T See 3GPP TS 22.261 6.13 Flexible Broadcast/Multicast service
requirements T See 3GPP TS 22.261
* * *
#### 5.2.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Table 5.2.2.6‑2: Potential new Communication Service Performances Requirements
Use case | Characteristic parameter |  | Influence quantity |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
5.2.2 – Duplicating video on additional monitors | Communication service availability: target value in % | Communication service reliability: Mean Time Between Failure | End-to-end latency: maximum | Bit rate | Direction | Message Size [byte] | Survival time | UE speed | # of active UEs | Service Area [m2]  
Uncompressed 8K (7680x4320 pixels) 120 fps HDR 10bits real-time video stream | >99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.9999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year |  actuators in 50 bytes messages
  * Actuators executing a given process
  * Sensors sampling velocity, forces, positions, ... at the very same > time and returning that information to the surgeon console, in 50 > bytes messages at the rate of 1 kHz
As opposed to machine to machine communication, robotic aided surgery implies
there is a human being in the middle of the control loop, which means that the
console does not autonomously generate new commands based on the system state
collected in the previous 1 kHz cycle but based on surgeon's hand movement.
In order to improved surgeon's spatial perception, it is expected that the
endoscope can produce 8K stereoscopic uncompressed video, supports also HDR
(High Dynamic Range) for larger colour gamut management (up to 10 bits per
channel) as well as HFR (High Frame Rate), i.e.; up to 120 fps.
Of course, all messages exchanged have to be properly secured (especially in
terms of data integrity and authenticity) and the probability of two
consecutive packet errors shall be negligible.
The endoscope, the displays, the monitoring equipment and the robot's sensors
shall be synchronised on the same clock synchronisation service with a clock
synchronicity in the order of 1µs to enable offline replay of the whole
procedure. In particular, all sensors shall sample the system state at the
same exact time and send it back to the control console in order to allow for
a consistent haptic feedback generation.
##### 5.2.4.1.2 Use case
One use case where robotic aided surgery proved to be highly beneficial is
Robotic Aided Kidney Transplant (RAKT) for obese recipients (see [15] and
[16]). In general, transplant surgery in obese recipients is technically very
demanding and require larger right lower quadrant incision, often associated
to more wound related morbidity in terms of surgical site infections (SSI),
more pain, longer convalescence and postoperative recovery, which explains why
obese patients are frequently denied access to transplantation. But
epidemiological data indicate that 20--50% of patients on dialysis for end-
stage renal disease (ESRD) are obese, advocating for minimally invasive
surgery as opposed to open surgery. Unfortunately, conventional minimally
invasive surgery using laparoscopic instruments manipulated by a surgeon is
not suitable for the safe execution of a kidney transplant in morbidly obese
patients due to the high complexity of the procedure. In fact, current
laparoscopic cameras present only a two-dimensional view and laparoscopic
instruments have a limited degree of freedom which results in loss of depth
perception, lower natural hand-eye coordination and dexterity. On the other
hand, robotic surgery provides a three-dimensional view and utilizes
articulated instruments, which allows the surgeon to work with greater ease,
with more intuitive movements during the execution of complex procedures.
In a series of RAKT performed in obese patients between June 2009 and December
2011 (see [16]), 0% developed surgical site wound infection versus 28,6%
patients in a control group that underwent an open kidney transplant
procedure.
There are concerns that are usually raised related to robotic surgery:
\- Learning curve which leads to few experienced surgeons
\- Procedure duration impacting return on investment for hospitals and
potentially affecting patient status after surgery
\- Medical costs that are significantly higher for the robotic surgical
technique compared to the open technique
In our use-case, the higher costs have to be balanced against the cost of
keeping obese renal failure patients on dialysis, which is quite expansive as
well.
As to the point related to procedure duration, the question is indeed whether
surgeons are able to complete the procedure with same or equivalent duration
as an open surgery, so as to keep the warm ischemia time (time a tissue
remains at body or ambient temperature after blood supply has been
interrupted), which is one of the main reason for graft failure, as low as
possible. Therefore, with the idea that the whole transplant procedure shall
be completed in the shortest possible time, requirements on latencies
introduced by the teleoperation system, that are discussed in section
5.2.1.3.2, need to be considered here so that surgeons can make more natural
movements, do not slow down their hand speed and do not make pauses every now
and then.
Typical RAKT duration is close to four hours, this allows us to estimate
targeted communication service availability figure for the successful
transmission of images within latency constraints discussed above. In fact,
considering that any late received image translates immediately into a wrong
estimated distance and may result in serious injury to the patient, we want
this event to not happen during at least the duration of the procedure, a safe
margin would be to consider five hours of correctness in a row. Note that in
this use case, a total of 240 images per second are exchanged over 5G
communication service (120 images per second in each direction).
In addition, having two consecutive errors in any direction shall be
negligible as it may result in incorrect commands sent the actuators, and, in
addition to represent a serious risk of injury for the patient, may damage the
system. Considering that the probability of having two consecutive errors
shall be p^2^ \99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.999999 | >10 year | 99.999999 | >10 year | 99.999999 | >10 year | 99.999999 | >10 year |  pre-hospital focused assessment with sonography in trauma usually > takes no more than 3 minutes
  * Identification of lung sliding to diagnosis pneumothorax, and the > evaluation of abdominal aorta usually lasts less than 1 minute. > Heart studies during cardiopulmonary resuscitation should be > performed in 10 seconds during the rhythm check.
  * The exam should answer specific yes/no questions, i.e., Is there a > pneumothorax? Is there free fluid in the pleura, pericardium and > peritoneum? Is there an aortic aneurism? Are the lungs wet or dry?
  * Trauma, respiratory insufficiency, shock, cardiac arrest and severe > abdominal pain, prior medical records should all be used to rule > in or rule out an abdominal aortic aneurism
  * Pre-hospital triage, airway management, obstetric emergencies
eMBB and URLLC will enable effective tele-guidance of an ambulance nurse by a
remote expert to significantly improve diagnosis, treatment and compliance in
a medical emergency. In this situation, ambulance nurses are able to obtain
adequate ultrasound image capture and perform examinations as accurate as
those performed by physicians.
In addition, it allows to direct the patient to the specialized centre best
suited to his condition, to inform the hospital team of the specific injuries
(especially make all necessary preparations for the patient, e.g. prepare the
OR and call all necessary medical staff), so as not to waste precious time
between the time of the accident and that of the treatment and to ensure
transport with greater safety.
The hospital may be far away from the patient and ambulance, so a patient may
not survive or will succumb permanent damage during transport if a real time
interaction between paramedics and remote experts is not triggered immediately
at the site of the intervention. Statistics from e.g. the National Health
Service NHS in the United Kingdom show that emergency calls are classified in
different categories, where the most critical ones are as follow:
  * Category A Red 1 calls, that cover cardiac arrests and patients who > are not breathing anymore.
  * Category A Red 2 calls, which are serious but less immediately time > critical and cover conditions like stroke and fits.
A study [10] carried over 5 years for approximately 1000 Red 1 calls per year
shows that the straight-line ambulance journey distribution was ranging
between 0 and 58 km with a median value of 5 km and that an increased distance
was clearly associated with increased risk of death (7.7% died for
straight‐line distances between 10 and 20 km and 1% of absolute increase in
mortality is associated with each 10 km increase in straight‐line distance).
In this use case, covering also category A Red 2 calls, we will assume a
straight-line distance below \1 month | >1 month (1 year | >1 month (1 year | 1 year |  contain
a. an examination room with high end video/audio equipment which can establish
a broadband connection to an expert located in a remote location
b. optionally a set of medical imaging equipment like ultrasound, X-ray, CT or
even MRI all capable of connecting to a dedicated 5G network and transmitting
diagnostic data in real time to the remote expert
c. optionally mobile lab diagnostic equipment
Figure 5.3.4.1-1: 40 ft standard container with exemplary mobile specialist
practice equipment
  1. A country-wide network of dedicated non-public network (NPN) 5G > access points owned by communities or other service providers, or > a corresponding private slice. Once the mobile specialist practice > arrives at the access point and checks in, the necessary network > resources according to the examinations schedule are allocated.
Figure 5.3.4.1-2: Community owned NPN access points
  1. An efficient scheduler to align all required resources:
a. Patient appointment
b. Allocation of necessary equipment (might be added on demand for non-common
cases)
c. Local staff, e.g. MTAs or paramedics
d. Remote specialist
e. Network resources (reserve links with appropriate bandwidth, latency and
QoS for each planned examination)
> Depending on the availability of staff, specialists, equipment and network
> resources, more than one examination at a time could be scheduled.
{width="6.499305555555556in" height="1.0138888888888888in"}
Figure 5.3.4.1-3: Exemplary schedule, allocation of equipment and network
resources is usually defined by type of examination
In order to make such a mobile specialist practice an efficient and accepted
part of tomorrow's healthcare system it is key that it is patient centered.
That means that currently well-known nuisances like long waiting times for
appointments, long waiting times due to inefficient planning or emergencies or
non-ideal communication need to be avoided. Thus, one of the key features of
such a mobile specialist practice is the scheduler which works in the
background. A further very important factor is trust: it needs to be
guaranteed, that the patient contacts as many virtual experts as necessary but
as few as possible -- the well-known annoying call-center situation with a new
\"expert\" in every new call is a no go. It also needs to be ensured that the
patient keeps informed about each step of the examination, that he gets
information about the experts he is connected to and that the procedure ends
with a satisfying outcome -- either the patient is cured or a longterm
treatment plan has been defined.
#### 5.3.4.2 Pre-conditions
One day about one year ago, Mark recognized a strange change of a small region
of his skin on his right arm. As it didn't dissolve within some weeks and he
even observed some progression, he made an appointment at Dr. Good, a
dermatologist in the large city next to his home town. Although he was rather
flexible, it took about 6 weeks to get one and as it was in the middle of the
day, he had to take one day off work to drive there. All in all, this first
appointment took almost all day long including driving, waiting and the
examination, which was a small biopsy surgery. About one week later he called
Dr. Good's practice for the result and was told that it was in fact white skin
cancer which afforded a surgical removal. Two weeks later the surgery was
carried out successfully and the dermatologist suggested a quarterly screening
to monitor the healing process and check for further lesions. When Mark
pointed out that each screening necessarily means a whole day off work for
him, his dermatologist suggested to make use of the new mobile specialist
practice (MSP), for which Dr. Better - a good friend of him and an experienced
dermatologist, too - works as a remote expert regularly.
A few weeks later, Mark called the phone number that was given to him by his
dermatologist. He also had agreed that his patient data including the report
on his recent surgery have been uploaded to his private medical data account
and made accessible for Dr. Better. After a very short phone interview he got
a 10 o'clock appointment for a skin cancer screening carried out at a mobile
specialist practice (MSP) only about 3km away from his work office. The day of
his examination he left his office and went to the MSP by bike. Arriving
there, a paramedic already awaited him, the video/audio examination room was
prepared and Dr. Better, the remote expert, was online. Due to the information
provided in Mark's medical data account, Dr. Better was well prepared and knew
about Mark's previous surgery. After a short introduction and some brief
information about the following procedure, the visual whole-body screening
started. Mark followed the instructions given by Dr. Better including the
placement of a haptic manipulator on the location of his recent surgery. After
remotely palpating this area the examination was finished without any new
findings. Dr. Better explained the examination results to Mark and gave him
some recommendations on skin care especially for the location of his recent
surgery. Based on the video stream a documentation of the screening in order
to compare to future changes was created automatically and added to Mark's
medical data record. Mark left and was back at his office shortly after 10:30,
being sure to use the MSP again for his next regular screening.
#### 5.3.4.3 Service Flows
The mobile specialist practice arrives at the predefined location with a
community owned non-public-network access point and connects to it. Based on a
service level agreement the data links needed according to the day's schedule
are allocated for the MSP. At 10 am, a visual whole-body skin cancer screening
is scheduled and the required resources are allocated and connected to the NPN
wireless network.
1) In the video/audio examination room, a stereoscopic video camera with
optical zooming produces a 4K video stream while an audio system enables EVS
full band voice communication with the remote specialist. The video
(stereoscopic 4K 60 fps 12 bits per pixel color coded (e.g. YUV 4:1:1) real
time, loss less compressed video) and the audio stream (up to 128 kbit/s) are
relayed by the MSP to the remote specialist located in the next urban hospital
center. A second video stream with lossy compression from remote expert to the
MSP is available to ease communication with the patient via a 4K monitor in
the MSP's examination room. A haptic feedback tool for remote palpating is
connected via a low latency link with 2 Mbit/s from network to UE and 16
Mbit/s from UE to network.
2) Resources assigned for the communication services allocated to the skin
cancer screening are released after the examination.
At 10:30 am a knee MRI scan and an abdominal ultrasound are planned.
3) New resources for the next examination(s) are allocated:
> \- for the MRI scan, a standard video conferencing link, a 50 Mbit/s low
> latency link to share the scanner's console and a 240 Mbit/s broadband link
> to upload a 300 Mbyte DICOM file in less than 10 seconds are allocated. The
> remote radiologist gives a brief introduction to the patient and some scan
> instructions to the MTA. After the scan has finished, the raw data are
> processed in the MSP and a complete DICOM data set is uploaded to the remote
> specialist for immediate diagnosis.
>
> \- for the ultrasound examination, which is done in parallel, a second
> standard video conferencing link and a 160 Mbit/s link to transmit an
> uncompressed 512x512 pixels 32 bits 20 fps video stream from an ultra-sound
> probe are allocated. The remote specialist gives a brief introduction to the
> patient and continuous scanning instructions to the paramedic in the MSP.
> The diagnosis is given during or immediately after the examination via the
> video conferencing link.
4) Resources assigned for the communication services allocated to MRI scan and
the ultrasound examination are released after the examination.
Other examinations such as CT-scan, blood analysis follow a similar,
respective service flow.
Each medical device contains a 5G UE. Each medical device may connect to the
5G network directly, or the medical devices connect to the local 5G non-public
network of the mobile specialist practice. The mobile specialist practice has
a connection to the 5G network (private slice) for the connection to remote
specialists etc.
#### 5.3.4.4 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Table 5.3.4.4‑1: Applicable existing communication service functional
requirements
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reference | Requirement | Application / | Comment | | number | text | transport | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8.9 | The 5G system | T | See 3GPP TS | | | shall support | | 22.261 | | | data integrity | | | | | protection and | | | | | c | | | | | onfidentiality | | | | | methods that | | | | | serve URLLC | | | | | and energy | | | | | constrained | | | | | devices. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.1.2 | All | T | See 3GPP TS | | | requirements | | 22.261 | | | related to | | | | | slice | | | | | management, | | | | | access, | | | | | capacity, | | | | | quality of | | | | | service. | | | | | | | | | | In particular, | | | | | on | | | | | prioritization | | | | | of certain | | | | | slices against | | | | | others: | | | | | | | | | | The 5G system | | | | | shall enable | | | | | the network | | | | | operator to | | | | | define a | | | | | priority order | | | | | between | | | | | different | | | | | network slices | | | | | in case | | | | | multiple | | | | | network slices | | | | | compete for | | | | | resources on | | | | | the same | | | | | network. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.10.2, | All | T | See 3GPP TS | | | requirements | | 22.261 | | 6.1.2.3 | related to | | | | | private slice | | | | | management, | | | | | access, | | | | | limitation to | | | | | a specific | | | | | geographical | | | | | area, | | | | | isolation and | | | | | fault | | | | | tolerance. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8.2, 8.3 | All | T | See 3GPP TS | | | requirements | | 22.261 | | | related to | | | | | security | | | | | management in | | | | | private slices | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.2.3 | The 5G system | T | See 3GPP TS | | | shall enable | | 22.261 | | | packet loss to | | | | | be minimized | | | | | during inter- | | | | | and/or intra- | | | | | access | | | | | technology | | | | | changes for | | | | | some or all | | | | | connections | | | | | associated | | | | | with a UE. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.2.3 | The 5G system | T | See 3GPP TS | | | shall minimize | | 22.261 | | | interruption | | | | | time during | | | | | inter- and/or | | | | | intra- access | | | | | technology | | | | | mobility for | | | | | some or all | | | | | connections | | | | | associated | | | | | with a UE. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | Video/Audio | T | | | | streams of | | | | | video | | | | | conferencing, | | | | | video | | | | | supervision. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 5.3.4.5 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Table 5.3.4.5‑1: Potential new Communication Service Performances Requirements
Use Case | Characteristic parameter | Influence quality |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Mobile specialist practice | Communication service availability: target value in % | Communication service reliability: Mean Time Between Failure | End-to-end latency: maximum | Bit rate | Direction | Message Size [byte] | Survival time | UE speed | # of active UEs (Note 1) | Service Area [km²] (Note 2)  
Stereoscopic 4K 60 fps 12 bits per pixel color coded (e.g. YUV 4:1:1) real time video (loss less compressed) | 99.99 | > 1 month |  1 month | > 1 month ( 1 month |  1 month | seconds | >240Mbit/s | UE to Network | ~1500 -9000 |  | stationary |  1 month |  1 month |  1 year |  and healthcare professionals prefer health to be monitored outside > of clinical settings for both comfort and cost efficiency reasons. > In general, it involves patient-worn monitoring solutions that > give patients the freedom to move around, and that are connected > to a central nursing area or hospital through a wireless 5G > connection. In this context, the body-worn devices shall be able > to function for long period of time on the same battery charge > while the 5G network is expected to provide a ubiquitous > connectivity from underground parking places or building basements > to other radio adverse indoor locations such as elevators.
  * Monitoring/providing care to patients in a moving connected > ambulance requires medical equipment and paramedics to be > delivered with high priority 5G communication services with > consistent performances along the path from the accident location > to the care facility where the patient will receive definitive > care. This is key to ensure the medical staff can get prepared to > manage the patient adequately when he arrives at the hospital.
### 5.5.2 Patient monitoring inside ambulances
#### 5.5.2.1 Description
Paramedics transporting patients to the hospital typically brief hospital
staff once the ambulance arrives. But in a 5G-connected ambulance, emergency
crews will be able to collect critical patient data and share it with the
hospital in real time, even before they arrive. Emergency doctors and nurses
will then be better prepared to receive the patient, which means a smoother,
more efficient handover process.
Ambulance operations are an essential part of the emergency services and over
the past few decades have become increasingly advanced, featuring a
significant number of fairly high-tech medical equipment and devices. With the
widespread roll-out of 5G wireless communications networks, however, these
traditional ambulances could soon make way for 5G connected ambulances.
In practise, connected Ambulance will act as a connection hub for the
emergency medical equipment and wearables, enabling storing and real-time
streaming of patient data to the awaiting emergency department team at the
destination hospital. The continuous collection and streaming of patient data
will begin when the emergency ambulance paramedics arrive at the incident
scene right up until the delivery of the patient to the emergency department
at the destination hospital. It shall also be noted that all data streams
shall be reasonably synchronised in order to be able to correlate monitoring
events and images and to enable recording and offline synchronized playback of
the intervention. This is achieved through the synchronisation of all
equipment having 5G connectivity inside the ambulance (camera, microphone,
medical systems ...) on the same global clock provided by the 5G system.
Typically those connected ambulances, today usually equipped with
echographers, could be equipped in the medium term with portable CT (Computed
Tomography) and x-ray scanners, high definition video camera, or even portable
MRI scanners so that doctors in the Emergency Room Centre (ERC) can 'see' the
patient via high definition visual connection and for example order a CT scan
of the patient's head.
The 5G connection shall be reliable, stable and in a conservative approach we
mandate all medical data to be transmitted with a high priority and with a
very low probability to consecutively violate service defined constraints for
the duration of the journey to the hospital.
#### 5.5.2.2 Pre-conditions
There has been important car accident on the M11 North East of London close to
Coopersale exit at the end of the afternoon (5pm). Involved vehicles are
obstructing the traffic thus rapidly leading to severe congestion and long
waiting times.
Sue is returning home after her working day and is driving over the speed
limit at this location. When she realizes that all vehicles in front of her
are all stopped on the road, she hits the brakes. Her car goes onto a skid and
onto the unimproved shoulder and rolls over. In this process Sue hits her head
on the windshield and passes out.
People that are witnessing the scene call the London Ambulance Service that
decides to dispatch a connected ambulance on site. The Emergency Room Center
(ERC) and a local MNO have a business contract in place by which the ERC can
ask the MNO (through suitable APIs) to allocate the necessary high priority
resources fulfilling SLAs suitable to the transport of medical data (with
special care taken on medical data integrity and confidentiality) over a
geographical area covering the site of the accident and the route from that
site to the hospital.
Each needed equipment in the connected ambulance (ultrasound probe, monitoring
scopes, CT and X-Ray scanners...) is:
\- Powered up,
\- Subscribed to 5G communication services fulfilling agreed SLAs,
\- Attached to the local MNO 5G network,
\- Provisioned with parameters allowing establishment of a secure
communication link to an authenticated application in the ERC and/or hospital
in charge of sharing incident data with the authorized personnel
#### 5.5.2.3 Service Flows
With his connected ambulance, Fred the paramedic arrives at the accident's
site and finds Sue in her car, still unconscious. Fred rapidly assesses the
situation and based on the fact that traumatic brain injuries are usually
emergencies with consequences that can worsen rapidly without treatment,
decides to take Sue to the nearest hospital as quickly as possible.
1) In the connected ambulance, a UHD video camera captures a 4K video > of the
ambulance interiors continuously, while an audio system > enables EVS full
band voice communication with the remote ERC. The > video (a stream of
3840x2160 pixels encoded using 12 bits per > pixel color coding (e.g. YUV
4:1:1 [28]) with a framerate up to > 60 fps and compressed with lossy
compression algorithm) and the > audio stream (up to 128 kbps) are relayed by
the ambulance to the > ERC.
2) Once in the ambulance, Sue regains consciousness and Fred can then >
perform the 15-point test to assess Sue's brain injury severity > (checking a
person\'s ability to follow directions, move their > eyes and limbs and to
answer questions). Sue is scored 9 on > Glasgow Coma scale, meaning she is
suffering from severe brain > trauma.
3) Fred puts ECG electrodes on Sue's chest, arms and legs and positions > also
additional sensors in order to monitor a number of other > physical vital
signs (body temperature, blood pressure ...). The > resulting \ data stream to the emergency room.
4) Sue passes out again and her ECG starts showing arrhythmias. Fred, >
decides to execute a CT scan using the portable equipment in the > ambulance,
in order to create a detailed view of her brain and > visualize potential
fractures, evidence of bleeding, blood clots > or bruised brain tissue. The
equipment starts generating a 10 fps > 2048x2048 stream of images with 12 to
16 bits per pixel color > depth that is relayed to the ERC over a 5G high
priority > connection.
5) Based on received CT images, remote doctors warns Fred's that > bleeding in
the brain is resulting in a collection of clotted > blood (hematoma) that is
putting pressure in Sue's skull and is > further damaging her brain tissue.
Fortunately, the bleed location > is precisely determined and a simple
aspiration procedure looks > feasible.
6) Under voice guidance from a remote specialist that has real time > access
to the scene inside the ambulance, Fred drills a small hole > into Sue's skull
and drains the hematoma using a needle. As he > can't remove the hematoma
completely nor stop the bleeding, he > then inserts a probe in order to
monitor her pressure continuously > and to stream pressure data over the 5G
secure connection to the > ERC.
7) Upon arrival at the hospital, the staff is waiting and has all > needed
data to proceed with the emergency surgery in the prepared > OR. Sue is rushed
there for immediate surgery.
8) Resources assigned for the communication services allocated to the >
ambulance are released by the MNO.
#### 5.5.2.4 Post-conditions
Sue undergoes an emergency surgery consisting in opening a window in her skull
to provide more room for swollen tissues and to relieve pressure from
accumulated blood and cerebral spinal fluid.
After the surgery, she recovers rapidly and returns back home after a couple
of weeks of observation at the hospital.
#### 5.5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Table 5.5.2.5‑1: Applicable existing communication service functional
requirements
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reference | Requirement | Application / | Comment | | number | text | transport | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8.9 | The 5G system | T | See 3GPP TS | | | shall support | | 22.261 | | | data integrity | | | | | protection and | | | | | c | | | | | onfidentiality | | | | | methods that | | | | | serve URLLC | | | | | and energy | | | | | constrained | | | | | devices. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.1.2 | All | T | See 3GPP TS | | | requirements | | 22.261 | | | related to | | | | | slice | | | | | management, | | | | | access, | | | | | capacity, | | | | | quality of | | | | | service. | | | | | | | | | | In particular, | | | | | on | | | | | prioritization | | | | | of certain | | | | | slices against | | | | | others: | | | | | | | | | | The 5G system | | | | | shall enable | | | | | the network | | | | | operator to | | | | | define a | | | | | priority order | | | | | between | | | | | different | | | | | network slices | | | | | in case | | | | | multiple | | | | | network slices | | | | | compete for | | | | | resources on | | | | | the same | | | | | network. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.10.2, | All | T | See 3GPP TS | | | requirements | | 22.261 | | 6.1.2.3 | related to | | | | | private slice | | | | | management, | | | | | access, | | | | | limitation to | | | | | a specific | | | | | geographical | | | | | area, | | | | | isolation and | | | | | fault | | | | | tolerance. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 8.2, 8.3 | All | T | See 3GPP TS | | | requirements | | 22.261 | | | related to | | | | | security | | | | | management in | | | | | private slices | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.2.3 | The 5G system | T | See 3GPP TS | | | shall enable | | 22.261 | | | packet loss to | | | | | be minimized | | | | | during inter- | | | | | and/or intra- | | | | | access | | | | | technology | | | | | changes for | | | | | some or all | | | | | connections | | | | | associated | | | | | with a UE. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 6.2.3 | The 5G system | T | See 3GPP TS | | | shall minimize | | 22.261 | | | interruption | | | | | time during | | | | | inter- and/or | | | | | intra- access | | | | | technology | | | | | mobility for | | | | | some or all | | | | | connections | | | | | associated | | | | | with a UE. | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 5.6.1, 5.6.2 | Clock | T | See 3GPP TS | | | s | | 22.104 | | | ynchronization | | | | | service level | | | | | requirements | | | | | related to | | | | | global clock | | | | | domain | | | | | management, | | | | | Clock | | | | | s | | | | | ynchronization | | | | | service | | | | | performance | | | | | requirements | | | | | (accuracy | | | | | level 1) | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
#### 5.5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Table 5.5.2.6‑1: Potential new Communication Service Performances Requirements
**Use case** | **Characteristic parameter** | **Influence quantity** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**5.5.2 – Patient monitoring inside ambulances** | **Communication service availability: target value in %** | **Communication service reliability: Mean Time Between Failure** | **End-to-end latency: maximum** | **Bit rate** | **Direction** | **Message** **Size** **[byte]** | **Survival time** | **UE speed** | **# of active UEs** | **Service Area** **[km] (note 3)**  
Compressed 4K (3840x2160 pixels) 12 bits per pixel (e.g. YUV4:1:1) 60 fps real time video stream | 99.99 | >1 month | >1 month (>1 month (1 month | > 1 month |  handling the whole data life cycle and will have to establish or > amend technical and organizational measures to ensure and prove > that the processing of personal data fully complies with > regulatory requirements. In practise, controllers can be e.g. > hospitals, health houses or physicians...
  * Processors: natural or legal person that processes medical data. A > processor is required to maintain records of all its processing > activities and to maintain disclosure readiness of this > information to show compliance. A processor could be for instance > a cloud provider offering services to a controller for data > storage and processing.
In the process of transporting medical data over a 5G network, in particular
if the mobile operator is responsible for any key material that can be used to
decrypt the medical data, or is otherwise involved in storing or adjusting the
data, then this would involve assigning a processor role to telecom operators.
Also, if the operator did not provide sufficient safeguards to protect data
loss or if the operator lacks behind in fixing known security holes and
vulnerabilities, they may be held accountable by health data controllers and
processors.
Interactions between data subjects, regulators, controllers and processors are
shown on the picture below:
{width="5.129861111111111in" height="2.623611111111111in"}
Figure 6.2-1: Role model on personal data security
For more information on general data requirements from regulatory bodies, see
Annex A.
## 6.3 Potential Requirements
### 6.3.1 Existing features partly or fully covering the functionality
Table 6.3.1-1: Applicable existing communication service functional
requirements
* * *
Reference number Requirement text Application / transport Comment 8.9 The 5G
system shall support data integrity protection and confidentiality methods
that serve URLLC and energy constrained devices. T Requirement taken from 3GPP
TS 22.261, however need to add \"high data rates\" to the requirement text.
8.2, 8.3 All requirements related to security management in private slices T
See 3GPP TS 22.261
* * *
### 6.3.2 Potential New Requirements
Table 6.3.2-1: New communication service performance requirements
* * *
Reference number Requirement text Application / transport Comment 6.3.3-1 The
5G system shall support security self-assessment of network functions involved
in rendering communication services in order to detect malicious cyber
activity or compromised systems in the operator's network. T  
6.3.3-2 The 5G system shall provide suitable APIs to allow an authorized third
party to consult security related metrics for the network slices dedicated to
that third party, and any report on security breach or malicious activity that
would have been self-detected. T  
6.3.3-3 The 5G system shall allow the operator to authorize a 3^rd^ party to
create and modify network slices having appropriate security policies (e.g.
user data privacy handling, slices isolation, enhanced logging ...) subject to
an agreement between the 3^rd^ party and the network operator. T
* * *
# 7 Consolidated potential requirements
7.1 Security requirements
[7.1-1] The 5G system shall provide suitable means to allow use of a trusted
and authorized 3^rd^ party provided integrity protection mechanism for data
exchanged between an authorized UE served by a private slice and a core
network entity in that private slice.
[7.1-2] The 5G system shall provide suitable means to allow use of a trusted
and authorized 3^rd^ party provided integrity protection mechanism for data
exchanged between an authorized UE served by a non-public network and a core
network entity in that non-public network.
[7.1-3] Based on operator policy, a 5G network shall provide suitable means to
allow a trusted and authorized 3rd party to create and modify network slices
used for the 3^rd^ party with appropriate security policies (e.g. user data
privacy handling, slices isolation, enhanced logging...).
[7.1-4] Based on operator policy, the 5G system shall provide suitable means
to allow a trusted and authorized 3^rd^ party to consult security related
logging information for the network slices dedicated to that 3^rd^ party.
[7.1-5] The 5G system shall support data integrity protection and
confidentiality methods that serve URLLC, high data rates and energy
constrained devices.
> NOTE: the text for this requirement was taken from Section 8.9 of TS 22.261,
> and adapted to include \"high data rates\".
## 7.2 Network services performance requirements
Table 7.2.1‑1: New consolidated performance requirements for wireless
operating rooms
**Requirement** | **Characteristic parameter** | **Influence quantity** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| **Communication service availability: target value in %** | **Communication service reliability: Mean Time Between Failure** | **End-to-end latency: maximum** | **Bit rate** | **Direction** | **Message** **Size** **[byte]** | **Survival time** | **UE speed** **(km/h)** | **# of active UEs** | **Service Area**  
5.2.2 - 8K 120 fps HDR 10bits real-time video stream with lossless compression 5.2.3 - 4K 120 fps HDR 10bits real-time video stream with lossless compression | >99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.99999 | >1 year | 99.9999 | >1 year | 99.999999 | >10 year | 99.999999 | >10 year | 99.99 | >1 month | >1 month (1 month (99.999 | >>1 month (99.9999 | > 1 year | >1 month (1 month | 99.999 | >>1 month (99.99 | >1 month | 99.9999 | >1 month) | <100 ms | 0.5 Mbit/s | UEs to Network | <1000 | <1 s | <500 | 10/km2 – 1000/km2 | Country wide including rural areas; Deep Indoor (note 1)  
NOTE 1: In this context, "deep indoor" term is meant to be places like e.g. elevators, building’s basement, underground parking lot, … NOTE 2: These performance requirements aim energy-efficient transmissions performed using a device powered with a 3.3V battery of capacity <1000 mAh that can last at least 1 month without recharging and whereby the peak current for transmit operations stays below 50 mA. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 7.3 Clock synchronization requirements
Table 7.3-1: Clock Synchronization service performance requirements
* * *
Use case reference Number of devices for clock synchronisation Clock
synchronicity requirement Service area 5.3.3 -- Communication QoS requirement
for robotic telesurgery Up to 10 UEs \< 50 µs 400 km
* * *
# 8 Conclusion and recommendations
The current TR provides a number of use cases for communication services
related to critical medical applications in the following categories:
Image Assisted Surgery inside hybrid operating rooms equipped with high
quality and augmented imaging systems
Robotic Aided Surgery inside hybrid operating rooms or in remote medical
facilities
Tele-diagnosis and monitoring in ambulances, hospitals or remote healthcare
facilities
For the above listed areas, the document identifies potential performances
requirements for 3GPP communication systems involved in the delivery of care
or surgery to patients so that considered medical procedures are carried out
with adequate level of safety and efficiency.
In addition, the document also proposes potential requirements needed to
ensure handling of medical related data in 3GPP communication systems while
fulfilling confidentiality, integrity and auditability principles set forth in
regulatory texts.
It is proposed that those requirements are considered for development of
normative requirements.
###### ### Annex A: Security Considerations
## A.1 Regulatory texts' analysis
As a general rule, organizations involved in controlling and/or processing the
data have to be careful with the data and exact in knowing where it is being
stored, how it is being processed and whether consent has been given. Parsing
national regulations along those lines for general data management
requirements in light of the role models explained in section 6.2, leads to
the following mapping of high-level requirements on the involved actors.
Table A.1-1: Mapping of general data requirements from regulatory bodies
* * *
Requirements Controllers Processors Comment Explicit Consent: data subjects to
explicitly give their consent (declaratory statement or opt-in tick box) for
processing their medical, genetic or biometric data X  
Right to Data Portability: data subjects to have their personal data sent back
to them to transmit elsewhere more easily X  
Right to Be Forgotten: data subjects to have their personal data erased
without undue delay X  
Right to rectification: data subjects to obtain from the controller without
undue delay the rectification of inaccurate personal data concerning him or
her X  
Right to restriction of processing: data subjects to obtain from the
controller restriction of processing under certain circumstances X  
Subject Access Rights, the request to access data must be addressed quickly
(less than one month) X  
Appointment of a Data Protection Officer where medical, genetic or biometric
data is processed in a large scale X X  
Data Protection Impact Assessment: risk assessment of the impact of
anticipated processing activities on personal, medical, genetic or biometric
data X X For telcos, this implies a certain level of security policies
parametrization in order to cope with different type of data Mandatory data
breach reporting: breaches must be reported to a data protection regulator
within 72 hours, and those affected by the breach must also be informed. X X  
Anonymization: the method of processing personal data in order to irreversibly
prevent identification. X X  
Data confidentiality: protection of data from being accessed by unauthorised
parties through e.g. pseudonymization and/or encryption of personal data X X  
Data Integrity: maintenance of the accuracy and consistency of data throughout
its entire life cycle X X  
Integrity, availability and resilience of processing systems and services
against accidental loss, destruction or malicious actions that compromise the
availability, authenticity, integrity and confidentiality of stored or
transmitted personal data X X For telcos, this requirement leads to the need
of having self-assessment of systems related to their ability to process the
data according to regulatory rules Existence of a process for regularly
testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and
organisational measures for ensuring the security of the processing X X For
telcos this means the ability to monitor and assess security policies and
their efficiency Traceability: care providers to determine the initial source
of the data, and what happened to it through its various locations and
transformations. X X For telcos this implies enhanced logging capabilities for
highly secured communication services
* * *
#