# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes asset tracking use cases and identifies **new
potential service requirements as well as new KPIs to be supported by 5G
communication services for asset tracking.**
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Overview
As every organisation owns assets (machines, medical devices, containers,
pallets, trolleys ...) and as an asset can be an (extremely) valuable one, the
assets tracking represents a huge market (billions of units). These assets are
not fixed: they are continuously transported all over the word by different
kind of vehicles; and they are continuously moved inside different kinds of
buildings.
The ownership of the assets changes many times as different stakeholders take
possession of some assets and pass it on to different stakeholders all along a
supply chain and any value chain.
The values of these assets are not fixed as it changes all along a supply
chain and any value chain. The development of the sharing economy means one
asset is used by different people, so increases the need of tracking the
asset.
So, every organisation needs to be able to track them anytime and anywhere
(Indoor & Outdoor) in a global and multi modal context (sea, air, road,
rail...).
Assets tracking includes several very different and distinct use cases such as
pallets, trolleys, crates, containers, parcels, security assets but as well
luggage, vehicles and even animals (Pets / Farm livestock) tracking.
The assets tracking topic is much more than just location; it includes real
time monitoring of several elements or factors depending on the asset and its
content if relevant (condition of the asset, environmental factors --
temperature, shock detection, events...). It requires low cost IoT approach
for which the two paramount requirements are coverage (need to support full
coverage: Indoor / Urban/ Rural area/ Harsh environments / Metallic
obstructions...) and battery consumption efficiency (designed to cope with 15
years\' lifetime without changing the battery or the UE).
Incorporating the support of these new requirements into 5G and mMTC will
contribute to improve the 5G system.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Use case for Container Tracking
### 5.1.1 Description
There is no anymore one company in the world that does everything in- house:
everyone outsources, offshores, and is a contractor and a subcontractor at the
same time. Everybody is integrated in one or many different supply chains,
being a local cluster or complex worldwide process.
And it's the container that keeps the supply chain and the world trade moving
on.
Improving container tracking and supply-chain management is a top priority.
Technological innovation is seen as the crucial part of supply-chain
management and container tracking by 93% of the executives of this business to
increase efficiency, lower costs and improve effectiveness. It is therefore
critical for the industry to have a total visibility on the cargo for the
whole trip and identify what happen, when and where. This could also trigger
contingency plan if necessary.
There are different sizes for containers but most of the containers have
standardized sizes allowing them to be carried by boat, trucks or railway:
\- either 20 feet (6,058 m) or 40 feet (12,192 m) long
\- 8′ (2,438 m) wide
\- 8'6\" (2,591 m) tall
Most of the containers are closed and \"dry freight\" containers made from
either aluminium or high-grade, non-corrosive and rust-resistant steel. These
types of containers present doors on both ends and are mainly used for dry
goods.
Beside there are also other types such as open top, refrigerated or reefer
(with a power generator - used for shipment of perishable goods like fruits
and vegetables), garmentainer (for clothes), tanks, half height (used
especially for goods like coal, stones...), car carriers...
The whole duration of life of a container is generally between 10 and 15 years
(12 years in average).
The container tracking is an essential part of the supply chain and logistics
to make them more efficient. By monitoring and tracking seamlessly the
container in near real-time, it allows to provide all the supply chain players
and stakeholders a full traceability and to optimize the transport and the
storage of containerized goods.
Any event related to a container is quickly notified and is allowing efficient
analytics as well as taking related decision such as new sourcing plans if
needed.
This use case describes a typical example of containers embarked in a ship and
how future 5G System can help support the tracking of these containers in an
efficient energy-saving approach.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Each container is equipped with a battery-powered IoT type UE including a 5G
communication module and embedding a certain number of sensors able to monitor
the internal environment of the container (accelerometer, temperature,
humidity) as well as to detect critical events (physical shocks, door
opening). Depending on its content and its purpose (nature of the goods
transported), the container may as well have dedicated sensors (remote from
the UE) such as gas detector, inside temperature (reefer).... The 5G
communication module can support terrestrial and satellite access networks.
The battery-powered IoT UE should be able to operate for the entire lifetime
of the tracked container (12 years) without large capacity battery packs and
without being replaced during this period of time.
Depending on the service level required by the owner of the container and the
supply chain associated, the container sends regular status update (could very
between one message every hour to one message per day). The status update can
be based on event (arrival on port for example). Additionally, based on non
desired events such as shocks or door opening, the container can send an alarm
to inform of the event.
A ship can be equipped with a gateway including a 5G communication module that
can communicate to satellite access networks when offshore and travelling on
the sea or to terrestrial and satellite access networks when on shore.
A container port or container terminal can as well be equipped with gateways
including each a 5G communications module to manage the connectivity with all
containers.
The size of the data payload containing the status information related to a
container can be up to 2500 Bytes (example: a record of 26 bytes generated
each 15 minutes and 1 connection per day). This size depends as well as the
service level required by the owner of the container and the type of container
and the carried goods (reefer with perishable goods for example are providing
more data based on various additional sensors than a container with simple
objects).
The 5G system is interfaced to an application server (e.g. Container Tracking
Management System). At the beginning of each travel, a travel plan is set up
for each container (though the UE) by the Container Tracking Management System
depending on the level of service required by the customers of the Container
Tracking Management System. The travel plan combined with the environment of
the container will allow the container UE to be able to take some decisions
such as positioning trigger, alerts/alarms set up, geofencing, key dates...
The payload size and the periodicity by the application are defined according
to the context expected.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
13.000 containers are on a ship and later on on the dock of the container
terminal. In each container, the UE collects the data from both embedded
sensors and remote sensors and aggregates it in packets to be forwarded.
Note: Extension of this use case to for multi-hop relays can be found in TS
22.866.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
All containers have provided their data, with minimal impacts on their battery
and they are ready for their next travel(s).
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
* * *
**Reference number** **Requirement text** **Comment** 5.1.5-1 The 5G system
shall be able to support an end-to end secured link between the UEs
(containers) and the Container Tracking Management System.  
5.1.5-2 The 5G System shall be able to support the request from the Container
Tracking Management System to the UE (container) to provide its status and
tracking information periodically with an update rate ranging from one status
every [60 minutes] to one status every [24 hours] (i.e. 24 messages to 1
message per day).  
5.1.5-3 The 5G system shall be able to support terrestrial and non terrestrial
(satellite) access networks.  
5.1.5-4 The 5G system shall be able to support a continuity of the service
through network slicing including roaming.
* * *
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
* * *
**Reference number** **Potential Requirement text** **Comment** 5.1.6-1 The 5G
system shall be able to support cellular IoT/mMTC type of communications by
satellite.­­­­  
5.1.6-2 The UE shall be able to support a payload size up to 2500 bytes per
message.
* * *
### 5.1.7 Potential Key Performances Requirements
The KPIs attached to this use case are listed below:
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Battery | Typical | Maximum | Typical | Typical | Device | | Life | Message | | F | | density | | | size | Message | requency | Battery | | | Ex | | size | | | | | pectancy | | | (number | Capacity | | | | | | of | | | | (note 1) | | | messages | | | | | | | per day) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 12 years | 200 | 2500 | 24 | 21,6 Wh | 1,4 | | | bytes | bytes | | | devices | | | | | | | / m^3^ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 1: | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | Battery | | | | | | | > life | | | | | | | > ex | | | | | | | pectancy | | | | | | | > is to | | | | | | | > be | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | assumed | | | | | | | > in all | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | coverage | | | | | | | > co | | | | | | | nditions | | | | | | | > and is | | | | | | | > based | | | | | | | > on | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | typical | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | > size | | | | | | | > value | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | typical | | | | | | | > f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 2: A | | | | | | | > large | | | | | | | > conta | | | | | | | inership | | | | | | | > with a | | | | | | | > mix of | | | | | | | > 20 ft | | | | | | | > and 40 | | | | | | | > ft | | | | | | | > co | | | | | | | ntainers | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | assumed. | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 3: All | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | > values | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | > this | | | | | | | > table | | | | | | | > are | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | example | | | | | | | > values | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | > not | | | | | | | > strict | | | | | | | > requi | | | | | | | rements. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.2 Use case for Wagon Tracking
### 5.2.1 Description
Wagon tracking and real time wagon fleet monitoring are essential part in the
supply chain management. It contributes to optimize the fleet and maximizing
the wagons and rolling stock use by reducing immobilization time and empty
backhauling as well as providing better response to delays and stock shortage.
It allows as well to design preventive and curative maintenance by measuring
for example the full and empty kilometres or detecting shocks.
A freight train is **comprised of one or several locomotives and several
freight or goods wagons**. The freight wagons can be of different variety of
wagon types depending of types of goods transported such as open wagons,
covered wagons, refrigerated vans, spine cars to carry intermodal containers,
tank wagons, special purposes wagons (to carry coal, mineral or sand for
example), ...
These wagons need to be in a specific order to compose the train for example
to avoid to put empties or light loads at the head end and heavy loads on the
rear end but also based on different railway operator rules.
Most of the freight trains are running an average speed of 50 to 80 km/h
depending on the curves of the tracks, the hills, the cargo and the length of
train and usually are not going over a speed of 100 km/h (dependency on the
country regulations).
A typical freight train have a length of 700 m to 1 km and are composed with
between 50 to 120 freight wagons of 40 feet and some of the wagons can be
double stacked. Some freight trains have even reached the length of 7 km and
were composed of 600 wagons and 8 locomotives.
Each wagon needs to be monitored and tracked by its owners as well as by the
freight railway operator managing the train.
The whole duration of life of a freight wagon varies from 20 years to 30/40
years and even 50 years depending on the type of wagon (and there is no power
supply in the freight wagons contrary to passengers' wagons).
This use case describes a typical example of wagons attached together and how
future 5G System can help support the tracking of these wagons in an efficient
energy-saving approach.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Each wagon to be tracked is equipped with a battery-powered IoT type UE
including a 5G communication module. Depending on its content and its purpose
(nature of the goods transported), the wagon is including different sensors
and is able to detect critical events (physical shocks, vibrations,
temperature, dislocation...) as illustrated in figure 4.
{width="3.5527777777777776in" height="2.526388888888889in"}
Figure 5-1: Different sensors managed in a wagon
The battery-powered UE should be able to operate for a period of 20 years
without large capacity battery packs and without being replaced during this
period of time.
Depending on the service level required by the owner of the goods and the
supply chain associated, the wagon sends regular status update (could very
between one every hour to twice a day -- periodicity could even be set up to 1
min). The status update can be based on event (arrival on station for
example). Additionally, based on non desired events such as shocks, the wagon
can send an alarm to inform of the event. The conductor of the locomotive may
need to be informed of such event to trigger right answer.
A locomotive can be equipped with a gateway including a 5G communications
module that can communicate to satellite access networks.
The size of the data payload containing the status information related to a
wagon can be up to 2500 Bytes. This size depends as well as the service level
required by the carried goods (refrigerated vans with perishable goods for
example are providing more data based on various additional sensors than a
wagon for mineral transportation).
The 5G system is interfaced to an application server (e.g. Wagons Tracking
Management System). The payload size and the periodicity by the application
are defined according to the context expected.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
A freight train is composed of 19 freight wagons of different varieties and
usages. Each wagon has been tracked individually to be placed in a certain
order in order to compose the train. Not all wagons may be equipped with an
UE.
One of the main challenges is to communicate the information to the conductor
as well with the WAN network on such a length and as the UE attached to the
wagon can be in different places depending on the type of wagons. This needs
to be done while still optimising the battery level of the UE attached to
wagon as well as the fact that part of the train and some of the wagons can be
in a tunnel where the propagation of the signal is limited. Another challenge
is to communicate the information in a relative short time to allow the
conductor as well as the train operator to react appropriately: 15 seconds
from the time there is an event detected and the event is communicated to the
locomotive.
All the communications need to be secured and only wagons that are part of the
train composed are allowed to communicate between them and with the gateway of
the locomotive.
Note: Extension of this use case to for multi-hop relays can be found in TS
22.866.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
All wagons have provided their data, with minimal impacts on their battery and
they are ready for their next travel(s).
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
* * *
**Reference number** **Requirement text** **Comment** 5.2.5-1 The 5G system
shall be able to support an end-to end secured link between the UEs (wagons)
and the wagon Tracking Management System.  
5.2.5-2 The 5G System shall be able to support the request from the wagon
Tracking Management System to the UE (wagon) to provide its status and
tracking information periodically with an update rate ranging from one status
every [15 minutes] to one status every [24 hours] (i.e. 96 messages to 1
message per day).  
5.2.5-3 The 5G system shall be able to support terrestrial and non terrestrial
(satellite) access networks.  
5.2.5-4 The 5G system shall be able to support a continuity of the service in
roaming case.
* * *
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Note: All new requirements associated to communicating between wagons and
usage of wagons as relay will be addressed in TR 22.866 (enhanced Relays for
Energy Efficiency and Extensive Coverage).
### 5.2.7 Potential Key Performances Requirements
The KPIs attached to this use case are listed below:
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Battery | Typical | Maximum | Typical | Typical | Device | | Life | Message | | F | | density | | | size | Message | requency | Battery | | | Ex | | size | | | | | pectancy | | | (number | Capacity | | | | | | of | | | | (note 1) | | | messages | | | | | | | per day) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 20 years | 200 | 2500 | 24 | 36 Wh | 0,3 | | | bytes | bytes | | | devices | | | | | | | / m^2^ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 1: | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | Battery | | | | | | | > life | | | | | | | > ex | | | | | | | pectancy | | | | | | | > is to | | | | | | | > be | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | assumed | | | | | | | > in all | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | coverage | | | | | | | > co | | | | | | | nditions | | | | | | | > and is | | | | | | | > based | | | | | | | > on | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | typical | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | > size | | | | | | | > value | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | typical | | | | | | | > f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 2: All | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | > values | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | > this | | | | | | | > table | | | | | | | > are | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | example | | | | | | | > values | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | > not | | | | | | | > strict | | | | | | | > requi | | | | | | | rements. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.3 Use case for Pallet Tracking
### 5.3.1 Description
Reusable pallets (plastic or other material) are now playing an important role
in the supply chain and logistics providing a cost-effective solution and
long-term return on investment while being environmentally friendly by
avoiding scrap pallets and packaging waste.
Such pallets are particularly adapted for in-house flow of goods, closed
circuit or cases where there is extensive flow of goods with a small number of
distribution sites such as providing goods between a warehouse and several
distribution sites and stores. Another strong usage of such pallet is the
automotive industry for the transport of accessory and spare parts to the
assembling line of a manufacturer for example. Another usage is as well the
military.
{width="5.0in" height="1.7083333333333333in"}
Figure 7-1: Examples of Reusable pallets
Some of the main challenges associated to the use of such pallets are the
retention on site as well as the loss (or theft) of these pallets.
Therefore, tracking of pallets is important for the productivity while
providing better inventory control and improved quality and the objective of
pallet tracking application is to improve/optimize flow by reducing retention
on site and loss or theft and to maximize the duration of use of such pallet.
The service requirements associated to this use case are the following:
\- Flows and stock management -- Automatic inventory of each site as well as
on transit
\- Tracking and optimization of Pallets flows
\- Per Site -- tracking of every pallet per site
\- Per pallets: history of movement, duration of stay on site
\- Following transit -- tracking of all pallets in transit and their position
\- Identify Loss and theft and reduce it
\- Identify Retention on site and reduce it
This use case describes a typical example of pallets and how future 5G System
can help support the tracking of these pallets.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
Each pallet is equipped with a small size battery-powered IoT type UE
including a 5G communication module with a very small non rechargeable
battery. For some pallets which are moving towards large area or for critical
operation such as military, the 5G communication module should support low
power IoT communication by satellite.
The battery-powered IoT UE should be able to operate for the entire lifetime
of the reusable pallet (7 years minimum) without large capacity battery packs
and without being replaced during this period of time.
The 5G system is interfaced to an application server (e.g. Pallet Tracking
Management System) which can track the overall flows of all pallets it is
managing.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
Automotive spare parts and accessories need to be delivered from the supplier
to an assembly line of an automotive manufacturer with reusable plastic
pallets.
When in movement, each pallet is capturing often its location position. It is
not necessary needed to send its location position all the time but it may be
needed to store it on a regular basis (to be set up in function of the owner
requirements - for example every 5 minutes) then to send on a less regular
basis (every hour for example) a status update which include its position or
all positions captured regularly since the previous status update as well as
its battery status. The status update can be based as well on event (arrival
on the distribution site or assembling line for example). A status update
message sent every hour and aggregating the positions captured every 5 minutes
has a size up to 300 bytes.
When the pallet is on the distribution site, it will continue to send regular
update communicating its status and position enabling to inform when a pallet
is staying longer than needed on this site or when moving outside of the zone
allowed for the pallet. In this case, an alert is sent.
When they are empty (and not used), the pallets are piled up on each other. In
some cases (depending on the pallet type), the pile can be composed of 20 to
30 pallets. The pallets may still communicate their status update even when
piled up in order for the Pallet Tracking Management System to have an
accurate inventory.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
All pallets have provided their data, with minimal impacts on their battery
and they are back at their warehouse ready for next usage and the retention or
loss of pallets have been reduced or limited.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
N/A
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Editor\'s Note: text to be provided
### 5.3.7 Potential Key Performances Requirements
The KPIs attached to this use case are listed below:
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Battery | Typical | Maximum | Typical | Typical | Device | | Life | Message | | F | | density | | | size | Message | requency | Battery | | | Ex | | size | | | | | pectancy | | | (number | Capacity | | | | | | of | | | | (note 1) | | | messages | | | | | | | per day) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 7 years | 300 | 300 | 24 | 12 Wh | 4 | | | bytes | bytes | | | devices/ | | | | | | | m^2^ | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 1: | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | Battery | | | | | | | > life | | | | | | | > ex | | | | | | | pectancy | | | | | | | > is to | | | | | | | > be | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | assumed | | | | | | | > in all | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | coverage | | | | | | | > co | | | | | | | nditions | | | | | | | > and is | | | | | | | > based | | | | | | | > on | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | typical | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | message | | | | | | | > size | | | | | | | > value | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | typical | | | | | | | > f | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 2: All | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | > values | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | > this | | | | | | | > table | | | | | | | > are | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | example | | | | | | | > values | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | > not | | | | | | | > strict | | | | | | | > requi | | | | | | | rements. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# 6 Consolidated potential requirements
## 6.1 Functional Requirements
[PR 7.1-1] The 5G system shall be able to support low power IoT/mMTC type of
communications with satellite access.
## 6.2 Performances Requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Sce | Ba | Ty | Ma | Ty | Ty | D | | | nario | ttery | pical | ximum | pical | pical | evice | | | | Life | Me | | Freq | | de | | | | | ssage | Me | uency | Ba | nsity | | | | Expec | size | ssage | | ttery | | | | | tancy | | size | (n | | | | | | | | | umber | Cap | | | | | (note | | | of | acity | | | | | 1) | | | mes | | | | | | | | | sages | | | | | | | | | per | | | | | | | | | day) | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | Conta | 12 | 200 | 2500 | 24 | 21,6 | 1,4 | | | iners | years | bytes | bytes | | Wh | de | | | | | | | | | vices | | | (note | | | | | | / | | | 2) | | | | | | m^3^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | W | 20 | 200 | 2500 | 24 | 36 Wh | 0,3 | | | agons | years | bytes | bytes | | | de | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | m^2^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | Pa | 7 | 300 | 300 | 24 | 12 Wh | 4 | | | llets | years | bytes | bytes | | | dev | | | | | | | | | ices/ | | | | | | | | | m^2^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | > | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | > 1: | | | | | | | | | > Ba | | | | | | | | | ttery | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | life | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | expec | | | | | | | | | tancy | | | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | | | > be | | | | | | | | | > as | | | | | | | | | sumed | | | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | | | > all | | | | | | | | | > cov | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | condi | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | > on | | | | | | | | | > ty | | | | | | | | | pical | | | | | | | | | > me | | | | | | | | | ssage | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | size | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > ty | | | | | | | | | pical | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | > 2: | | | | | | | | | > A | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | large | | | | | | | | | > con | | | | | | | | | taine | | | | | | | | | rship | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | > a | | | | | | | | | > mix | | | | | | | | | > of | | | | | | | | | > 20 | | | | | | | | | > ft | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > 40 | | | | | | | | | > ft | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | conta | | | | | | | | | iners | | | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | | | > ass | | | | | | | | | umed. | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | > 3: | | | | | | | | | > All | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | > v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | > in | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | > are | | | | | | | | | > tar | | | | | | | | | geted | | | | | | | | | > v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > not | | | | | | | | | > s | | | | | | | | | trict | | | | | | | | | > req | | | | | | | | | uirem | | | | | | | | | ents. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
The current TR provides a number of use cases for Asset Tracking that are
significant for the topic (Container, wagon, pallet).
The resulting potential requirements and KPIs reported for each use case
identified in this TR have been consolidated and can be considered for the
development of normative requirements. It is therefore proposed to consider
the inclusion of these requirements and KPIs in existing specifications for 5G
services (e.g. TS 22.261).
#