# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document concerns the possibility of minimizing service
interruption when it occurs. This technical report gathers and analyses
scenarios in which interruption to communication service arises to derive
potential service requirements out of these scenarios. The study will address
applicable local regulatory requirements. Gaps between what can be supported
by the 3GPP system and the derived potential service requirements will be
identified.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: ″Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications″.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Disaster Condition:** This is the condition that a government decides
whether it is applicable or not based on, e.g. a natural disaster or a man-
made disaster. When this condition applies, users may have the opportunity to
mitigate service interruptions and failures.
**Disaster Roaming:** This is the special type of roaming service that applies
during a Disaster Condition.
**Disaster Inbound Roamers:** Users that (a) cannot get service from the PLMN
they would normally be served by, due to failure of service during a Disaster
Condition, and (b) are able to register with other PLMNs.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Overview
Mobile communication service has become essential part of our society. For
example, mobile payment or ride-sharing service cannot work without mobile
connectivity. Thus, it is important that users of mobile communication service
get their subscribed services without being interrupted.
However, disasters can cause interruption of communication services, e.g.:
> \- Natural disasters such as earthquake can cause fire or power outage to
> some radio access network equipment. These in turn lead to abrupt
> disappearance of cells or no routing among radio access network and core
> network.
>
> \- Human-made disasters such as installation of software with bugs or ill-
> managed certificate can cause abnormal behaviour of a radio access network.
> Subscribed UEs of the network cannot exchanges signalling or data.
Because resulting impact on business and society is huge, it is utmost
important to minimize the time and area where connectivity service is
interrupted due to disaster.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Network reselection during disaster - General
### 5.1.1 Description
When a UE is located within its home country, the UE camps on its home
network. In normal situation where its home network is functioning properly,
the neighboring network will reject any service request from the UE except the
case when it is required by regulation e.g. for emergency call.
However, when the home network is disabled due to disasters and when other
neighboring networks are not impacted, the only option for the UE to be online
is to be served by the neighboring networks.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
Yuri has a subscription with a network HomeNetwork in country K, and lives in
OldCity within country K. In OldCity, the network HomeNetwork owns and
operates a local routing center through which all traffic and signaling pass
to/from the radio access networks of the HomeNetwork. The equipment of the
local routing center is located within the basement of the building called
OldBuilding.
In country K, there is another network NeighborNetwork. The NeighborNetwork
also owns and operates a local routing enter in OldCity, but it is located in
different district than that of OldBuilding.
The network HomeNetwork and the network NeighborNetwork establishes a special
agreement so that the two networks provide services to users of each other
only during critical disasters where the other network cannot provide services
to its home customer.
In OldCity, using mobile payment service is a common practice. Thus, one
cannot buy foods or ride a public transportation without a smartphone
supporting mobile payment service. So, Yuri also uses mobile payment service
to by foods or ride a public transportation with her smartphone.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
Following is one example service flow:
> 1\. One day, when Yuri wakes up in the morning, she feels headache. So, she
> decides to go to hospital, and pick up her smartphone.
>
> 2\. She leaves home and arrives at the bus stop.
>
> 3\. It has been raining for several days in OldCity and this causes
> instability to OldBuilding. Suddenly, the OldBuilding collapses and the
> subsequent flood and the fire damaged wireline and routing equipment. In the
> end, connectivity between the radio access network and the core network of
> the HomeNetwork is lost. But, core network of HomeNetwork can communicate
> with other neighboring networks. The information related to disaster and the
> affected network and area can be delivered via authorized regulatory bodies,
> or via direct between the networks.
>
> 4\. In the area where Yuri is located, due to the disaster, there is no
> available cell of the HomeNetwork and only cells of NeighborNetwork are
> available. The smartphone of the Yuri camps on a cell of the
> NeighborNetwork. It starts registration procedure toward the
> NeighborNetwork.
>
> 5\. Based on the information that the disaster has disabled communication
> service by HomeNetwork in OldCity and the information of the UE (e.g.
> whether the Yuri is a valid subscriber of the HomeNetwork), the
> NeighborNetwork decides to provide connectivity service to the UE.
>
> 6\. Connectivity for Yuri's smartphone is now provided by the
> NeighborNetwork.
>
> 7\. Bus arrives at the bus stop and Yuri get on the bus. Yuri touches her
> smartphone to the payment terminal of the bus. The data for the transaction
> is delivered by the NeighborNetwork.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
After successfully paying the fee for the bus ride, Yuri successfully arrives
at the hospital.
Later, the relevant charging information for the connectivity service provided
via the NeighborNetwork is reported to the HomeNetwork.
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
In TS 22.261, following requirements are specified:
> \- The 5G system shall support a mechanism for the operator to authorize
> subscribers of other PLMNs to receive temporary service (e.g., mission
> critical services).
>
> \- The 5G system shall be able to provide temporary service for authorized
> users without access to their home network (e.g., IOPS, mission critical
> services).
While these requirements in TS 22.261 assumes unavailability of the home
network, current use case assumes core network of home network (e.g. at least
HSS/UDM of home PLMN) is available and radio access network is not properly
operating. Also, the target of this use case is not limited to users of
mission critical services.
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R.5.1-001] Subject to regulatory requirements or operator's policy, 3GPP
system shall be able to support a UE of a given PLMN is able to obtain
connectivity service (e.g. voice call, mobile data service) from another PLMN
of same country when Disaster Condition is met
## 5.2 A well-handled disaster begins
### 5.2.1 Description
Within a country deploying the new Minimization of Service Interruption
feature, a disaster strikes. Some radio infrastructure is rendered unworkable.
Users of the PLMN that partially or fully cannot offer service are able to get
service from participating operators offering Disaster Roaming services.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
In country X, three operators have deployed Minimization of Service
Interruption: X-Com, Y-Tel and Z-Cast. Each of these operators has established
agreements with the government. The government has the right to declare a
'Disaster.' While MNOs often have restrictions to support national roaming,
when the Disaster Condition has been established by the government,
_different_ roaming behaviours apply.
Fred lives in country X and has a subscription with X-Com. He is registered
with the X-Com network and attends a soccer game at a stadium near the capital
city. He attends the game with his friend Wang Fang a visitor from China. Her
phone is registered (as an inbound roamer) on the Z-Cast network. Home network
of Wang Fang' phone has service agreement with both Y-Tel and Z-Cast.
According to operator controlled PLMN selector lists, Z-Cast is most
prioritized PLMN for Wang Fang's phone.
### 5.2.3 Service flows
There is a substantial earthquake. X-Com's and Z-Cast's radio equipment near
the stadium is damaged and no longer operates. Fred and Wang Fang are without
service on X-Com's network and Z-Cast's network, respectively.
The government of X declares a Disaster and informs operators X-Com, Y-Tel and
Z-Cast that a Disaster Condition applies. (How this occurs is out of scope of
this use case.)
Each of X-Com, Y-Tel and Z-Cast begin Disaster Roaming support. This allows
UEs to identify the Disaster situation and begin Disaster Roaming support if
required.
Fred's phone determines that a Disaster Condition applies through
communication it successfully receives from the Y-Tel network. The phone
proceeds to select a PLMN under the 'Disaster' condition.
Fred's phone normally cannot select the PLMN of Y-Tel due to the policy
provisioned by the Home Operator X-Com. However, as the Disaster Condition
applies, it is possible to select one of these PLMNs.
Fred's phone selects Y-Tel's PLMN and registers with the network. He is now a
Disaster Inbound Roamer on that network.
NOTE: While an operator's radio network may be unavailable in one location, it
may be functional in other locations. Thus, the Disaster Condition criteria
alone does not imply that a UE should become a Disaster Inbound Roamer. The UE
also needs to have no service on their normally selected network.
Wang Fang's phone detects the coverage loss from Z-Cast. She is not prevented
from registering with the Y-Tel network due to service agreement between Y-Tel
and her HPLMN. PLMN selection is triggered, and Y-Tel's PLMN is selected. Wang
Fang's UE registers with the Y-Tel PLMN.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
Both Fred and Wang Fang's UEs are registered with the Y-Tel network. As
Disaster Inbound Roamers, Fred's usage records will result in charging as
established in the roaming agreement and national law. On the other hand,
Fang's usage records will result in charging as per the normal roaming service
agreement between Y-Tel and Fang's home network.
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
UEs shall be able to receive information (e.g. regarding PLMN information)
from any PLMN, even from networks PLMNs that a UE has not selected.
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R.5.2-001] 3GPP system shall enable UEs to obtain information that a Disaster
Condition applies to a particular PLMN or PLMNs.
NOTE: If a UE has no coverage of its HPLMN, then obtain information that a
Disaster Condition applies to the UE's HPLMN, the UE can register with a PLMN
offering Disaster Roaming service.
[R.5.2-002] 3GPP system shall be able to collect charging information for a
Disaster Inbound Roamer with information that Disaster Condition applies.
## 5.3 Use case for HPLMN failure with CN still working
### 5.3.1 Description
One PLMN user can roam and access to another PLMN at any time once they have
roaming service agreement. Normally the PLMNs are from different countries
without overlap coverage. But for the PLMNs in same countries there is
probably much overlap coverage between the two PLMNs. Normally they don't have
roaming service agreement, so the user from one PLMN is not allowed to access
to the other PLMNs.
Due to government regulation, one PLMN users are allowed to access the other
PLMNs as backup PLMNs in the same country when the PLMN is broken down due to
some urgent situations, e.g., fire disaster, earthquake, etc. even they don't
have roaming service agreement.
In this use case, it is assumed that the HPLMN RAN failed to serve its users
in specific area due to disaster, but CN can still work. Once the HPLMN is
recovery, its users can return back ASAP.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
Based on government regulation, there is a special agreement between the two
PLMNs that when one PLMN RAN failed to server its users in specific area due
to disaster, the other PLMN can serve its UEs.
Necessary government regulation or agreement between MNOs are made.
The PLMN-B (same country) is not forbidden in hPLMN UE.
### 5.3.3 Service flow
{width="2.8784722222222223in" height="1.2368055555555555in"}
Figure 5.3.3-1: PLMN-B aware of hPLMN failure
When the PLMN-B is aware of the event that hPLMN failed to serve its users in
specific area due to disaster (e.g., fire).
UE is trying to select the PLMN-B by performing PLMN selection once loosing
hPLMN RAN connection.
PLMN-B accepts the UE's access attempt based on the certain government
regulation or agreement between MNOs.
UE successfully gets access to PLMN-B.
{width="2.8673611111111112in" height="1.2541666666666667in"}
Figure 5.3.3-2: PLMN-B aware of hPLMN recovery
When PLMN-B is aware of the hPLMN's recovery.
PLMN-B starts to release the hPLMN UEs on a proper way.
UE returns to hPLMN by performing PLMN selection.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
UE can normally access to mobile service through PLMN-B as fast as possible
when the hPLMN RAN failed to serve its users in a specific area.
UE can return back to hPLMN as fast as possible when the hPLMN is recovered.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Subject to regulatory requirements or operator's policy, 3GPP system shall
enable a UE of a given PLMN to obtain connectivity service from other PLMN in
the same country when the Disaster Condition is met.
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R.5.3-001] Subject to regulatory requirements or operator's policy, 3GPP
system shall support a PLMN operator to be made aware of the failure or
recovery of other PLMN(s) in the same country when the Disaster Condition
applies, or when the Disaster Condition is not applicable.
## 5.4 Network reselection during disaster - Non-disaster area
### 5.4.1 Description
This use case expands the use case in section 5.1 (Network reselection during
disaster -- General).
In normal situation where the home network is properly functioning, the
neighboring network is not required to provide service to users which are not
its own subscribers.
In this case, for the area where one network is not providing coverage due to
reasons other than disaster, the neighboring network is not required to
provide connectivity service for the other network's users.
Even if the home network is experiencing some problem within some specific
area due to the disaster, the neighboring network is not required to provide
service to other network's users if the user is located outside of the
specific area.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
Preconditions described in section 5.1.2 (Network reselection during disaster
-- General) applies.
In addition, following is further assumed:
> \- The Country K is composed of three cities, called OldCity, NearCity,
> FarCity. Due to some reasons, the network HomeNetwork has not yet installed
> equipment within FarCity.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
Following is one example service flow:
> 1\. While Suji moves from OldCity to NearCity, disaster impacts some radio
> access network equipment of HomeNetwork installed in OldCity. The
> information regarding the impacted area and the impacted network is
> distributed, directly between the networks or indirectly by the authorities.
> Based on this information, the NeighborNetwork can verify whether a UE of
> HomeNetwork is located in area where it need to serve.
>
> 2\. As the train enters a tunnel in NearCity, the Suji's smartphone
> temporarily goes out of coverage of HomeNetwork but is located within
> coverage of NeighborNetwork. It starts to registration procedure to
> NeighborNetwork.
>
> 3\. The NeighborNetwork checks whether the HomeNetwork in the NearCity is
> impacted due to disaster, and if so, additionally it checks information on
> the time period and the location of the impacted area. Because NearCity is
> not within impacted area, the NeighborNetwork refuses to provide any
> connectivity service to Suji's smartphone.
>
> 4\. Within a country K, a lot of people move between NearCity and OldCity.
> Thus, the number of individual access attempt by the subscribers of
> HomeNetwork is huge and cause a lot of signaling exchange when each UE
> crosses boundaries of OldCity which is hit by disaster and NearCity which is
> not. Thus, NeighborNetwork broadcast information regarding when and where
> UEs of other network can access it.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Suji's smartphone cannot register to NeighborNetwork when it is in NearCity
and FarCity,
Jame's smartphone is connected online.
### 5.4.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Currently, roaming supports between networks are based on the long-term
agreement. Considering the use case described here, short-term dynamic update
of whether roaming is allowed or not needs to be supported, based on time,
location and cause.
### 5.4.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R.5.4-001] Subject to regulatory requirements or operator's policy, 3GPP
system shall be able to support a UE of a given PLMN is able to obtain
connectivity service (e.g. voice call, mobile data service) from another PLMN
only within the area where Disaster Condition is applicable.
[R.5.4-002] Subject to regulatory requirements or operator's policy, 3GPP
system shall be able to support for a PLMN to be aware of the area where it
needs to support Disaster Inbound Roamers.
[R.5.4-003] 3GPP system shall be able to provide a resource efficient means
for a PLMN to indicate potential Disaster Inbound Roamers whether they can
access it or not.
## 5.5 Network reselection during disaster with previous reject
### 5.5.1 Description
This use case expands the use case in section 5.1 (Network reselection during
disaster -- General).
Due to mobility, a UE can go through various environments. In a certain case,
this environmental change causes a UE to select other network than its home
network. This typically ends up with the UE marking the other network as
forbidden PLMN.
Once a network is in the forbidden PLMN lists, the PLMN is not automatically
selected by the UE unless a user manually selects the PLMN and instructs the
UE to connect to the selected PLMN. This can lead to the UE being out of
service, even when other neighboring network is willing to accept the UE
during disaster.
In TS24.301, UE behavior for different ATTACH REJECT cause is specified. When
a UE receives a Reject Cause such as #3 (Illegal UE) or #6 (Illegal ME), the
UE shall consider the USIM invalid until switching off or changing of USIM and
is not handled by using list of forbidden PLMNs.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
Preconditions described in section 5.1.2 (Network reselection during disaster
-- General) applies.
Haru is a subscriber of HomeNetwork and lives in a high-rise apartment. There
is a parking lots in the basement of the apartment.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
Following is one example service flow:
> 1\. Haru leaves home and takes elevators to go to a parking lot.
>
> 2\. In the elevator, the radio signal from HomeNetwork is not available. The
> smartphone of the Haru starts searching for any available network but
> failed.
>
> 3\. The elevator arrives at the basement floor. Still, the smartphone cannot
> detect any signal of HomeNetwork, but it detects the signal of
> NeighborNetwork. The smartphone tries registration toward the
> NeighborNetwork. But, because there is no declared disaster in the area, the
> NeighborNetwork rejects the registration request. The NeighborNetwork is
> included in list of the forbidden PLMN by Haru's UE.
>
> 4\. Haru starts driving and leaves the basement. Now, the smartphone detects
> HomeNetwork and is connected online again.
>
> 5\. Later on, disaster occurs in the OldCity, impacting the radio access
> network of HomeNetwork. Cells of HomeNetwork is not available any more.
> Thus, the UE now camps on the cell of NeighborNetwork, in limited mode.
> Later, in the OldCity, NeighborNetwork starts to serve the subscribers of
> the HomeNetwork. E.g., NeighborNetwork indicates that it can accept UEs from
> HomeNetwork.
>
> 6\. Previous restriction due to forbidden PLMN is lifted in the Haru's UE.
> Now, the smartphone of the Haru accesses to NeighborNetwork for normal
> service.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
Haru's smartphone is connected online via NeighborNetwork.
### 5.5.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.011 is specifying UE behavior regarding network selection. If a PLMN is
selected but the UE cannot register on it because registration is rejected
with the cause ″PLMN not allowed″, the UE shall add the PLMN to the ″Forbidden
PLMN″ list (clause 3.2.2.4.1). The UE shall not re-attempt to register on that
network unless the same PLMN is selected again by the user. Thus, behavior
defined in the current specification prevents the UE from accessing other
PLMNs willing to provide connectivity service during disaster.
### 5.5.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R.5.5-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to enable a UE to
try to access a neighbouring PLMN included in the list of forbidden PLMN, in
case the UE cannot get connectivity service from its home PLMN due to
disaster.
[R.5.5-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means for a PLMN to
indicate that it can service UEs of specific PLMN, overriding previous
restriction such as forbidden PLMN.
## 5.6 Network protection for surge of incoming users during disaster
### 5.6.1 Description
When one network is impacted by disasters, almost all UEs of that network may
try to access other available neighboring networks.
In case of international roaming, the number of incoming UEs of foreign
country to one network is very small compared to the number of the network's
own users. However, in case of roaming caused when one network is out of order
due to disaster, the number of incoming UEs from neighboring network is in the
same order of the number of one network's own UEs. If the load of accepting
network is already high, additional UEs from neighboring network can cause
domino effect, i.e., the accepting network may also soon go out of order.
Thus, it should be taken into consideration how to effectively protect one
network in case other neighboring network is impacted by disaster.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
In country A, there are two networks, one is HNetwork and the other is
NNetwork. Both networks provide connectivity service in TownBig and have same
number of subscribers, which is 1 million. Considering several factors such as
spectrum, characteristics of subscribers, the location of deployed equipment
are quite different among the operators. So, it is unlikely that both networks
cannot provide connectivity service at the same time.
The network HNetwork and the network NNetwork establishes a special agreement
so that the two networks provide services to users of each other only during
critical disasters where the other network cannot provide services to its home
customer.
Also, it is assumed that only radio access network of one PLMN is interrupted
while core network of the PLMN is not interrupted. So, in the service flow in
section 5.x.3, the NNetwork can contact HNetwork to check whether the UE is
valid or not.
Tony, with subscription to FNetwork of country B, travels to country A.
Initially, Tony's UE registers itself to HNetwork.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
Following is one example service flow:
> 1\. Disaster such as fire hits the radio access networks of HNetwork in
> TownBig. All radio access network of HNetwork in TownBig are damaged and
> cannot function properly. As a result, all UEs with subscription to HNetwork
> located in TownBig start scan of other available networks and select
> NNetwork to get connectivity service.
>
> 2\. NNetwork is notified of service interruption in HNetwork and decides to
> provide service to users of HNetwork.
>
> 3\. UEs of HNetwork start accesses to NNetwork to register and get
> connectivity service.
>
> 4\. As load of NNetwork goes up, NNetwork decides to apply access control so
> that 50% of access request from UEs from NNetwork is reduced while imposing
> no access restriction to its own home UEs. At the same time, NNetwork does
> not limit access from Tony's UE, because this UE is not from HNetwork and
> from foreign country.
>
> 5\. As load of NNetwork further goes up, NNetwork decides to prevent all
> access request from UEs from HNetwork except some prioritized services such
> as emergency calls. Still, NNetwork does not apply access limitation to its
> own users.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
NNetwork can control congestion by preventing access from UEs of neighboring
network, while providing subscribed QoS to its home UEs.
### 5.6.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 22.261 and TS 22.011 specifies requirements related to access control, e.g.
unified access control, access class barring, etc. However, the specified
access control mechanism does not provide tools for operator to apply
different access barring among its home UEs and inbound roaming UEs.
In addition, the specified access control mechanism does not provide tools for
operator to apply different access barring among inbound roaming UEs from
different PLMNs. I.e, regardless of the PLMN to which a UE is subscribed,
different incoming UEs use same access barring parameters.
In addition, TS22.011 specifies Extended Access Barring mechanism. EAB
supports different barring based on whether a UE camps on (E)HPLMN or on
VPLMN. But, this does not support barring for a UE of specific PLMN as
described in this use case. Also, it is applicable only for UE which is delay
tolerant.
### 5.6.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R.5.6-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide mechanism to minimize
congestion caused by Disaster Inbound Roamer.
## 5.7 Use case on access control for ″backup″ PLMN
### 5.7.1 Description
Once hPLMN is broken down, more and more hPLMN users are trying to access the
other ″backup″ PLMNs in short time, it may cause signalling storm or heavily
impact the PLMN's native users' experience of the PLMNs. In this case ″backup″
PLMNs enable to control the access from the hPLMN users.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
Necessary parameters for the urgent communication are pre-configured between
the two PLMNs and UE.
The ″backup″ PLMN-B (same country) is not forbidden in hPLMN UEs
### 5.7.3 Service flow
hPLMN is broken down, and requests PLMN-B to activate ″backup″ mode to allow
hPLMN users to access PLMN-B.
The UE of the hPLMN users accesses to PLMN-B by performing PLMN selection and
indicate its special identity
More and more hPLMN UEs are trying to access to the ″backup″ PLMN-B in short
time, which is getting overload or running out of resources
The ″backup″ PLMN-B makes access control or load balance on these hPLMN users
so that the native PLMN-B's UEs are not heavily impacted, e.g., barring the
hPLMN UEs access attempts, or degrade the performance for the on-line hPLMN
UE.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
Native UEs of the PLMN-B are not heavily impacted
The hPLMN UEs access to other allowed ″backup″ PLMNs or with limited
performance
### 5.7.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Access control and load balance, UE's performance treatment are already
specified in existing 3GPP specifications for the inbound roamers (e.g., TS
22.011, TS 22.261)
### 5.7.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
As use case 5.7 assumes failure of a PLMN and this is not in the scope of the
FS_MINT study, there are no potential new requirements needed to support the
use case.
## 5.8 Return to Home Network after disaster period
### 5.8.1 Description
During disaster, UEs of impacted network are served by other neighboring
network. When the impacted network recovers and goes into normal mode of
operation, UEs that are temporarily served by other neighboring network need
to forward back to its home network.
In this case, abrupt release of connection by neighboring network should be
avoided. Otherwise, this may lead to bad service experience. For example,
ongoing emergency call should not be released. In addition, releasing all UEs
simultaneously will cause signaling surge and this may again cause network
congestion and break-down. Also, the time gap between connection release by
one network and connection establishment toward other network should be
minimized, to enhance user experience.
Because these UEs are temporarily serviced by other networks, there is no need
to support service continuity when the UEs returns to their home network.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
Operation of HNetwork is interrupted by disaster. Users of HNetwork are served
by NNetwork until HNetwork recovers from the impact of disaster.
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
Following is one example service flow:
> 1\. HNetwork finalizes fixing its network equipment and is ready to accept
> its own UEs.
>
> 2\. HNetwork informs NNetwork that it is ready to accept its UEs.
>
> 3\. For UEs in connected mode, to decide when to release connection of the
> UEs of HNetwork, NNetwork may consider the characteristic of ongoing
> communication. E.g., it may not immediately release a connection of the UE
> with active voice call. It is assumed that HNetwork and NNetwork do not
> support inter-PLMN handover.
>
> 4\. To make the switch from NNetwork to HNetwork faster, NNetwork may give
> some assistance information to the UEs. Based on this information, the UE
> may quickly find HNetwork.
>
> 5\. For UEs in Idle mode, NNetwork may use resource efficient means to
> inform the UEs that the HNetwork is recovered from disaster.
6\. From the moment when the UE leaves NNetwork to the moment when the UE
successfully is registered in HNetwork, the UE cannot get any connectivity
service. Thus, NNetwork may control when Idle mode UEs and Connected mode UEs
leave NNetwork.
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
All UEs temporarily served by NNetwork are gradually served by HNetwork.
### 5.8.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
TS 24.501 and TS 24.401 defines NAS procedure to support
Also, TS 36.331 and TS 38.331 describes RAN level information.
### 5.8.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R.5.8-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide efficient means for a
network to inform Disaster Inbound roamers that Disaster condition is no
longer applicable.
## 5.9 A well-handled disaster ends
### 5.9.1 Description
A Disaster Condition will eventually stop. The government of country X
determines that the danger has passed, sufficient services have been restored,
and the government decides to _lift_ the Disaster Condition. This initiates a
return to normal service.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
See use case in section 5.2, above.
The government of X declares and informs operators X-Com, Y-Tel and Z-Cast
that Disaster Condition _no longer_ applies. (How this occurs is out of scope
of this use case.)
### 5.9.3 Service flows
Y-Tel informs all Disaster Inbound Roamers that the Disaster Condition no
longer applies.
Fred's and Wang Fang's UEs detect the end of the Disaster Condition.
Fred's UE deregister from Y-Tel and perform PLMN selection.
Fred's UE registers with X-Com. Wang Fang's UE remains with Y-Tel.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
Both Fred and Wang Fang receive service from their respective providers.
### 5.9.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Normal PLMN procedures and requirements apply, except for the trigger to end
Disaster Inbound Roaming.
### 5.9.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[R.5.9-001] PLMNs shall be able to inform Disaster Inbound Roamers that a
Disaster Condition has ended.
[R.5.9-002] The Disaster Inbound Roamers shall perform network reselection
when a Disaster Condition has ended.
## 5.10 Use case on ″Backup″ PLMNs for the international roamer
### 5.10.1 Description
Here in this case, when the vPLMN-A is broken down due to a disaster, the
subscriber of hPLMN1 tries to access to vPLMN-2 based on the ″Backup″
Agreement between hPLMN1 and vPLMN-2. In this use case, the hPLMN1 user can't
access vPLMN-2, e.g. there is no normal international roaming agreement or
vPLMN-2 is very low in the UE's preferred PLMN list, or the UE has been
previously rejected from registering from vPLMN-2.
NOTE: The ″Backup″ Agreement is a normal roaming agreement which may only be
used when a Disaster Condition applies. It is expected that vPLMN-2 has
roaming agreements with all of the PLMNs that vPLMN-A has roaming agreements
at least as Backup Agreements.
### 5.10.2 Pre-conditions
hPLMN1 only has international roaming agreement with vPLMN-A
UE is attached to vPLMN-A
vPLMN-A has ″Backup″ Agreement with vPLMN-2.
hPLMN1 has ″Backup″ Agreement with vPLMN-2 but without international roaming
agreement.
### 5.10.3 Service flow
.
{width="5.519444444444445in" height="3.352777777777778in"}
Figure 5.10.3-1: Use case on ″Backup″ PLMNs for the international roamer
A UE roams to vPLMN-A, and accesses to services successfully, according to an
international roaming agreement.
vPLMN-A cannot offer radio services when a disaster occurs.
All the users camped on vPLMN-A have no service due to the disaster.
The UE previously registered with vPLMN-A attempts to access vPLMN-2.
Normally the UE would not select vPLMN2 (for whatever reason.)
However, since the Disaster Condition applies, the ″Backup″ Agreement will be
used.
vPLMN-2 authenticates the international roamers with hPLMN1 using the Backup
Agreement.
vPLMN-2 accepts the UE as a Disaster Inbound Roamer.
### 5.10.4 Post-conditions
The international roamer accesses services during the Disaster Condition
applies from vPLMN-2 successfully.
NOTE: For this use case, whether to support an international roamer of a given
visited PLMN to obtain connectivity service from other PLMN in the same
visited country when the Disaster Condition met is up to the government
regulation, or/and agreement between MNOs which is out scope of 3GPP.
### 5.10.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
None.
### 5.10.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
None.
# 6 Potential New Consolidated Requirements
[CPR-A-001] Subject to regulatory requirements or operator's policy, the 3GPP
system shall be able to enable a UE of a given PLMN to obtain connectivity
service (e.g. voice call, mobile data service, etc.) from another PLMN for the
area where a Disaster Condition applies.
[CPR-B-001] The 3GPP system shall enable UEs to obtain information that a
Disaster Condition applies to a particular PLMN or PLMNs.
NOTE: If a UE has no coverage of its HPLMN, then obtains information that a
Disaster Condition applies to the UE's HPLMN, the UE can register with a PLMN
offering Disaster Roaming service.
[CPR-B-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for a PLMN operator to be
aware of the area where Disaster Condition applies.
[CPR-B-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support provision of service to
Disaster Inbound Roamer only within the specific region where Disaster
Condition applies.
[CPR-B-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide efficient means for a
network to inform Disaster Inbound roamers that a Disaster Condition is no
longer applicable.
[CPR-B-005] Subject to regulatory requirements or operator's policy, the 3GPP
system shall support a PLMN operator to be made aware of the failure or
recovery of other PLMN(s) in the same country when the Disaster Condition
applies, or when the Disaster Condition is not applicable.
[CPR-C-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide means to enable a UE to
access PLMNs in a forbidden PLMN list if a Disaster condition applies and no
other PLMN is available except for PLMNs in the forbidden PLMN list.
[CPR-C-002] The 3GPP system shall provide means to enable that a Disaster
Condition applies to UEs of a specific PLMN.
[CPR-C-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide a resource efficient
means for a PLMN to indicate to potential Disaster Inbound Roamers whether
they can access the PLMN or not.
[CPR-C-004] The Disaster Inbound Roamers shall perform network reselection
when a Disaster Condition has ended.
[CPR-D-001] The 3GPP system shall minimize congestion caused by Disaster
Roaming.
[CPR-E-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to collect charging information for
a Disaster Inbound Roamer with information about the applied disaster
condition.
# 7 Conclusions and Recommendations
This document analyses a number of use cases to minimize potential service
interruption that may be caused when natural or human-made disaster hits. The
resulting potential requirements have been consolidated in clause 6.
Additionally, it is recommended to include the terminology introduced in this
TR to TS 22.261, for aid in expressing and understanding the Minimization of
Service Interruption requirements
It is recommended that the consolidated potential requirements identified in
this TR are considered as the basis of normative requirements in order to
better serve the communication services.
#