# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
**With the expectation that 5G consumer UEs, existing or some new form devices
(e.g. VR/AR devices, robot, etc.) being used for different use cases in a
number of different environments, e.g. entertainment in home party or bar, or
education in office, becomes interested for supporting data sharing and data
exchanging between users, thus, it is necessary to investigate new use cases
and requirements, like lower latency, higher throughput, higher reliability,
higher resource/power efficiency etc, for such interactive services.**
The objective of this TR is to study the use cases and to derive potential
service requirements to provide users with interactive services, including:
\- New use cases and new requirements for Interactive Services
\- Gap Analyses between requirements and existing eMBB service requirements /
existing ProSe requirements
\- After the use cases have been identified, service requirements and KPIs
will be studied including QoS, operator control, charging, etc.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
> \- References are either specific (identified by date of publication,
> edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
>
> \- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
>
> \- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of
> a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
> reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
> same Release as the present document_.
>
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TR 22.891, Feasibility Study on New Services and Markets Technology
> Enablers
>
> [3] 3GPP TR 22.863, Feasibility study on new services and markets technology
> enablers for enhanced mobile broadband
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 22.261, Service requirements for the 5G system
>
> [5] Augmented and Virtual Reality: the First Wave of 5G Killer Apps, ABI
> research and Qualcomm;
>
> [6] O. Abari, D. Bharadia, A. Duffield, and D. Katabi, "Cutting the Cord in
> Virtual Reality," in Proceedings of the 15th ACM Workshop on Hot Topics in
> Networks. ACM, 2016, pp. 162--168.
>
> [7] E. Bastug, M. Bennis, M. Médard, and M. Debbah, "Toward Interconnected
> Virtual Reality: Opportunities, Challenges, and Enablers," IEEE
> Communications Magazine, vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 110--117, 2017.
>
> [8] Athul Prasad, Mikko A. Uusitalo, David Navrátil, and Mikko Säily,
> "Challenges for Enabling Virtual Reality Broadcast Using 5G Small Cell
> Network", IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference Workshops,
> pp. 220-225, 2018.
>
> [9] Mohammed S. Elbamby, Cristina Perfecto, Mehdi Bennis, and Klaus Doppler,
> "Toward Low-Latency and Ultra-Reliable Virtual Reality", IEEE Network,
> March/April, 2018.
>
> [10] Orlosky, Jason & Kiyokawa, Kiyoshi & Takemura, Haruo, "Virtual and
> Augmented Reality on the 5G Highway", Journal of Information Processing, 25.
> 133-141. 10.2197/ipsjjip.25.133.
>
> [11] J. Huang, Z. Chen, D. Ceylan and H. Jin, "6-DOF VR videos with a single
> 360-camera", 2017 IEEE Virtual Reality (VR), Los Angeles, CA, 2017, pp.
> 37-44. doi: 10.1109/VR.2017.7892229.
>
> [12] Impact of Packet Losses on the Quality of Video Streaming,
> https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:831420/FULLTEXT01.pdf
>
> [13] New Study from GSMA and CAICT Forecasts That China Will Be the World\'s
> Largest 5G Market by 2025,
> https://www.webscalenetworking.com/news/2017/06/27/8571173.htm
>
> [14] 3GPP TR 22.803, Feasibility study for Proximity Services (ProSe)
>
> [15] 3GPP TS 22.278, Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
> (EPS)
>
> [16] 3GPP TR 22.821, Feasibility Study on LAN Support in 5G
>
> [17] Gaming in the cloud: one of the future entertainment,
> https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/c874/432461d2fa71cea23f9404c02d571acc8d74.pdf
[18] 3GPP TS 22.468, Group Communication System Enablers (GCSE)
[19] 3GPP TS 22.104, Service requirements for cyber-physical control
applications in vertical domains
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**NCIS Service:** One kind of service which needs at least more than one UEs
to join and share data, e.g. interactive gaming or data sharing.
**NCIS Session:** all UEs in one session can have same information of the
background, status and update.
**NCIS Group:** Those UEs in the same NCIS session are grouped together as one
NCIS group, and the group is determined by application layer.
**Guaranteed Data Rate:** The minimum data rate which is different from peak
data rate or average data rate.
**ProSe Communication path:** the communication path supporting ProSe
Communication.
NOTE 1: This definition was taken from TS 22.278 [15].
**5GC path:** the user plane communication path through 5GC.
**End-to-End Latency:** the time that takes to transfer a given piece of
information from a source to a destination, measured at the communication
interface, from the moment it is transmitted by the source to the moment it is
successfully received at the destination.
NOTE 1: The end point in \"end-to-end\" is assumed to be the communication
service interface.
NOTE 2: This definition was taken from TS 22.261 [4].
**Communication Service Interface:** The interface between
application/function and 5G system.
NOTE 3: This definition was taken from TS 22.104 [19]
**Reliability** : in the context of network layer packet transmissions,
percentage value of the amount of sent network layer packets successfully
delivered to a given system entity within the time constraint required by the
targeted service, divided by the total number of sent network layer packets.
NOTE 4: This definition was taken from TS 22.261 [4].
**Visual content:** The visual part content of the interactive service, e.g.
gaming.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
# 4 Overview
In [14], the feasibility study of Proximity Service has been done, and
requirements have been specified in [15].
However, with the development of some new form devices **(e.g. VR/AR devices,
robot, etc.) or some new technologies (e.g. AR and VR), new service for people
to exchange information and play game will become more and more popular (i.e.
NCIS: Network Controlled Interactive Service). In this case, additional
service requirements could be defined o** n top of [14] and [15].
A lot of interactive services happen in local area **e.g. entertainment in
home party or bar, or education in office, or cloud/edge/split rendering at
local, and the requirements for throughput, latency, reliability and
resource/power utilization could be enhanced with specific the ProSe
Communication path (i.e. direct between ProSe UEs) or the 5GC path between
users.**
**In this section, we provided the possible data path and control path with
taking into account the content in [15] as a baseline.**
{width="4.663637357830271in" height="2.45454615048119in"}
Figure 4-1. Existing path: (a) 5GC path (b) ProSe Communication path (directly
between ProSe-enabled UEs)
However, for NCIS service to achieve improved throughput and rigid latency,
the data path could be the combination of the above two as indicated in Figure
2.
{width="2.1919192913385825in" height="3.0254647856517933in"}
Figure 4-2. Data path of 5GC path and ProSe Communication path (directly
between ProSe-enabled UEs)
For NCIS service, the control path mentioned in [15] could also be taken as
the baseline. In this case, the key control signalling will be from the
network, while some assistance signalling on the ProSe Communication path
(direct) could be exchanged between users.
{width="2.37373687664042in" height="3.2764260717410325in"}
Figure 3. Control path of 5GC path and ProSe Communication path (directly
between ProSe-enabled UEs)
Based on the above description and current network architecture, the control
path and data path could use the same frequency or different frequencies as
indicated in Figure 4-4.
{width="5.686805555555556in" height="1.4444444444444444in"}
Figure 4-4. Indication of two scenarios
When operator using the same frequency, all the control signalling could be
carried in the 5GC Path, while some data could be carried in the ProSe
Communication path (direct) if needed for offloading.
When operator using the different frequencies (e.g. F1 and F2), in some places
where infrastructure for F2 is not deployed, all control signalling could be
carried in the 5GC Path on F1 which can be fully controlled by operator, while
some data could be carried in the ProSe Communication path (direct) on F2 to
improve the resource utilization and user experience.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Interactive Service Supporting
### 5.1.1 Description
Interactive service is a kind of service that the data is exchanged between
users who are interested in the same NCIS session, like interactive gaming,
data sharing between variable kinds of terminals, e.g. mobile phone, robots,
etc. The NCIS session here means all UEs in the session can share the same
background, update the same information of the service, and finish the session
at the same time. Those UEs in the same NCIS session are grouped together as
one NCIS group. The interactive service here is real-time and requires high
throughput and low latency. The users joining the NCIS session can be in local
area or far away from each other and can be from either same MNO or different
MNOs. This use case describes the scenario where a group of UEs supporting
NCIS service can discover each other, start the NCIS session and exchange the
data.
### 5.1.2 Pre-condition
An MNO offers communication between UEs by controlling the transmission
resource of the UEs and UE A/B/C/D/E supporting NCIS service would like to
start a NCIS session together. Here UE A/B/C are in-proximity with each other,
while UE D/E are in-proximity with each other; UE A/B/C/D/E can be in
proximity with each or in non-proximity with each other, and the scenario is
indicated in following figures. UE A/B/C/D/E can belong to the same MNO or
belong to different MNO.
Figure 5.1.2-1: UEs are in proximity with each other
Figure 5.1.2-2: Some UE(s) are in non-proximity with each other
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
UE A/B/C/D/E experiences a situation which triggers UE A/B/C/D/E to initiate
NCIS service.
UE A/B/C/D/E join the same NCIS session, no matter if they are in-proximity or
in non-proximity.
UE A/B/C/D/E join the same NCIS session, no matter whether they belong to the
same MNO or not.
UE A/B/C/D/E could discover the group when they are in-proximity and the NCIS
group could be identified by other UEs in the same group when they are in-
proximity
UE A/B/C/D/E could be invited by other UE(s) or join the group no matter
whether all UEs belong to the same MNO or not.
UE A/B/C/D/E download(s) the required information for the interactive service
from network respectively.
UE A/B/C in proximity or UE D/E in proximity can exchange the real-time data
information between the UEs within local area with satisfied data rate, no
matter whether all UEs belong to the same MNO or not.
UE A/B/C/D/E who are in proximity and belong to the same group can be charged
accordingly.
UE A/B/C/D/E who are in proximity and belong to the same group can try to
reduce the power consumption with satisfied service requirements.
UE A/B/C/D/E who are in proximity and belong to the same group can be required
to execute lawful interception if it is needed.
### 5.1.4 Post-condition
Under network control, NCIS users in the same group are able to exchange real-
time data with each other, update their status and be charged accordingly, no
matter whether all users belong to the same MNO or not.
### 5.1.5 Gap analysis
In the above section 5.1.1, the basic concept of NCIS service and
corresponding NCIS session and NCIS group is described.
In [4], all connections should be fully network control for eMBB services,
while for ProSe or V2X service, some pre-configuration could be provided for
UEs especially when UEs are out of the coverage of network.
And for NCIS service, the requirement of fully network control e.g. for
authentication or resource allocation is needed, therefore, when UE is out of
the network coverage, no resource should be available on either the ProSe
Communication path (direct) or the 5GC path, however, when UE coming back to
the network coverage, it would be possible to re-join the NCIS group and
resume the NCIS session as soon as possible. Besides, the control for NCIS
service could be from same RAT or different RAT.
In [14], supporting the the ProSe Communication path (direct) by unicast,
multicast or broadcast is studied, and a ProSe Group Communications is
mentioned generally in [15]. For NCIS service, the broadcast may not be so
efficient from UE power consumption or resource utilization perspective, since
not all UEs in proximity to each other are interested and need to receive the
information from other UEs, therefore, the unicast and multicast need to be
supported based on the control from the same RAT or different RAT.
As defined in the previous section for NCIS session and NCIS group, one group
of UE will share the same information e.g. background, update, etc. together
for the dedicated NCIS session, therefore, the information needs to be
communicated between them. The UE could discover the NCIS group, join the NCIS
group or be invited to the NCIS group based on their interest, during this
procedure, some service related information, e.g. user numbers in the group,
QoS requirements, etc, should be known by the network. And during this
procedure, the normal service should not be impacted. In [14], the discovery
procedure is defined only between ProSe UEs without considering whether they
are interested in the same service content or not, and in [16], the addition
of UE in the private group and removal of UE from the private group are
defined, however, for NCIS service, firstly, the addition and removal is based
on UE's interest on the service, for example, at a certain point of time, a UE
may want to join NCIS session 1 while at a different point of time, a UE may
want to join NCIS session 2; secondly, UE could determine to initiate the
discovery, join or invitation on its own based on network configurations.
In [15], the discovery and communication requirements between ProSe UEs from
same MNO or different MNOs are defined, however, the discovery of the group
based on the group information provided outside of the 3GPP is not defined,
and the corresponding group should be able to be identified. Besides, the
authorization on resource allocation especially under network control for
different MNOs case is not discussed.
The NCIS group server needs to be able to deliver the group communication data
using unicast/multicast delivery depending on the support of MBMS in 3GPP
network. According to group communication enabler in [18], the group
application server determines to trigger the group communication service
towards 3GPP network based on the registration information from its group
users in the application layer. However, to fulfil the objective of this study
to achieve network controlled for the interactive service, it would require
service exposure from the 3GPP network. With required assistant information
from the 3GPP network, the NCIS group server can provide more real-time and
better decision on NCIS group management.
Further, due to inhomogeneous deployment of the MBMS cells, the UE needs to
switch communication between unicast and multicast when it moves in/out of the
service areas [18]. However, to ensure the service continuity, it would be
beneficial to explore efficient mechanism in network-controlled manner.
The existing features:
\- When UEs are moving among cells during Group Communication, service
continuity shall be supported [18].
\- When UEs are serving by the 3GPP network, the power consumption shall be
minimized with satisfied service requirements [15].
\- When UEs are serving by the 3GPP network, the service continuity shall be
guaranteed with at least minimum service requirements [15].
\- When UEs are serving by the 3GPP network, the lawful interception shall be
supported [15].
### 5.1.6 Potential requirements
[PR.5.1-001] The 3GPP network shall be able to have full control about the
connection of NCIS session based on the control from either EPC or 5GC;
[PR.5.1-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to support NCIS services via the
ProSe Communication path/the 5GC path by unicast;
[PR.5.1-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support NCIS services via the
ProSe Communication path/the 5GC path by multicast;
[PR.5.1-004] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to allow NCIS user to
discover, join and to be invited to any NCIS group based on user interest in
the NCIS session or NCIS service;
[PR.5.1-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to support UEs belonging to same
MNO or different MNOs joining in the same NCIS group after authentication and
communicate with each other with allocated resources.
[PR.5.1-006] The 5G system shall be able to support collection of charging
information based on a NCIS group that the UE accesses.
## 5.2 VR Based Interactive Service
### 5.2.1 Description
In NR, VR service could be one of the killer applications, and the gaming
based on VR would be the most attractive interactive service. The goal of this
use case is to provide VR based interactive service between UEs in proximity.
In section 5.11 in [2], the virtual presence has already been described as an
interactive service for high data rate zones (e.g. Office Environment). There
are three use cases described as follows:
Use Case 1: One people could communicate with other people from other places
with some special devices, e.g. Virtual Presence glasses;
Use Case 2: One people could communicate with his classmates and teachers via
virtual presence glasses when he could not attend the classes because of e.g.
surgery.
Use Case 3: One person could use his lightweight VR headset (where the VR
headset is physically lighter and less computationally capable than a full VR
headset) to watch the VR videos locally stored in his smartphone, or the VR
videos transmitted from cloud through his smartphone.
And the service requirements for the typical interactive service, i.e. VR
service, are listed as follows based on [4]:
To support VR environments with low motion-to-photon capabilities, the 5G
system shall support:
\- motion-to-photon latency in the range of 7-15ms while maintaining the
required user data rate of [1Gbps] and
\- motion-to-sound delay of [\ \- UE A/B/C/D supporting NCIS Service, join the same NCIS session and form
> one NCIS group;
>
> \- UE A/B are subscribers to the same MNO and currently residing on their
> HPLMN, while UE C/D are subscribers to the different MNO and currently
> residing on their HPLMN;
>
> \- UE A/C/D are subscribers are in proximity and to be allowed to use its
> resources to communicate with each with direct communication;
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
UE A/B/C/D join the same NCIS session and establish one NCIS group, the
corresponding NCIS group information, e.g. NCIS group ID, will be conveyed to
the network;
UE A/C/D are in proximity;
UE A/C/D or only one of the UE is allowed to request the resources for UE
A/C/D from its own PLMN for the ProSe Communication path, and UE A/C/D in
proximity could use the resources requested;
During the resource allocation procedure, the UE level will be considered when
requesting the resources, and QoS related parameters for NCIS session are
provided by network;
When UE B becomes in proximity or UE C becomes non-proximity;
UE A could also request the updated resources for adding or releasing the
member or UE B or UE C could request or release resources on its own, and UE
A/B/C/D in proximity could use the updated resources requested.
The network will charge the UEs who are requesting the resources and during
this procedure, and some QoS aspects, e.g. throughput, can be re-negotiated.
The NCIS group information should be released when NCIS session is finished.
### 5.6.4 Post-condition
When the NCIS session is finished, the resource would be released by the
network.
### 5.6.5 Gap analysis
In [15], the 3GPP system is not required to serve the members of NCIS group
and allow charging based on the group identity.
### 5.6.6 Potential requirements
[PR.5.6-001] Based on the group information provided by an entity outside the
scope of 3GPP (e.g. a gaming server), the 3GPP network providing the network
resources shall be able to serve the NCIS group members and allow charging
based on the group identity.
# 6 Consolidated potential requirements
## 6.1 Overview
Existing requirements (e.g. minimizing power consumption, supporting QoS
provisioning and re-negotiation, supporting lawful interception) mentioned in
[4] and [15] should be referred as the baseline for supporting interactive
service (e.g. interactive services) and in addition to those, some new
requirements are identified in this section.
## 6.2 KPIs of interactive services
Several interactive services require the support of very high data rates, very
low latency and corresponding packet loss rate of the 5G system. The use cases
and their performance requirements can be found in table 6.2-1.
  * Cloud/Edge/Split Rendering - The use case for the rendering data transmitted and exchanged between the rendering server and device.
  * Gaming or Interactive Data Exchanging - The use case for the interactive service data exchanged between two devices.
  * VR video watching -- VR video watching is characterised by exchanging data between two devices where one is less computationally capable than another (e.g. using lightweight VR headset watching videos through smart phone with compressed/uncompressed video contents).
Table 6.2-1 KPI Table of interactive service
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Use | Charact | In | | | | | | Cases | eristic | fluence | | | | | | | pa | q | | | | | | | rameter | uantity | | | | | | | (KPI) | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | | Max | Service | Reli | # of | UE | Service | | | Allowed | bit | ability | UEs | Speed | Area | | | End | rate: | | | | | | | -to-end | us | | | | NOTE 2 | | | latency | er-expe | | | | | | | | rienced | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Cl | [CPR. | [CPR. | [CPR. | - | [CPR. | [CPR. | | oud/Edg | P-001] | P-003] | P-004] | | P-007] | P-008] | | e/Split | 5ms | [x] | 99.99% | | Sta | Coun | | Re | (i.e. | Gbps | in | | tionary | trywide | | ndering | UL+DL) | sup | uplink | | or | | | | | porting | and | | Ped | | | NOTE 1 | | visual | 99.9% | | estrian | | | | | content | in | | | | | | | (e.g. | d | | | | | | | VR | ownlink | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | or high | | | | | | | | def | | | | | | | | inition | | | | | | | | video) | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | 4K, 8K | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | olution | | | | | | | | and up | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | o120fps | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | ontent. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Editor | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | Exact | | | | | | | | peak | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | rate is | | | | | | | | waiting | | | | | | | | for SA4 | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | sponse. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Gaming | [CPR. | [x] | [CPR. | [CPR. | [CPR. | [CPR. | | or | P-002] | Gbps | P-005] | P-006] | P-007] | P-009] | | Inte | 10ms | sup | 99.99% | ≤ | Sta | 20 m x | | ractive | | porting | | [10] | tionary | 10 m; | | Data | | visual | | | or | [CPR. | | Exc | | content | | | Ped | P-010] | | hanging | | (e.g. | | | estrian | in one | | | | VR | | | | vehicle | | NOTE 3 | | based | | | | (up to | | | | or high | | | | 120 | | | | def | | | | km/h) | | | | inition | | | | and in | | | | video) | | | | one | | | | with | | | | train | | | | 4K, 8K | | | | (up to | | | | res | | | | 500 | | | | olution | | | | km/h) | | | | and up | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | o120fps | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | ontent. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Editor | | | | | | | | Note: | | | | | | | | Exact | | | | | | | | peak | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | rate is | | | | | | | | waiting | | | | | | | | for SA4 | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | sponse. | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | VR | [CPR. | 1- | [CPR. | - | [CPR. | - | | Video | P-008] | [10] | P-005] | | P-007] | | | w | | Gbps | [9 | | Sta | | | atching | NOTE 5 | sup | 9.99%] | | tionary | | | | | porting | | | or | | | NOTE 3 | | visual | | | Ped | | | | | content | | | estrian | | | NOTE 4 | | (e.g. | | | | | | | | VR | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | or high | | | | | | | | def | | | | | | | | inition | | | | | | | | video) | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | 4K, 8K | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | olution | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | 60fps | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | ontent. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6 | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | Unless | | | | | | | | ot | | | | | | | | herwise | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | cified, | | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | | commun | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | ncludes | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | ireless | | | | | | | | link | | | | | | | | (UE to | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | | node or | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | | | node to | | | | | | | | UE) | | | | | | | | rather | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | add | | | | | | | | itional | | | | | | | | direct | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | ireless | | | | | | | | links | | | | | | | | (UE to | | | | | | | | UE). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Length | | | | | | | | x width | | | | | | | | (x | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | eight). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | Commun | | | | | | | | ication | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | ncludes | | | | | | | | direct | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | ireless | | | | | | | | links | | | | | | | | (UE to | | | | | | | | UE). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | corres | | | | | | | | ponding | | | | | | | | end | | | | | | | | -to-end | | | | | | | | latency | | | | | | | | depend | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | | case/VR | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | ndering | | | | | | | | archi | | | | | | | | tecture | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | comp | | | | | | | | ression | | | | | | | | level. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | end-to | | | | | | | | end | | | | | | | | latency | | | | | | | | plus | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | cessing | | | | | | | | delay | | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | | satisfy | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | mersive | | | | | | | | mo | | | | | | | | tion-to | | | | | | | | -photon | | | | | | | | latency | | | | | | | | (in | | | | | | | | cluding | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | acking, | | | | | | | | pose | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | livery, | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | iewport | | | | | | | | ren | | | | | | | | dering, | | | | | | | | en | | | | | | | | coding, | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | livery, | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ecoding | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | di | | | | | | | | splay), | | | | | | | | i.e., | | | | | | | | 20ms. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | feas | | | | | | | | ibility | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | depends | | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | | results | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | RAN and | | | | | | | | SA4 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
NOTE: The value of the KPIs in the table is specified in Section 7.6.2 of TS
22.261 and the table will not be further updated.
## 6.3 Group operation for interactive service
[CPR.G-001] The 3GPP system shall be able to allow UEs making using of groups
to serve interactive service.
[CPR.G-002] The 3GPP network shall allow a trusted 3rd party (e.g., a gaming
server) to provide group information to be used for interactive services (e.g.
group ID and group member list for interactive application).
[CPR.G-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to support discovery of UEs in the
same group for interactive service via ProSe Communication path.
[CPR.G-004] The 3GPP system shall be able to authorize the use of ProSe
Communication between UEs in the same group for interactive service.
[CPR.G-005] The 3GPP system shall be able to enable and stop ProSe
Communication of UEs within the same group for interactive service based on
operator preference.
[CPR.G-006] The 3GPP network shall be able to collect charging information on
a per group basis.
[CPR.G-007] The 3GPP system shall be able to support unicast and multicast
communication for a group of UEs using either the ProSe Communication path
(direct) or the 5GC path.
## 6.4 Service Hosting Environment Aspects
[CPR.N-001] The 5G System shall enable the discovery of a suitable Hosted
Service.
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
This TR on Network Controlled Interactive Service (NCIS) analyses several use
cases of NCIS as follows:
  * NCIS Service Supporting
  * New Requirements for VR Based NCIS Service
  * Cloud Rendering for Games
  * High Speed Scenario
  * IoE Based Social Networking
  * Communication within NCIS group
It is recommended to proceed with normative work, and include the potential
new requirements identified by this TR into TS 22.261 and other
specifications.
  * Define a new section in TS 22.261
  * Refine potential requirements in TS 22.278 if needed and also captured in TS 22.261
  * Capture new requirements in TS 22.261
The consolidated potential requirements in Clause 6 are candidates for
normative R17 requirements.
#