# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document provides a study to identify where updates may be needed
to TR 22.953 [3] and TS 22.153 [2] to account for current and anticipated MPS
User needs for priority voice, data, and video communication capabilities.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies voice, data transport, and video use cases and
identifies potential requirements for Multimedia Priority Service (MPS). It
identifies where updates are needed to TR 22.953[3] and TS 22.153 [2] to
account for current and anticipated MPS User needs for priority voice, data,
and video communication capabilities.
The present document provides use cases and the associated potential new stage
1 requirements beyond those documented in TR 22.953 [3]. Example use cases
include:
  * MPS for Voice: MPS for MMTEL voice and voice teleconferencing > invoked from a subscribed UE, and MPS for MMTEL voice > teleconferencing invoked from a voice server by the host,
  * MPS for Data Transport Service (DTS): MPS DTS communications invoked > from a subscribed UE, a subscribed IoT device, and from an > enterprise network, and
  * MPS for Video: MPS for MMTEL video, MMTEL video conferencing, and > streaming video invoked from a subscribed UE and MPS for video > teleconferencing invoked from a video server by the host.
The present document also include security considerations.
NOTE: Both MPS users and Mission Critical users can use common mechanisms
defined in MCData and MCVideo for group-based communication with priority.
However, both MPS and Mission Critical users have some unique requirements to
also use an operator's individual subscription-based commercial services
(voice, video, data) with priority.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.153: \"Multimedia priority service\".
[3] 3GPP TR 22.953: \"Multimedia Priority Service feasibility study\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.340: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) messaging; Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for next generation new services
and markets\".
[6] IETF RFC 8443: \"Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT) Extension for
Resource Priority Authorization\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP multimedia call control protocol based on Session
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol (SDP); Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
DTS Data Transport Service
MMTEL Multimedia Telephony
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
NS/EP National Security / Emergency Preparedness
OTT Over-The-Top
PASSPorT Personal Assertion Token
PIN Personal Identification Number
SIP RPH Session Initiation Protocol Resource Priority Header
VPN Virtual Private Network
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 Service descriptions from user perspective
### 4.1.1 MPS for voice
The primary purpose of MPS for Voice is to provide the Service User with
priority voice communication sessions in periods of severe network congestion
during which normal commercial voice service is degraded. MPS for Voice
provides priority for MMTEL voice and MMTEL voice teleconferencing sessions.
In most scenarios during a National Security / Emergency Preparedness (NS/EP)
condition, it is expected that MPS for Voice is activated in response to
service degradation or when the Service User is aware of network congestion.
In limited situations, e.g., when in an area with network congestion, it is
possible to proactively invoke MPS for Voice. In all cases, basic connectivity
is required in advance of priority service invocation, and special
consideration needs to be provided to permit service invocation messages to be
delivered during times of congestion.
### 4.1.2 MPS for DTS
The primary purpose of the MPS for Transport Service (DTS) is to provide the
Service User with priority for applications using the default bearer (in the
case of 4G), default QoS flow (in the case of 5G) to one or more selected
active Packet Data Networks (PDNs)/Data Networks (DNs) in periods of severe
network congestion during which normal commercial data service is degraded. It
includes access to an enterprise network (e.g., government agency private
enterprise network).
In most scenarios during NS/EP condition, it is expected that the DTS is
activated in response to service degradation due to network congestion. In
limited situations, e.g., when driving into an area with network congestion,
it is possible to proactively invoke the DTS. In all cases, basic connectivity
is required in advance of priority service invocation, and special
consideration needs to be provided to permit service invocation messages to be
delivered during times of congestion.
For enterprise access, a Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection is generally
established via the originating access network, core network, and the
terminating access network to the enterprise network. In this case, the DTS is
the means to achieve improved throughput/performance in times of severe
network congestion.
For an IoT device, MPS for DTS provides the IoT device with priority for
applications using a specific default bearer (in the case of 4G), default QoS
flow (in the case of 5G) towards a single specified PDN/DN, and in the case of
IoT connectivity with an enterprise, also provides priority for the
terminating access network to the enterprise.
### 4.1.3 MPS for video
The primary purpose of MPS for Video is to provide the Service User with
priority video communication sessions in periods of severe network congestion
during which normal commercial video service is degraded. MPS for Video
provides priority for MMTEL video, streaming video, and MMTEL video
teleconferencing sessions.
Priority for Over-The-Top (OTT) video obtained via the use of the DTS is not
part of MPS for Video.
In most scenarios during an NS/EP condition, it is expected that MPS for Video
is activated in response to service degradation or when the Service User is
aware of network congestion. In limited situations, e.g., when in an area with
network congestion, it is possible to proactively invoke MPS for Video. In all
cases, basic connectivity is required in advance of priority service
invocation, and special consideration needs to be provided to permit service
invocation messages to be delivered during times of congestion.
# 5 MPS for voice use cases
## 5.1 MPS for MMTEL voice during international roaming
### 5.1.1 Description
In this use case, a UE is configured for MPS with a visited PLMN outside the
home country as specified in TS 22.261 [5] clause 6.22.2.2.
A MPS Service User is roaming in a visited PLMN outside the home country. The
UE is configured for MPS with the MPS capable visited PLMN outside the home
country based on prearranged roaming agreements between the home and visited
MPS Service Providers. The Service User turns on the UE for normal
international roaming services. As part of the normal attach and registration
process, the visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is
subscribed for international MPS.
The MPS Service User initiates a normal voice call using the MPS subscribed
UE. While network connectivity continues, the call cannot be completed or
becomes unacceptable (e.g., due to network congestion). The MPS Service User
invokes MPS for the voice call. The MPS invocation is done by the Service User
inclusion of an MPS-unique identifier in the MPS capable visited PLMN as part
of the request to establish a voice call. Alternatively, the MPS Service User
is aware that normal service is degraded (e.g., because of a disaster or
emergency event) and immediately invokes MPS for Voice.
The international visited MPS PLMN authenticates and authorises the MPS
subscriber use of MPS using subscription information obtained from the home
network.
Once the MPS for Voice request is verified and authorized, priority treatment
is provided for the media flows.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The MPS Service User is roaming in a visited PLMN outside the home > country,
  * The UE subscription in the home PLMN is configured for MPS with the > visited PLMN outside the home country as specified in TS 22.261 > [5] clause 6.22.2.2,
  * The visited PLMN supports MPS,
  * Necessary roaming agreements for international MPS are in place > between the home and visited MPS Service Providers,
  * The MPS capable visited PLMN is discovered and selected as part of > the normal attach and registration process, based on roaming > agreements between the visited PLMN outside the home country and > the home PLMN,
  * The home PLMN has configured the UE to discover and select a network > supporting MPS when internationally roaming (e.g., the UE is > configured to select a specific MPS capable visited PLMN when > roaming in a country that may have multiple PLMNs where some are > MPS capable and some are not MPS capable),
  * The visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is > subscribed for international MPS as part of the normal attach and > registration process,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the > visited MPS Service Provider PLMN), and
  * The method for invocation of MPS for Voice is pre-determined (e.g., > use of an unique service identifier for international MPS).
### 5.1.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User powers-on its UE in the visited PLMN outside the home
country.
2 The visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is subscribed for
international MPS as part of the normal attach / registration process.
3 The MPS Service User attempts to make a normal call using normal
international roaming voice service.
4 The call is not successful or is not acceptable due to congestion.
5 The Service User invokes MPS for Voice by including a unique service
identifier for international MPS as part of the request to establish a voice
call.
6 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the visited
MPS Service Provider PLMN.
7 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for MPS.
8 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
media flows.
9 The Service User ends call.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS Voice call, the UE returns to normal conditions (i.e., use
of normal voice service).
### 5.1.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The visited network and home network support MPS, and roaming agreements are
in place for MPS. In addition, consideration needs to be given to the
arrangements between partners for normal roaming services. This use case
assumes that the selected visited PLNM for normal roaming services is also the
provider of MPS.
### 5.1.6 Potential requirements
[PR.5.1.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate a MPS Voice call during international roaming using a UE with a
subscription configured for MPS with the MPS capable visited PLMN outside the
home country.
[PR.5.1.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support a unique service identifier for
international MPS.
[PR.5.1.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support a means for the MPS capable
visited PLMN to verify with the home PLMN that a UE is authorized for
international MPS.
[PR.5.1.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support a means for the MPS capable
visited PLMN outside the home country to authorize a MPS Voice call.
[PR.5.1.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support a means for MPS Voice activation
when normal service is congested at the request of the roaming MPS Service
User.
[PR.5.1.6-006] When MPS Voice is activated by an MPS Service User, the 3GPP
system of the visited MPS Service Provider PLMN shall provide priority
treatment to the affected media flows.
[PR.5.1.6-007] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of the MPS MMTEL
voice call, and the MPS subscribed UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e.,
use of normal MMTEL voice service).
[PR.5.1.6-008] If the MPS voice call is not explicitly ended by the MPS
Service User, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power down),
the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that MPS
priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
[PR.5.1.6-009] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
voice call as activated during transient network degradation conditions (e.g.,
during short radio link interruption caused by poor performance in
anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-verified.
## 5.2 MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call termination to a UE
### 5.2.1 Description
In this use case, an MPS for an MMTEL voice or voice conference call is
initiated in MPS capable originating network A and terminated to a UE served
by another network, MPS capable terminating network B (shown in Figure
5.2.1-1). Network A and network B are not necessarily in the same country.
Figure 5.2.1-1: MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call path
For example, the request for MPS is initiated and the MPS subscriber is
authenticated and authorized in originating network A as described in the use
cases in clause 5.1. The MPS MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session is
then routed with priority towards the terminating network B.
The MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session may traverse one or
more intermediate networks before reaching terminating network B. Intermediate
networks may or may not be MPS capable. MPS capable intermediate networks
provide priority treatment based on the MPS priority markings of the call.
Intermediate networks that are not MPS capable may pass the MPS priority
markings transparently based on policy agreements. The set of intermediate
networks are not necessarily in the same country.
Terminating network B recognizes the incoming MPS for MMTEL voice or voice
conference call/session based on the MPS priority markings and completes the
call with priority treatment to the terminating UE based on policy agreements.
When the terminating UE needs to be paged by network B, the paging is done
with priority.
Priority treatment is provided for the signalling, and once the MPS session is
established, priority treatment is also provided for the audio media flows
required to support the end-to-end MMTEL call/session.
The MPS session ends when the calling or called party ends the call. MPS is
automatically revoked upon UE detachment/deregistration, e.g., power down.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The originating network is a MPS capable 3GPP or non-3GPP system,
  * Intermediate networks (e.g., transit networks) may or may not be MPS > capable. Intermediate networks that are not MPS capable may pass > the MPS markings based on policy agreements.
  * The terminating network is a MPS capable 3GPP system,
  * The originating, intermediate(s), and terminating networks are not > required to be in the same country,
  * The terminating UE has basic network connectivity,
  * The terminating UE is not required to have a subscription for MPS,
  * The originating, terminating and intermediate networks have needed > policy arrangements in place,
  * Measures for verifying policies and admitting a MPS call across the > network boundaries between interconnecting networks are > pre-determined.
### 5.2.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 MPS for an MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session is initiated in
originating network A.
2 The MPS User is authenticated and authorized by originating network A,
including verification of whether the MPS call to Network B is allowed and the
MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session is routed with priority
towards terminating network B.
3 MPS capable intermediate networks provide priority treatment within their
network, and intermediate networks that are not MPS capable pass MPS priority
markings transparently.
4 The MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session may cross
international borders between network A and network B.
5 Terminating network B receives and identifies the incoming MPS for MMTEL
voice or voice conference call/session based on the priority markings.
6 Terminating network B performs the necessary policy verification to admit
the incoming MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session with
priority.
7 Terminating network B completes the MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference
call/session to the terminating UE with priority. This includes paging with
priority when the terminating UE needs to be paged by network B.
8 The MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session is ended by the
called or calling party.
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session, the UE
returns to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL voice or voice
conference service).
### 5.2.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts described in clause 5.1.5 are applicable to this use case. In
addition, this use case assumes that necessary security trust mechanisms are
in place to allow a receiving network to accept MPS priority markings from
another network.
### 5.2.6 Potential requirements
[PR.5.2.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support MPS for MMTEL voice and voice
conference call/sessions between two 3GPP networks supporting MPS.
NOTE: Intermediate 3GPP networks between an originating network and
terminating network should allow MPS priority markings to be passed
transparently based on policy agreements.
[PR.5.2.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means to identify that an
incoming MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session from another network is
an MPS call/session based on the MPS priority markings and to handle it with
priority.
[PR.5.2.6-003] The 3GPP system shall allow MPS priority markings to be
signalled across international boundaries.
[PR.5.2.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support measures to verify policy and
admit an incoming MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session
received from another network with priority.
[PR.5.2.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support means to complete an incoming MPS
for MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session to a terminating UE with
priority including priority paging.
## 5.3 MPS for MMTEL voice invoked from a public UE
### 5.3.1 Description
A MPS Service User suffers loss of network connectivity due to UE failure
during a mission. This may be as simple as UE battery exhaust or could be
physical damage to the UE with an MPS subscription. The Service User borrows a
public UE that does not have a subscription for MPS. An attempt is made to
initiate an MMTEL voice call. Recognizing that normal MMTEL voice service is
degraded, the MPS Service User invokes MPS to obtain priority for the MMTEL
voice call.
MPS invocation via a public UE is done using a predetermined method (e.g., use
of a predetermined access number). The MPS Service Provider authenticates and
authorises the MPS subscriber use of MPS. As part of the authentication and
authorization process, the Service User provides MPS credentials (e.g., a
calling card number, PIN or security token) specifically assigned for the
purpose of obtaining MPS from a public UE (i.e., a UE that does not have an
MPS subscription).
Priority treatment is provided to the signalling once the request for MPS is
identified by the Service Provider. Once MPS is established for the MMTEL
voice call, priority treatment is provided for the audio media flow.
NOTE 1: Radio interface priority is not provided for the initial request for
invocation of MPS for MMTEL voice. It is provided only after MPS is
established for the MMTEL voice call.
NOTE 2: In this use case, MPS is invoked from a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription. However, the Service User has a MPS subscription with the
Service Provider that is not associated with a UE (i.e., subscription to an
MPS feature that allows the Service User to invoke a priority service from any
device including from a fixed network access).
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UE does not have subscription for MPS,
  * The service provider supports MPS,
  * The Service User has an MPS subscription with the Service Provider > with permission for MPS service invocation from any UE,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS > Service Provider network),
  * The method for MPS MMTEL voice invocation from a UE that does not > have a MPS subscription is pre-determined (e.g., use of a > predetermined access number), and
  * The method for authenticating and authorizing the MPS Service User > (e.g., using a calling card number, PIN or security token) is > predetermined. As part of the authentication and authorization > process, the Service User provides MPS credentials (e.g., a > calling card number, PIN, or security token) specifically assigned > for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public UE (i.e., a UE that > does not have an MPS subscription).
### 5.3.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User attempts to make an MMTEL voice call using normal MMTEL
voice service using a UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
2 The MMTEL voice call is not successfully established due to network
congestion, or once established, the call is not acceptable due to congestion.
3 The Service User invokes MPS for the MMTEL voice call using a pre-determined
method (e.g., use of a predetermined access number).
4 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public
UE (e.g., the MPS Service User uses credentials such as a calling card number,
PIN, or security token specifically assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS
from a Public UE).
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for the MPS MMTEL voice
call.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment for the affected
signalling and the audio media flows.
7 The MPS Service User ends the MPS MMTEL voice call, or the far end releases
the call.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
Upon release of the MPS MMTEL voice call, the UE returns to normal conditions
(i.e., use of normal voice service). Any MPS related identity information
temporally associated with the UE is removed from the network and where
possible in the device upon release of the MPS MMTEL voice call.
### 5.3.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
MPS for an MMTEL voice call involves providing priority to a normal
subscription-based voice service offered by a MPS capable network.
When MPS is invoked for an MMTEL voice call, special QoS is provided to the
bearers, which needs to:
  * Prioritize the allocation of PLMN resources for the signalling, and > the audio streams for the MPS call,
  * Prioritize packet transport and routing for the MPS call, and
  * Communicate priority to non-3GPP-specified nodes, e.g., IP routers.
The charging aspects associated with this use case are that normal charging
for the call will be associated with the UE subscription account while the MPS
charges will be associated with the MPS Service User subscription account.
### 5.3.6 Potential requirements
[PR.5.3.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized MPS
Service User to initiate MPS for an MMTEL voice call from a UE that does not
have an MPS subscription using a predetermined method.
NOTE: The predetermined method used to make an MPS call using a UE without an
MPS subscription (e.g., access code) is outside of 3GPP scope.
[PR.5.3.6-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide priority to MPS
Service User invocation signalling in the network once the request is
identified by the 3GPP system.
[PR.5.3.6-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide priority to the audio
media flows in the network once the MPS Service User is authenticated and
authorized by the 3GPP system.
[PR.5.3.6-004] The 3GPP system shall associate MPS related charging events
with the MPS subscription.
[PR.5.3.6-005] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of the MPS MMTEL
voice call from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, and the UE shall
return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal video service).
[PR.5.3.6-006] If the MPS voice call is not explicitly ended by the MPS
Service User, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power down),
the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that MPS
priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
[PR.5.3.6-007] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
voice call as activated during transient network degradation conditions (e.g.,
during short radio link interruption caused by poor performance in
anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-verified.
## 5.4 MPS MMTEL voice conference call using a public UE
### 5.4.1 Description
A MPS Service User suffers loss of network connectivity due to UE failure
during a mission. This may be as simple as UE battery exhaust or could be
physical damage to the UE with an MPS subscription. The Service User borrows a
public UE that does not have a subscription for MPS. An attempt is made to
make an MMTEL voice conference call. Recognizing that normal MMTEL voice
service is degraded, the MPS Service User invokes MPS to obtain priority for
the MMTEL voice conference call.
MPS invocation via a public UE is done using a predetermined method (e.g., use
of a predetermined access number). The MPS Service Provider authenticates and
authorises the MPS subscriber's use of MPS. As part of the authentication and
authorization process, the MPS Service User provides MPS credentials (e.g., a
calling card number, PIN, or security token) specifically assigned for the
purpose of obtaining MPS from a public UE (i.e., a UE that does not have an
MPS subscription).
Priority treatment is provided to the signalling once the request for MPS is
identified by the Service Provider. Once MPS is established, priority
treatment is provided for the audio media flow of that MMTEL voice conference
call.
NOTE 1: Radio interface priority is not provided for the initial request for
invocation of MPS for MMTEL voice. It is provided only after MPS is
established for the MMTEL voice call.
NOTE 2: In this use case, MPS is invoked from a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription. However, the Service User has a MPS subscription with the
Service Provider that is not associated with a UE (i.e., subscription to an
MPS feature that allows the Service User to invoke a priority service from any
device including from a fixed network access).
NOTE 3: In this use case, priority is provided to the leg of the MMTEL voice
conference associated with the MPS User (i.e., not the entire MMTEL voice
conference).
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UE does not have subscription for MPS,
  * The service provider supports MPS,
  * The Service User has an MPS subscription with the Service Provider > with permission for MPS service invocation from any UE,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS > Service Provider network),
  * The method for invocation of MPS when establishing an MMTEL voice > conference call from a UE that does not have a MPS subscription is > pre-determined (e.g., use of a predetermined access number),
  * The method for authenticating and authorizing the MPS Service User > (e.g., using a calling card number, PIN, or security token) is > predetermined. As part of the authentication and authorization > process, the Service User provides MPS credentials (e.g., a > calling card number, PIN, or security token) specifically assigned > for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public UE (i.e., a UE that > does not have an MPS subscription), and
  * The MMTEL voice conference service is managed by the MPS Service > Provider network.
### 5.4.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User attempts to make an MMTEL voice conference call using a
UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
2 The request to establish an MMTEL voice conference call is not successful,
or after the call is established, the quality is not acceptable due to
congestion.
3 The Service User invokes MPS for the MMTEL voice conference call using a
pre-determined method (e.g., use of a predetermined access number).
4 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public
UE (e.g., the MPS Service User uses credentials such as a calling card number,
PIN or security token specifically assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS
from a public UE).
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for the MPS MMTEL voice
conference call.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the signalling
and audio media flows associated with the MPS Service User.
7 The Service User releases the MPS MMTEL voice conference call, or the
conference host releases the call.
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS MMTEL voice conference call, the UE returns to normal
conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL voice conference service). Any MPS
related identity information temporally associated with the UE is removed from
the network and where possible in the device upon end of the MPS MMTEL voice
conference call.
### 5.4.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts described in clause 5.3.5 for MMTEL voice call from a public UE is
also applicable to this use case.
### 5.4.6 Potential requirements
[PR.5.4.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized MPS
Service User to initiate MPS for an MMTEL voice conference call from a UE that
does not have an MPS subscription using a predetermined method.
NOTE: The predetermined method used to make an MPS call using a UE without an
MPS subscription (e.g., access code) is outside of 3GPP scope.
[PR.5.4.6-002] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide priority to MPS
Service User invocation signalling in the network once the request is
identified by the 3GPP system.
[PR.5.4.6-003] The 3GPP system shall be able to provide priority to the audio
media flows in the network once the MPS Service User is authenticated and
authorized by the 3GPP system.
[PR.5.4.6-004] The 3GPP system shall associate MPS related charging events
with the MPS subscription.
[PR.5.4.6-005] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of the MPS MMTEL
voice conference call from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, and
the UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal voice service).
[PR.7.4.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
voice conference call as activated during transient network degradation
conditions (e.g., during short radio link interruption caused by poor
performance in anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-
verified.
## 5.5 MMTEL voice conference host invocation of MPS for all participants
### 5.5.1 Description
This use case involves MPS activation for all participants (i.e., participants
with MPS subscribed UEs and public UEs) of an MMTEL voice conference call
initiated by the conference host (i.e., MPS Service User). The MMTEL voice
conference host (i.e., MPS Service User) invokes MPS to request priority for
all participants of an MMTEL voice conference call when the MPS Service User
is aware that normal voice conference service is degraded (e.g., the normal
MMTEL voice conference call cannot be established), or when an ongoing MMTEL
voice conference call becomes unacceptable for any conference participant
(e.g., due to network congestion), the MPS Service User invokes MPS to upgrade
the entire MMTEL voice conference call to obtain priority treatment for all
participants.
When the conference host (i.e., MPS Service User) cannot gain access to the
MMTEL voice conference server, MPS for MMTEL voice described in clause 5.4 may
be used by the host to obtain priority access to the conference server or in
the case of a multimedia conference, MPS for DTS as described in clause 6.1
may be used to obtain priority data access to the conference server.
The invocation of MPS for all participants of an MMTEL voice conference call
is done using a customized feature of the voice conference service (available
only to the host) that indicates a request for priority to the MPS capable
3GPP system.
The MPS Service Provider PLMN authenticates and authorizes the MPS
subscriber's use of MPS conference invocation to apply to all participants of
the MMTEL voice conference call.
Priority treatment is provided for the signalling and once MPS is established
for all participants of the MMTEL voice conference call, priority treatment is
provided for the audio media flows of all participants on the MMTEL voice
conference call.
NOTE 1: The difference between this use case and the basic use case of MPS
MMTEL voice conference is that in this case, MPS is invoked by a customized
feature of the voice conference service for all participants. This use case
assumes that the host was able to join the call, which may require an
independent invocation of MPS for a voice call or MPS for DTS, which provided
priority only between the host to the conference server.
NOTE 2: When MPS is invoked for all participants on the call, the user
priority level is based on the host MPS User, except in cases where an
individual participant used MPS to join the conference with a higher user
priority level, the higher user priority level is kept.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The MPS Service Provider PLMN is the service provider which manages > the MMTEL voice conference service,
  * The participants of the MMTEL voice conference have basic network > connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS Service Provider > network),
  * The method for MPS invocation to upgrade all participants of the > MMTEL voice conference call is done using a customized feature of > the voice conference service that indicates a request for priority > of each of the participants to the MPS capable 3GPP system, and
  * The method for authenticating and authorizing the MPS subscriber's > use of MPS for the MMTEL voice conference is predetermined and is > done via a customized feature of the voice conference service.
### 5.5.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User is the host (i.e., organizer) of an MMTEL voice
conference call.
2 The MMTEL voice conference quality is not acceptable due to congestion.
3 The MPS Service User invokes MPS for all participants of the MMTEL voice
conference call to upgrade the voice conference using a customized feature of
the voice conference service.
4 The voice conference application exchanges subscriber and authentication
information with the MPS Service User as part of the customized feature of the
MMTEL voice conference service.
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized to upgrade all
participants of the MMTEL voice conference call for MPS.
6 The voice conference server application exchanges information with the MPS
capable 3GPP system to requests MPS for all participants of the MMTEL voice
conference call.
7 The MPS capable 3GPP system provides priority treatment to the signalling
and the audio media flows of all participants on the MMTEL voice conference
call.
8 A participant joins the MMTEL voice conference after MPS was activated for
the conference call. MPS is provided to the late participant joining the
conference.
9 A participant leaves the MMTEL voice conference before the MMTEL voice
conference is over. MPS is revoked for the participant leaving the conference.
10 The MPS Service User (host) ends the MPS MMTEL voice conference call.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS MMTEL voice conference call, the UEs of all participants
and voice conference service (e.g., voice conference application server)
returns to normal conditions.
### 5.5.5 Potential impacts
The impacts and interactions described in clause 7.4.5 apply to this use case.
In addition, this use case involves customization of a voice conference
service to signal the 3GPP system to apply MPS for all participants on the
conference. This use case assumes that the Service Provider for MPS also
manages the voice conference service.
### 5.5.6 Potential new requirements needed to support the use case
[PR.5.x.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for all participants of an MMTEL voice conference call using a
predetermined method.
NOTE: When MPS is invoked for all participants on the call, the user priority
level is based on the host MPS User, except in cases where an individual
participant used MPS to join the conference with a higher user priority level,
the higher user priority level is kept.
[PR.5.x.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
request the upgrade of all participants on an ongoing MMTEL voice conference
call to MPS using a predetermined method.
[PR.5.x.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize a request to establish or upgrade all participants of an MMTEL voice
conference call to MPS priority.
[PR.5.x.6-004] The 3GPP system shall provide priority treatment to the
signalling and the audio media flows for all participants when MPS is
activated by an MPS Service User for all participants of an MMTEL voice
conference.
[PR.5.x.6-005] The 3GPP system shall provide MPS for a late participant
joining an MPS for MMTEL voice conference after MPS was activated for all
participants.
[PR.5.x.6-006] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS for an individual participant
leaving an ongoing MPS for MMTEL voice conference where MPS is activated for
all participants.
[PR.5.x.6-007] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of an MPS MMTEL voice
conference call where MPS was provided to all participants of the voice
conference, and the UEs and voice server shall return to normal conditions
(i.e., use of normal MMTEL voice service).
[PR.5.x.6-008] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
voice conference call as activated during transient network degradation
conditions (e.g., during short radio link interruption caused by poor
performance in anticipation of restoration) for each participant in the MPS
conference) only when the MPS session is re-verified.
# 6 MPS for DTS use cases
## 6.1 Basic DTS invoked from an MPS subscribed UE
### 6.1.1 Description
Using an MPS Subscribed UE, a Service User initiates a normal data
communication session (e.g., for access to stored data and/or hosted
applications), in support of their mission. While network connectivity
continues, the data communication becomes unacceptable (e.g., slow or
interrupted download). The MPS Service User invokes MPS for DTS to obtain
priority for the data communication session. Invocation of MPS is done using a
web browser (e.g., use of a predetermined address (i.e., URL) in a web
browser) or MPS specialized application on an MPS subscribed UE.
Alternatively, the MPS Service User is aware that normal data service is
degraded (e.g., because of a disaster or emergency event) and immediately
invokes MPS for DTS to initiate a priority data communication session.
The MPS Service Provider authenticates and authorises the MPS subscriber use
of MPS. To simplify this process, a custom MPS application may automate this
process.
Once the MPS session is established, priority treatment is provided for the
media flows or a subset of the media flows. The MPS Service User is able to
support different communication applications (e.g., data, streaming video,
email, messages) over the MPS for DTS session.
When the need for priority communications ends, the MPS Service User
explicitly revokes MPS. MPS is automatically revoked upon UE
detachment/deregistration, e.g., power down.
### 6.1.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UE has a subscription for MPS,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS > Service Provider network), and
  * The method for DTS invocation is pre-determined (e.g., use of a > predetermined address (i.e., URL) in a web browser for the MPS > Service Provider network or use of a specialized MPS application).
### 6.1.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User attempts to establish a data communication using normal
data service.
2 Normal data service is not established due to data service congestion.
3 The Service User invokes MPS for DTS by either (a) using a web browser to
enter a predetermined address (e.g., URL) or (b) using a specialized MPS
application on the UE.
4 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN.
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for MPS.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
media flows.
7 The Service User indicates end of the DTS session using a predetermined
method (e.g., (a) closing the web browser session, (b) explicit interactions,
or (c) user interaction with a specialized MPS application in the UE).
### 6.1.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the DTS session, the UE returns to normal conditions (i.e., use of
normal data service).
### 6.1.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
Activation of the DTS when the media is congested needs to be considered.
Specifically, there is a need to be able to use a separate method for DTS
activation (including any authentication/authorization) when the normal data
service is congested.
When the DTS service is activated, special QoS is provided to the bearer,
which needs to:
  * Prioritize the allocation of PLMN resources for the MPS session;
  * Prioritize packet transport and routing; and
  * Communicate priority to non-3GPP-specified nodes, e.g., IP routers.
### 6.1.6 Potential requirements
[PR.6.1.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support DTS, a generic packet priority
transport service that applies independently of the specific data application
being used, using an UE with an MPS subscription.
[PR.6.1.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate a DTS session by either (a) using a web browser to enter a
predetermined address (e.g., URL) or (b) using a specialized MPS application
on the UE.
[PR.6.1.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support receiving and authenticating DTS
invocation requests from authorized MPS Service Users via public non-3GPP
networks.
NOTE: The intent of the above requirement is to allow an authorized MPS
Service User to send a request via the Internet to establish an MPS for DTS
session for one or more active PDNs/DNs of a UE.
[PR.6.1.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
end a DTS session.
[PR.6.1.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support means to revoke MPS and continue
the DTS session without MPS when operator policy for the maximum allowed
duration of an MPS for DTS session is exceeded.
[PR.6.1.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize a DTS session.
[PR.6.1.6-007] The 3GPP system shall support a means for DTS activation when
data service is congested at the request of the MPS Service User.
[PR.6.1.6-008] The 3GPP system shall support discovery of active PDN/DN
connections upon receipt of a DTS invocation request and perform selection of
one or more PDNs/DNs for DTS invocations for an authorized MPS Service User.
[PR.6.1.7-009] When DTS is activated by an MPS Service User, the 3GPP system
(i.e., MPS Service Provider PLMN) shall provide priority treatment to the
affected media flows.
[PR.6.1.6-010] If DTS is not explicitly revoked by the MPS Service User, the
3GPP system shall automatically revoke the DTS upon UE
detachment/deregistration (e.g., power down).
## 6.2 DTS invocation from a MPS subscribed UE for VPN access to an enterprise
network
## 6.2.1 Description
The MPS Service User needs to connect to an MPS capable enterprise network
(e.g., a private corporate network) to access information critical to the
mission (e.g., to download data and/or access enterprise applications such as
email, text/chat/presence, voice and video). Using normal data service, the
MPS Service User attempts to establish a Virtual Private Network (VPN)
connection to its MPS capable enterprise network but fails (e.g., because
normal data service is degraded as a result of a disaster or emergency event).
The MPS Service User then retries the connection, but first invokes the DTS to
have a higher probability of establishment.
As an alternative, initial access to the MPS capable enterprise network may
succeed but future conditions (e.g., degradation of data service) may render
the connectivity ineffective. In which case, the MPS Service User invokes DTS.
The MPS Service User may invoke the DTS without first releasing the VPN. It is
not necessary to re-establish the VPN after activating the DTS.
The MPS Service Provider PLMN authenticates and authorizes the MPS
subscriber's MPS use. Invocation of the DTS is done either using a web browser
(e.g., use of a predetermined address (i.e., URL) in a web browser) or using a
user-selectable option provided as part of the VPN client in the UE with an
MPS subscription.
Once the DTS session is established, the MPS Service User is able to use its
normal process to establish the VPN connection to its MPS capable enterprise
network.
When the need for priority communications ends, the MPS Service User
explicitly revokes MPS. MPS is automatically revoked upon UE
detachment/deregistration, e.g., power down.
NOTE: The difference between this use case and the basic DTS use case is that
this case adds priority in the network segment between the 3GPP system and the
enterprise network.
### 6.2.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UE has a subscription for MPS,
  * The enterprise network is MPS capable,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS > Service Provider PLMN),
  * The UEs and enterprise network are connected via the same MPS > Service Provider PLMN, and
  * The method for DTS invocation is pre-determined using a web browser > (e.g., use of a predetermined address (i.e., URL) in a web > browser) or using a user-selectable option provided as part of the > VPN client in the UE.
### 6.2.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User attempts to establish a VPN connection to its MPS
capable enterprise network using normal data service.
2 The VPN connection to the MPS capable enterprise network is not established
due to normal data service congestion.
3 The MPS Service User invokes DTS using a web browser (e.g., using a web
browser to enter a predetermined address (e.g., URL)) or using a user-
selectable option provided as part of the VPN client in the UE.
4 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN.
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for MPS.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN interacts with the MPS capable enterprise
network to establish the DTS.
7 The MPS Service Provider provides priority treatment to the affected media
flows end-to-end between the UE and the MPS capable enterprise network.
8 The Service User indicates end of the DTS session using a predetermined
method (e.g., (a) closing the web browser session (b) explicit interactions,
or (c) a user-selectable option provided as part of the VPN client in the UE.
### 6.2.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of a DTS session, the UE returns to normal conditions (i.e., use of
normal data service).
### 6.2.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
Activation of the DTS when the media is congested needs to be considered.
Specifically, there is a need to be able to use a separate method for
activation (including any authentication/authorization) when the data service
is congested.
When the DTS service is activated, special QoS is provided to the bearer,
which needs to:
  * Prioritize the allocation of PLMN resources for the MPS session;
  * Prioritize packet transport and routing; and
  * Communicate priority to non-3GPP-specified nodes, e.g., IP routers.
### 6.2.6 Potential requirements
[PR.6.2.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support end-to-end DTS connection between
an MPS subscribed UE and a MPS capable enterprise network.
[PR.6.2.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for a MPS Service User to
activate a DTS session to a MPS capable enterprise network by (a) using a web
browser to enter a predetermined address (e.g., URL) or (b) using a user-
selectable option provided as part of the VPN client in the UE.
[PR.6.2.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize a DTS session.
[PR.6.2.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support a means for DTS activation when
data service is congested at the request of the MPS Service User.
[PR.6.2.6-005] The 3GPP system (i.e., MPS Service Provider PLMN) shall provide
priority treatment to the affected media flows end-to-end between the UE and
MPS capable enterprise network when DTS to the MPS capable enterprise network
is activated.
[PR.6.2.7-006] The 3GPP system shall support means for a MPS Service User to
end a DTS session to an MPS capable enterprise network.
[PR.6.2.8-007] If DTS is not explicitly revoked by the MPS Service User, the
3GPP system shall automatically revoke the DTS upon UE
detachment/deregistration (e.g., power down).
## 6.3 MPS capable enterprise network activation of DTS for MPS subscribed UEs
### 6.3.1 Description
This use case involves an MPS capable enterprise network (e.g., government
agency network) having a subscription arrangement with a MPS Service Provider
PLMN identifying the enterprise network as an entity that can activate DTS for
MPS subscribed UEs.
The MPS capable enterprise network (e.g., government agency network) needs to
upgrade a data session with priority when there is network congestion (e.g.,
because normal data service is degraded as a result of a disaster or emergency
event). The MPS capable enterprise network requests the MPS Service Provider
PLMN to invoke DTS for a data session associated with a UE.
This use case also includes the case where an MPS capable enterprise network
(e.g., government agency network) needs to upgrade a group of data sessions
(e.g., all users in an OTT web meeting). The MPS capable enterprise network
requests the MPS Service Provider PLMN to invoke DTS for a group of data
sessions.
DTS invocation done by the MPS capable enterprise network involves
prearrangement and configuration (i.e., subscription arrangement identifying
the enterprise network authorization for DTS) with the MPS Service Provider
PLMN.
NOTE: The key differences between this use case and the other DTS use cases is
that the DTS Invocation is from an MPS capable enterprise network instead of
from a UE.
Once DTS is established for a data session or group of data sessions, the MPS
capable enterprise network is able to support its normal data communication
services over the DTS connection (e.g., OTT web meeting).
When the need for DTS ends, the enterprise network explicitly revokes the DTS.
The MPS Service Provider PLMN should automatically revoke the DTS when the
connections under control of the DTS are released (e.g., when the enterprise
network closes all the connections but fails to explicitly release the DTS).
### 6.3.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UEs accessing the MPS capable enterprise network have > subscription for MPS,
  * The enterprise network is MPS capable,
  * The UEs and enterprise network are connected via the same MPS > Service Provider PLMN, and
  * The method for DTS invocation/revocation is pre-determined.
### 6.3.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS capable enterprise network requests DTS from the MPS Service
Provider PLMN for one or more UEs.
2 The MPS capable enterprise network invocation of DTS is verified for
authorization by the MPS Service Provider PLMN.
3 The MPS Service Provider PLMN establishes DTS between the enterprise network
and affected UEs.
4 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
media flows.
5 MPS capable enterprise network ends DTS session (or group of DTS sessions)
using a predetermine method.
### 6.3.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the DTS session, the enterprise network and UEs return to normal
conditions (i.e., use of normal data service).
### 6.3.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
Enterprise network methods for invocation/revocation of DTS, associated
subscription and credential assignments (i.e., subscription arrangement
identifying the Enterprise Network authorization for DTS) are capabilities
that need to be considered.
When the DTS service is activated, special QoS is provided to the bearer,
which needs to:
  * Prioritize the allocation of PLMN resources for MPS session;
  * Prioritize packet transport and routing; and
  * Communicate priority to non-3GPP-specified nodes, e.g., IP routers.
### 6.3.6 Potential requirements
[PR.6.3.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support MPS capable enterprise network
activation of DTS to MPS subscribed UEs on demand.
[PR.6.3.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for a MPS capable
enterprise network to activate DTS for a specific MPS subscribed UE.
[PR.6.3.7-003] The 3GPP system shall support means for a MPS capable
enterprise network to activate DTS for a group of MPS subscribed UEs.
[PR.6.3.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support security capabilities for the MPS
Service Provider PLMN to verify a MPS capable enterprise network's
authorization for DTS.
[PR.6.3.6-005] The 3GPP system (i.e., MPS Service Provider PLMN) shall provide
priority treatment to the affected media flows end-to-end between the MPS
capable enterprise network and terminating end points (e.g., UEs) when DTS is
activated by an authorized MPS capable enterprise network.
[PR.6.3.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized
enterprise network end a DTS session or group of DTS sessions.
[PR.6.3.6-007] The 3GPP system shall automatically end the DTS when the
connections under control of the DTS session are released (e.g., when the MPS
capable enterprise closes all the connections but fails to explicitly release
the DTS).
## 6.4 DTS invoked during international roaming
### 6.4.1 Description
A MPS Service User is roaming in a visited PLMN outside the home country. The
UE is configured for MPS with the MPS capable visited PLMN outside the home
country based on prearranged roaming agreements between the home and visited
MPS Service Providers. The Service User turns on the UE for normal
international roaming services. As part of the normal attach and registration
process, via interactions with the home PLMN, the visited PLMN verifies that
the UE's subscription entitles it to invoke international MPS. It may provide
an indication to the UE that this verification has occurred.
The MPS Service User initiates a normal data communication session (e.g., for
access to stored data and/or hosted applications) using an MPS subscribed UE.
While network connectivity continues, the data communication becomes
unacceptable (e.g., slow or interrupted download). The MPS Service User
invokes MPS for DTS to obtain priority for the data communication session.
Invocation of MPS is done using a web browser (e.g., use of a predetermined
address (i.e., URL) in a web browser) or MPS specialized application on an MPS
subscribed UE. Alternatively, the MPS Service User is aware that normal data
service is degraded (e.g., because of a disaster or emergency event) and
immediately invokes MPS for DTS to initiate a priority data communication
session.
The international visited MPS Service Provider authenticates and authorises
the MPS subscriber use of MPS, making use of subscription information obtained
from the home PLMN at the time of registration. To simplify this process, a
custom MPS application may automate this process.
Once the MPS session is established, priority treatment is provided for the
media flows or a subset of the media flows. The MPS Service User is able to
support different communication applications (e.g., data, streaming video,
email, messages) over the MPS for DTS session.
When the need for priority communications ends, the MPS Service User
explicitly revokes MPS. MPS is automatically revoked upon UE
detachment/deregistration, e.g., power down.
### 6.4.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The MPS Service User is roaming in a visited PLMN outside the home > country,
  * The UE subscription is configured for MPS with the visited PLMN > outside the home country,
  * The visited PLMN supports MPS,
  * Necessary roaming agreements for international MPS are in place > between the home and visited MPS Service Providers.
  * The MPS capable visited PLMN is discovered and selected as part of > the normal attach and registration process, based on roaming > agreements between the visited PLMN outside the home country and > the home PLMN,
  * The home PLMN has configured the UE to discover and select a network > supporting MPS when internationally roaming (e.g., the UE is > configured to select a specific MPS capable visited PLMN when > roaming in a country that may have multiple PLMNs where some are > MPS capable and some are not MPS capable),
  * The visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is > subscribed for international MPS as part of the normal attach and > registration process,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the > visited MPS Service Provider PLMN), and
  * The method for DTS invocation by the user is pre-determined (e.g., > use of a predetermined address (i.e., URL) in a web browser for > the visited MPS Service Provider network or use of a specialized > MPS application).
### 6.4.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User powers-on its UE in the visited PLMN outside the home
country.
2 The visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is subscribed for
international MPS as part of the normal attach / registration process.
3 The MPS Service User attempts to establish a data communication using normal
international roaming data service.
4 Normal data service is not established due to data service congestion.
5 The Service User invokes MPS for DTS by either (a) using a web browser to
enter a predetermined address (e.g., URL) or (b) using a specialized MPS
application on the UE.
6 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the visited
MPS Service Provider PLMN.
7 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for MPS.
8 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
media flows.
9 The Service User indicates end of the DTS session using a predetermined
method (e.g., (a) closing the web browser session, (b) explicit interactions,
or (c) user interaction with a specialized MPS application in the UE).
### 6.4.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the DTS session, the UE returns to normal conditions (i.e., use of
normal data service).
### 6.4.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts and interactions described in clause 6.1.5 apply to this use case.
In addition, consideration needs to be given to the arrangements between
partners for normal roaming services. This use case assumes that the selected
visited PLNM for normal roaming services is also the provider of MPS.
### 6.4.6 Potential requirements
[PR.6.4.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate a DTS session during international roaming using a UE configured for
MPS with the MPS capable visited PLMN outside the home country.
[PR.6.4.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate a DTS session when roaming in the UE configured visited PLMN outside
the home country by either (a) using a web browser to enter a predetermined
address (e.g., URL) or (b) using a specialized MPS application on the UE.
[PR.6.4.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
end a DTS session with the MPS capable visited PLMN outside the home country.
[PR.6.4.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support means for the MPS capable visited
PLMN to verify with the MPS capable home PLMN that a UE is authorized for
international MPS.
[PR.6.4.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support means for the MPS capable visited
PLMN outside the home country to authorize a DTS session.
[PR.6.4.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support a means for DTS activation when
data service is congested at the request of the roaming MPS Service User.
[PR.6.4.6-007] When DTS is activated by an MPS Service User, the 3GPP system
of the visited MPS Service Provider PLMN shall provide priority treatment to
the affected media flows.
[PR.6.4.6-008] MPS priority treatment shall continue following handover within
the Registered PLMN/Equivalent PLMN (RPLMN/EPLMN).
[PR.6.4.6-009] If DTS is not explicitly revoked by the roaming MPS Service
User, the 3GPP system of the visited MPS Service Provider PLMN shall
automatically revoke the DTS upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., power
down).
[PR.6.4.6-010] During a short interruption in network connectivity, e.g., due
to a radio link failure caused by poor error performance during times of radio
link congestion, in anticipation of restoration of connectivity, the 3GPP
system shall retain DTS as activated for an implementation dependent time.
## 6.5 DTS invoked from a public UE
### 6.5.1 Description
A MPS Service User suffers loss of network connectivity due to UE failure
during a mission. This may be as simple as UE battery exhaust or could be
physical damage to the UE with an MPS subscription. The Service User borrows a
public UE that does not have a subscription for MPS. An attempt is made to
initiate a data communication session (e.g., download some data and/or images
using the available browser). Recognizing that normal data service is
degraded, the MPS Service User invokes MPS for DTS to obtain priority for the
data communication session.
Invocation via a public UE is done using a browser (e.g., use of a
predetermined address (i.e., URL) in a web browser). The MPS Service Provider
authenticates and authorises the MPS subscriber use of MPS. As part of the
authentication and authorization process, the Service User provides MPS
credentials (e.g., a PIN or security token) specifically assigned for the
purpose of obtaining MPS from a public UE (i.e., a UE that does not have an
MPS subscription).
Once the MPS session is established, priority treatment is provided for the
media flows or a subset of the media flows. The MPS Service User is able to
support different communication applications (e.g., data, streaming video,
email, messages) over the MPS for DTS session.
When the need for priority communications ends, the MPS Service User
explicitly revokes MPS. MPS is automatically revoked upon UE
detachment/deregistration, e.g., power down.
NOTE: The difference between this use case and the basic DTS use case is that
in this case, MPS is invoked from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
However, the Service User has a MPS subscription with the Service Provider
that is not associated with a UE (i.e., subscription to an MPS feature that
allows the Service User to invoke a priority service from any device including
from a fixed network access).
### 6.5.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UE does not have subscription for MPS,
  * The user has a subscription with the MPS Service Provider to permit > service invocation from any UE,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS > Service Provider network),
  * The method for DTS invocation from a UE that does not have a MPS > subscription is pre-determined (e.g., use of a predetermined > address (i.e., URL) in a web browser for the MPS Service Provider > network), and
  * The method for authenticating and authorizing the MPS Service User > (e.g., using a PIN or security token) is predetermined. As part of > the authentication and authorization process, the Service User > provides MPS credentials (e.g., a PIN or security token) > specifically assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a > public UE (i.e., a UE that does not have an MPS subscription).
### 6.5.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User attempts to establish a data communication using normal
data service using a public UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
2 Normal data service is not established due to data service congestion.
3 The Service User invokes MPS for DTS by pre-determined method (e.g., use of
a predetermined address (i.e., URL) in a web browser for the MPS Service
Provider network).
4 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public
UE (e.g., the MPS Service User uses credentials such as a PIN or security
token specifically assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public
UE).
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for MPS.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
media flows.
7 The Service User indicates end of the DTS session using a predetermined
method (e.g., (a) closing the web browser session, (b) explicit interactions).
### 6.5.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the DTS session, the UE returns to normal conditions (i.e., use of
normal data service). Any MPS related identity information temporally
associated with the public UE is removed upon end of the MPS session.
### 6.5.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
See clause 6.1.5.
### 6.5.6 Potential requirements
[PR.6.5.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support an MPS subscription that is not
associated with a particular UE to allow a Service User to invoke MPS from a
UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
[PR.6.5.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate a DTS session from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription using
a predetermined method.
[PR.6.5.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
end a DTS session from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
[PR.6.5.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize a DTS session initiated from a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription.
[PR.6.5.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support a means for DTS activation from a
UE that does not have an MPS subscription when data service is congested at
the request of the MPS Service User.
[PR.6.5.6-006] When DTS is activated by an MPS Service User using a UE that
does not have an MPS subscription, the 3GPP system (i.e., MPS Service Provider
PLMN) shall provide priority treatment to the affected media flows.
[PR.6.5.6-007] MPS priority treatment shall continue following handover within
the RPLMN/EPLMN.
[PR.6.5.6-008] If DTS is not explicitly revoked by the MPS Service User, the
3GPP system shall automatically revoke the DTS upon UE
detachment/deregistration (e.g., power down).
[PR.6.5.6-009] During a short interruption in network connectivity, e.g., due
to a radio link failure caused by poor error performance during times of radio
link congestion, in anticipation of restoration of connectivity, the 3GPP
system shall retain DTS as activated for an implementation dependent time.
## 6.6 DTS invoked from an IoT device
### 6.6.1 Description
An IoT device (e.g., industrial control monitor) with a subscription for MPS
needs to send data to a remote server (e.g., Government Agency server) when
normal data service is degraded. The IoT device invokes MPS for DTS to obtain
priority for the data communication session.
An MPS specialized application on the MPS subscribed IoT device is responsible
for determining whether or not to invoke MPS for DTS in support of the data
communication needs. The MPS specialized application allows
invocation/revocation of the DTS through machine interactions that may not
directly involve a human Service User.
The MPS Service Provider authenticates and authorises the IoT device use of
MPS.
Once the MPS session is established, priority treatment is provided for the
media flows or a subset of the media flows. The IoT device is able to support
different communication applications (e.g., data and messages) over the MPS
for DTS session.
When the need for priority communications ends, the IoT device (i.e., the MPS
specialized application on the IoT device) explicitly revokes MPS. MPS is
automatically revoked upon UE detachment/deregistration, e.g., power down.
### 6.6.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The IoT device has a subscription for MPS.
  * The IoT device has a MPS specialized application that allows > invocation/revocation of the DTS through machine interactions that > may not directly involve a human Service User.
  * The IoT device has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to > the MPS Service Provider network), and
  * The method for DTS invocation by the specialized application is > pre-determined (e.g., use of a predetermined address for the MPS > Service Provider network).
### 6.6.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The IoT device attempts to send data to a remote server in the network using
normal data service.
2 Normal data service is not able to access the remote server, due to data
service congestion.
3 The MPS specialized application on the IoT device, in response to the
perceived congestion, invokes MPS for DTS.
4 The IoT device exchanges subscription and authentication information with
the MPS Service Provider PLMN.
5 The IoT device is authenticated and authorized for MPS.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
media flows.
7 The IoT device indicates end of the DTS session using a predetermined
method.
### 6.6.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the DTS session, the IoT device returns to normal conditions
(i.e., use of normal data service).
### 6.6.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
See clause 6.1.5.
### 6.6.6 Potential requirements
[PR.6.6.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an IoT device to
initiate a DTS session using a specialized MPS application on the IoT device.
[PR.6.6.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an IoT device to end a
DTS session.
[PR.6.6.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize a DTS session from an IoT device.
[PR.6.6.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support a means for DTS activation when
data service is congested at the request of the IoT device, i.e., the
signalling to support service activation is expected to be handled with
priority by the 3GPP network.
[PR.6.6.6-005] When DTS is activated by an IoT device, the 3GPP system (i.e.,
MPS Service Provider PLMN) shall provide priority treatment to the affected
media flows.
[PR.6.6.6-006] MPS priority treatment shall continue following handover within
the RPLMN/EPLMN.
[PR.6.6.6-007] If DTS is not explicitly revoked by the IoT device, the 3GPP
system shall automatically revoke the DTS upon IoT device
detachment/deregistration (e.g., power down).
[PR.6.6.6-008] During a short interruption in network connectivity, e.g., due
to a radio link failure caused by poor error performance during times of radio
link congestion, in anticipation of restoration of connectivity, the 3GPP
system shall retain DTS as activated for an implementation dependent time.
## 6.7 MPS capable enterprise network activation of DTS for MPS subscribed IoT
devices
### 6.7.1 Description
This use case involves an MPS capable enterprise network (e.g., government
agency network) having a subscription arrangement with a MPS Service Provider
identifying the enterprise network as an entity that can activate DTS for MPS
subscribed IoT devices whose subscriptions permit MPS invocation via a
specific enterprise customer.
The MPS capable enterprise network (e.g., government agency network) needs to
upgrade a data session with priority when there is network congestion (e.g.,
because normal data service is degraded as a result of a disaster or emergency
event). For example, an IoT application server (e.g., government IoT
management or application server) in the MPS capable enterprise network needs
to send data or pull data from a remote IoT device when normal data service is
degraded. The MPS capable enterprise network requests the MPS Service Provider
PLMN to invoke DTS for a data session associated with the IoT device.
This use case also includes the case where an MPS capable enterprise network
(e.g., government agency network) needs to upgrade a group of data sessions
(e.g., an OTT IoT application for a group of IoT devices). The MPS capable
enterprise network requests the MPS Service Provider to invoke DTS for a group
of data sessions.
DTS invocation done by the MPS capable enterprise network involves
prearrangement and configuration (i.e., subscription arrangement identifying
the Enterprise Network authorization for remote activation of DTS in IoT
devices) within the MPS Service Provider PLMN. For example, a MPS specialized
application hosted in the MPS capable enterprise network (e.g., IoT
application server) may be responsible for determining whether or not to
invoke MPS for DTS. The MPS specialized application allows
invocation/revocation of the DTS through machine interactions that may not
directly involve a human Service User.
NOTE: The key differences between this use case and the other IoT use case in
subclause 6.6 is that the DTS invocation is from an MPS capable enterprise
network instead of from the IoT device.
Once DTS is established for a data session or group of data sessions, the MPS
capable enterprise network is able to support its normal data communication
services over the DTS connection (e.g., OTT IoT application).
When the need for DTS ends, the enterprise network explicitly revokes the DTS.
The MPS Service Provider PLMN should automatically revoke the DTS when the
connections under control of the DTS are released (e.g., when the enterprise
network closes all the connections but fails to explicitly release the DTS).
### 6.7.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The IoT devices accessing the MPS capable enterprise network have > subscription for MPS, are active, and have basic network > connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS Service Provider > network),
  * The enterprise network is MPS capable, and has a MPS specialized > application that allows invocation/revocation of the DTS in remote > IoT devices that are active through machine interactions that may > not directly involve a human Service User,
  * The IoT devices and enterprise network are connected via the same > MPS Service Provider PLMN, and
  * The method for DTS invocation/revocation is pre-determined.
### 6.7.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS capable enterprise network requests DTS from the MPS Service
Provider PLMN for one or more IoT devices using a specialized MPS application
for IoT.
2 The MPS capable enterprise network invocation of DTS is verified and
authorized by the MPS Service Provider PLMN.
3 The MPS Service Provider PLMN establishes DTS to permit priority
communication between the enterprise network and affected IoT devices.
4 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
media flows.
5 MPS capable enterprise network ends the DTS session (or group of DTS
sessions) using a predetermine method.
### 6.7.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the DTS session, the enterprise network and UEs return to normal
conditions (i.e., use of normal data service).
### 6.7.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts and interactions described in clauses 6.1.5 and 6.3.5 applies.
### 6.7.6 Potential requirements
[PR.6.7.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support MPS capable enterprise network
activation of the DTS for remote MPS subscribed IoT devices on demand.
[PR.6.7.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for a MPS capable
enterprise network to activate DTS for a specific MPS subscribed IoT device.
[PR.6.7.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means for a MPS capable
enterprise network to activate DTS for a group of MPS subscribed IoT devices.
[PR.6.7.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support security capabilities for the MPS
Service Provider PLMN to verify and authorize DTS for MPS subscribed IoT
devices.
[PR.6.7.6-005] The 3GPP system (i.e., MPS Service Provider PLMN) shall provide
priority treatment to the affected media flows end-to-end between the MPS
capable enterprise network and terminating IoT devices when DTS is activated
by an authorized MPS capable enterprise network.
[PR.6.7.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized
enterprise network to end the DTS priority treatment of an IoT device while
continuing basic connectivity towards the IoT device.
[PR.6.7.6-007] The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized
enterprise network to end the DTS priority treatment of a group of IoT devices
while continuing basic connectivity towards the IoT devices.
[PR.6.7.6-008] The 3GPP system shall automatically end the DTS when the
connections under control of the DTS session are released (e.g., when the MPS
capable enterprise closes all the connections but fails to explicitly release
the DTS).
[PR.6.7.6-009] During a short interruption in network connectivity, e.g., due
to a radio link failure caused by poor error performance during times of radio
link congestion, in anticipation of restoration of connectivity, the 3GPP
system shall retain DTS as activated for an implementation dependent time.
## 6.8 MPS for DTS QoS and media encryption modifications
### 6.8.1 Description
This use case describes the need for a Service User to communicate Quality of
Service (QoS) related needs to a MPS capable 3GPP system for an established
MPS for DTS session. As described in other use cases, once a MPS for DTS
session has been successfully established, different communication
applications (e.g., media types) can be supported over the MPS for DTS
session. For example, voice, video, data, text messages (e.g., SMS). In
addition, in certain cases the Service User would need to encrypt the media
supported over the MPS for DTS session (e.g., secure voice).
A Service User (or server with MPS subscription) was able to successfully
establish a MPS for DTS session (see clauses 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 for example DTS
invocations). The Service User was then able to conduct several data
transactions over the active DTS session (e.g., email, data download etc). The
Service User now needs to support a voice or video communication over the DTS
session. The Service User indicates to the MPS capable 3GPP system the Quality
of Service (QoS) needs or modifications needed for the new media type for the
active DTS session. The MPS 3GPP system makes the needed QoS modifications to
support the new media type (i.e., voice or video). The Service User is now
able to support the voice or video communication over the active DTS session.
After a MPS for DTS session was successfully established, the Service User (or
server with MPS subscription) now needs to support a secure communication
(i.e., encryption of the media flows) over the DTS session. The Service User
indicates to the MPS capable 3GPP system the Quality of Service (QoS) needs or
modifications needed for the new media encryption for the active DTS session.
The MPS 3GPP system makes the needed QoS modifications to support the new
media encryption. The Service User is now able to support the secure
communication (i.e., media encryption) over the active DTS session.
### 6.8.2 Pre-conditions
The following is the pre-condition for this use case:
  * A MPS for DTS session has been successfully established and is > active.
### 6.8.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 MPS for DTS session was established successfully.
2 The Service User uses the active MPS for DTS session to conduct data
transactions (e.g. email, webpage download, etc).
3 The Service User now needs to make a voice or video communication or support
a secure communication (i.e., media encryption) over the active MPS for DTS
session using an OTT application (specifically this is not a call using the
operator-controlled IMS infrastructure).
4 The Service User sends a request to the MPS capable 3GPP system indicating
need to support new media type (s) or media encryption and the associated QoS.
5 The MPS capable 3GPP system verifies authorization for the requested
modification and makes the necessary network modifications to support the
requested QoS for the media flows or a subset of the media flows.
6 The Service User receives indication from the MPS capable 3GPP system that
the request for QoS modifications were successful.
7 The MPS Service User proceeds to make a voice or video or secure
communication (i.e., media encryption) over the active MPS for DTS session.
### 6.8.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the DTS session, the UE returns to normal conditions (i.e., use of
normal data service).
### 6.8.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts and interactions described in clauses 6.1.5, 6.2.5 and 6.3.5 apply
to this use case.
### 6.8.6 Potential requirements
[PR.6.8.6-001] The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a set of default
QoS characteristics for an active MPS for DTS session.
[PR.6.8.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to allow an MPS
Service User to request QoS modifications for an active MPS for DTS session to
support OTT application.
[PR.6.8.6-003] The 3GPP system shall be capable of verifying authorization for
a requested QoS modification to an active MPS for DTS session.
[PR.6.8.6-004] The 3GPP system shall be capable of making authorized QoS
modifications for the media flows or a subset of the media flows of an active
MPS for DTS session.
[PR.6.8.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to provide an MPS
Service User with an indication that a requested QoS modification of an active
MPS for DTS session was successful.
# 7 MPS for video use cases
## 7.1 MPS for MMTEL video call invoked from a MPS subscribed UE
### 7.1.1 Description
The MPS Service User initiates a normal MMTEL video call using the MPS
subscribed UE. While network connectivity continues, the MMTel video call
cannot be established, or an established MMTEL video call becomes unacceptable
(e.g., due to network congestion). The MPS Service User invokes MPS to obtain
priority for the MMTEL video call.
In the case where the MMTEL video call cannot be established, the MPS
invocation is done by the Service User inclusion of an MPS-unique identifier
as part of the request to establish a video call (e.g., a MPS feature code).
Alternatively, the MPS Service User is aware that normal video service is
degraded (e.g., because of a disaster or emergency event) and immediately
invokes MPS to obtain priority for the MMTEL video call.
In the case where the MMTEL video call is already established but becomes
unacceptable, the invocation by the MPS Service User to upgrade the MMTEL
video call to MPS is done using a using a specialized MPS application on the
UE (i.e., as an alternative to releasing and retrying the call which may
fail).
The MPS capable PLMN authenticates and authorises the MPS subscriber use of
MPS for a MMTEL video call.
Priority treatment is provided for the signalling flow and once the MPS
session is established, priority treatment is provided for the audio and video
media flows of that MMTEL video call.
### 7.1.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UE has a subscription for MPS,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS > Service Provider network),
  * The UE is MMTEL video capable,
  * The method for invocation of MPS when establishing an MMTEL video > call is pre-determined (e.g., use of a MPS feature code), and
  * The method for invocation to upgrade an established MMTEL video call > to MPS is predetermined (e.g., a specialized MPS application on > the UE).
### 7.1.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User attempts to make an MMTEL video call using normal MMTEL
video service.
2 The request to establish an MMTEL video call is not successful or an already
established MMTEL video call is not acceptable due to congestion.
3 The Service User invokes MPS for the MMTEL video call or invokes MPS to
upgrade an already established MMTEL video call.
4 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN.
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for the MPS MMTEL video
call.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
signalling flows, and the audio and video media flows.
7 The MPS Service User ends the MPS MMTEL video call, or the far end releases
the call.
### 7.1.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS MMTEL video call, the UE returns to normal conditions
(i.e., use of normal video service).
### 7.1.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
MPS for an MMTEL video call involves providing priority to a normal
subscription-based video service offered by a MPS capable network.
Capability to differentiate the priority between the audio and video streams
of a given communication session is needed, so that in times of resource
limitation, the 3GPP system can admit / continue to support the audio stream,
and not admit / drop the video stream, except in cases when the audio and
media are not encoded as separate synchronized streams. The 3GPP system can
readmit the video stream when resource becomes available.
When MPS is activated for an MMTEL video call, special QoS is provided to the
bearers, which needs to:
  * Prioritize the allocation of PLMN resources for the signalling, and > the video and audio streams,
  * Prioritize packet transport and routing, and
  * Communicate priority to non-3GPP-specified nodes, e.g., IP routers.
### 7.1.6 Potential requirements
[PR.7.1.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support MPS for MMTEL video calls.
[PR.7.1.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for an MMTEL video call using a UE with an MPS subscription.
[PR.7.1.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
upgrade an established MMTEL video call to MPS using a UE with an MPS
subscription.
[PR.7.1.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize a MPS MMTEL video call initiated from a UE with an MPS subscription.
[PR.7.1.6-005] The 3GPP system shall provide priority treatment to the
affected signalling, and the audio and video media flows, when MPS is
activated by an MPS Service User for an MMTEL video call.
[PR.7.1.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support a means to differentiate the
priority between the audio and video streams of a given MPS MMTEL video call.
[PR.7.1.6-007] The 3GPP system shall retain the audio of an MPS MMTEL video
call when both the audio and video cannot be supported but the audio can be
supported.
[PR.7.1.6-008] The 3GPP system shall support priority re-establishment of the
video media when an MPS MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video conference
call, is in progress with only audio media and the conditions which previously
blocked the video media are no longer applicable.
NOTE: This requirement does not imply the need to introduce a new IMS feature.
It adds the need for priority treatment using the existing IMS feature for re-
establishment of the video media.
[PR.7.1.6-009] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of the MPS MMTEL
video call, and the MPS subscribed UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e.,
use of normal MMTEL video service).
[PR.7.1.6-010] If the MPS video call is not explicitly ended by the MPS
Service User, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power down),
the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that MPS
priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
[PR.7.1.6-011] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
video call as activated during transient network degradation conditions (e.g.,
during short radio link interruption caused by poor performance in
anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-verified.
## 7.2 MPS for MMTEL video invoked from a public UE
### 7.2.1 Description
A MPS Service User suffers loss of network connectivity due to UE failure
during a mission. This may be as simple as UE battery exhaust or could be
physical damage to the UE with an MPS subscription. The Service User borrows a
public UE that does not have a subscription for MPS. An attempt is made to
initiate an MMTEL video call. Recognizing that normal MMTEL video service is
degraded, the MPS Service User invokes MPS to obtain priority for the MMTEL
video call.
MPS invocation via a Public UE is done using a predetermined method (e.g., use
of a predetermined access number). The MPS Service Provider authenticates and
authorises the MPS subscriber use of MPS. As part of the authentication and
authorization process, the Service User provides MPS credentials (e.g., a
calling card number or PIN or security token) specifically assigned for the
purpose of obtaining MPS from a public UE (i.e., a UE that does not have an
MPS subscription).
Priority treatment is provided to the signalling and once MPS is established
for the MMTEL video call, priority treatment is provided for the audio and
video media flows.
NOTE: The difference between this use case and the basic MPS MMTEL video use
case in clause 7.1 is that in this case, MPS is invoked from a UE that does
not have an MPS subscription. However, the Service User has a MPS subscription
with the Service Provider that is not associated with a UE (i.e., subscription
to an MPS feature that allows the Service User to invoke a priority service
from any device including from a fixed network access).
### 7.2.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UE does not have subscription for MPS,
  * The Service User has a subscription with the MPS Service Provider to > permit service invocation from any UE,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS > Service Provider network),
  * The UE is MMTEL video capable,
  * The method for MPS MMTEL video invocation from a UE that does not > have a MPS subscription is pre-determined (e.g., use of a > predetermined access number), and
  * The method for authenticating and authorizing the MPS Service User > (e.g., using a calling card number, PIN or security token) is > predetermined. As part of the authentication and authorization > process, the Service User provides MPS credentials (e.g., a > calling card number, PIN or security token) specifically assigned > for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public UE (i.e., a UE that > does not have an MPS subscription).
### 7.2.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User attempts to make an MMTEL video call using normal MMTEL
video service using a public UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
2 The MMTEL video call is not successful due to network congestion or is not
acceptable due to congestion.
3 The Service User invokes MPS for the MMTEL video call using a pre-determined
method (e.g., use of a predetermined access number).
4 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public
UE (e.g., the MPS Service User uses credentials such as a calling card number,
PIN or security token specifically assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS
from a public UE).
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for the MPS MMTEL video
call.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
signalling and the audio and video flows.
7 The MPS Service User ends the MPS MMTEL video call, or the far end releases
the call.
### 7.2.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS MMTEL video call, the UE returns to normal conditions
(i.e., use of normal video service). Any MPS related identity information
temporally associated with the Public UE is removed upon end of the MPS MMTEL
video call.
### 7.2.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts and interactions described in clause 7.1.5 (MPS MMTEL video from a
subscribed UE) apply to this use case.
The charging aspects associated with this use case is that normal charging for
the call will be associated with the UE subscription account while the MPS
charges will be associated with the MPS Service User subscription account.
### 7.2.6 Potential requirements
[PR.7.2.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for an MMTEL video call from a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription using a predetermined method.
[PR.7.2.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize an MPS Service User for an MPS MMTEL video call initiated from a UE
where the MPS Service User is not the subscriber associated with the UE.
[PR.7.2.6-003] The 3GPP system shall provide priority to the affected
signalling, and the audio and video media flows when MPS is activated for an
MMTEL video call by an MPS Service User using a UE that does not have an MPS
subscription.
[PR.7.2.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support a means to differentiate the
priority between the audio and video streams of a given MPS MMTEL video call.
[PR.7.2.6-005] The 3GPP system shall retain the audio of an MPS MMTEL video
call when both the audio and video cannot be supported but the audio can be
supported.
[PR.7.2.6-006] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of the MPS MMTEL
video call from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, and the UE shall
return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal video service).
[PR.7.2.6-007] If the MPS video call is not explicitly ended by the MPS
Service User, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power down),
the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that MPS
priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
[PR.7.2.6-008] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
video call as activated during transient network degradation conditions (e.g.,
during short radio link interruption caused by poor performance in
anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-verified.
## 7.3 MPS for MMTEL video call during international roaming
### 7.3.1 Description
In this use case, a UE is configured for MPS with a visited PLMN outside the
home country as specified in TS 22.261 [5] clause 6.22.2.2.
A MPS Service User is roaming in a visited PLMN outside the home country. The
UE is configured for MPS with the MPS capable visited PLMN outside the home
country based on prearranged roaming agreements between the home and visited
MPS Service Providers. The Service User turns on the UE for normal
international roaming services. As part of the normal attach / registration
process, the visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is
subscribed for international MPS. As part of subscription for international
MPS, the UE is provided roaming configurations to preferred PLMNs which
support MPS.
The MPS Service User initiates a normal MMTEL video call using the MPS
subscribed UE. While network connectivity continues, the MMTEL video call
cannot be established, or an established MMTEL video call becomes unacceptable
(e.g., due to network congestion). The MPS Service User invokes MPS to obtain
priority for the MMTEL video call.
In the case where the MMTEL video call cannot be established, the MPS
invocation is done by the Service User inclusion of an MPS-unique identifier
as part of the request to establish a video call (e.g., a MPS feature code).
Alternatively, the MPS Service User is aware that normal video service is
degraded (e.g., because of a disaster or emergency event) and immediately
invokes MPS to obtain priority for the MMTEL video call.
In the case where the MMTEL video call is already established but becomes
unacceptable, the invocation by the MPS Service User to upgrade the MMTEL
video call to MPS is done using a using a specialized MPS application on the
UE (i.e., as an alternative to releasing and retrying the call which may
fail).
The visited MPS capable PLMN authenticates and authorises the MPS subscriber
use of MPS for an MMTEL video call using subscription information obtained
from the home network.
Priority treatment is provided for the signalling and once the MPS session is
established, priority treatment is provided for the audio and video media
flows of that MMTEL video session.
NOTE: This video use case is analogous to the MPS Voice during international
roaming use case in clause 5.1.
### 7.3.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The MPS Service User is roaming in a visited PLMN outside the home > country,
  * The UE subscription in the home PLMN is configured for MPS with the > visited PLMN outside the home country as specified in TS 22.261 > [5] clause 6.22.2.2,
  * The visited PLMN supports MPS,
  * Necessary roaming agreements for international MPS are in place > between the home and visited MPS Service Providers,
  * The home PLMN has configured the UE to discover and select a network > supporting MPS when internationally roaming (e.g., the UE is > configured to select a specific MPS capable visited PLMN when > roaming in a country that may have multiple PLMNs where some are > MPS capable and some are not MPS capable) from a prioritized list,
  * The MPS capable visited PLMN is discovered and selected as part of > the PLMN selection and normal attach / registration process,
  * The visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is > subscribed for international MPS as part of the normal attach / > registration process,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the > visited MPS Service Provider PLMN),
  * The UE is MMTEL video capable,
  * The method for invocation of MPS when establishing an MMTEL video > call is pre-determined (e.g., use of an unique service identifier > for international MPS), and
  * The method for invocation to upgrade an established MMTEL video call > to MPS is predetermined (e.g., a specialized MPS application on > the UE).
### 7.3.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User powers-on its UE in the visited PLMN outside the home
country.
2 The visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is subscribed for
international MPS as part of the normal attach / registration process.
3 The MPS Service User attempts to make an MMTEL video call using normal
international roaming video service.
4 The request to establish an MMTel video call is not successful or an already
established MMTEL video call is not acceptable due to congestion.
5 The Service User invokes MPS for the MMTEL video call or invokes MPS to
upgrade an already established MMTEL video call.
6 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN.
7 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for the MPS MMTEL video
call using subscription information obtained from the home network.
8 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
signalling and the audio and video media flows.
9 The MPS Service User ends the MPS MMTEL video call, or the far end releases
the call.
### 7.3.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS MMTEL video call, the UE returns to normal conditions
(i.e., use of normal video service).
### 7.3.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts described in clauses 5.1.5 and 7.1.5 are applicable.
### 7.3.6 Potential requirements
[PR.7.3.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for a MMTEL video call while internationally roaming using a UE
with a subscription configured for MPS with the MPS capable visited PLMN
outside the home country.
[PR.7.3.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an internationally
roaming MPS Service User to initiate MPS for an MMTEL video call using a UE
with an MPS subscription.
[PR.7.3.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means for an internationally
roaming MPS Service User to upgrade an established MMTEL video call to MPS
using a UE with an MPS subscription.
[PR.7.3.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support a unique MMI service code for
international MPS.
[PR.7.3.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support a means for the MPS capable
visited PLMN to verify with the MPS capable home PLMN that a UE is authorized
for international MPS MMTEL video calls.
[PR.7.3.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support a means for the MPS capable home
PLMN to authenticate and authorize a MPS MMTEL video call initiated from an
internationally roaming UE with an MPS subscription.
[PR.7.3.6-007] The 3GPP system shall provide priority treatment to the
affected signalling and the audio and video media flows when MPS is activated
by an internationally roaming MPS Service User for an MMTEL video call.
[PR.7.3.6-008] The 3GPP system shall support a means to differentiate the
priority between the audio and video streams of a given MPS MMTEL video call.
[PR.7.3.6-009] The 3GPP system shall retain the audio of an MPS MMTEL video
call when both the audio and video cannot be supported but the audio can be
supported.
[PR.7.3.6-010] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of the MPS MMTEL
video call from an internationally roaming MPS Service User, and the MPS
subscribed UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL
video service).
[PR.7.3.6-011] If the MPS video call is not explicitly ended by the MPS
Service User, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power down),
the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that MPS
priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
[PR.7.3.6-012] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
video call as activated during transient network degradation conditions (e.g.,
during short radio link interruption caused by poor performance in
anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-verified.
## 7.4 MPS MMTel video conference call using a MPS subscribed UE
### 7.4.1 Description
The MPS Service User initiates a normal MMTEL video conference call using the
MPS subscribed UE. While network connectivity continues, the MMTEL video
conference call cannot be established, or an established MMTEL video
conference call becomes unacceptable (e.g., due to network congestion). The
MPS Service User invokes MPS to obtain priority for the MMTEL video conference
call.
In the case where the MMTEL video conference call cannot be established, the
MPS invocation is done by the Service User inclusion of an MPS-unique
identifier as part of the request to establish an MMTEL video conference call
(e.g., a MPS feature code). Alternatively, the MPS Service User is aware that
normal MMTEL video service is degraded (e.g., because of a disaster or
emergency event) and immediately invokes MPS to obtain priority for the MMTEL
video conference call.
In the case where the MMTEL video conference call is already established but
becomes unacceptable, the invocation by the MPS Service User to upgrade the
MMTEL video conference call to MPS is done using a specialized MPS application
on the UE (i.e., as an alternative to releasing and retrying the call which
may fail).
The MPS capable PLMN authenticates and authorises the MPS subscriber use of
MPS for an MMTEL video conference call.
Priority treatment is provided for the signalling and once the MPS session is
established, priority treatment is provided for the audio and video media
flows of that MMTEL video conference call.
NOTE: In this use case priority is provided to the leg of the MMTEL video
conference associated with the MPS User (i.e., not the entire MMTEL video
conference).
### 7.4.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UE has a subscription for MPS,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS > Service Provider network),
  * The UE is MMTEL video capable,
  * The method for invocation of MPS when establishing an MMTEL video > conference call is pre-determined (e.g., use of a MPS feature > code),
  * The method for invocation to upgrade an established MMTEL video > conference call to MPS is predetermined (e.g., a specialized MPS > application on the UE), and
  * The MMTEL video conference service is managed by the MPS Service > Provider network.
### 7.4.3 Service Flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User attempts to make an MMTEL video conference call using
normal MMTEL video service.
2 The request to establish an MMTEL video conference call is not successful or
the quality of an already established MMTEL video conference call is not
acceptable due to congestion.
3 The Service User invokes MPS for the MMTEL video conference call or invokes
MPS to upgrade an already established MMTEL video conference call.
4 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN.
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for the MPS MMTEL video
conference call.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
signalling and the audio and video media flows associated with the MPS Service
User.
7 The MPS Service User releases the MPS MMTEL video conference call, or the
conference host releases the call.
### 7.4.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS MMTEL video conference call, the UE returns to normal
conditions (i.e., use of normal video service).
### 7.4.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts described in clause 7.1.5 for MMTEL video are also applicable to
this use case.
### 7.4.6 Potential requirements
[PR.7.4.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support MPS for MMTEL video conference
calls.
[PR.7.4.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for an MMTEL video conference call using a UE with an MPS
subscription.
[PR.7.4.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
upgrade an established MMTEL video conference call to MPS using a UE with an
MPS subscription.
[PR.7.4.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize a MPS MMTEL video conference call initiated from a UE with an MPS
subscription.
[PR.7.4.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support means to identify and provide
priority treatment to the affected signalling and the audio and video media
flows associated with an MPS Service User on an MMTEL video conference call
with multiple participants when MPS is invoked.
[PR.7.4.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support a means to differentiate the
priority between the audio and video streams of a given MPS Service User on an
MMTEL video conference call with multiple participants when MPS is invoked.
[PR.7.4.6-007] The 3GPP system shall retain the audio of an MPS MMTEL video
conference call when both the audio and video cannot be supported but the
audio can be supported.
[PR.7.4.6-008] The 3GPP system shall support priority re-establishment of the
video media when an MPS MMTEL video conference call is in progress with only
audio media and the conditions which previously blocked the video media are no
longer applicable.
NOTE: This requirement does not imply any modifications to existing IMS
features. It adds the need for priority treatment using the existing IMS
feature for re-establishment of the video media.
[PR.7.4.6-009] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of the MPS MMTEL
video conference call, and the MPS subscribed UE is returned to normal
conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL video service).
[PR.7.4.6-010] If the MPS video conference call is not explicitly ended by the
MPS Service User, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power
down), the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that
MPS priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
[PR.7.4.6-011] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
video conference call as activated during transient network degradation
conditions (e.g., during short radio link interruption caused by poor
performance in anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-
verified.
## 7.5 MPS MMTEL video conference call using a public UE
### 7.5.1 Description
A MPS Service User suffers loss of network connectivity due to UE failure
during a mission. This may be as simple as UE battery exhaust or could be
physical damage to the UE with an MPS subscription. The Service User borrows a
public UE that does not have a subscription for MPS. An attempt is made to
make an MMTEL video conference call. Recognizing that normal MMTEL video
service is degraded, the MPS Service User invokes MPS to obtain priority for
the MMTEL video conference call.
MPS invocation via a Public UE is done using a predetermined method (e.g., use
of a predetermined access number). The MPS Service Provider authenticates and
authorises the MPS subscriber use of MPS. As part of the authentication and
authorization process, the MPS Service User provides MPS credentials (e.g., a
calling card number or PIN or security token) specifically assigned for the
purpose of obtaining MPS from a public UE (i.e., a UE that does not have an
MPS subscription).
Priority treatment is provided for the signalling and once the MPS session is
established, priority treatment is provided for the audio and video media
flows of that MMTEL video conference call.
NOTE 1: The difference between this use case and the basic use case on MPS
MMTEL video conference is that in this case, MPS is invoked from a UE that
does not have an MPS subscription. However, the Service User has a MPS
subscription with the Service Provider that is not associated with a UE (i.e.,
subscription to an MPS feature that allows the Service User to invoke a
priority service from any device including from a fixed network access).
NOTE 2: In this use case priority is provided to the leg of the MMTEL video
conference associated with the MPS User (i.e., not the entire MMTEL video
conference).
### 7.5.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The UE does not have subscription for MPS,
  * The Service User has a subscription with the MPS Service Provider to > permit service invocation from any UE,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS > Service Provider network),
  * The UE is MMTEL video capable,
  * The method for invocation of MPS when establishing an MMTEL video > conference call from a UE that does not have a MPS subscription is > pre-determined (e.g., use of a predetermined access number),
  * The method for authenticating and authorizing the MPS Service User > (e.g., using a calling card number, PIN or security token) is > predetermined. As part of the authentication and authorization > process, the Service User provides MPS credentials (e.g., a > calling card number, PIN or security token) specifically assigned > for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public UE (i.e., a UE that > does not have an MPS subscription), and
  * The MMTEL video conference service is managed by the MPS Service > Provider network.
### 7.5.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User attempts to make an MMTEL video conference call using a
Public UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
2 The request to establish an MMTEL video conference call is not successful or
the quality is not acceptable due to congestion.
3 The Service User invokes MPS for the MMTEL video conference call using a
pre-determined method (e.g., use of a predetermined access number).
4 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS from a public
UE (e.g., the MPS Service User uses credentials such as a calling card number,
PIN or security token specifically assigned for the purpose of obtaining MPS
from a public UE).
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for the MPS MMTEL video
conference call.
6 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
signalling and the audio and video media flows associated with the MPS Service
User.
7 The Service User releases the MPS MMTEL video conference call, or the
conference host releases the call.
### 7.5.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS MMTEL video conference call, the UE returns to normal
conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL video conference service). Any MPS
related identity information temporally associated with the public UE is
removed upon end of the MPS MMTEL video conference call.
### 7.5.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts described in clause 7.2.5 for MMTEL video call from a public UE is
also applicable to this use case.
The charging aspects associated with this use case is that normal charging for
the call will be associated with the UE subscription account while the MPS
charges will be associated with the MPS Service User subscription account.
### 7.5.6 Potential requirements
[PR.7.5.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for an MMTEL video conference call from a UE that does not have
an MPS subscription using a predetermined method.
[PR.7.5.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize a MPS Service User for an MPS MMTEL video conference call initiated
from a UE where the MPS Service User is not the subscriber associated with the
UE.
[PR.7.5.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means to identify and provide
priority treatment to the signalling and the audio and video media flows
associated with an MPS Service User using a Public UE on an operator MMTEL
conference call with multiple participants when MPS is invoked.
[PR.7.5.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support a means to differentiate the
priority between the audio and video streams of a given MPS Service User using
a public UE on an MMTEL video conference call with multiple participants when
MPS is invoked.
[PR.7.5.6-005] The 3GPP system shall retain the audio of a MPS MMTEL video
conference call when both the audio and video cannot be supported but the
audio can be supported.
[PR.7.5.6-006] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of the MPS MMTEL
video conference call from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, and
the UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal video service).
[PR.7.5.6-007] If the MPS video call is not explicitly ended by the MPS
Service User, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power down),
the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that MPS
priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
[PR.7.5.6-008] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
video conference call as activated during transient network degradation
conditions (e.g., during short radio link interruption caused by poor
performance in anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-
verified.
## 7.6 MMTEL video conference host invocation of MPS for all participants
### 7.6.1 Description
A MPS Service User is the host (i.e., conference organizer) of an MMTEL video
conference call. While connectivity continues, video quality becomes
unacceptable. The MPS Service User invokes MPS (i.e., via the video conference
server application) to upgrade the entire MMTEL video conference call to
obtain priority treatment for all participants (i.e., participants with MPS
subscribed UEs and public UEs) on the video conference call. In the case that
the meeting host cannot establish the MMTEL video conference call, MPS for an
MMTEL video call as described in clause 7.4 may be invoked to provide priority
service for the host to the conference server. In such a case, upon
establishing connectivity with the conference server, the host may elect to
pre-emptively request MPS for all participants assuming that others will
experience similar service degradations, rather than to wait until problems
with the MMTEL conference call are observed.
The invocation of MPS for all participants on the MMTEL video conference call
is done using a customized feature of the video conference service (available
only to the host) that indicates a request for priority to the MPS capable
3GPP system.
The MPS Service Provider PLMN authenticates and authorizes the MPS
subscriber's use of MPS for all participants of the MMTEL video conference
call.
Priority treatment is provided for the signalling and once MPS is established
for all participants of the MMTEL video conference call, priority treatment is
provided for the audio and video media flows of all participants on the MMTEL
video conference call.
NOTE 1: The difference between this use case and the basic use case of MPS
MMTEL video conference is that in this case, MPS is invoked by a customized
feature of the video conference service for all participants. This use case
assumes that the host was able to join the call, which may require an
independent invocation of MPS for a video call, which provided priority only
between the host to the conference server.
NOTE 2: When MPS is invoked for all participants on the call, the user
priority level is based on the host MPS User, except in cases where the
individual participants have a higher user priority level, the higher user
priority level is kept.
### 7.6.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The MPS Service Provider PLMN is the service provider which manages > the MMTEL video conference service,
  * The participants of the MMTEL video conference have basic network > connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the MPS Service Provider > network),
  * The method for MPS invocation to upgrade all participants of the > MMTEL video conference call is done using a customized feature of > the video conference service that indicates a request for priority > of each of the participants to the MPS capable 3GPP system, and
  * The method for authenticating and authorizing the MPS subscriber's > use of MPS for the MMTEL video conference is predetermined and is > done via a customized feature of the video conference service, and
  * Any camera controlled related features is considered to be > associated with the video conference service.
### 7.6.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User is the host (i.e., organizer) of an MMTEL video
conference call.
2 The MMTEL video conference quality is not acceptable due to congestion.
3 The MPS Service User invokes MPS for all participants of the MMTEL video
conference call to upgrade the video conference using a customized feature of
the video conference service.
4 The video conference application exchanges subscriber and authentication
information with the MPS Service User as part of the customized feature of the
MMTEL video conference service.
5 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized to upgrade all
participants of the MMTEL video conference call for MPS.
6 The video conference server application exchanges information with the MPS
capable 3GPP system to requests MPS for all participants of the MMTEL video
conference call.
7 The MPS capable 3GPP system provides priority treatment to the signalling
and the audio and video media flows of all participants on the MMTEL video
conference call.
8 The MPS Service User (host) ends the MPS MMTEL video conference call.
### 7.6.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS MMTEL video conference call, the UEs of all participants
and video conference service (e.g., video conference application server)
returns to normal conditions.
### 7.6.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts and interactions described in clause 7.4.5 apply to this use case.
In addition, this use case involves customization of a video conference
service to signal the 3GPP system to apply MPS for all participants on the
conference. This use case assumes that the Service Provider for MPS also
manages the video conference service.
### 7.6.6 Potential requirements
[PR.7.6.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for all participants of an MMTEL video conference call using a
predetermined method.
[PR.7.6.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
request the upgrade of all participants on an ongoing MMTEL video conference
call to MPS using a predetermined method.
[PR.7.6.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and
authorize a request to establish or upgrade all participants of an MMTEL video
conference call to MPS priority.
[PR.7.6.6-004] The 3GPP system shall provide priority treatment to the
signalling and the audio and video media flows for all participants when MPS
is activated by an MPS Service User for all participants of an MMTEL video
conference.
[PR.7.6.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support a means to differentiate the
priority between the audio and video streams associated with the MPS MMTEL
video conference sessions of all participants on the video conference call.
[PR.7.6.6-006] The 3GPP system shall retain the audio of a MPS MMTEL video
conference call when both the audio and video cannot be supported but the
audio can be supported.
[PR.7.6.6-007] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of an MPS MMTEL video
conference call where MPS was provided to all participants of the video
conference, and the UEs shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal
MMTEL video service).
[PR.7.6.6-008] The 3GPP system shall provide MPS for a late participant
joining an MPS for MMTEL video conference after MPS was activated for all
participants.
[PR.7.6.6-009] If the MPS video conference call is not explicitly ended by the
MPS Service User (i.e. host of the video conference), upon UE
detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power down), the 3GPP system in the
RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that MPS priority treatment shall
not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon subsequent registration.
[PR.7.6.6-010] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
video conference call as activated during transient network degradation
conditions (e.g., during short radio link interruption caused by poor
performance in anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-
verified.
## 7.7 MPS for MMTEL video conference during international roaming
### 7.7.1 Description
In this use case, a UE is configured for MPS with a visited PLMN outside the
home country as specified in TS 22.261 [5] clause 6.22.2.2.
A MPS Service User is roaming in a visited PLMN outside the home country. The
UE is configured for MPS with the MPS capable visited PLMN outside the home
country based on prearranged roaming agreements between the home and visited
MPS Service Providers. The Service User turns on the UE for normal
international roaming services. As part of the normal attach / registration
process, the visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is
subscribed for international MPS. As part of subscription for international
MPS, the UE is provided roaming configurations to preferred PLMNs which
support MPS.
The MPS Service User initiates a normal MMTEL video conference call using the
MPS subscribed UE. While network connectivity continues, the MMTEL video
conference call cannot be established, or an established video conference call
becomes unacceptable (e.g., due to network congestion). The MPS Service User
invokes MPS to obtain priority for the MMTEL video conference call.
In the case where the MMTEL video conference call cannot be established, the
MPS invocation is done by the Service User inclusion of an MPS-unique
identifier as part of the request to establish an MMTEL video conference call
(e.g., a MPS feature code). Alternatively, the MPS Service User is aware that
normal operator video service is degraded (e.g., because of a disaster or
emergency event) and immediately invokes MPS to obtain priority for the MMTEL
video conference call.
In the case where the MMTEL video conference call is already established but
becomes unacceptable, the invocation by the MPS Service User to upgrade the
MMTEL video conference call to MPS is done using a using a specialized MPS
application on the UE (i.e., as an alternative to releasing and retrying the
call which may fail).
The visited MPS capable PLMN authenticates and authorises the MPS subscriber
use of MPS for an MMTEL video conference call using subscription information
obtained from the home network.
Priority treatment is provided for the signalling and once the MPS session is
established, priority treatment is provided for the audio and video media
flows of that MMTEL video conference session.
NOTE: This video use case is analogous to the MPS Voice during international
roaming use case in clause 5.1.
### 7.7.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The MPS Service User is roaming in a visited PLMN outside the home > country,
  * The UE subscription in the home PLMN is configured for MPS with the > visited PLMN outside the home country as specified in TS 22.261 > [5] clause 6.22.2.2,
  * The visited PLMN supports MPS,
  * Necessary roaming agreements for international MPS are in place > between the home and visited MPS Service Providers,
  * The home PLMN has configured the UE to discover and select a network > supporting MPS when internationally roaming (e.g., the UE is > configured to select a specific MPS capable visited PLMN when > roaming in a country that may have multiple PLMNs where some are > MPS capable and some are not MPS capable) from a prioritized list,
  * The MPS capable visited PLMN is discovered and selected as part of > the PLMN selection and normal attach / registration process,
  * The visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is > subscribed for international MPS as part of the normal attach / > registration process,
  * The UE has basic network connectivity (i.e., connectivity to the > visited MPS Service Provider PLMN),
  * The UE is MMTEL video capable,
  * The method for invocation of MPS when establishing an MMTEL video > conference call is pre-determined (e.g., use of an unique service > identifier for international MPS),
  * The method for invocation to upgrade an established MMTEL video > conference call to MPS is predetermined (e.g., a specialized MPS > application on the UE), and
  * The video conference service is managed by the MPS Service Provider > network.
### 7.7.3 Service Flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 The MPS Service User powers-on its UE in the visited PLMN outside the home
country.
2 The visited PLMN verifies with the home PLMN that the UE is subscribed for
international MPS as part of the normal attach / registration process.
3 The MPS Service User attempts to make an MMTEL video conference call using
normal international roaming video service.
4 The request to establish an MMTEL video conference call is not successful or
an already established operator video conference call is not acceptable due to
congestion.
5 The Service User invokes MPS for the MMTEL video conference call or invokes
MPS to upgrade an already established MMTEL video conference call.
6 The UE exchanges subscriber and authentication information with the MPS
Service Provider PLMN.
7 The MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized for the MPS MMTEL video
conference call using subscription information obtained from the home network.
8 The MPS Service Provider PLMN provides priority treatment to the affected
signalling and the audio and video media flows associated with the MPS Service
User.
9 The MPS Service User releases the MPS MMTEL video conference call, or the
conference host releases the call.
### 7.7.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS MMTEL video conference call, the UE returns to normal
conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL video service).
### 7.7.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts described in clauses 5.1.5 and 7.1.5 are applicable to this use
case.
### 7.7.6 Potential requirements
[PR.7.7.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for a MMTEL video conference call while internationally roaming
using a UE with a subscription configured for MPS with the MPS capable visited
PLMN outside the home country.
[PR.7.7.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means for an internationally
roaming MPS Service User to initiate MPS for an MMTEL video conference call
using a UE with an MPS subscription.
[PR.7.7.6-003] The 3GPP system shall support means for an internationally
roaming MPS Service User to upgrade an established MMTEL video conference call
to MPS using a UE with an MPS subscription.
[PR.7.7.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support a unique MMI service code for
international MPS.
[PR.7.7.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support a means for the MPS capable
visited PLMN to verify with the MPS capable home PLMN that a UE is authorized
for international MPS MMTEL video conference calls.
[PR.7.7.6-006] The 3GPP system shall support a means for the MPS capable home
PLMN to authenticate and authorize a MPS MMTEL video conference call initiated
from an internationally roaming UE with an MPS subscription.
[PR.7.7.6-007] The 3GPP system shall provide priority treatment to the
affected signalling and the audio and video media flows associated with the
MPS Service User when MPS is activated by an internationally roaming MPS
Service User for an MMTEL video conference call with multiple participants.
[PR.7.7.6-008] The 3GPP system shall support a means to differentiate the
priority between the audio and video streams of a given MPS Service User on an
MMTEL video conference call with multiple participants when MPS is invoked.
[PR.7.7.6-009] The 3GPP system shall retain the audio of an MPS MMTEL video
conference call when both the audio and video cannot be supported but the
audio can be supported.
[PR.7.7.6-010] The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS upon end of an MPS MMTEL video
conference call from an internationally roaming MPS Service User, and the MPS
subscribed UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL
video service).
[PR.7.7.6-011] If the MPS video call is not explicitly ended by the MPS
Service User, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power down),
the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that MPS
priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
[PR.7.7.6-012] The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL
video call as activated during transient network degradation conditions (e.g.,
during short radio link interruption caused by poor performance in
anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-verified.
## 7.8 MPS for MMTEL video or video conference termination to a UE
### 7.8.1 Description
In this use case, an MPS for an MMTEL video or video conference call is
initiated in MPS capable originating network A and terminated to a UE served
by another network, MPS capable terminating network B (shown in Figure
7.8.1-1). Network A and network B are not necessarily in the same country.
Figure 7.8.1-1: MPS for MMTel video or video conference call path
For example, the request for MPS is initiated and the MPS subscriber is
authenticated and authorized in originating network A as described in the use
cases in clauses 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6 and 7.7. The MPS MMTEL video or
video conference call/session is then routed with priority towards the
terminating network B.
The MPS for MMTEL video or video conference call/session may traverse one or
more intermediate networks before reaching terminating network B. Intermediate
networks may or may not be MPS capable. MPS capable intermediate networks
provide priority treatment based on the MPS priority markings of the call.
Intermediate networks that are not MPS capable may pass the MPS priority
markings transparently based on policy agreements. The set of intermediate
networks are not necessarily in the same country.
Terminating network B recognizes the incoming MPS for MMTEL video or video
conference call/session based on the MPS priority markings and completes the
call with priority treatment to the terminating UE based on policy agreements.
When the terminating UE needs to be paged by network B, the paging is done
with priority.
Priority treatment is provided for the signalling, and once the MPS session is
established, priority treatment is also provided for the audio and video media
flows required to support the end-to-end MMTEL call/session.
The MPS session ends when the calling or called party ends the call. MPS is
automatically revoked upon UE detachment/deregistration, e.g., power down.
### 7.8.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The originating network is a MPS capable 3GPP or non-3GPP system,
  * Intermediate networks (e.g., transit networks) may or may not be MPS > capable. Intermediate networks that are not MPS capable may pass > the MPS markings based on policy agreements,
  * The terminating network is a MPS capable 3GPP system,
  * The originating, intermediate(s), and terminating networks are not > required to be in the same country,
  * The terminating UE has basic network connectivity,
  * The terminating UE is not required to have a subscription for MPS,
  * The originating, terminating and intermediate networks have needed > policy arrangements in place,
  * Measures for verifying policies and admitting a MPS call across the > network boundaries between interconnecting networks are > pre-determined.
### 7.8.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 MPS for an MMTEL video or video conference call/session is initiated in
originating network A.
2 The MPS User is authenticated and authorized by originating network A,
including verification of whether the MPS call to Network B is allowed and the
MPS for MMTEL video or video conference call/session is routed with priority
towards terminating network B.
3 MPS capable intermediate networks provide priority treatment within their
network, and intermediate networks that are not MPS capable pass MPS priority
markings transparently.
4 The MPS for MMTEL video or video conference call/session may cross
international borders between network A and network B.
5 Terminating network B receives and identifies the incoming MPS for MMTEL
video or video conference call/session based on the priority markings.
6 Terminating network B performs the necessary policy verification to admit
the incoming MPS for MMTEL video or video conference call/session with
priority.
7 Terminating network B completes the MPS for MMTEL video or video conference
call/session to the terminating UE with priority. This includes paging with
priority when the terminating UE needs to be paged by network B
8 The MPS for MMTEL video or video conference call/session is ended by the
called or calling party.
### 7.8.4 Post-conditions
Upon end of the MPS for MMTEL video or video conference call/session, the UE
returns to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL or video conference
service).
### 7.8.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
The impacts described in clause 7.1.5 are applicable to this use cases. In
addition, this use case assumes that necessary security trust mechanisms are
in place to allow a receiving network to accept MPS priority markings from
another network.
### 7.8.6 Potential requirements
[PR.7.8.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support MPS for MMTEL video and video
conference call/sessions between two 3GPP networks supporting MPS.
NOTE: Intermediate 3GPP networks between an originating network and
terminating network should allow MPS priority markings to be passed
transparently based on policy agreements.
[PR.7.8.6-002] The 3GPP system shall support means to identify that an
incoming MMTEL video or video conference call/session from another network is
an MPS call/session based on the MPS priority markings and to handle it with
priority.
[PR.7.8.6-003] The 3GPP system shall allow MPS priority markings to be
signalled across international boundaries.
[PR.7.8.6-004] The 3GPP system shall support measures to verify policy and
admit an incoming MPS for MMTEL video or video conference call/session
received from another network with priority.
[PR.7.8.6-005] The 3GPP system shall support means to complete an incoming MPS
for MMTEL video or video conference call/session to a terminating UE with
priority including priority paging.
## 7.9 MPS for streaming video communications
### 7.9.1 Description
MPS Service Users may need to use MPS for streaming video communications to
execute their mission objectives. This encompasses both a pull scenario (e.g.,
view video content from a web server, or view video from a remote camera) and
a push scenario (e.g., sending video content towards a web server, or a camera
sending video into the network).
For example, an MPS Service User initiates a normal streaming video session.
While network connectivity continues, the streaming video session cannot be
established, or an established streaming video session becomes unacceptable
(e.g., due to network congestion). The MPS Service User invokes MPS to obtain
priority for the streaming video session. This invocation is supported on both
MPS subscribed UEs and public UEs.
Invocation of MPS for a streaming video communication is done as described in
clause 6 for the DTS. In general, MPS for streaming video is based on the use
of DTS as described in clause 6 (i.e., the streaming video is supported as an
OTT service by DTS). Therefore, individual streaming video use cases are not
described as they are covered by the corresponding DTS use case described in
clause 6 as summarized below.
* * *
**Streaming video use case** **Corresponding DTS use case** MPS for streaming
video invoked from an MPS subscribed UE Clause 6.1: Basic DTS invoked from an
MPS subscribed UE MPS for streaming video towards an Enterprise Clause 6.2:
DTS invocation from a MPS subscribed UE for VPN access to an enterprise
network MPS capable enterprise network activation of MPS streaming video for
an MPS subscribed UE Clause 6.3: MPS capable enterprise network activation of
DTS for MPS subscribed UEs MPS for streaming video invoked during
international roaming Clause 6.4: DTS invoked during international roaming MPS
for streaming video invoked from a public UE Clause 6.5: DTS invoked from a
public UE MPS for streaming video invoked from an IoT device Clause 6.6: DTS
invoked from an IoT device MPS capable enterprise network activation of MPS
for streaming video from an MPS subscribed IoT device Clause 6.7: MPS capable
enterprise network activation of DTS for MPS subscribed IoT devices
* * *
### 7.9.2 Pre-conditions
Refer to corresponding DTS use cases in clauses 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6,
and 6.7.
### 7.9.3 Service flows
Refer to corresponding DTS use cases in clauses 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6,
and 6.7.
### 7.9.4 Post-conditions
Refer to corresponding DTS use cases in clauses 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6,
and 6.7.
### 7.9.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
Refer to corresponding DTS use cases in clauses 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6,
and 6.7.
### 7.9.6 Potential requirements
[PR.7.9.6-001] The 3GPP system shall support MPS for streaming video.
# 8 Security considerations
## 8.1 Attestation of authorized MPS priority
### 8.1.1 Description
In this use case, MPS for an MMTEL voice or video call is initiated in MPS
capable originating network A and terminated to a UE served by another
network, MPS capable terminating network B (shown in Figure 9.4.1-1). Network
A and network B are not necessarily in the same country. Once the request for
MPS is authenticated and authorized by originating network A, the MPS call is
provided priority treatment based on the MPS priority markings of the call.
The MPS call may traverse one or more intermediate networks before reaching
terminating network B. Intermediate networks may or may not be MPS capable.
MPS capable intermediate networks provide priority treatment based on the MPS
priority markings of the call. Intermediate networks that are not MPS capable
may pass the MPS priority markings transparently based on policy agreements.
The set of intermediate networks are not necessarily in the same country.
A network (e.g., an intermediate network or terminating network B) receiving a
call with MPS priority markings from another network may not trust the
validity of the MPS priority markings to admit the call with the MPS priority
markings. For example, it is possible that the MPS priority markings could
have been spoofed or modified by unauthorized entities along the call path
between the originating network and the receiving network.
This use case describes a mechanism for an originating network (e.g., network
A) to send a trust assertion for the MPS priority markings and a receiving
network (e.g., terminating network B) to verify the assertion to determine
whether it can be trusted and the call admitted with the priority markings.
Figure 9.4.1-1: Trust of MPS priority markings
In this use case, originating network A sends an assertion that the MPS
markings of the outgoing MPS call is authorized (e.g., using a cryptographic
token) and then routes the call towards terminating network B. For example,
originating network A could use the Personal Assertion Token (PASSporT)
extension defined in RFC 8443 [6] to cryptographically sign the Session
Initiation Protocol Resource Priority Header (SIP RPH). By including the
signed PASSPorT token for the SIP RPH, originating network A is asserting that
the call is an MPS call that has been authenticated and authorized (i.e., the
MPS priority markings can be trusted).
An intermediate network receiving the incoming MPS call with a signed token
for the MPS priority markings (e.g., PASSPorT token for the SIP RPH) may
verify the token to determine whether to trust the MPS priority markings and
provide priority treatment to the call based on policy agreements.
Upon receiving the incoming MPS call with a signed token for the MPS priority
markings (e.g., PASSPorT token for the SIP RPH), terminating network B
verifies the token. If the verification is successful, it means that the MPS
priority markings can be trusted and the call is admitted with the MPS
priority markings and provided priority treatment based on policy agreements.
If the token verification fails, terminating network B may decide based on
local policy to admit the call without the MPS priority markings (i.e., treat
the call as an ordinary call).
Terminating network B may provide the called UE with information indicating
that the MPS call was verified as a priority call. For example based on local
policy, the called UE may be provided with display information that the call
is a verified priority call.
### 8.1.2 Pre-conditions
The following are pre-conditions for this use case:
  * The originating network is a MPS capable 3GPP system,
  * Intermediate networks (e.g., transit networks) may or may not be MPS > capable. Intermediate networks that are not MPS capable may pass > the MPS markings based on policy agreements,
  * The terminating network is a MPS capable 3GPP system,
  * The originating, intermediate(s), and terminating networks are not > required to be in the same country,
  * The originating UE has basic network connectivity,
  * The terminating UE has basic network connectivity,
  * The terminating UE is not required to have a subscription for MPS,
  * The originating, terminating and intermediate networks have needed > policy arrangements in place,
  * Measures for verifying policies and admitting a MPS call across the > network boundaries between interconnecting networks are > pre-determined.
### 8.1.3 Service flows
The following describes the sequence of events:
1 A request for an MPS call/session is initiated in originating network A.
2 The MPS User is authenticated and the MPS call is authenticated and
authorized by originating network A, including verification of whether the MPS
call to network B is allowed.
3 Originating network A constructs and includes a signed token for the MPS
priority markings of the outgoing call (e.g., using the PASSPorT extension
defined in RFC 8443 [6]) and routes the call with priority towards terminating
network B.
4 MPS capable intermediate network or networks receiving the MPS call with the
signed token may verify the token to determine whether the MPS priority
markings can be trusted to admit the call with the priority markings and
provide priority treatment within their network based on policy agreements,
5 Intermediate networks that are not MPS capable pass the MPS priority
markings transparently.
4 The MPS call may cross international borders between network A and network
B.
5 Terminating network B receives and identifies the incoming MPS call based on
the priority markings and determines that a signed token for the priority
markings is included in the incoming call.
6 Terminating network B verifies the token to determine whether the MPS
priority markings can be trusted to admit the call with the priority markings.
7 Terminating network B verification of the token is successful and call is
admitted with the MPS priority markings and priority treatment is provided in
completing the call to the terminating UE based on policy agreements.
8 Terminating network B may provide the UE with signalling information
indicating that the call is a verified priority call.
### 8.1.4 Post conditions
Upon end of the MPS call/session, the UE returns to normal conditions (i.e.,
use of normal MMTEL voice and video).
### 8.1.5 Potential impacts or interactions with existing services/features
IETF RFC 8443[6] defines a PASSporT extension and the associated mechanisms to
provide a feature to sign the Resource Priority Header (RPH) field that is
used to indicate resource prioritization in SIP call control signalling. It
defines a feature to cryptographically sign the SIP RPH field and to convey
assertions of authorization of the information in the SIP RPH field. The
mechanism defined in IETF RFC 8443 could be leveraged to protect the integrity
of MPS priority markings and convey trusted assertions of MPS authorization.
3GPP TS 24.229 [7] defines a mechanism (i.e., the "verstat" parameter) to
convey the status of the calling number verification performed by the home
network. This existing feature could be leveraged to convey status of priority
verification.
### 8.1.6 Potential requirements
[PR.8.1.6-001] Void.
[PR.8.1.6-002] The originating shall provide a means to securely attest to MPS
authorization for the session.3GPP system .
[PR.8.1.6-003] Void
[PR.8.1.6-004] Void.
[PR.8.1.6-005] The 3GPP system shall provide a means to securely verify the
attestation of MPS authorization received from the originating network for the
session .
# 9 Potential requirements
## 9.1 MPS for MMTEL voice consolidated requirements
### 9.1.1 Authentication and authorization
The 3GPP system shall support means for a visited PLMN to verify with the home
PLMN that a UE is authorized for international MPS, and to authorize an MPS
MMTEL voice call.
### 9.1.2 Policy
The 3GPP system shall support measures to verify policy and admit an incoming
MPS for MMTEL voice or voice conference call/session received from another
network with priority.
### 9.1.3 Invocation/revocation
The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User host using a
predetermined method to:
  * initiate MPS for all participants of an MMTEL voice conference call, > or
  * upgrade all participants on an ongoing MMTEL voice conference call > to MPS.
The 3GPP system shall provide MPS for a late participant joining an MPS for
MMTEL voice conference after MPS was activated for all participants.
NOTE: When MPS is invoked for all participants on the call, the user priority
level is based on the host MPS User, except in cases where an individual
participant used MPS to join the conference with a higher user priority level,
the higher user priority level is kept.
The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS for the following cases:
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL voice call, or an MPS MMTEL voice > conference call from a UE with an MPS subscription, and the UE > shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL voice > service),
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL voice call, or an MPS MMTEL voice > conference call from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, > and the UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal > voice service), and
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL voice conference call where MPS was > provided to all participants on the voice conference call, and the > UEs shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL > voice service).
The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS for an individual participant leaving an
ongoing MPS for MMTEL voice conference where MPS is activated for all
participants.
When an MPS MMTEL voice call or an MPS MMTEL voice conference call is not
explicitly ended, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power
down), the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that
MPS priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL voice
conference call as activated during transient network degradation conditions
(e.g., during short radio link interruption caused by poor performance in
anticipation of restoration) for each participant in the MPS conference) only
when the MPS session is re-verified.
### 9.1.4 Charging
The 3GPP system shall associate MPS related charging events with the MPS
subscription.
### 9.1.5 MMI
The 3GPP system shall support a unique service identifier for international
MPS.
### 9.1.6 Media
When MPS MMTEL voice is activated by an MPS Service User, the 3GPP system of
the MPS Service Provider RPLMN shall provide priority treatment to the audio
media flows once the MPS Service User is authenticated and authorized by the
3GPP system.
### 9.1.7 Signalling
The 3GPP system shall be able to provide priority to MPS Service User
invocation signalling in the network once the request is identified by the
3GPP system.
The 3GPP system shall support a means for MPS Voice activation when normal
service is congested at the request of the roaming MPS Service User.
### 9.1.8 General support of service
The 3GPP system shall support means for a MPS Service User to initiate a MPS
for MMTEL voice call during international roaming using a UE with a
subscription configured for MPS with the MPS capable visited PLMN outside the
home country based on operator policy (e.g., bi-lateral agreements between
operators).
The 3GPP system shall support MPS for MMTEL voice and voice conference calls
between 3GPP networks supporting MPS.
NOTE 1: Intermediate 3GPP networks between an originating network and
terminating network should allow MPS priority markings to be passed
transparently based on operator policy.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for an MMTEL voice or voice conference call from a UE that does
not have an MPS subscription using a predetermined method.
NOTE 2: The predetermined method used to make an MPS call using a UE without
an MPS subscription (e.g., access code) is outside of 3GPP scope.
## 9.2 MPS for DTS consolidated requirements
### 9.2.1 Authentication and authorization
The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and authorize an MPS for
DTS session request from a UE with an MPS subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and authorize an MPS
Service User for a MPS for DTS session request from a UE that does not have an
MPS subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and authorize an MPS for
DTS session request from an IoT device with an MPS subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and authorize an MPS
capable Enterprise Network requesting activation of MPS for DTS for a UE with
an MPS subscription.
### 9.2.2 Roaming
The 3GPP system shall support means for a visited PLMN, including a visited
PLMN outside of the home country, to verify with the home PLMN that a MPS for
DTS session request from a UE is authorized (i.e., the UE is authorized for
MPS) and to authorize an MPS for DTS session.
### 9.2.3 Security and policy
The 3GPP system shall support security capabilities for an MPS Service
Provider PLMN to verify an MPS capable enterprise network\'s authorization to
request MPS for DTS activation for an MPS subscribed UE or IoT device
associated with the enterprise network.
### 9.2.4 Handover
MPS priority treatment shall continue following handover within the Registered
PLMN/Equivalent PLMN (RPLMN/EPLMN).
### 9.2.5 Invocation and revocation
The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to initiate an MPS
for DTS session from a UE with an MPS subscription.
NOTE 1: The method for DTS invocation may include (a) using a web browser to
enter a predetermined address (e.g., URL) or (b) using a specialized MPS
application on the UE, or (c) using a user-selectable option provided as part
of a VPN client in the UE.
The 3GPP system shall support means for a MPS Service User to initiate an MPS
for DTS session to an MPS capable Enterprise Network using a UE with an MPS
subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to initiate an MPS
for DTS session from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription using a
predetermined method.
NOTE 2: The predetermined method used for DTS invocation using a UE without an
MPS subscription (e.g., access code) is outside of 3GPP scope.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an IoT device to initiate an MPS for
DTS session using a specialized MPS application on the IoT device.
The 3GPP system shall support receiving and authenticating MPS for DTS
invocation requests from authorized MPS Service Users via public non-3GPP
networks.
NOTE 3: The intent of the above requirement is to allow an authorized MPS
Service User to send a request via the Internet to establish an MPS for DTS
session for one or more active PDNs/DNs of a UE.
The 3GPP system shall support discovery of active PDN/DN connections upon
receipt of an MPS for DTS invocation request and perform selection of one or
more PDNs/DNs for DTS invocations for an authorized MPS Service User.
The 3GPP system shall support means for a Service User or IoT device to end an
MPS for DTS session, or MPS for DTS session to an MPS capable Enterprise
Network for the cases:
  * an MPS Service User using a UE with an MPS subscription,
  * an MPS Service User using a UE that does not have an MPS > subscription, or
  * an IoT device with an MPS subscription.
If MPS for DTS is not explicitly revoked by the MPS Service User or IoT
device, the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke the DTS:
  * upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., power down), or
  * when the connections under control of the DTS session are released > (e.g., when an MPS capable enterprise closes all the connections > but fails to explicitly release the DTS).
The 3GPP system shall retain MPS for DTS as activated for an implementation
dependent time during a short interruption in network connectivity, e.g., due
to a radio link failure caused by poor error performance during times of radio
link congestion, in anticipation of restoration of connectivity.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized MPS capable enterprise
network to request activation of MPS for DTS for the following cases:
  * a specific MPS subscribed UE or IoT device, and
  * a group of MPS subscribed UEs or IoT devices.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized MPS capable enterprise
network to explicitly request to end a MPS for DTS session or group of MPS for
DTS sessions while maintaining basic connectivity to the MPS subscribed UE(s)
or IoT device(s).
The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to initiate an MPS
for DTS session from a UE with an MPS subscription when roaming in the UE
configured visited PLMN outside the home country.
NOTE 4: The method for MPS for DTS invocation may include (a) using a web
browser to enter a predetermined address (e.g., URL) or (b) using a
specialized MPS application on the UE, or (c) using a user-selectable option
provided as part of a VPN client in the UE.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to explicitly ends
an MPS for DTS session from a UE with an MPS subscription when roaming in the
UE configured visited PLMN outside the home country.
The 3GPP system shall support means to revoke MPS and continue the DTS session
without MPS when operator policy for the maximum allowed duration of an MPS
for DTS session is exceeded.
### 9.2.6 Media
The 3GPP system (i.e., MPS Service Provider PLMN) shall provide priority
treatment to the affected media flows when a MPS for DTS session is activated.
The 3GPP system (i.e., MPS Service Provider PLMN) shall provide priority
treatment to the affected media flows end-to-end between the UE and the
enterprise network when MPS for DTS to an authorized MPS capable enterprise
network is activated.
### 9.2.7 QoS
The 3GPP system shall be capable of supporting a set of default QoS
characteristics for an active MPS for DTS session.
The 3GPP system shall be capable of verifying authorization for a requested
QoS modification to an active MPS for DTS session.
The 3GPP system shall be capable of making authorized QoS modifications for
the media flows or a subset of the media flows of an active MPS for DTS
session.
The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to allow an MPS Service User to
request QoS modifications for an active MPS for DTS session to support Over
The Top (OTT) applications.
The 3GPP system shall support a mechanism to provide an MPS Service User with
an indication that a requested QoS modification of an active MPS for DTS
session was successful.
### 9.2.8 Signalling
The 3GPP system shall support a means for MPS for DTS activation when data
service is congested at the request of the MPS Service User, or IoT device.
The 3GPP system shall support a means for MPS for DTS activation when data
service is congested at the request of a roaming MPS Service User.
### 9.2.9 General support of service
The 3GPP system shall support MPS for DTS, a generic priority packet transport
service that applies independently of the specific data application being
used, using an UE with an MPS subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support an end-to-end MPS for DTS connection between an
MPS subscribed UE and an MPS capable enterprise network.
The 3GPP system shall support authorized MPS capable enterprise network
activation of MPS for DTS to MPS subscribed UEs on demand based on operator
policy.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to initiate an MPS
for DTS session during international roaming using a UE configured for MPS
with the MPS capable visited PLMN outside the home country based on operator
policy (e.g., bi-lateral agreements between operators).
The 3GPP system shall support an MPS subscription that is not associated with
a particular UE to allow an MPS Service User to invoke MPS from a UE that does
not have an MPS subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support authorized MPS capable enterprise network
activation of MPS for DTS for remote MPS subscribed IoT devices associated
with the enterprise network on demand based on operator policy.
## 9.3 MPS for video consolidated requirements
### 9.3.1 Authentication and authorization
The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and authorize an MPS MMTEL
video or video conference call request from a UE with an MPS subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and authorize a MPS
Service User request for an MPS MMTEL video or video conference call from a UE
that does not have an MPS subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support means for a visited PLMN, including a visited
PLMN outside of the home country, to verify with the home PLMN that a MPS
MMTEL video request from a UE is authorized (i.e., the UE is authorized for
MPS) based on operator policy (e.g., bi-lateral agreements between operators).
The 3GPP system shall support a means for the home PLMN to authenticate and
authorize an MPS MMTEL video call or video conference call, initiated from a
UE with an MPS subscription in a visited PLMN outside of the home country
based on operator policy (e.g., bi-lateral agreements between operators).
The 3GPP system shall support means to authenticate and authorize a request to
establish or upgrade all participants of an MMTEL video conference call to MPS
priority.
### 9.3.2 Security and policy
The 3GPP system shall support measures to verify policy and admit an incoming
MPS for MMTEL video or video conference call/session received from another
network with priority.
### 9.3.3 Invocation and revocation
The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User using a
predetermined method to:
  * initiate MPS for an MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video > conference call, using a UE with an MPS subscription,
  * upgrade an established MMTel video call, or an established MMTEL > video conference call, to MPS using a UE with an MPS subscription, > or
  * initiate MPS for an MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video > conference call, from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an internationally roaming MPS Service
User to:
  * initiate MPS for an MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video > conference call, using a UE with an MPS subscription, or
  * upgrade an established MMTEL video call, or an established MMTEL > video conference call, to MPS using a UE with an MPS subscription.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User using a
predetermined method to:
  * initiate MPS for all participants of an MMTEL video conference call, > or
  * upgrade of all participants on an ongoing MMTEL video conference > call to MPS.
The 3GPP system shall provide MPS for a late participant joining an MPS for
MMTEL video conference after MPS was activated for all participants.
The 3GPP system shall revoke MPS for the following cases:
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video > conference call from a UE with an MPS subscription, and the UE > shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL video > service),
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video > conference call from a UE that does not have an MPS subscription, > and the UE shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal > video service), and
  * upon end of an MPS MMTEL video conference call where MPS was > provided to all participants on the video conference call, and the > UEs shall return to normal conditions (i.e., use of normal MMTEL > video service).
When an MPS MMTEL video call or an MPS MMTEL video conference call is not
explicitly ended, upon UE detachment/deregistration (e.g., orderly power
down), the 3GPP system in the RPLMN shall automatically revoke MPS such that
MPS priority treatment shall not automatically apply to subsequent calls upon
subsequent registration.
The 3GPP system shall support means to retain MPS for an MMTEL video call or
MMTEL video conference call as activated during transient network degradation
conditions (e.g., during short radio link interruption caused by poor
performance in anticipation of restoration) only when the MPS session is re-
verified.
### 9.3.4 MMI
The 3GPP system shall support a unique MMI service code for international MPS.
### 9.3.5 Media
The 3GPP system shall support a means to differentiate the priority between
the audio and video streams of a given MPS MMTEL video call.
The 3GPP system shall support a means to differentiate the priority between
the audio and video streams of MPS participants on an MPS MMTEL video
conference call.
The 3GPP system shall retain the audio of an MPS MMTEL video call when both
the audio and video cannot be supported but the audio can be supported.
The 3GPP system shall retain the audio of the MPS participants on an MPS MMTEL
video conference call when both the audio and video cannot be supported but
the audio can be supported.
The 3GPP system shall support priority re-establishment of the video media
when an MPS MMTEL video call, or an MPS MMTEL video conference call, is in
progress with only audio media and the conditions which previously blocked the
video media are no longer applicable.
NOTE: This requirement does not imply the need to introduce a new IMS feature.
It adds the need for priority treatment using the existing IMS feature for re-
establishment of the video media.
The 3GPP system shall provide priority treatment to the audio and video media
flows, when MPS is activated for an MMTel video call or MMTEL video conference
call.
The 3GPP system shall provide priority treatment to the affected audio and
video media flows when MPS is activated by an internationally roaming MPS
Service User for an MMTEL video call, or MMTEL video conference call.
### 9.3.6 Signalling
The 3GPP system shall provide priority treatment to the affected signalling
when MPS is activated for an MMTEL video call, or MMTEL video conference call.
The 3GPP system shall provide priority treatment to the affected signalling
when MPS is activated by an internationally roaming MPS Service User for an
MMTEL video call, or MMTEL video conference call.
### 9.3.7 Inter-network
The 3GPP system shall support means to identify that an incoming MMTEL voice,
video, or video conference call/session from another network is an MPS
call/session based on the MPS priority markings and to handle it with
priority.
The 3GPP system shall allow MPS priority markings to be signalled across
international boundaries.
The 3GPP system shall support means to complete an incoming MPS for MMTEL
voice, voice conference, video, or video conference call/session to a
terminating UE with priority including priority paging.
### 9.3.8 General support of service
The 3GPP system shall support MPS for MMTEL video and video conference
calls/sessions.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an MPS Service User to initiate MPS
for an MMTEL video or video conference call/session while internationally
roaming using a UE with a subscription configured for MPS with the MPS capable
visited PLMN outside the home country based on operator policy (e.g., bi-
lateral agreements between operators).
The 3GPP system shall support MPS for MMTEL video and video conference
calls/sessions between two 3GPP networks supporting MPS.
NOTE 1: Intermediate 3GPP networks between an originating network and
terminating network should allow MPS priority markings to be passed
transparently based on operator policy agreements.
The 3GPP system shall support means for an authorized MPS Service User to
initiate MPS for an MMTEL video or video conference call/session from a UE
that does not have an MPS subscription using a predetermined method.
NOTE 2: The predetermined method used to make an MPS call using a UE without
an MPS subscription (e.g., access code) is outside of 3GPP scope.
The 3GPP system shall support MPS for streaming video.
NOTE 3: MPS for streaming video is provided as an OTT service using MPS for
DTS.
## 9.4 Consolidated security considerations requirements
### 9.4.1 Attestation of MPS priority
The originating 3GPP system shall provide a means to securely attest to MPS
authorization for the session.
The 3GPP system shall provide a means to securely verify the attestation of
MPS authorization received from the originating network for the session.
# 10 Conclusion and recommendations
The study identified and analysed a number of use cases beyond those
documented in TR 22.953 [3] to account for current and anticipated MPS User
needs for priority voice, video and data communications. Potential
requirements associated with the use cases were identified and consolidated in
clause 9 of the present document.
The use cases identified in this TR should be considered as the basis to
update TR 22.953 [3] for Rel-17.
The consolidated requirements in clause 9 of the present document should be
used as the basis for normative Rel-17 requirements in TS 22.153 [2].
#