# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document examines several use cases with respective KPIs in
different domains (e.g. inHome, SmartCities, SmartFarming, SmartFactories,
Smart Energy, Public Safety, Logistics) and identifies new potential
requirements for relays for energy efficiency and extensive coverage.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] Wearables Special Interest Group, Wearables White Paper,
publications.tno.nl/publication/34626436/ppGkWB/TNO-2018-weables.pdf
[3] 3GPP TS 22.115: \"Service aspects; Charging and billing\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Indirect 3GPP Communication:** The signalling and communication between a UE
and 3GPP network via [one or more]{.underline} UE-to-Network Relay UEs.
**Network operator** : The entity which offers communication services.
**UE-to-Network Relay UE** : a relay UE between a remote UE and the 3GPP
network.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Overview
5G contemplates many different scenarios and verticals (inHome, SmartFarming,
SmartFactories, Public Safety and others). Many of them are new while others
have been already covered in earlier generations of mobile networks. What all
of them have in common is that we can find use cases where more extensive
coverage with good energy efficiency is needed in comparison to what earlier
generations (3G, 4G) could offer.
Nevertheless, all these use cases present an heterogeneous set of performance
requirements. While IoT use cases will address small data transmissions this
is not the case for inHome scenarios where high bandwidth is expected.
SmartFactories use cases have latency requirements that other use cases will
not need.
The use of multi-hop relays will help to improve the coverage of the 5G system
with good energy efficiency.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Use case for enhancing coverage in industrial environments
### 5.1.1 Description
Precursor chemicals are converted into other chemicals to be used in highly
specialized industries such as pharmaceutics, plastics, cosmetics etc. in
large factories. Many of the chemicals are dangerous in that they are
flammable, toxic to humans or both and are often corrosive.
To avoid hazard to workers as much as possible, the company uses remote
controlled and semi-autonomous robots for much of the movement, storage and
inspection of drums (containers of chemicals) between various warehouses and
the production floor itself. These robots have articulated arms and a trained
operator wearing special Augmented Reality goggles can use them to manipulate
objects and tools remotely using e.g. 3-D vision. The (human) operators of the
robots may sit in a control room or in sealed vehicles which may be used to
bring them closer to the work site.
In addition to the above, all containers of chemicals as well as hazmat suites
are equipped with communications devices which can transmit critical
information such as temperature, humidity and the possible presence of certain
chemicals in the air.
Much of the work is done inside metal enclosures which can seal off potential
chemical leaks. The enclosure walls as well as the drums, also metallic, acts
as EM shields which make signal propagation difficult and unpredictable.
Rather than deploying multiple gNBs the factory owner may choose to use UEs
capable of multi-hop relay operation to relay messages between remote UEs and
gNBs. While not all UEs may be used as relays, the large number of UEs of
different types (mounted on vehicles, handheld, on drums) ensures sufficient
coverage for all.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
The factory uses a potentially large number of sensors, control panels (incl.
e.g. AR goggles) and actuators, all of them equipped with UEs. We do not
assume that all UEs have the same capabilities. Rather, different UEs are
capable of e.g. different data rates, latencies etc. We do assume however that
enough of the UEs (though not all) are capable of acting as relays for other
UEs and those can act in a multi-hop relay environment. It is assumed that UEs
used in this factory are capable of being relayed.
We assume that at least one of the multi-hop relaying UEs is under coverage of
at least one gNB though for better communication availability it is better if
multiple gNB are in range of multiple UEs. Where are these gNB deployed (i.e.
inside the factory or not) and how do they communicate with the external world
are not the subject of this use case.
A factory App has been enabled by the network operator to indicate to the 5G
network a permission for a UE to relay and or be relayed. The factory App
interfaces to the 5G network and receives current accessibility status of all
its UEs.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
The owner of UEs which are capable to be used as relays has indicated to the
network operator whether they may be used as such and the UEs whose traffic
may be relayed. The network operator has authorized relay operation of UEs.
As each of the UEs is deployed it seeks to attach to an available network. A
UE which has not successfully attached to a network tries to attach via an
appropriate relaying UE. A UE which has successfully, either directly or via
another UE, attached to a network makes itself available to relay to and from
other UEs and the gNB and becomes a relaying UE.
An appropriate relaying UE has the capability of supporting the expected
traffic characteristics required by the remote UE and has the permission and
authorization to do so.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
Chains of relays are used to relay appropriate traffic to and from end UEs and
ultimately a gNB. Different relays may be used depending on UE mobility and
traffic requirements but service continuity is maintained as long as a relay
path exists.
A remote UE is reachable and accessible if there exist a route from any gNB to
the UE populated with appropriately authorized and QoS capable relay UEs.
The factory safety monitoring department receives updates regarding
accessibility of UEs and can take corrective action when UEs become
inaccessible.
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
[Exposure]{.underline}
The 5G system shall provide a suitable API by which an authorized 3'rd party
shall be able to receive from the network information regarding the
accessibility of UEs.
Editor's note: TS 22.261 already supports "The 5G network shall provide
suitable APIs to allow a trusted 3rd party to monitor the status (e.g.,
locations, lifecycle, registration status) of its own UEs". This existing
requirement should be upgraded to ensure it can apply to remote UE case
independently of number of hops.
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[General]{.underline}
[PR 5.1.6-1] The 5G system shall support the relaying of traffic between
remote UEs and a gNB using multi-hop relay UEs.
NOTE 1: Different traffic flows of the same UE can be relayed via multiple
relay UEs in parallel.
[PR 5.1.6-2] The 5G system shall support any number of hops when using multi-
hop relay UEs (the number is variable, with no maximum value specified).
[PR 5.1.6-3] The 5G system shall enable the network operator to limit the
number of hops supported when using multi-hop relay UEs.
[Relay selection]{.underline}
[PR 5.1.6-4] The 3GPP system shall support (re)selection of a multi-hop relay
UE based on a combination of different criteria e.g.,
\- the characteristics of the traffic that is intended to be relayed (e.g.
expected message frequency and required QoS),
\- the subscriptions of Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay and Evolved ProSe
Remote UE,
\- the capabilities of the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay,
\- the QoS that is achievable by selecting the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay,
\- the power consumption required by Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and
Evolved ProSe Remote UE,
\- the pre-paired Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay,
\- the 3GPP or non-3GPP access the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay uses to
connect to the network[, or]{.underline}
\- the 3GPP network the Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay connects to (either
directly or indirectly),
\- the overall optimization of the power consumption of the UEs involved in
relaying indirect 3GPP communication,
\- battery capabilities and battery lifetime of the Evolved Prose UE-to-
Network relay and the Evolved Prose Remote UE.
NOTE 2: Reselection may be triggered, e.g. by the battery of a UE-to-Network
relay getting depleted, a new relay capable UE getting in range, a remote UEs
requesting additional resources or higher QoS, etc.
NOTE 3: Other criteria can play a role in selection of an Evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay.
[PR 5.1.6-5] The 5G system shall support the relaying of UE traffic through
multi-hop relay UEs in a manner that minimizes the impact of the relaying on
system performance.
Editor's Note: System performance includes relays usage of resources, battery
consumption, etc. and is FFS.
[PR 5.1.6-5a] The 5G system shall support a mechanism for the (re)selection of
a multi-hop relay UE at Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay based on network
operator's authorization for maximum allowable number of hops for relaying
traffic for other UEs.
[Permission and authorization]{.underline}
[PR 5.1.6-6] The 5G system shall enable the network operator to authorize UEs
to be a Remote UE by using multi-hop relay UEs, e.g. for relaying traffic
within a configured maximum allowable number of hops. The authorization may
allow relay by only UEs belonging to the same network operator, belonging to
the same application layer group or may also allow relay by UEs belonging to
other network operators
[PR 5.1.6-7] The 5G system shall enable the network operator to authorize UEs
to relay traffic as multi-hop relay UEs to / from other UEs with the following
authorization:
\- whether or not allow relaying only for UEs belonging to the same network
operator, belonging to the same application layer group or allow relaying for
UEs belonging to other network operators,
\- maximum allowable number of hops for relaying traffics for other UEs.
[PR 5.1.6-8] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to verify that UE consent
to be used as a multi-hop relay UE has been obtained prior to its being used
as a multi-hop relay UE. This consent may be obtained a priori.
[Provisioning of remote UEs]{.underline}
[PR 5.1.6-9] The 5G system shall support the provisioning UE configuration of
remote UEs via an indirect network connection using multi-hop relay UEs.
[Service]{.underline}
[PR 5.1.6-10] The 5G system shall maintain service continuity when the remote
UE moves from a direct network connection to an indirect network connection
using multi-hop relay UEs and vice-versa.
[PR 5.1.6-11] The 5G system shall maintain service continuity for a remote UE
when the communication path to the network changes (e.g. change of one or more
of the multi-hop relay UEs, change of the gNB).
## 5.2 Container Use case
### 5.2.1 Description
There is no anymore one company in the world that does everything in- house:
everyone outsources, offshores, and is a contractor and a subcontractor at the
same time. Everybody is integrated in one or many different supply chains,
being a local cluster or complex worldwide process.
And it's the container that keeps the supply chain and the world trade moving
on.
Improving container tracking and supply-chain management is a top priority.
Technological innovation is seen as the crucial part of supply-chain
management and container tracking by 93% of the executives of this business to
increase efficiency, lower costs and improve effectiveness. It is therefore
critical for the industry to have a total visibility on the cargo for the
whole trip and identify what happen, when and where. This could also trigger
contingency plan if necessary.
There are different sizes for containers but most of the containers have
standardized sizes allowing them to be carried by boat, trucks or railway:
\- either 20 feet (6,058 m) or 40 feet (12,192 m) long
\- 8′ (2,438 m) wide
\- 8'6" (2,591 m) tall
Most of the containers are closed and "dry freight" containers made from
either aluminium or high-grade, non-corrosive and rust-resistant steel. These
types of containers present doors on both ends and are mainly used for dry
goods.
Beside there are also other types such as open top, refrigerated or reefer
(with a power generator - used for shipment of perishable goods like fruits
and vegetables), garmentainer (for clothes), tanks, half height (used
especially for goods like coal, stones...), car carriers...
The whole duration of life of a container is generally between 10 and 15 years
(12 years in average).
The container tracking is an essential part of the supply chain and logistics
to make them more efficient. By monitoring and tracking seamlessly the
container in near real-time, it allows to provide all the supply chain players
and stakeholders a full traceability and to optimize the transport and the
storage of containerized goods.
Any event related to a container is quickly notified and is allowing efficient
analytics as well as taking related decision such as new sourcing plans if
needed.
This use case describes a typical example of containers embarked in a ship and
how future 5G System can help support the tracking of these containers in an
efficient energy-saving approach.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
Each container is equipped with a battery-powered IoT type UE including a 5G
communication module and embedding a certain number of sensors able to monitor
the internal environment of the container (accelerometer, temperature,
humidity) as well as to detect critical events (physical shocks, door
opening). Depending on its content and its purpose (nature of the goods
transported), the container may as well have dedicated sensors (remote from
the UE) such as gas detector, inside temperature (reefer).... The 5G
communication module can support terrestrial and satellite access networks.
The battery-powered IoT UE should be able to operate for the entire lifetime
of the tracked container (12 years) without large capacity battery packs and
without being replaced during this period of time.
Depending on the service level required by the owner of the container and the
supply chain associated, the container sends regular status update (could very
between one message every hour to one message per day). The status update can
be based on event (arrival on port for example). Additionally, based on non-
desired events such as shocks or door opening, the container can send an alarm
to inform of the event.
A ship can be equipped with a gateway including a 5G communication module that
can communicate to satellite access networks when offshore and travelling on
the sea or to terrestrial and satellite access networks when on shore.
A container port or container terminal can as well be equipped with gateways
including each a 5G communications module to manage the connectivity with all
containers.
The size of the data payload containing the status information related to a
container can be up to 2500 Bytes (example: a record of 26 bytes generated
each 15 minutes and 1 connection per day). This size depends as well as the
service level required by the owner of the container and the type of container
and the carried goods (reefer with perishable goods for example are providing
more data based on various additional sensors than a container with simple
objects).
The 5G system is interfaced to an application server (e.g. Container Tracking
Management System). At the beginning of each travel, a travel plan is set up
for each container (though the UE) by the Container Tracking Management System
depending on the level of service required by the customers of the Container
Tracking Management System. The travel plan combined with the environment of
the container will allow the container UE to be able to take some decisions
such as positioning trigger, alerts/alarms set up, geofencing, key dates...
The payload size and the periodicity by the application are defined according
to the context expected.
### 5.2.3 Service Flows
13.000 Containers are on a ship and later on on the dock of the container
terminal. In each container, the UE collects the data from both embedded
sensors and remote sensors and aggregates it in packets to be forwarded.
On a cargo vessel, one of the main challenges is that the containers are
stocked together in large populations concentrated in limited spaces in very
high density and arranged in stacks and about half of the containers are
stowed under-deck where the space available for the propagation of the signals
is significantly reduced. In addition, during the navigation the ship hold is
isolated by a steel hatch cover which strongly limits the propagation of
signals inwards and outwards. Moreover, harsh weather conditions can also
degrade the performances of radio communications. Therefore, the communication
is reduced and not all containers are able to communicate with the cellular
network. Overall, the position of a container will vary from travel to travel.
In one travel it will be in bad condition to be able to communicate while the
next travel it could be in a better situation.
Furthermore, when the ship arrives to port, these containers plus the one
already in the port will compete for the same radio frequencies creating a
non-desirable temporary overload. Therefore, it is more appropriate to adopt
efficient strategies to manage and distribute the traffic load in this
context.
To avoid this situation and to be able to communicate their data, the UE of
the containers which cannot connect directly to the network are identifying
and using others containers' UE which are better situated as relays thought
with single hop or multi-hops to communicate their data depending on their
battery usage.
An UE can be identified by several UEs as being able to communicate with the
WAN (terrestrial or satellite) and to ultimately route their data. This chain
of relays and group of UEs is forming a dynamic and temporary "virtual
cluster" where the UE in charge of relaying the data of the other UEs becomes
the head of this cluster. In an area with many containers, several virtual
clusters can be formed and only the head of the cluster is communicating with
the WAN as illustrated by Figure 5.2.3-1 and Figure 5.2.3-3. All UEs are able
to be used as relay. UEs can "join" this virtual cluster as long as they are
given permission. They can also "leave" the cluster when selecting another UE
to route their data.
{width="6.758333333333334in" height="2.214583333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.3-1: Communication clusters between containers
In a typical case and as average, a chain of relays is likely to be formed of
2 to 3 hops but in case of very dense area of containers stacked combined with
very harsh environment, a chain of 9 hops is foreseen as to be the upper
maximum to be supported.
To be able to identify the UE relaying the data and to create these virtual
clusters, all UE needs to be able to listen the other UEs in a very low power
mode. To be viable, the listening mode should not exceed more than 1% per year
of the initial battery capacity of the UE. Typically for a 3,6 V battery with
a nominal capacity of 12 Ah, it will represent less than 50 µJ / second. This
should be considered as the maximum usage to be able to have business model
viable for the industry.
The UE in charge of the virtual cluster aggregates all data from its members
and sends it.
By doing such a scheme, the battery of each UE is optimized at maximum.
In the case of a gateway is present (either on a ship or in shore in the
port/terminal), the gateway is in charge of the cluster and is the ultimate
relay to the 5G WAN access network as illustrated by Figure 5.2.3-2.
A cluster formed only by UEs shall be limited in term of capacity to remain
efficient. It is foreseen that such cluster should be formed of maximum 4.000
UEs while a cluster managed by a gateway shall be able to support as much as
50.000 UEs.
{width="4.383333333333334in" height="2.645138888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.3-2: Communications between containers in a ship
All the communications need to be secured and only UE of containers that are
allowed to communicate between them and gateways recognised can be used in a
cluster and as relay.
{width="6.75625in" height="4.477777777777778in"}
Figure 5.2.3-3: Different communication clusters of containers in a container
terminal
### 5.2.4 Post-conditions
All containers have provided their data, with minimal impacts on their battery
and they are ready for their next travel(s). The containers that have been
used as relays during the trip have statistically the same opportunity to be
user of relay during the next trip. Overall, statistically each container is
unlikely to be used always as relay for several consecutive trips.
### 5.2.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Editor's Note: The existing features that are not related to the relay feature
to support this use case can be found in the TR 22.836 (Study on Asset
Tracking Use Cases).
### 5.2.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.2.6-1] The 5G system shall support that a remote UE may be used as
multi-hop relay UE by another remote UE.
[PR 5.2.6-2] The 5G system shall support that a multi-hop relay UE of the 5G
system can be used as relay by several UEs at the same time.
[PR 5.2.6-3] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to dynamically select or
reselect the multi-hop relay UEs which will be used to relay the indirect 3GPP
communication.
NOTE: For some IoT use cases, the remote UE may be responsible of the
selection.
The KPIs attached to this use case are listed in traffic Scenario in section
6.
## 5.3 Wagon Use case
### 5.3.1 Description
Wagon tracking and real time wagon fleet monitoring are essential part in the
supply chain management. It contributes to optimize the fleet and maximizing
the wagons and rolling stock use by reducing immobilization time and empty
backhauling as well as providing better response to delays and stock shortage.
It allows as well to design preventive and curative maintenance by measuring
for example the full and empty kilometres or detecting shocks.
A freight train is **comprised of one or several locomotives and several
freight or goods wagons**. The freight wagons can be of different variety of
wagon types depending of types of goods transported such as open wagons,
covered wagons, refrigerated vans, spine cars to carry intermodal containers,
tank wagons, special purposes wagons (to carry coal, mineral or sand for
example), ...
These wagons need to be in a specific order to compose the train for example
to avoid to put empties or light loads at the head end and heavy loads on the
rear end but also based on different railway operator rules.
Most of the freight trains are running an average speed of 50 to 80 km/h
depending on the curves of the tracks, the hills, the cargo and the length of
train and usually are not going over a speed of 100 km/h (dependency on the
country regulations).
A typical freight train have a length of 700 m to 1 km and are composed with
between 50 to 120 freight wagons of 40 feet and some of the wagons can be
double stacked. Some freight trains have even reached the length of 7 km and
were composed of 600 wagons and 8 locomotives.
Each wagon need to be monitored and tracked by its owners as well as by the
freight railway operator managing the train.
The whole duration of life of a freight wagon varies from 20 years to 30/40
years and even 50 years depending on the type of wagon (and there is no power
supply in the freight wagons contrary to passengers' wagons).
This use case describes a typical example of wagons attached together and how
future 5G System can help support the tracking of these wagons in an efficient
energy-saving approach.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
Each wagon to be tracked is equipped with a battery-powered IoT type UE
including a 5G communication module. Depending on its content and its purpose
(nature of the goods transported), the wagon is including different sensors
and is able to detect critical events (physical shocks, vibrations,
temperature, dislocation...) as illustrated in figure 4.
{width="3.5548611111111112in" height="2.522222222222222in"}
Figure 5.3.2-1: Different sensors managed in a wagon
The battery-powered UE should be able to operate for a period of 20 years
without large capacity battery packs and without being replaced during this
period of time.
Depending on the service level required by the owner of the goods and the
supply chain associated, the wagon sends regular status update (could vary
between one every hour to twice a day -- periodicity could even be set up to
10 min). The status update can be based on event (arrival on station for
example). Additionally, based on non desired events such as shocks, the wagon
can send an alarm to inform of the event. The conductor of the locomotive may
need to be informed of such event to trigger right answer.
A locomotive can be equipped with a gateway including a 5G communications
module that can communicate to satellite access networks.
The size of the data payload containing the status information related to a
wagon can be up to 2500 Bytes. This size depends as well as the service level
required by the carried goods (refrigerated vans with perishable goods for
example are providing more data based on various additional sensors than a
wagon for mineral transportation).
The 5G system is interfaced to an application server (e.g. Wagons Tracking
Management System). The payload size and the periodicity by the application
are defined according to the context expected.
### 5.3.3 Service Flows
A freight train is composed of 19 freight wagons of different varieties and
usages. Each wagon has been tracked individually to be placed in a certain
order in order to compose the train. Not all wagons may be equipped with an UE
(i.e. black rectangles below).
One of the main challenges is to communicate the information to the conductor
as well with the WAN network on such a length and as the UE attached to the
wagon can be in different places depending on the type of wagons. This needs
to be done while still optimising the battery level of the UE attached to
wagon as well as the fact that part of the train and some of the wagons can be
in a tunnel where the propagation of the signal is limited. Another challenge
is to communicate the information in a relative short time to allow the
conductor as well as the train operator to react appropriately: 15 seconds
maximum from the time there is an event detected and the event is communicated
to the locomotive.
At the constitution of the train, the conductor of the train triggers through
the gateway in the locomotive the establishment of a dedicated chain of relays
between all wagons of the train that are equipped with an UE to route the data
as illustrated by Figure 5.3.3-1.
{width="6.740972222222222in" height="0.6152777777777778in"}
Figure 5.3.3-1: Constitution of a virtual dedicated chain of relays initiated
by the locomotive gateway
This chain of relays is always managed by the gateway of the locomotive and
will be valid for the whole duration of the travel until the train arrives its
destination and the wagons are decoupled from the train. The virtual dedicated
chain of relays is restricted only to the wagons composing the train.
Once this virtual dedicated chain of relays is established, the train can
start its journey. The chain of relays allows different routing possible
between UEs in case of failure of one of the relays.
The wagon UEs are using other UEs as relay in single hop or multi hops to
communicate with the locomotive or with the WAN network in order to optimize
their battery as illustrated by Figure 5.3.3-2.
The wagons are sending their status message to 5G communication module of the
locomotive acting as a gateway which is aggregating the messages to be sent to
the wagon Tracking Management System. The UE very distant from the train
engine are using other UEs as relay in multi hops to communicate with the 5G
communication module of the train engine. To be able to use the locomotive
gateway, 50% of the wagons composing the train need to be equipped with the 5G
communication module to be able to relay all messages. When the wagons are
isolated, the 5G communication module allows them to communicate directly with
the application server.
{width="6.756944444444445in" height="1.8916666666666666in"}
Figure 5.3.3-2: Communication between wagons and locomotive
All the communications need to be secured and only wagons that are part of the
train composed are allowed to communicate between them and with the gateway of
the locomotive.
### 5.3.4 Post-conditions
All wagons have provided their data, with minimal impacts on their battery and
they are ready for their next travel(s). Once a travel is finished, the
virtual dedicated set of multi-hop relay UEs is disabled and the wagons are
detached and decoupled from the train and can be tracked separately.
### 5.3.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
Editor's Note: The existing features that are not related to the relay feature
to support this use case can be found in the TR 22.836 (Study on Asset
Tracking Use Cases).
The 5G system shall support an IoT device acting as a relay for another IoT
device.
### 5.3.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
## 5.4 Enhancing indoor coverage for the fire brigade
### 5.4.1 Description
The Public Safety organizations of the Upperlands have recently migrated from
their private TETRA network to the use of 3GPP Mission Critical voice, data
and video services based on the 5G network from the local operator RPU. The
availability, capacity and coverage of the RPU network has been carefully
designed to meet the requirements of the Public Safety organizations of the
Upperlands.
The Police, the ambulance service and fire brigade use the on-network Mission
Critical Services for most of their operations. Specific teams are also
equipped with special equipment to be used in areas where on-network coverage
may not be available. One of these teams is the smoke-diver team of the fire
brigade of Threemountains.
The fire brigade of Threemountains has been alarmed by the automatic fire
alarm system of the hospital of Threemountains. The alarm indicates that a
fire has started in the kitchen, which is in the cellar of the west wing of
the building. Based on the possible consequences of fire in the hospital, the
local fire brigade sends four teams to the fire. On the way to the hospital
the team members study the maps and fire attack plans of the hospital.
When the fire brigade arrives at the hospital, the fire chief is approached by
a cook telling him that one of his colleagues, Marius, is still in the
building and may be trapped in the storage room behind the kitchen.
The commander of the smoke dive team prepares the rescue of Marius the cook.
The other three teams start extinguishing the fire.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The members of the smoke diver team of the Threemountains fire brigade are
equipped with tools, cameras and sensors enabling them to search and rescue
persons that are trapped in burning buildings.
The members of the smoke diver team have UEs integrated into their helmets
that provide them with MCPTT and MCVideo contact to their commander and to
their fellow smoke divers. The protective clothing of the smoke divers is
provided with integrated sensors to monitor their health. These sensors can be
monitored remotely via MCData services. The signal quality of the UE from and
towards the 5G network is indicated on a display in the helmets.
To enhance the service inside buildings each member of the smoke diver team is
equipped with a set of small, self-powered, portable multi-hop relay UEs with
integrated positioning module.
### 5.4.3 Service Flows
Firefighters Jan and Kees who are members of the smoke diver team, enter the
hospital from the back entrance. Before going down the stairs Jan places a
multi-hop relay UE and they continue on their way towards the storage room.
When the indicator in his helmet indicates that the signal quality is going
down, fire fighter Kees places another multi-hop relay UE. When they are close
to the storage room, Jan identifies that the door is blocked. Based on the
MCVideo stream the commander of the smoke dive team decides to send in another
smoke diver team with dedicated tools to help unblock the door.
Figure 5.4.3-1: Indoor coverage via two multi-hop relays
### 5.4.4 Post-conditions
Smoke divers Jan and Kees and their colleagues are able to enter the storage
room, locate Marius the cook, who is found unconscious and rescue him. During
the entire rescue operation, the commander of the smoke dive team is able to
monitor progress and health of his personnel.
After the fire has been extinguished Jan and Kees collect the multi-hop relay
UEs from the building. Because of the integrated positioning module, the
multi-hop relay UEs can be easily located.
On the way to the hospital Marius the cook awakes. After a thorough medical
check he is found ready to leave the hospital.
### 5.4.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
MCPTT, MCVideo, MCData, HYPOS
### 5.4.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
[PR 5.4.6-1] The 5G system shall support the relaying of MCPTT, MCVideo and
MCData services between remote UEs and network using multi-hop relay UEs.
[PR 5.4.6-2] The maximum operating range of a UE-to-Network Relay UE in an
indoor scenario with unobstructed view shall exceed 50 meters.
[PR 5.4.6-3] The 5G system shall enable the end user to determine when a
remote UE is losing signal of UE-to-Network Relay UE.
NOTE: e.g. allows the user to decide when to deploy additional multi-hop relay
UEs to maintain a reliable communication path.
[PR 5.4.6-4] The 5G system shall allow co-existence of multiple usages of 3GPP
Indirect Communication in the same area.
[PR 5.4.6-5] The 5G system shall provide mechanisms to automatically consider
alternatives for a communication path via UE-to-Network Relays under changing
conditions due to mobility or addition, removal or movement of multi-hop relay
UEs.
[PR 5.4.6-6] The 5G system shall support service continuity when a remote UE
moves into an area within coverage of a different multi-hop relay UE in the
same deployment of multi-hop relay UEs.
[PR 5.4.6-7] The 5G system shall support service continuity when a remote UE
moves into an area within coverage of a different deployment of multi-hop
relay UEs than the original.
## 5.5 Use case for elderly healthcare
### 5.5.1 Description
Future healthcare will increasingly use on-body sensors, combined with real-
time analytics and actions & treatments based on data. This use case focuses
on the use of wireless, unobtrusive on-body sensors in the context of elderly
healthcare. Such sensors can be worn e.g. on the wrist, head or chest and
could come in various form factors (bracelet, patch, band, ...) Actuators may
also be supported, e.g. medicine administering devices, pumps, or muscle
stimulators. These sensors/actuators are typically limited in the amount of RF
power they can radiate. This can be caused by e.g. small form factor batteries
that have low peak current, or health/safety related limitations. Requirements
like low-power operation, no-wires and reliability (through communication path
redundancy) may favour a solution that uses multi-hop communication.
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
In the use case story, a patient, Sam, is living in an assisted living
/nursing facility. He is still recovering from a recent medical condition. For
this reason his activity, location and body-signals are closely monitored. The
processing of the sensor data is done in the (mobile edge) cloud. The outcome
of the processing (e.g. an alert that a patient health has deteriorated or a
patient has fainted) is sent to a central patient monitoring station in the
nursing facility. The nursing facility is located in a multi-storey building
with quite thick walls and various metal structures, and hence in several
parts of the building, cellular coverage is insufficient to ensure reliable
communication.
In order to ensure good coverage, all the mobile devices carried by the
nursing staff as provided and under control of the nursing home's IT
department are authorized and enabled to act as a multi-hop relay. Also, the
sensors and actuator devices to be worn by Sam are authorized and enabled by
the nursing home's IT department to act as a multi-hop relay.
### 5.5.3 Service Flows
{width="6.206944444444445in" height="3.65625in"}
Figure 5.5.3-1: Illustration of service flow for elderly healthcare use case
1\. Sam is asked to wear 3 devices, one to measure his heart rate and
respiratory rate, one to measure his SpO2 and a medicine administration
device. Since the devices are in close proximity to each other, they will
become part of a single group of which only one acts as the relay device for
communicating with the 5G network, in order to increase the battery life over
the group.
2\. The wearable device that acts as the relay device for the group uses low
power transmission to reach a mobile device of one of the nursing staff
members that acts as relay towards the 5G network. While Sam moves around to
other locations in the elderly home, always the best relay node/path is
selected automatically.
3\. After a few days, Sam's condition is deteriorating. He faints. Luckily,
the sensors are able to send their data/alarm information in very short amount
of time through a communication path via multi-hop relay to the (mobile edge)
cloud, and via the (mobile edge) cloud to the central patient monitoring
system. An alarm indicating that Sam has fainted is shown on the central
patient monitoring system screen(s) and a message that Sam is in trouble is
sent to all the mobile devices carried by the nursing staff, which quickly
come to aid Sam. They can easily locate Sam, since even though Sam's devices
were using multi-hop relay communication, the location of the UE can still be
accurately determined (preferably with room level/floor level accuracy, if
possible).
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
Sam's condition is monitored 24/7. The data quality, real-time performance and
reliability provided by the 5G multi-hop technology are good enough for the
nursing staff and the patient to fully trust the solution. The wearable
devices can be used for a long time on a single battery charge, because due to
the short range connections to a nearby relay device the transmit power and
number of retries can be minimized.
### 5.5.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The 3GPP ProSe functions and requirements partly cover the required
functionality:
\- Relay of data bi-directionally or uni-directionally over a single hop via a
ProSe Relay UE
\- Discovery of nearby relay UEs
\- Secure mechanism to protect relayed data from being intercepted by a relay
UE
\- General integrity protection requirements for 3GPP communication.
### 5.5.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Next to the requirements mentioned in the other use cases in this document,
the following potentially new requirements are needed to support the use case:
[PR 5.5.6-1] The 5G system shall provide a suitable API by which an authorized
3rd party shall be able to authorize and enable UEs under control of the 3^rd^
party to act as a UE-to-Network relay or remote UE, including operating as an
application layer group.
[PR 5.5.6-3] The 5G system shall be able to restrict the selection of UE-to-
Network relays for an indirect network connection to devices that are served
by the same (private) slice that the remote UE operates in.
For positioning of an out of coverage remote UE, we refer to related
requirements in TR 22.832 and TS 22.104.
## 5.6 Use case for connected ambulance
### 5.6.1 Description
Future emergency healthcare will increasingly use wireless sensors, probes and
actuators to monitor a patient's condition throughout the different phases of
care: on the location of the incident, during transport in an ambulance or
helicopter, during transport in the hospital, and at a treatment location in
the hospital. Such technology enables central collection of patient data,
which helps to provide optimal treatment by the different caregivers involved.
This use case focuses on wireless, easy-to-apply on-body sensors and the use
of ultrasound in the context of emergency healthcare. Requirements such as
low-power operation, real-time operation, no-wires-needed and reliability
(through communication path redundancy) are important here.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
In the use case story an accident occurred and multiple injured people need
medical help. Julia is one of these people and she needs to be taken to the
hospital by ambulance.
The ambulance is connected to the 5G network as a UE and is authorized to
support multi-hop relaying. The ambulance is further equipped with multiple 5G
enabled medical devices, including cable-free sensors/actuators, data storage
equipment, medical monitors, and a portable ultrasound device that can be
deployed on the site of an incident. These devices report & deliver data both
locally (e.g. to the monitors and storage system in the ambulance) and also to
the hospital IT systems over 5G infrastructure.
The paramedics carry work phones, which are rugged UEs specifically
preconfigured to act as relay when needed.
Some sensors/actuators are limited in the amount of RF power they can radiate.
This can be caused by e.g. small form factor batteries that have low peak
current, or health/safety related limitations. For these devices, using
another device as relay may be a necessity.
### 5.6.3 Service Flows
{width="7.021527777777778in" height="3.4944444444444445in"}
Figure 5.6.3-1: Illustration of service flow for connected ambulance use case
1\. After an accident in a public building, several people got injured,
including Julia. When the first ambulance arrives, paramedics are directed
into the building, towards Julia who needs care most urgently. Julia is lying
deep inside the building, at a location where cellular coverage is
insufficient to communicate with a nearby base station.
2\. The paramedics stabilize Julia and attach sensors to monitor her vital
signs. The sensors activate and discover the paramedic phone/UE as a nearby
relay. The paramedic's phone uses the ambulance 5G UE as default relay, to
guarantee the best connection to all services including voice communication
and data collection servers in the hospital. If needed, the paramedic's phone
can also relay the communication via the phone of other first responders as
additional intermediate relay device if the ambulance would not be reachable
or if the quality/reliability of the connection is getting too low.
3\. Whilst Julia is being treated, the paramedic uses the voice communication
connection that has been set up between the paramedic's phone and the hospital
via the ambulance's 5G UE, in order to talk with a medical expert in the
hospital. The medical expert proposes to perform an ultrasound. The paramedic
takes the portable ultrasound device and initiate a connection it to the
hospital by using the paramedic's phone and the ambulance as relay. However,
the resources that are requested by the ultrasound device for real-time
streaming to the hospital are not available.
4\. Instead, with the voice assistance from the medical expert, the paramedic
is able to record a short clip of the ultrasound scan, which is sent non real-
time to the hospital. The expert analyses the ultrasound scan and sees that
Julia can be moved, and should be transported right away to the hospital. In
addition to sending the data to the hospital, the ultrasound device and the
sensors report a copy of their data directly to the local storage for
archiving and for use by the medical monitors inside the ambulance.
5\. The paramedics carry Julia to the ambulance. Once in the ambulance, the
sensors attached to Julia switch to the ambulance as their default relay. Even
when the ambulance loses its 5G connection when in a tunnel, the local
functions still work real-time and seamlessly.
6\. During the drive to the hospital, the data collected from Julia is used by
medical staff to plan her treatment and prepare staff & resources needed.
7\. When Julia is transported out of the ambulance and into the hospital, the
sensors remain active and used. They automatically switch to another relay UE
e.g. units in the hospital's infrastructure.
8\. Julia is treated in the hospital. The data stored throughout the accident
emergency response is used to decide on the optimal next steps in her
treatment. At some point in time the sensors are returned to the ambulance to
use for a next emergency.
### 5.6.4 Post-conditions
1\. Julia is monitored in real-time by the 5G sensors during the different
phases of the incident. The data generated by these sensors helps medical
staff to come to the right diagnosis and take the right action to help Julia,
including preparation at the hospital and use of the data in a follow-up
treatment.
2\. No data collected during the incident and Julia' transport is lost, even
though connectivity between sensors and hospital may be lost during some brief
periods.
### 5.6.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The 3GPP ProSe functions and requirements partly cover the required
functionality:
\- Relay of data bi-directionally or uni-directionally over a single hop via a
ProSe Relay UE
\- Discovery of nearby relay UEs
\- D2D communication for Public Safety
### 5.6.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Next to the requirements mentioned in the other use cases in this document the
following potentially new requirements are needed to support the use case:
[PR 5.6.6-1] The 5G system shall support a mechanism to inform a UE about
whether or not an indirect network connection using multiple UE-to-Network
relays can provide sufficient QoS.
Editor's note: FFS when the QoS information will be provided.
## 5.7 Use case for rural areas connected healthcare
### 5.7.1 Description
Despite the ubiquity of cellular communications, there will always be areas in
the world where the cellular (5G) coverage is limited or absent. These are
also the areas where typically the access to doctors, healthcare and hospitals
is very limited. Still, it would be beneficial if people living in these areas
can make use of modern connected healthcare solutions. Also in regions with
sparse medical facilities or lack of qualified medical staff, the approach of
"remote healthcare" could be beneficial.
This use case focuses on remote patient monitoring in rural areas with limited
cellular coverage. In this use case, Ava is living in a remote rural village,
but some of her body functions need to be monitored remotely by hospital staff
due to her medical condition. The remainder of her treatment is done remotely
and she can stay at home in her own village most of the time. She can't travel
to the hospital often due to the long travel time. Ava is not in a critical
condition, so real-time monitoring is not needed. Even if the data arrives at
the hospital with a latency of several hours occasionally, this is not a
problem. Hospital staff (aided by their automated systems) monitor the
condition of Ava and how she progresses during her remote treatment.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
The village has several inhabitants owning 5G phones, but the coverage in the
village is very limited (white spots). At Ava's home, there is no coverage
currently.
### 5.7.3 Service Flows
{width="5.305555555555555in" height="4.361805555555556in"}
Figure 5.7.3-1: Illustration of service flow for connected ambulance use case
1\. When Ava is at home, the on-body sensors collect data locally and once in
a while report the data to the hospital. The sensors use Ava's 5G phone as a
first relay. Ava's phone in turn uses the 5G phone of another village
inhabitant as a relay, which can reach a 5G base station. All the phones
within the village can act both as relay UE as well as remote UE. To increase
the chance of reporting the data to the hospital, the data is sent
simultaneously via multiple relay paths.
NOTE: If the 5G network is down or no villager's phone is available within
vicinity to act as a relay during some period, the sensors postpone the data
reporting to a later time.
2\. At one point in time, Ava becomes ill and needs to stay at home. During
this time, the hospital staff also wants a more real-time, up to date view on
her sensor data. Therefore, a decision is made to move the public services UAV
to a suitable location near Ava's house so it can act as a relay UE for a
couple of days. Also, Ava's sensors are remotely configured to provide data to
the hospital more often.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
After Ava's illness, the UAV is moved back to its solar charging location.
Thanks to the personalized remote treatment and revalidation process, Ava
eventually makes a full recovery. All sensor data is collected by the
hospital, no data is lost despite the intermittent connectivity in the
village.
### 5.7.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
The 3GPP ProSe functions and requirements partly cover the required
functionality:
\- Relay of data bi-directionally or uni-directionally over a single hop via a
ProSe Relay UE
\- Discovery of nearby relay UEs
### 5.7.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
All potentially new requirements to support this use case are covered by the
other use cases in this document.
## 5.8 Micro-environment services
### 5.8.1 Description
Environmental data information services have become an integral part of
people\'s life. Market analysis report points out that 85% parents of
0\~3-year-old infants pay more attention to changes of environmental quality,
where 60% parents choose to travel according to the external environment.
However, existing Internet weather applications have great limitations in
real-time, effectiveness, and proximity. Urban micro-environmental services
refer to real-time monitoring and feedback on various environmental indicators
in the living environment of residents. Urban micro-environment monitoring can
provide residents with comfort in daily living and traveling, and it is also a
basic work for environmental protection.
Smart terminals (UEs of IoE) in the community integrate a number of
environment sensors such as ambient light, air quality, ultraviolet intensity,
noise intensity, temperature and humidity. By using multi-hop links to monitor
environment quality within 50 meters in real-time, it perfectly solves the
limitations of traditional environment monitoring. It also improves capacity
of the cell by UE to UE proximity traffics, with enhanced resource and energy
efficiency.
### 5.8.2 Pre-conditions
Co-located smart IoE terminals shares the environmental data (e.g., air
pollution, ambient light, noise, ultraviolet, temperature and humidity), and
street sight images. Local data aggregation is processed to determine
environmental events such as pollution area, etc. The aggregated data includes
for example an accurate pollution map being updated in real-time, in terms of
both pollution intensity and change of location. By the distributed
computation in network, the aggregated data is also: 1) broadcasted to
neighbourhood consumer UEs, including smart phones and wearable devices to
provide warning, tracking and prediction; 2) delivered to dedicated
infrastructure controllers such as street lighting controller, etc.; 3)
streamed to environment data centre for record and potential policy of
actions. The data is also synchronized in the virtual scene to provide real-
time and interactive visualization.
Three categories of smart IoE terminals are under the above traffic pattern,
with a network density higher than [0.2] node per square meter, and continuous
proximity coverage of over [1] sq. km.
\- Category I: smart IoE terminals with no access to power grid or external
supply, having battery life of larger than 10 years, with an average data
transmission rate of [12] messages/packets per minute, i.e., all other data
expect for image and video.
\- Category II: smart IoE terminals with reduced power supply, having battery
life of at least 30 days with battery rechargeable by solar panel in one day.
It shall be able to support a minimal user experience (e.g., user experienced
data rate of [1] Mbps, E2E latency of [100] ms, lower availability of the
network of [99%] in packet delivery ratio), i.e., all other data expect for
video.
\- Category III: smart IoE terminals with reliable power supply, e.g., having
access to power grid. It shall be able to support high performance computing
and communications, e.g., with average user experience data rate of over [50]
Mbps (for supporting 360 high-definition video), and peak data rate of over
[500] Mbps (for supporting AR/VR applications), E2E latency of [10] ms and
reliability of [99.99%] in packet delivery ratio.
The pre-conditions further include:
\- Monitoring of air pollution sources in the community
\- Ambient light reaches certain threshold
\- Noise level reaches certain threshold
\- Ultraviolet intensity reaches certain threshold
\- Local real-time humidity and temperature data is streamed to data centre
for user visualization
\- Street-sight multimedia is streamed to data centre for user visualization
### 5.8.3 Service Flows
\- Co-located smart terminals shares the air pollution data by multi-hop
broadcast, with a local data aggregation process to determine the accurate
pollution area. The aggregated data includes an accurate pollution map as
updated in real-time in terms of both pollution intensity and change of
location, i.e., blown by the wind. The aggregated data is also: 1) delivered
to neighbourhood consumer UEs by multi-hop multicast, including smart phones
and wearable devices to provide consumers with warning, pollution tracking and
prediction; 2) streamed to environment data centre for record and potential
policy of actions by multi-hop unicast. The data is synchronized in the
virtual scene to provide visualization to the consumers.
{width="4.722916666666666in" height="1.7305555555555556in"}
Figure 5.8.3-1
\- Co-located data of ambient light is shared and aggregated by multi-hop
broadcast, and processed among smart terminals. It triggers the on/off control
and dimming to street lights in the community area by pre-set algorithms and
multi-hop multicast. Such real-time data is also mapped and analysed, i.e.,
any prediction according to the current weather condition and seasonal trend,
in the virtual scene to provide consumers with guidance for outdoor
activities.
{width="2.022222222222222in" height="1.6381944444444445in"}
Figure 5.8.3-2
\- Co-located data of noise and/or ultra-violet intensity level is shared and
aggregated by multi-hop broadcast, and processed among smart terminals. It
gives an accurate map of high-intensity area, as updated in real-time in terms
of both the intensity level and change of location. The aggregated data is
sent by multi-hop multicast, to subscribed consumer UEs in the neighbourhood;
and streamed to environment data centre for record or potential policy of
actions, by multi-hop unicast. The data is also synchronized in the virtual
scene to provide visualization to the consumers.
\- Similarly, real-time humidity and temperature data are also mapped and
analysed, i.e., any prediction according to the current weather condition and
seasonal trend, in the virtual scene to provide consumers with guidance for
outdoor activities.
{width="3.7909722222222224in" height="1.7083333333333333in"}
Figure 5.8.3-3
\- Real-time street sight multimedia, such as images acquired by smart
terminal cameras, are shared and processed, by multi-hop broadcast, among co-
located smart terminals. It generates the virtual scene, to provide consumers
with real-world visualization. The frequency of sight image acquisition can be
adaptively adjusted as depending on the time and other environmental data such
as air quality, ambient light, noise and ultraviolet intensity etc. with pre-
set algorithms.
{width="3.459722222222222in" height="1.5604166666666666in"}
Figure 5.8.3-4
### 5.8.4 Post-conditions
\- Any air pollution area is well tracked and effective warning is issued to
the neighbourhood. Outdoor activity guidance is provided to consumers.
\- Ambient light is well mapped for controlling lighting infrastructure and
outdoor guidance.
\- Any noise or UV pollution area is well tracked and effective warning is
issued. Outdoor activity guidance is provided to consumers.
\- Local variance of humidity and temperature is mapped and outdoor activity
guidance is provided to consumers.
\- Real-time street sight multimedia is provided in the virtual scene for
visualization to consumers, the content updated rate is determined by the
combined micro-environment conditions.
### 5.8.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
### 5.8.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
Editor's Note: Potential new requirements to be defined.
# 6 Traffic Scenarios
## 6.1 Traffic Scenario: inHome
### 6.1.1 Description
Many houses suffer from problems of coverage due to the number of floors and
other obstacles (i.e. walls, doors, columns, furniture). In addition, most
houses have only one entry network point where the 5G-Residential Gateway
(5G-RC) will be installed. According to TR23.716, the 5G-RG is a RG capable of
connecting to 5GC playing the role of a UE with regard to the 5G core.
{width="5.864583333333333in" height="2.6034722222222224in"}
Figure 6.1.1-1 -- InHome Scenario
Recabling a house in order to install more small cells to increase the
coverage will not be an option for most houses. Furthermore, with the use of
millimeter waves there is the danger that the signal is blocked even by people
while moving and alternative connections are needed. Therefore, enhanced
relays will play a key role in achieving extensive coverage in inHome
scenarios while avoiding additional base stations and cables.
### 6.1.2 Assumptions
Let's consider an average house can be around 100m^2^-120m^2^ with 3 floors
Regarding devices and applications within the home we can categorize them in
the following groups:
\- Lighting, Appliances and Climate Control: This is the traditional home
automation and control network.
\- Security Systems: This includes traditional security components, plus video
monitoring and other recent enhancements.
\- Entertainment Systems: Audio, video, and theatre equipment can be located
throughout the home.
\- Communication Systems: Telephone and intercom.
\- Data Systems: Multiple PCs and other data devices, most of which run over
TCP/IP networks
### 6.1.3 Potential Functional Requirements
[PR 6.1.3-1] A 5G system shall support all media types (e.g., voice, data,
multimedia) for a remote UE using multi-hop relay UEs.
[PR 6.1.3-2] The 5G system shall support traffic scenarios typically found in
a home setting (from sensors to video streaming, many devices are used only
occasionally) for a remote UE using a multi-hop relay UEs.
A maximum relay distance of 10 m (indoor) is assumed. This allows to get
through most homes with a maximum of 3 hops (3 consecutive relay UEs, assuming
the first relay UE is communicating with an outdoor base station). Only 2 hops
would be needed in case one or more indoor base station is used.
### 6.1.4 Potential Key Performance Requirements
Table 6.1.4-1 -- Potential key performance requirements for InHome scenario
Scenario | Max. data rate (DL) | Max. data rate (UL) | End-to-end latency | Area traffic capacity (DL) (note 1) | Area traffic capacity (UL) (note 1) | Area user density (note 2) | Area | Range of a single hop | Estimated number of hops  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
InHome Scenario | 1 Gbit/s | 500 Mbit/s | 10 ms | 5 Gbit/s/ home | 2 Gbit/s /home | 50 devices /house | 10mx10m – 3 floors | 10 m indoor | 2 / 3  
NOTE 1: Area traffic capacity is determined by high bandwidth consume devices (e.g. ultra HD TVs, VR headsets, …). NOTE 2: The number of devices have been calculating assuming a family of 4 members. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.2 Traffic Scenario: SmartFactory
### 6.2.1 Description
In indoor industrial scenarios are full of obstacles. Some of them are static
(e.g. walls, panels, ...) other that are always moving (e.g. trolleys,
machinery, workers...). All these obstacles have a strong negative effect in
the coverage within the floor, even more in the case of mmWaves where the line
of side can be blocked.
Enhanced relays will play a key role in achieving extensive coverage in smart
factory scenarios while avoiding additional base stations and cables.
### 6.2.2 Assumptions
The indoor industrial scenario describe here stems from existing production
facilities of discrete manufacturing companies. As there does not exist a
standard unique facility environment a model scenario is presented that
depicts typical sizes, topology, and environmental characteristics.
Typical for indoor industrial scenarios is:
\- The space of 1 -- 5 meters below the building's ceiling is occupied with
metallic large objects (like cranes, cooling, supply-pipes, lighting, etc.).
\- The facilities can be considered to be built of concrete walls and ceiling,
glass windows (if any) are considered to be metal-coated for heat and direct
sunlight protection. Concrete columns are placed each 20-30 meter to support
the ceiling. Additionally, metal walls may be installed to separate
(hazardous) domains from each other and floors may be covered with metallic
chequer plates for slipping prevention.
\- The facility's topology consists of a variety of areas such as:
\- alleys (corridors), where the space up to a height of some 5-8 meters above
ground must stay clear of any fixed mounted object (such as antennas) to give
way for tugger trains, fork lifts, AGV, etc.
\- Objects in the alleys are metallic, moving slowly and of medium size
(typical small to large fork lifts, tugger trains with 2-3 four-wheeled
carriages)
\- Assembly lines, where the space up close to the ceiling is considered
occupied with medium to small metallic objects that have moving parts
(conveyer belts, robots, handlers, chassis, etc).
\- Production Area for discrete manufacturing, where the space up close to the
ceiling is considered occupied with medium to small metallic objects. The area
itself is structure with metallic fences as well as metallic blocking objects
such as shelves, frames, pillars, etc.
\- Warehouse/ storage, where the complete space up close to the ceiling is
occupied with long narrow metallic shelves with gangways between them. Radio
equipment may also not occupy gangways to allow access to the top-level of all
shelves.
\- Commissioning area, an open space for slow moving trains, fork lifts and
AGVs and scarce small stationary metallic objects.
\- Office space, consisting of gypsum plasterboard walls separating the
offices/cubicles, coffee corners and conferencing spaces from the actual
production area.
The below figure depicts such an indoor industrial scenario with a factory
hall topology reflecting a large variety of production plants. This model
resembles a hall of 180 m 80 m with a height of 25 m -- no additional
separating walls are included.
{width="6.746527777777778in" height="3.1194444444444445in"}
Figure 6.2.2-1: Indoor Industrial Scenario
In these kind of factories is common to find massive wireless sensor networks
that aim to monitor the state or behavior of a particular environment (as
describe in TR 22.804 subclause 5.3.8). These sensors might be installed in
place with difficulties in coverage. Power consumption reduction is also
important in these scenarios since sensors are often just equipped with a
battery. Set of sensors connected in a mesh network is one of the topologies
that are used for these type of networks.
{width="3.957638888888889in" height="2.748611111111111in"}
Figure 6.2.2 -2: Sensor devices in a mesh topology realising multi-hop
connectivity to gateway (via edge devices)
Different types of sensors for different use cases will generate different
types of traffic. TR 22.804 subclause 5.3.8 describes the following.
Table 6.2.2-1: Typical monitoring service requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Sce | End-t | Pri | Data | Com | C | Ne | Node | Com | | nario | o-end | ority | U | munic | onnec | twork | de | munic | | | la | | pdate | ation | tions | s | nsity | ation | | | tency | | Time | se | per | calab | | range | | | (note | | | rvice | ga | ility | | per | | | 1) | | | av | teway | | | node | | | | | | ailab | | | | | | | | | | ility | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Cond | 5 ms | Hi | Up to | > | 10 to | > | 0,05 | \ | 10 to | > | 0,05 | \ | 10 to | > | 0,05 | \100 m indoor / deep indoor | 2 - 5  
NOTE 1: Three meters (gas, water, electricity) per house, up to 50 houses per hectare. NOTE 2: 'deep indoor' implies that there may be concrete walls / floors between the devices. NOTE 3: All the values in this table are example values and not strict requirements. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.4 Traffic Scenario: Container
### 6.4.1 Description
The description of the container use case is provided in 5.2.
### 6.4.2 Assumptions
For containers stored in a port or in a ship, it is assumed that most of the
containers will not be able to communicate with the network directly due to
the harsh environment and several hops will be needed to reach efficiently the
containers able to communicate with the network.
In the figure 6.4.2-1, containers A, B, C, D, E, F, G and J cannot use WAN
directly while containers K, I and H are better positioned for WAN
communication and can be used as ultimate relay to the network by the other
containers. Containers C, D, F, G and J can be used as intermediate relay by
A, B & E in multi hops
{width="3.486111111111111in" height="3.5479166666666666in"}
Figure 6.4.2-1: Communication between containers using multi Hop
In a typical case and as average, 2 to 3 hops are likely sufficient to provide
a path to the network while in case of very dense area of containers stacked
combined with very harsh environment, the use of 9 hops is foreseen as to be
the upper maximum to be supported.
It is likely to have several relays able to communicate to the network and
each of these ultimate relays could be used by several UEs which could be
acting as well as intermediate relays. It is foreseen that to be efficient, a
relay should have a capacity of relaying up to 4.000 UEs.
This will likely lead to the following topology.
{width="6.748611111111111in" height="3.5215277777777776in"}
Figure 6.4.2-2: Topology foreseen for container use case
The overall latency between the UE and the network using relay is not critical
for this use case. A relay used for metering should support an operating range
superior to 100 meter.
The largest container ships have a capacity of 22,000 TEU (twenty foot
equivalent unit). As there generally is a mix of 40 ft and 20 ft containers,
the number of containers is lower. We assume here 15,000 containers per ship
(approximately equal numbers of 40 ft and 20 ft containers).
The assumption is that monitoring data is sent every 15 minutes. Every
measurement generates a 100 bytes message and response.
### 6.4.3 Potential New Functional Requirements
The requirements attached to this use case are provided in 5.2.
### 6.4.4 Potential Key Performance Requirements
The KPIs attached to this IoT use case are listed below in Table 6.4.4-1.
Table 6.4.4-1 -- Potential key performance requirements for Containers
scenario
Scenario | Max. data rate (DL) | Max. data rate (UL) | End-to-end latency | Area traffic capacity (DL) | Area traffic capacity (UL) | Area user density | Area | Range of a single hop (note 2) | Estimated number of hops  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Containers (note 1) | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 10 s | 15000 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /ship | 15000 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /ship | 15000 containers /ship | 400m x 60m x 40m | >100 m indoor / outdoor / metallic | 3 - 9  
NOTE 1: A large containership with a mix of 20 ft and 40 ft containers is assumed. NOTE 2: 'Metallic' implies an environment with a lot of metal obstructions (e.g. containers). NOTE 3: All the values in this table are example values and not strict requirements. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.5 Traffic Scenario: Wagon
### 6.5.1 Description
The description of the freight wagon use case is provided in 5.3.
### 6.5.2 Assumptions
A freight train of 120 freight wagons of 40 feet is assumed. This results in a
length of the train of approximately 1,5 km.
The assumption is that monitoring data is sent every 15 minutes. Every
measurement generates a 100 bytes message and response.
It is assumed that latency is not an issue.
Multi-hop communication along the train is assumed. With 10 to 15 hops at >100
meters per hop, the full length of the train can be covered.
### 6.5.3 Potential New Functional Requirements
The requirements attached to this use case are provided in 5.3.
### 6.5.4 Potential Key Performance Requirements
The KPIs attached to this IoT use case are listed below in Table 6.5.4-1.
Table 6.5.4-1 -- Potential key performance requirements for Freight Wagons
scenario
Scenario | Max. data rate (DL) | Max. data rate (UL) | End-to-end latency | Area traffic capacity (DL) | Area traffic capacity (UL) | Area user density | Area | Range of a single hop | Estimated number of hops  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Freight Wagons | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 10 s | 120 x 100 bytes / 15 mins / train | 120 x 100 bytes / 15 mins / train | 120 wagons /train | 1,5 km length | >100 m outdoor / tunnel | 10 - 15  
NOTE1: All the values in this table are example values and not strict requirements. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.6 Traffic Scenario: Wearables
### 6.6.1 Description
Description of the wearables use cases are provided in sections 5.5, 5.6, and
5.7. In those cases, the wearables are body sensors (e.g. heart rate sensors).
However other types of wearables (e.g. smart watches, activity trackers)
should also be possible [2].
### 6.6.2 Assumptions
The assumption here is a mobile phone that is used as a relay UE for
wearables. These wearables are assumed to be within an area of 10 m x 10 m
around the mobile phone (e.g. a room in a building).
For the scenario a maximum of 10 wearables is assumed, each generating 250
kbit/s - 10 Mbit/s depending on the device [2]. Because not all devices will
generate traffic at the same time, the maximum traffic capacity for the 10
devices is also assumed at 10 Mbit/s
Note that in this wearables traffic scenario we are not covering high
throughput devices such as VR / AR glasses. These are considered in e.g. the
in home traffic scenario.
Typically, wearables will connect to a mobile phone that is connected directly
to the mobile network (i.e. one hop). However, the mobile phone itself may
also use another Relay UE to connect to the mobile network. E.g. in case of
the Connected Ambulance in clause 5.6, the a UE in the ambulance is used as a
relay.
### 6.6.3 Potential New Functional Requirements
The functional requirements associated with this traffic scenario are provided
in 5.5, 5.6, and 5.7.
### 6.6.4 Potential Key Performance Requirements
Potential key performance requirements for this traffic scenario are provided
in table 6.6.4-1.
Table 6.6.4-1 -- Potential key performance requirements for Wearables scenario
Scenario | Max. data rate (DL) | Max. data rate (UL) | End-to-end latency | Area traffic capacity (DL) | Area traffic capacity (UL) | Area user density | Area | Range of a single hop | Estimated number of hops  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Wearables (note 1) | 10 Mbit/s | 10 Mbit/s | 10 ms | 20 Mbit/s per 100 m2 | 20 Mbit/s per 100 m2 | 10 wearables per 100 m2 | 10m x 10m | 10 m indoor / outdoor | 1 - 2  
NOTE 1: Communication for wearables is assumed to be relayed via a mobile phone acting as a relay UE. This mobile phone may use a further relay UE to connect to the network. NOTE 2: All the values in this table are example values and not strict requirements. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
## 6.7 Traffic Scenario: Public safety
### 6.7.1 Description
The description of the public safety traffic scenario is provided in 5.4
(enhancing indoor coverage for the fire brigade) and 5.6 (connected
ambulance).
### 6.7.2 Assumptions
An average of 2 to 3 devices per firefighter / police officer is assumed. This
can e.g. be a push-to-talk device, a body camera and a sensor. In the
resulting service mix of MCPTT, MCVideo, and MCData, the MCVideo data will
most likely have the highest data rate requirements. Per MCVideo devices, a
data rate is calculated based on 1080p, 60 fps video. This results in a data
rate of 12 Mbits/s. Total traffic density is the number of MCVideo devices x
data rate x activity factor. An activity factor of 30 % is assumed for uplink
and 15 % for downlink. This leads to 10 devices x 12 Mbit/s x 0,30 is
approximately 40 Mbits/s in uplink and 20 Mbit/s in downlink. Of course also
other service mix for MC services are possible.
A building of 100m x 100m with 3 floors is assumed. In this building 10 fire
fighters are deployed, e.g. with an average of 2,5 devices is 25 devices/per
building.
In order to provide indoor coverage, the fire fighters deploy additional relay
UEs, which they position at strategic places (e.g. in a stairwell). An
indication on the relay UE (e.g. a different colour light or different sound)
indicates whether the relay has a significantly good connection to the network
to act as relay.
Relay distances within a building will depend on the building structure. A
relay distance of >50 m is assumed in a typical indoor office environment with
e.g. furniture, doors, partition walls, et cetera, or in e.g. a stairwell.
However, similar distances are not assumed with deep indoor penetration (e.g.
through concrete floors, walls, et cetera.
Assumption in the scenario is that the 10 fire fighters bring and deploy 5
relay UEs into the building. Note that they can redeploy these relay UEs as
they are moving through different parts of the building. With a >50 m max
relay distance, they should be able to deploy throughout the building.
### 6.7.3 Potential New Functional Requirements
The functional requirements associated with this traffic scenario are provided
in 5.4.
### 6.7.4 Potential Key Performance Requirements
Potential key performance requirements for this traffic scenario are provided
in table 6.7.4-1.
Table 6.7.4-1 -- Potential key performance requirements for Public Safety
scenario
Scenario | Max. data rate (DL) | Max. data rate (UL) | End-to-end latency (note 2) | Area traffic capacity (DL) | Area traffic capacity (UL) | Area user density | Area | Range of a single hop | Estimated number of hops  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Public Safety (note 1) | 12 Mbit/s | 12 Mbit/s | 30 ms | 20 Mbit/s /building | 40 Mbit/s /building | 30 devices /building | 100m x 100m – 3 floors | >50 m indoor (floor or stairwell) | 2 - 4  
> NOTE 1: A mix of MCPTT, MCVideo, and MCData is assumed. Average 3 devices
> per firefighter / police officer, of which 1 video device. Area traffic
> based on 1080p, 60 fps is 12 Mbit/s video, with an activity factor of 30% in
> uplink (30% of video devices transmit simultaneously at high bitrate) and
> 15% in downlink NOTE 2: End-to-end latency implies that all hops are
> included. NOTE 3: All the values in this table are example values and not
> strict requirements.
|  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# 7 Considerations
## 7.1 Considerations on security.
Indirect communication between a Remote UE and a network, involving one or
more Relay UEs shall have the same kind of security protection as a direct
communication between a UE and a network. In particular, this implies that
Relay UEs are not able to eavesdrop on the communication between the Remote UE
and the network.
## 7.2 Considerations on charging.
Charging of communication between a Remote UE and a network, involving one of
more Relay UEs shall at least have the charging features available for a
direct communication between a UE and a network. In particular this implies
that both bearer based charging and message based charging are available.
Charging requirements for indirect communication (3GPP TS 22.115 [3], clause
4.8) also apply for indirect communication with multiple hops.
# 8 Consolidated requirements
## 8.1 Functional new requirements
### 8.1.1 General
[PR 8.1.1-1] The 5G system shall support the relaying of traffic between a
remote UE and a gNB using one or more UE-to-Network Relay UEs.
[PR 8.1.1-2] The 5G system shall support different traffic flows of a remote
UE to be relayed via different Indirect 3GPP Communication paths.
[PR 8.1.1-3] The 5G system shall enable the network operator to define the
maximum number of hops supported when using UE-to-Network Relay UEs.
[PR 8.1.1-4] The 5G system shall be able to provide indication to a remote UE
(alternatively, an authorized user) on the quality of currently available
Indirect 3GPP Communication paths.
[PR 8.1.1-5] The 5G system shall be able to support an indirect network
connection even when the UE is in E-UTRAN or NG-RAN coverage.
### 8.1.2 Relay Selection
[PR 8.1.2-1] The 3GPP system shall support selection and reselection of UE-to-
Network Relay UEs based on a combination of different criteria e.g.,
\- the characteristics of the traffic that is intended to be relayed (e.g.
expected message frequency and required QoS),
\- the subscriptions of UE-to-Network Relay UEs and remote UE,
\- the capabilities/capacity/coverage when using the UE-to-Network Relay UE,
\- the QoS that is achievable by selecting the UE-to-Network Relay
UE[,]{.underline}
\- the power consumption required by UE-to-Network Relay UE and remote
UE[,]{.underline}
\- the pre-paired UE-to-Network Relay UE[,]{.underline}
\- the 3GPP or non-3GPP access the UE-to-Network Relay UE uses to connect to
the network,
\- the 3GPP network the UE-to-Network Relay UE connects to (either directly or
indirectly),
\- the overall optimization of the power consumption/performance of the 3GPP
system, or
\- battery capabilities and battery lifetime of the UE-to-Network Relay UE and
the remote UE.
NOTE 1: Reselection may be triggered by any dynamic change in the selection
criteria, e.g. by the battery of a UE-to-Network Relay UE getting depleted, a
new relay capable UE getting in range, a remote UEs requesting additional
resources or higher QoS, etc.
### 8.1.3 Permission and Authorization
[PR 8.1.3-1] The 5G system shall enable the network operator to authorize a UE
to use Indirect 3GPP Communication. The authorization shall be able to be
restricted to using only UE-to-Network Relay UEs belonging to the same network
operator. The authorization shall be able to be restricted to using only UE-
to-Network Relay UEs belonging to the same application layer group.
[PR 8.1.3-2] The 5G system shall enable the network operator to authorize a UE
to relay traffic as UE-to-Network Relay. The authorization shall be able to be
restricted to relaying only for remote UEs belonging to the same network
operator. The authorization shall be able to be restricted to relaying only
for remote UEs belonging to the same application layer group.
[PR 8.1.3-3] The 5G system shall support a mechanism for an end user to
provide/revoke permission to an authorized UE to act as a UE-to-Network Relay
UE.
[PR 8.1.3-4] The 5G system shall support a mechanism for an authorized third
party to provide/revoke permission to an authorized UE to act as a UE-to-
Network Relay UE.
[PR 8.1.3-5] The 5G system shall provide a suitable API by which an authorized
3rd party shall be able to authorize (multiple) UEs under control of the 3rd
party to act as a UE-to-Network Relay UE or remote UE.
[PR 8.1.3-6] The 5G system shall provide a suitable API by which an authorized
3rd party shall be able to enable/disable (multiple) UEs under control of the
3rd party to act as a UE-to-Network Relay UE or remote UE.
### 8.1.4 Services and Service Continuity
[PR 8.1.4-1] A 5G system shall be able to support all types of traffic e.g.,
voice, data, IoT small data, multimedia, MCX for Indirect 3GPP communication.
[PR 8.1.4-2] The 5G system shall be able to maintain service continuity of
Indirect 3GPP Communication for a remote UE when the communication path to the
network changes (i.e. change of one or more of the UE-to-Network Relay UEs,
change of the gNB).
## 8.2 Functional existing requirements
[PR 8.2-1] The 5G system shall support a UE acting as both a remote UE and as
a UE-to-Network Relay UE at the same time.
[PR 8.2-2] The 5G system shall maintain service continuity when the remote UE
moves from a direct network connection to an Indirect 3GPP communication using
UE-to-Network Relay UEs and vice-versa.
[PR 8.2-3] Indirect communication between a Remote UE and the network,
involving one or more Relay UEs shall have at least the same kind of security
protection as a direct communication between a UE and the network. In
particular, this implies that Relay UEs are not able to eavesdrop on the
communication between the Remote UE and the network.
## 8.3 Performance requirements
Table 8.3-1 provides the consolidated potential key performance requirements
based on the different traffic scenarios in clause 6.
Table 8.3-1: Consolidated Potential Key Performance for UE to network relaying
Scenario | Max. data rate (DL) | Max. data rate (UL) | End-to-end latency (note 7) | Area traffic capacity (DL) | Area traffic capacity (UL) | Area user density | Area | Range of a single hop (note 8) | Estimated number of hops  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
InHome Scenario (note 1) | 1 Gbit/s | 500 Mbit/s | 10 ms | 5 Gbit/s/ home | 2 Gbit/s /home | 50 devices /house | 10mx10m – 3 floors | 10 m indoor | 2 - 3  
Factory Sensors (note 2) | 100 kbit/s | 5 Mbit/s | 50 ms to 1 s | 1 Gbit/s /factory | 50 Gbit/s /factory | 10000 devices /factory | 100m x 100m | 30 m indoor / metallic | 2 - 3  
Smart Metering (note 3) | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 10 s | 200 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /hectare | 200 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /hectare | 200 devices /hectare | 100m x 100m | >100 m indoor / deep indoor | 2 - 5  
Containers (note 4) | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 10 s | 15000 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /ship | 15000 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /ship | 15000 containers /ship | 400m x 60m x 40m | >100 m indoor / outdoor / metallic | 3 - 9  
Freight Wagons | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 100 bytes / 15 mins | 10 s | 200 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /train | 200 x 100 bytes / 15 mins /train | 120 wagons /train | 1 km | >100 m outdoor / tunnel | 10 - 15  
Public Safety (note 5) | 12 Mbit/s | 12 Mbit/s | 30 ms | 20 Mbit/s /building | 40 Mbit/s /building | 30 devices /building | 100m x 100m – 3 floors | >50 m indoor (floor or stairwell) | 2 - 4  
Wearables (note 6) | 10 Mbit/s | 10 Mbit/s | 10 ms | 20 Mbit/s per 100 m2 | 20 Mbit/s per 100 m2 | 10 wearables per 100 m2 | 10m x 10m | 10 m indoor / outdoor | 1 - 2  
NOTE 1: Area traffic capacity is determined by high bandwidth consume devices (e.g. ultra HD TVs, VR headsets), the number of devices has been calculated assuming a family of 4 members. NOTE 2: Highest data rate assumes audio sensors with sampling rate of 192 kHz and 24 bits sample size. NOTE 3: Three meters (gas, water, electricity) per house, medium density of 50 - 70 houses per hectare. NOTE 4: A large containership with a mix of 20 ft and 40 ft containers is assumed. NOTE 5: A mix of MCPTT, MCVideo, and MCData is assumed. Average 3 devices per firefighter / police officer, of which one video device. Area traffic based on 1080p, 60 fps is 12 Mbit/s video, with an activity factor of 30% in uplink (30% of devices transmit simultaneously at high bitrate) and 15% in downlink. NOTE 6: Communication for wearables is relayed via a UE. This relay UE may use a further relay UE. NOTE 7: End-to-end latency implies that all hops are included. NOTE 8: 'Metallic' implies an environment with a lot of metal obstructions (e.g. machinery, containers). 'Deep indoor' implies that there may be concrete walls / floors between the devices. NOTE 9: All the values in this table are example values and not strict requirements. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
# 9 Conclusions and recommendations
The study has analysed a number of use cases where better energy efficiency
and more extensive coverage are needed in comparison to what earlier
generations (3G, 4G) could offer. Nevertheless, all these use cases present a
heterogeneous set of performance requirements, which have been also addressed
during the study.
Release 16 service requirements already include the possibility of having
direct 3GPP communication or indirect 3GPP communication with the use of
relays. Nevertheless, this may be not enough for the needs of the possible use
cases from the area listed. The use of multi-hop relays UEs will help to
improve the energy efficiency and coverage of the 5G system.
The resulting potential requirements and KPIs have been consolidated in clause
8 of the TR. The content of clause 7 and clause 8 should be considered as the
basis of normative Release 17 requirements to support multi-hop relay UEs.
###### ### Annex A: Use of Multi-hop Relay in Smart City and Community
Services
With the development of smart phones, mobile payment, internet of things, and
artificial intelligence in recent years, the new Internet is rapidly moving
toward Internet of Everything (IoE). With the 3GPP progress toward 5G wireless
systems, the next generation Internet of Everything shall seamlessly connect
people (smart phones and wearables), smart vehicles, and smart wireless
sensors in an enclosed community setup, and smart cities at large.
Smart city and community have been a hot topic for municipalities world-wide,
however many issues still exist. Traditional city and community services have
been based either on pure virtual community on Internet, or offline entity
services in the real-world. Online to offline cannot make community services
smart, unified, or integrated.
The future smart city and community are to connect every people,
transportation/vehicles, retailers, and various infrastructures, through real-
time sensor networks and edge computing. Through a comprehensive city and
community-sensing system based on massive IoE and real-time information
processing, it can integrate all data and intelligent services of smart city
and community, and provide real-time visualization. At the same time, it can
deliver a variety of IoE services to both consumers and municipalities.
Although individual segments including eMBB, mMTC (IoT), V2X, URLLC, etc. have
been well studied in 3GPP, e.g., in the SMARTER, eV2X, and CAV, etc., IoE
based smart city and community services shall provide an upgraded USER
EXPERIENCE over any current IoT and eMBB applications. Therefore, it requires
an interconnection and real-time processing of the individual segments to
enable new services, where the use cases and related requirements have not
been analyzed in 3GPP.
For example, in IoE based smart community, consumers shall be provided with
intelligent services based on the real-time processing of IoE information from
the sensors (things), vehicles, retailers and people, an integrated virtual
scene environment that seamlessly combines the physical and virtual world.
Micro-environment services: by massive sensor networks covering the community
areas, micro-environment data can be acquired in real-time. Localized and
accurate environment data analysis and tracking can be provided to
neighbouring users and interested consumers of the community.
Parking and transporting services: the IoE based smart community shall provide
fully automatic vehicle parking and transportation, which will largely
increase the space and time efficiency especially in dense urban living areas.
Elders and children services: the IoE based smart community shall provide
services to elders and children who may not be used to modern smart phones and
computers, such services shall help to maintain the safety and wellness of the
particular population and provide any emergency alarm to caretakers.
Retailer services: the IoE based smart community shall provide consumers with
an online-merge-offline experience of neighbourhood retailers, so that the
real-time sight images, environment, merchant discounts are synchronized in
the virtual scene, where consumers can also have enhanced shopping experience
by the provide social media of real-time mixed reality.
In IoE based smart city, massive data representing real-time city IoE elements
can be efficiently processed and merged to a virtual scene with accurate
synchronization, which not only provides city management with intelligent
real-time analysis and automatic controlling, but also an immersive on-site
management experience.
Urban infrastructure management: urban infrastructure including electricity
and water supply, street lights, garbage bins, etc., plays an important role
in providing citizens with civilized living. Authorities shall provide
effective monitoring and maintenance of such urban infrastructure facilities.
Environment and traffic management: environment and traffic conditions change
dynamically in urban areas. Intelligent management closely monitors the real-
time microscopic environment and traffic patterns, so as to identify any
potential problems such as condensed pollution and major traffic jams. Traffic
lighting, v2x services, and other environmental controlling mechanism can be
trigger by the system, per authority policies.
Industrial park management: most industrial parks have problems such as
difficulties in finding parking lots, and difficulties in visiting specific
hosts. Intelligent management of industrial parks creates a mixed reality
platform for smart vehicle parking, visitor guidance, and host hospitality.
Community management: in the urban community management, safety issues incur
most concerns, crowd behaviour data shall be analysed in real-time through
efficient edge computing and privacy control. Position tracking is provided to
VIPs and any emergency or accidents shall be reported to any authorized
recipients.
Tourism management: smart tourism management provides a real-time mixed
reality platform for tourists to interact with real-world people, things, and
merchants. It also provides authority with a real-time data view and
intelligent analysis of the interested areas and attractions to the tourists.
For the future smart cities and communities, convenient, accurate, and high-
quality services will be the key features for developing the standards of
future city and community operation. Smart city management presents a
potential killer application to government and business for 3GPP systems with
IoE, and smart community presents a potential killer application to consumers.
New business opportunities can be expected, where network operators could
charge based on the QoS and number of connections instead of pure bandwidth.
In particular, use cases of smart community shall provide an upgraded IoE user
experience over any current mobile Internet (eMBB) services. And use cases of
smart city shall be focused on the city's concrete needs and provide enhanced
management efficiency over any current IoT (mMTC) based solutions.
In most such use cases, an UE (e.g., a mobile phone or computing device, an
IoT device, a servicing robot or autonomous vehicle, etc.) that presents
either a smart city operator or controller, or a smart community consumer,
shall be able to perform real-time information exchanging and distributed
computing with any and all types of neighbouring UEs in close or large
proximity, where the specific QoS granularity, traffic patterns, and proximity
coverage range depend on individual use cases.
Multi-hop UE-to-UE and UE-to-Network communications can potentially become a
straightforward way to support such traffics and applications. By studying the
related use cases or traffic scenarios, new features of 5GS may be provided
and quantified according to different levels of target user experience. Such
new features may include any combination of the following features and
functions: high density, real-time edge computing (network-controlled
sidelinks), high data-rate, low latency, high reliability, high mobility, low
power, high-precision positioning; where more detailed requirements on the
multi-hop wireless in future 3GPP releases can be drawn based on it.
###### ###
#