# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This clause is optional. If it exists, it is always the second unnumbered
clause.
# 1 Scope
This clause shall start on a new page.
The present document ...
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
It is preferred that the reference to 21.905 be the first in the list.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Delete from the above heading those words which are not applicable.
Clause numbering depends on applicability and should be renumbered
accordingly.
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Definition format (Normal)
**\ :** \.
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Symbol format (EW)
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Abbreviation format (EW)
\ \
# 4 Overview
[Editor's Note: This clause provides a high-level overview of the feature that
includes:
\- description of feature
\- benefit(s) the feature provide to the operator, end user, etc
\- any other (background) information that helps the reader understand the
feature
]
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Conference call with AR holography
### 5.1.1 Description
International companies have offices all over the world. The staffs of the
company may have conference calls very often. If AR holography can be applied
in the conference call, and AR holography data can be transmitted in the
conference call session, all the staffs can feel the expression and action of
the other parties, or even communicate with each other through body gestures.
It just feels like having face-to-face meeting at the same location. It can
really improve the immersive experience of the conference.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
User A, user B and user C are the staffs of the same company but in different
location. They always have to discuss their product schemes through conference
call. Each of their own office has AR holography camera.
### 5.1.3 Service Flows
  1. User A, user B and user C plan to have a conference call to discuss the latest product scheme.
  2. Each of them goes to their own office in which there is an AR holography camera.
  3. When meeting begins, they all initiate the AR holography camera. The AR cameras scan their whole bodies, then have the data processed in a dedicated device to build up the models of themselves.
  4. All the AR holography data will be uploaded to the IMS Application Server.
  5. After rendering, the AR holography data will be distributed to each end user in the conference call.
  6. When people who's in the conference call pick up their AR glasses, they can see the AR holography images of the other parties. The images can be updated in real time when conference call is processing.
Editor's note: The service flow may need to be improved.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
People in the IMS conference call can see the action and expression of the
other parties. They can present the product with their body gestures. They can
communicate and interact with each other (e.g., shaking hands, etc.). It just
feels like having face-to-face meeting at that moment.
### 5.1.5 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
### 5.1.6 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
# 6 Additional considerations
[Editor's note: Add sub-clauses as needed. Text to be provided.]
# 7 Consolidated potential requirements
[Editor's note: Text to be provided.]
# Annex \: \
Annexes are only to be used where appropriate:
Annexes are labelled A, B, C, etc. and are \"informative\" (3GPP TRs are
informative documents by nature).
# A.1 Heading levels in an annex
Heading levels within an annex are used as in the main document, but for
Heading level selection, the \"A.\", \"B.\", etc. are ignored. e.g. **A.1.2**
is formatted using **_Heading 2_** style.
Bibliography
The Bibliography is optional. If it exists, it shall follow the last annex in
the document.
The following material, though not specifically referenced in the body of the
present document (or not publicly available), gives supporting information.
Bibliography format
\- \: \"\\".
OR
\: \"\\".
#