# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Editor's note: Add clauses as needed. Text to be provided.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies use cases that assess under which circumstances
interconnected MCX Service Systems exchange administrative and security
relevant data and information.
Its objective is to identify new potential requirements related to the use
cases and new high-level security requirements related to interconnection of
MCX Service Systems and migration of MCX Users and MCX Service Groups.
> 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
Editor's note: Add text as needed.
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
Editor's note: Add text as needed.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Editor's note: Add text as needed.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
Editor's note: Add text as needed.
# 4 Overview
Editor's note: Add clauses as needed. Text to be provided.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.X Use case
### 5.X.1 Description
### 5.X.2 Pre-conditions
### 5.X.3 Post-conditions
### 5.X.4 Existing features partly or fully covering the use case
functionality
### 5.X.5 Potential New Requirements needed to support the use case
# 6 Security Aspects
Editor's note: Add clauses as needed. Text to be provided.
### 6.1 Introduction
### 6.2 Potential requirements
# 7 Additional considerations
Editor's note: Add clauses as needed. Text to be provided.
# 8 Consolidated potential requirements
Editor's note: Add clauses as needed. Text to be provided.
# 9 Conclusions and Recommendations
Editor's note: Add clauses as needed. Text to be provided.
# Annex \: \
###### ## Annex \ (informative): Bibliography
The following material, though not specifically referenced in the body of the
present document (or not publicly available), gives supporting information.
#