# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document intends to analyse the introduction of additional
functionalities for the videotelephony service in addition to what is provided
in the 3GPP specifications up to Release 6. The functionalities will include
but are not limited to codec negotiation, charging principles, supplementary
services support. The approach followed is to evaluate how functionalities
which are applicable to existing teleservices can be replicated for
videotelephony.
The document will analyse how the new functionalities will impact the
backwards compatibility with the existing CS multimedia service and will
whether it is beneficial to create a videotelephony teleservice.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on Supplementary Services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22 101: \"Service Principles\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.110: \"Codec for circuit switched multimedia telephony
service\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.111: \"Modification to H.324\".
[6] 3GPP TS 21.133: \"**3G security; Security threats and requirements\".**
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Teleservice:** Is a type of telecommunication service that provides the
complete capability, including terminal equipment functions, for communication
between users according to standardised protocols and transmission
capabilities established by agreement between operators.
**Videotelephony** : a instance of bidirectional multimedia communications
between two parties where a speech component and a video component are
transmitted and received.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
VT Video Telephony
UE User Equipment
Further abbreviations are given in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Overview of CS videotelephony support in 3GPP specifications up to Release
6
The CS Multimedia telephony is a Bearer Service, which is using the basic
bearer service BS30 in the Core Network. On the air interface the BS30 is
mapped to the Radio Access Bearer (RAB) using the traffic class
"Conversational" with 64kbps CS in UL and DL direction.
## 4.1 Codec
ITU-T has specified that Recommendation H.324 should be used for video
telephony in circuit switched connection. The 3GPP-variant of H.324 is named
3G-324M and the corresponding 3GPP specification is the [4] TS 26.110 \" Codec
for circuit switched multimedia telephony service\" and [5] TS 26.111 \"
Modification to H.324\". 3G-324M terminals provide real-time video, audio, or
data, in any combination over 3GPP circuit-switched radio networks.
## 4.2 Charging
The RAB and the corresponding BS30 is not only for video telephony, data
transfer is also possible. The user is able to select via terminal, depending
on terminal capabilities, which service they prefer, but the CN may not be
able to distinguish between video telephony and data transfer unless the UE
provides such indication. This also applies to changes during call set-up and
in-call modification of the requested service. That means the current charging
architecture may not be able to support e.g. two different pricing models for
video telephony and data transfer.
## 4.3 Supplementary services
The BS30 is a general synchronous bearer service with support of supplementary
services. [2] TS 22.004 includes an overview of the supplementary services
which are supported and which are not supported by the BS30 bearer as shown in
the table below:
* * *
Supplementary Service Support by BS30  
eMLPP enhanced Multi‑Level Precedence and Pre‑emption Yes CD Call Deflection
Yes CLIP Calling Line Identification Presentation Yes CLIR Calling Line
Identification Restriction Yes COLP Connected Line Identification Presentation
Yes COLR Connected Line Identification Restriction Yes CFU Call Forwarding
Unconditional Yes CFB Call Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Busy Yes CFNRy Call
Forwarding on No Reply Yes CFNRc Call Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Not
Reachable Yes CW Call Waiting Yes HOLD Call Hold No MPTY Multi Party Service
No CUG Closed User Group Yes AoCI Advice of Charge (Information) Yes AoCC
Advice of Charge (Charging) Yes UUS User‑to‑user signalling Yes BAOC Barring
of All Outgoing Calls Yes BOIC Barring of Outgoing International Calls Yes
BOIC‑exHC Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those directed to the
Home PLMN Country Yes BIC Barring of All Incoming Calls Yes BIC‑Roam Barring
of Incoming Calls when Roaming Outside the Home PLMN Country Yes ECT Explicit
Call Transfer No CCBS Completion of calls to busy subscribers Yes SPNP Support
of Private Numbering Plan Yes CNAP Calling Name Presentation No MSP Multiple
Subscriber Profiles Yes MC Multicall Yes
* * *
# 5 Requirements for videotelephony service
## 5.1 Charging
It should be possible for the network to identify when a videotelephony is
established so that accurate charging can be realised. All the events related
to the videotelephony call such as modifications of the service type (e.g.
speech call to videotelephony call modification, fall back to speech),
modification of the codecs and so on should be recorded.
## 5.2 Codec negotiation
It should be possible for terminals to perform codec negotiation during
videotelephony call set up. This should result in reduced call set up time for
videotelephony calls and may allow new and more efficient video codecs to be
introduced easily within mobile networks. This should be realised in the same
fashion as speech call where the calling terminal presents to the recipient a
list of supported codecs alongside the preferred one.
## 5.3 Security
The user shall be able to use and access the VT service in a secure manner. It
shall be possible to deny access to the VT service to unauthorized users. An
authorization may be based on the identity of the originating and/or
destination user/device.
The \"Security Threats and Requirements\" specified in [6] shall not be
compromised.
## 5.4 Privacy
It shall be possible to prevent exchange of user's identity during call setup
(e.g., by using CLIR/COLR). In addition, to protect user privacy it shall be
possible to:
\- enable/disable video camera during the call.
\- accept a video call in audio mode only.
\- enable/disable audio during the call (mute/unmute).
A recipient shall be informed of the identity of the sender in case the sender
has not restricted his identity to be transmitted.
Optional support for ciphering user audio/video/data sessions should be
considered.
Note: this may be in conflict with lawful intercept if the encrypting in this
case is user to user and the network is not able to recover the keys.
## 5.5 Supplementary service support
At least the following supplementary services should be supported for
videotelephony, which are already available for BS30:
\- eMLPP (enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption)
\- CD (Call Delfection)
\- CLIP (Calling Line Identification Presentation)
\- CLIR (Calling Line Identification Restriction)
\- COLP (Connected Line Identification Presentation)
\- COLR (Connected Line Identification Restriction)
\- all the call forwarding types (CFU, CFB, CFNRy, CFNRc)
\- - CW (Call Waiting)
\- CUG (Closed User Group)
\- AoCI (Advice of Charge Information) and AoCC (Advice of Charge Charging)
\- UUS (User-to-user signalling)
\- all types of barring (BAOC, BOIC, BOIC -exHC, BIC, BIC-Roam)
\- CCBS (Call Completion to Busy Subscriber)
\- SPNP (Support of Private Numbering Plan)
\- MSP (Multiple Subscriber Profiles)
\- MC (Multicall)
Furthermore following supplementary services should be supported:
\- HOLD:
\- CNAP (calling name presentation)
The support of multiparty is for further study.
## 5.6 Fall back to speech and in-call modification
When the radio access network of the calling party or of the called party
cannot support any longer the video media, or the interconnection between
networks does not or no longer support videotelephony, the videotelephony call
should be downgraded to a speech call. The transition from videotelephony to
speech should be realised with minimum (ideally without) interruptions.
When the videotelephony call can be supported again the downgraded call,
i.e.the speech call, may be upgraded to a videotelephony call. The transition
from speech to videotelephony should be realised with minimum (ideally
without) interruptions.
The fall back from videotelephony to speech and the upgrade from speech to
videotelephony should be supported when requested by either party.
The user should be able to deny a service change from speech to
videotelephony.
It should be possible to accept a videotelephony call with downgrading to
speech, which means the user should be able to request a downgrade of an
incoming videotelephony call before the call is answered resulting in
establishing a speech call only.
## 5.7 Subscription
It should be possible for the mobile operator to control the access to the
videotelephony service by means of a subscription to the service.
## 5.8 Handover
Inter-system handover between UMTS and GSM is not supported for 64 kbps UDI
calls. In the case of a user moving out of 3G coverage, the video call will be
released. The user has to establish a voice call either manually or the
handset provides a voice call set up automatically. In the early days of UMTS
this is an especially likely scenario. Therefore, the handover from 3G to 2G
linked with a downgrade from video to voice is a desirable functionality.
Handover of VT between UMTS and I-WLAN should be available if the network is
available and if the terminal has this functionality.
## 5.9 Emergency calls support
The capability of establishing a videotelephony call towards an emergency
number should not be mandatory. If a user attempts to establish a
videotelephony call to an emergency service, which is not equipped to handle
video telephony calls, the UE or the network should be able to transform it to
an emergency speech call (TS12) set up request.
## 5.10 Notifications to the User
A network should provide notifications to the user(s) if needed, e.g., if the
call set-up is unsuccessful or modified (e.g., by applying supplementary
services).
Notifications can consist of audible (e.g. announcement) and / or of visible (
e.g. picture or video) and / or textual information.
# 6 Backwards compatibility requirements
Taking into account that there is already a large population of UEs and
networks that support videotelephony services using the BS30 multimedia call
bearer service, a new videotelephony teleservice (if specified) shall provide
interworking and interoperability with the BS30 multimedia call bearer
service. Moreover, the specification of a videotelephony teleservice shall
have no negative impact on the interworking and interoperability of
videotelephony services provided based on the BS30 multimedia call bearer
service specified in 3GPP releases prior to Rel-7.
It shall be possible for a videotelephony teleservice capable UE to initiate
and terminate a call towards a UE supporting BS30 multimedia calls. In other
words, it is required that a videotelephony capable UE behaves towards a BS30
multimedia call capable network and/or UE as a BS30 multimedia call capable
UE.
The following table provides an overview of the backwards compatibility
requirements for a new videotelephony teleservice:
* * *
                            UE feature support                                                                                 
                            New Videotelephony Teleservice   BS 30 Multimedia Call Bearer
Network feature support New Videotelephony Teleservice HPLMN Out of scope of
this study Backwards Compatibility Required VPLMN Out of scope of this study
Backwards Compatibility Required BS 30 Multimedia Call Bearer HPLMN Backwards
Compatibility Required Out of scope of this study VPLMN Backwards
Compatibility Required Out of scope of this study
* * *
Figure 6.1: Overview of backwards compatibility requirements for a new
videotelephony teleservice
Backwards compatibility between a new videotelephony teleservice (if
specified) and videotelephony services using the BS30 multimedia call bearer
service shall be provided for all roaming and intra and inter-PLMN call
connection scenarios from the perspectives of the UE, HPLMN, VPLMN and
interconnection network capabilities. As a minimum, if a new videotelephony
teleservice is specified by 3GPP backwards compatibility shall be provided for
the following scenarios:
\- General
\- Support of videotelephony services for a UE supporting videotelephony
services using the BS30 multimedia call bearer service within PLMNs that
support the new videotelephony teleservice
\- Support of videotelephony services for a UE supporting the new
videotelephony teleservice within PLMNs that support only the BS30 multimedia
call bearer service
\- Roaming
\- Support of videotelephony services for a UE supporting the new
videotelephony teleservice roaming in a VPLMN that does not support the new
videotelephony teleservice but supports the BS30 multimedia call bearer
service
\- Support of videotelephony services for a UE supporting videotelephony
services using the BS30 multimedia call bearer service roaming in a VPLMN that
supports the new videotelephony teleservice
\- Intra-PLMN connection
\- Intra-HPLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice and a UE supporting videotelephony services using the BS30
multimedia call bearer service
Note 1: In the following scenarios the HPLMN and VPLMN is the same network.
\- Intra-PLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice roaming within a VPLMN that supports the new videotelephony
service and a UE supporting videotelephony services using the BS30 multimedia
call bearer service within its HPLMN
\- Intra-PLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice roaming within a VPLMN that does not support the new
videotelephony service and a UE supporting videotelephony services using the
BS30 multimedia call bearer service within its HPLMN
\- Inter-PLMN connection
Note 2: In the following scenarios the HPLMNs are different networks and may
be in different countries.
\- Inter-HPLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice within its HPLMN and a UE supporting videotelephony services using
the BS30 multimedia call bearer within its HPLMN that does not support the new
videotelephony teleservice
\- Inter-HPLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice within its HPLMN and a UE supporting videotelephony services using
the BS30 multimedia call bearer within its HPLMN that supports the new
videotelephony teleservice
Note 3: In the following scenarios the HPLMN and VPLMN are different networks
and may be in different countries.
\- Inter-PLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice within its HPLMN and a UE supporting videotelephony services using
the BS30 multimedia call bearer roaming in a VPLMN that does not support the
new videotelephony teleservice
\- Inter-PLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice within its HPLMN and a UE supporting videotelephony services using
the BS30 multimedia call bearer roaming in a VPLMN that supports the new
videotelephony teleservice
Note 3: In the following scenarios the VPLMNs are different networks and may
be in different countries.
\- Inter-PLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice roaming in a VPLMN that supports the new videotelephony
teleservice and a UE supporting videotelephony services using the BS30
multimedia call bearer roaming within a VPLMN that does not support the new
videotelephony teleservice
\- Inter-PLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice roaming in a VPLMN that does not support the new videotelephony
teleservice and a UE supporting videotelephony services using the BS30
multimedia call bearer roaming within a VPLMN that also does not support the
new videotelephony teleservice
\- Inter-PLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice roaming in a VPLMN that supports the new videotelephony
teleservice and a UE supporting videotelephony services using the BS30
multimedia call bearer service roaming within a VPLMN that also supports the
new videotelephony teleservice
\- Inter-PLMN connection between a UE supporting the new videotelephony
teleservice roaming in a VPLMN that does not support the new videotelephony
teleservice and a UE supporting videotelephony services using the BS30
multimedia call bearer service roaming within a VPLMN that supports the new
videotelephony teleservice
## 6.1 General description of functionalities that are supported in a
videotelephony call to a pre Rel-7 videotelephony
## 6.2 Interoperability with fixed videotelephony service
Similar to the BS30 multimedia call bearer service the new videotelephony
teleservice (if specified) should support interconnection with CS
videotelephony services provided by PSTN and ISDN fixed networks.
# 7 International calls and roaming
As Video Telephony depends on the 64kbps UDI bearer, for national as well as
international and roaming calls, such a bearer must be provided by all
carriers used for this specific connection. Presently many long distance
carriers do not guarantee this functionality. If the 64kbit/s UDI bearer is
not provided end to end, this may lead to SS7 signalling issues.
Note: This issue is FFS.
# 8 Conclusions
This study has identified the enhancements needed for videotelephony services
including:
\- Call setup time improvements
\- Additional support of supplementary services
\- Charging improvements
\- Improved in call modification
\- More efficient emergency videotelephony call support
\- User notification
These enhancements can be provided by either:
1\. standardising a new videotelephony teleservice.
2\. improving the existing videotelephony service that is based on BS30
For both alternatives backwards compatibility with existing videotelephony
services using the BS30 Multimedia Call Bearer Service is essential.
Some of the possible advantages for defining a videotelephony teleservice are:
\- ability to negotiate the codecs used in the VT call using already
standardised mechanisms available today for teleservices
\- ability to differentiate the charging between videotelephony and data
transfers using BS30
\- simplification of handling of call modification for network operators
compared to videotelephony services provided using the BS30 Multimedia Call
Bearer Service
\- simplification of downgrading the service to speech in case of changing
from 3G to 2G and vice versa compared to videotelephony services provided
using the BS30 Multimedia Call Bearer Service
\- the same handling of supplementary services as other teleservices
\- unique subscription for videotelephony services including unique definition
within roaming agreements which may improve interoperator charging
\- possible definition of a unique emergency videotelephony teleservice (if
required)
These need to be balanced against possible disadvantages of defining two
alternative solutions for providing videotelephony services.
###### ### Annex A: Existing requirements for videotelephony
#