# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of this report is to identify specialist technical terms used
within the 3GPP project for the purposes of specifying service requirements.
The motivations for this are:
\- To ensure that editors use terminology that is consistent across
specifications.
\- To provide a reader with convenient reference for technical terms that are
used across multiple documents.
\- To prevent inconsistent use of terminology across documents.
This document is a collection of terms, definitions and abbreviations related
to the baseline documents defining 3GPP objectives and systems framework. This
document provides a tool for further work on 3GPP technical documentation and
facilitates their understanding.
The terms, definitions and abbreviations as given in this document are either
imported from existing documentation (ETSI, ITU or elsewhere) or newly created
by 3GPP experts whenever the need for precise vocabulary was identified.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void
[2] Void
[3] \"The Path towards UMTS - Technologies for the Information Society\" --
Report #2, UMTS Forum.
[4] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Statum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode\".
[5] ETSI TR 180 000: \"NGN terminology\".
[6] IEC 60050-161: \"International Electrotechnical Vocabulary - Chapter 161:
Electromagnetic compatibility\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.101: \"General Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
(UMTS) architecture\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
# 3 Terms and definitions
## 0-9
**1.8V technology Smart Card:** A Smart Card operating at 1.8V ± 10% and 3V ±
10%.
**1.8V technology Terminal:** A terminal operating the Smart Card - Terminal
interface at 1.8V ± 10% and 3V ± 10%.
**3GPP Generic User Profile (GUP): The 3GPP Generic User Profile is the
collection of user related data which affects the way in which an individual
user experiences services and which may be accessed in a standardised
manner.**
**3GPP system:** A telecommunication system conforming to 3GPP specifications,
consisting of a core network, one or more access networks that may be GERAN,
UTRAN, E-UTRAN or other access networks such as WLAN, and User Equipment.
**3GPP System core network: refers in this specification to an evolved GSM
core network infrastructure.**
**3GPP System coverage:** see coverage area.
**3GPP System IC Card:** An IC card (or \'smartcard\') of defined
electromechanical specification which contains at least one USIM.
**3GPP System mobile termination:** part of the 3GPP System Mobile Station
which provides functions specific to the management of the radio interface
(Um).
**3GPP-WLAN Interworking: Used to generically refer to interworking between
the 3GPP system and the WLAN family of standards.**
**3V technology Smart Card: A Smart Card operating at 3V± 10% and 5V ± 10%.**
**3V technology Terminal:** A terminal operating the Smart Card - Terminal
interface at 3V-± 10% and 5V ± 10%.
## A
**A/Gb mode: mode of operation of the MS when connected to the Core Network
via GERAN and the A and/or Gb interfaces.**
**Acceptable Cell:** A cell that the UE may camp on to make emergency calls.
It must satisfy certain conditions.
**Access conditions:** A set of security attributes associated with a file.
**Access delay:** The value of elapsed time between an access request and a
successful access (source: ITU-T X.140).
**Access Stratum:** functional grouping consisting of the parts in the
infrastructure and in the user equipment and the protocols between these parts
being specific to the access technique (i.e. the way the specific physical
media between the User Equipment and the Infrastructure is used to carry
information).
Note: For full definition, see 23.101 [8], clause 6.2.
**Access Stratum SDU (Service Data Unit):** Unit of data transferred over the
access stratum SAP (Service Access Point) in the Core Network or in the User
Equipment.
**Access protocol:** A defined set of procedures that is adopted at an
interface at a specified reference point between a user and a network to
enable the user to employ the services and/or facilities of that network
(source: ITU-T I.112).
**Accounting:** The process of apportioning charges between the Home
Environment, Serving Network and User.
**Accuracy:** A performance criterion that describes the degree of correctness
with which a function is performed. (The function may or may not be performed
with the desired speed.) (source: ITU-T I.350).
**Active communication:** a UE is in active communication when it has a CS
connection established. For PS active communication is defined by the
existence of one or more Activated PDP contexts. Either one or both of the
mentioned active communications may occur in the UE.
**Active Set:** Set of radio links simultaneously involved in a specific
communication service between an UE and a UTRAN.
**Adjacent Channel Leakage power Ratio (ACLR)** : The ratio of the average
power centered on the assigned channel frequency to the average power centered
on an adjacent channel frequency. In both cases the average power is measured
with a filter that has Root Raised Cosine (RRC) filter response with roll-off
α = 0.22 and a bandwidth equal to the chip rate.
**Air Interface User Rate:** The user rate between Mobile Termination and IWF.
For T services it is the maximum possible AIUR not including padding. For NT
services it is the maximum possible AIUR.
**ALCAP:** Generic name for the transport signalling protocols used to set-up
and tear-down transport bearers.
**Allowable PLMN:** A PLMN which is not in the list of forbidden PLMN in the
UE.
**Allowed CSG list** : A list stored in the UE containing the CSG identities
and associated PLMN identities of the CSGs to which the subscriber belongs.
**Ancillary equipment:** Equipment (apparatus), used in connection with a
receiver, transmitter or transceiver is considered as an ancillary equipment
(apparatus) if:
\- the equipment is intended for use in conjunction with a receiver,
transmitter or transceiver to provide additional operational and/or control
features to the radio equipment, (e.g. to extend control to another position
or location); and
\- the equipment cannot be used on a stand alone basis to provide user
functions independently of a receiver, transmitter or transceiver; and
\- the receiver, transmitter or transceiver to which it is connected, is
capable of providing some intended operation such as transmitting and/or
receiving without the ancillary equipment (i.e. it is not a sub unit of the
main equipment essential to the main equipment basic functions).
**Applet:** A small program that is intended not to be run on its own, but
rather to be embedded inside another application
**Application** : an application is a service enabler deployed by service
providers, manufacturers or users. Individual applications will often be
enablers for a wide range of services. (UMTS Forum report #2) [3]
**Applications / Clients:** These are services, which are designed using
service capability features.
**Application Dedicated File (ADF): an application DF is the entry point to an
application on the UICC.**
**Application Interface:** Standardised Interface used by application/clients
to access service capability features.
**Application protocol:** The set of procedures required by the application.
**ASCI** Generic name to identify the services VGCS, VBS and eMLPP.
**Authentication:** A property by which the correct identity of an entity or
party is established with a required assurance. The party being authenticated
could be a user, subscriber, home environment or serving network.
**Available PLMN:** A PLMN where the UE has found a cell that satisfies
certain conditions.
**Average power:** The thermal power as measured through a root raised cosine
filter with roll-off α = 0.22 and a bandwidth equal to the chip rate of the
radio access mode. The period of measurement shall be one power control group
(timeslot) unless otherwise stated.
## B
**Band category:** A group of operating bands for which the same MSR scenarios
apply
**Base Station:** _A base station is a network element in radio access network
responsible for radio transmission and reception in one or more cells to or
from the user equipment. A base station can have an integrated antenna or be
connected to an antenna by feeder cables. In UTRAN it terminates the I~ub~
interface towards the RNC. In GERAN it terminates the Abis interface towards
the BSC._
**Baseline capabilities:** Capabilities that are required for a service-less
UE to operate within a network. The baseline capabilities for a UE include the
capabilities to search for, synchronise with and register (with
authentication) to a network. The negotiation of the UE and the network
capabilities, as well as the maintenance and termination of the registration
are also part of the required baseline capabilities.
**Base Station Controller:** This equipment in the BSS is in charge of
controlling the use and the integrity of the radio resources.
**Base station receive period:** The time during which the base station is
receiving data subframes or UpPTS.
**Base Station RF bandwidth: The bandwidth in which a Base Station transmits
and receives multiple carriers and/or RATs simultaneously**
**Base Station RF bandwidth edge: The frequency of one of the edges of the
Base Station RF bandwidth**
**Base Station Subsystem:** Either a full network or only the access part of a
GERAN offering the allocation, release and management of specific radio
resources to establish means of connection between an MS and the GERAN.\ A
Base Station Subsystem is responsible for the resources and
transmission/reception in a set of cells.
**Baseline Implementation Capabilities:** Set of Implementation capabilities,
in each technical domain, required to enable a UE to support the required
Baseline capabilities.
**Basic OR** Basic Optimal Routeing
**Basic telecommunication service:** This term is used as a common reference
to both bearer services and teleservices.
**Bearer:** A information transmission path of defined capacity, delay and bit
error rate, etc.
**Bearer capability:** A transmission function which the UE requests to the
network.
**Bearer independent protocol** : (UICC) Mechanism by which the ME provides
the (U)SIM applications on the UICC with access to the data bearers supported
by the ME and the network.
**Bearer service:** A type of telecommunication service that provides the
capability of transmission of signals between access points.
**Best effort QoS:** The lowest of all QoS traffic classes. If the guaranteed
QoS cannot be delivered, the bearer network delivers the QoS which can also be
called best effort QoS.
**Best effort service:** A service model which provides minimal performance
guarantees, allowing an unspecified variance in the measured performance
criteria.
**Billing:** A function whereby CDRs generated by the charging function are
transformed into bills requiring payment.
**Broadcast:** A value of the service attribute \"communication
configuration\", which denotes unidirectional distribution to all users
(source: ITU-T I.113).
**Byte code:** (UICC) A hardware machine independent representation of a
primitive computer operation that serves as an instruction to a software
program called an interpreter or a virtual machine that simulates the
hypothetical computer's central processing unit. code generated by a Java
compiler and executed by the Java interpreter.
## C
**Cable, Connector, and Combiner Losses (Transmitter) (dB):** The combined
losses of all transmission system components between the transmitter output
and the antenna input (all losses in positive dB values).
**Cable, Connector, and Splitter Losses (Receiver) (dB):** The combined losses
of all transmission system components between the receiving antenna output and
the receiver input.
**CAC (Connection Admission Control):** A set of measures taken by the network
to balance between the QoS requirements of new connections request and the
current network utilisation without affecting the grade of service of
existing/already established connections.
**Call:** a logical association between several users (this could be
connection oriented or connection less).
**Carrier:** The modulated waveform conveying the E-UTRA, UTRA or GSM/EDGE
physical channels
**Carrier frequency:** center frequency of the cell
**Camped on a cell:** The UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system
information and (in most cases) paging information. Note that the services may
be limited, and that the PLMN may not be aware of the existence of the UE
within the chosen cell.
**Capability Class:** A piece of information which indicates general 3GPP
System mobile station characteristics (e.g. supported radio interfaces,...)
for the interest of the network.
**Card session:** A link between the card and the external world starting with
the ATR and ending with a subsequent reset or a deactivation of the card.
**CBS DRX cycle:** The time interval between successive readings of BMC
messages.
**Cell:** Radio network object that can be uniquely identified by a User
Equipment from a (cell) identification that is broadcasted over a geographical
area from one UTRAN Access Point. A Cell is either FDD or TDD mode.
**Cell Radio Network Temporary Identifier (C-RNTI):** The C-RNTI is a UE
identifier allocated by a controlling RNC and it is unique within one cell
controlled by the allocating CRNC. C-RNTI can be reallocated when a UE
accesses a new cell with the cell update procedure.
Cellular Text telephone Modem (CTM): A modulation and coding method intended
for transmission of text in voice channels for the application of real time
text conversation.
Channel bandwidth: The RF bandwidth supporting a single RF carrier with the
transmission bandwidth configured in the uplink or downlink of a cell. The
channel bandwidth is measured in MHz and is used as a reference for
transmitter and receiver RF requirements.
**Channel edge:** The lowest and highest frequency of the carrier, separated
by the channel bandwidth.
**Chargeable Event:** An activity utilising telecommunications network
infrastructure and related services for user to user communication (e.g. a
single call, a data communication session or a short message), or for user to
network communication (e.g. service profile administration), or for inter-
network communication (e.g. transferring calls, signalling, or short
messages), or for mobility (e.g. roaming or inter-system handover), which the
network operator wants to charge for. The cost of a chargeable event may cover
the cost of sending, transporting, delivery and storage. The cost of call
related signalling may also be included.
**Charged Party:** A user involved in a chargeable event who has to pay parts
or the whole charges of the chargeable event, or a third party paying the
charges caused by one or all users involved in the chargeable event, or a
network operator.
**Charging:** A function whereby information related to a chargeable event is
formatted and transferred in order to make it possible to determine usage for
which the charged party may be billed.
**Charging Data Record (CDR):** A formatted collection of information about a
chargeable event (e.g. time of call set-up, duration of the call, amount of
data transferred, etc) for use in billing and accounting. For each party to be
charged for parts of or all charges of a chargeable event a separate CDR shall
be generated, i.e more than one CDR may be generated for a single chargeable
event, e.g. because of its long duration, or because more than one charged
party is to be charged.
**Cipher key:** A code used in conjunction with a security algorithm to encode
and decode user and/or signalling data.
**Closed group:** A group with a pre-defined set of members. Only defined
members may participate in a closed group.
**Closed Subscriber Group (CSG)** : A Closed Subscriber Group identifies
subscribers of an operator who are permitted to access one or more cells of
the PLMN but which have restricted access (CSG cells).
**Coded Composite Transport Channel:** A data stream resulting from encoding
and multiplexing of one or several transport channels.
**Common Channel:** A Channel not dedicated to a specific UE.
**Confidentiality:** The avoidance of disclosure of information without the
permission of its owner.
**Connected Mode:** Connected mode is the state of User Equipment switched on
and an RRC connection established.
**Connection:** A communication channel between two or more end-points (e.g.
terminal, server etc.).
**Connection mode:** The type of association between two points as required by
the bearer service for the transfer of information. A bearer service is either
connection-oriented or connectionless. In a connection oriented mode, a
logical association called _connection_ needs to be established between the
source and the destination entities before information can be exchanged
between them. Connection oriented bearer services lifetime is the period of
time between the establishment and the release of the connection. In a
connectionless mode, no connection is established beforehand between the
source and the destination entities; the source and destination network
addresses need to be specified in each message. Transferred information cannot
be guaranteed of ordered delivery. Connectionless bearer services lifetime is
reduced to the transport of one message.
**Connectionless (for a bearer service):** In a connectionless bearer, no
connection is established beforehand between the source and the destination
entities ; the source and destination network addresses need to be specified
in each message. Transferred information cannot be guaranteed of ordered
delivery. Connectionless bearer services lifetime is reduced to the transport
of one message.
**Connectionless service:** A service which allows the transfer of information
among service users without the need for end-to-end call establishment
procedures (source: ITU-T I.113).
**Continuous phenomena (continuous disturbance):** Electromagnetic
disturbance, the effects of which on a particular device or equipment cannot
be resolved into a succession of distinct effects (IEC 60050-161 [6]).
**Control channel:** A logical channel that carries system control
information.
**Controlling RNC:** A role an RNC can take with respect to a specific set of
UTRAN access points. There is only one Controlling RNC for any UTRAN access
point. The Controlling RNC has the overall control of the logical resources of
its UTRAN access point\'s.
**Conversational service:** An interactive service which provides for bi-
directional communication by means of real-time (no store-and-forward) end-to-
end information transfer from user to user (source: ITU-T I.113).
**Core network:** An architectural term relating to the part of 3GPP System
which is independent of the connection technology of the terminal (eg radio,
wired).
**Core Network Operator:** Operator that offers core network services.
**Corporate code:** Code which when combined with the network and SP codes
refers to a unique Corporate. The code is provided in the GID2 file on the
(U)SIM (see Annex A.1.) and is correspondingly stored on the ME.
**Corporate code group** combination of the Corporate code and the associated
SP and network codes.
**Corporate personalisation:** Allows a corporate customer to personalise MEs
that he provides for his employees or customers use so that they can only be
used with the company\'s own (U)SIMs.
**Coverage area (of a mobile cellular system):** An area where mobile cellular
services are provided by that mobile cellular system to the level required of
that system.
**Coverage area:** Area over which a 3GPP System service is provided with the
service probability above a certain threshold.
**CSG cell** : A cell, part of the PLMN, broadcasting a specific CSG Identity.
A CSG cell is accessible by the members of the closed subscribers group for
that CSG Identity. All the CSG cells sharing the same identity are
identifiable as a single group.
**CSG Identity (CSGID)** : An identity broadcast by a CSG cell or cells and
used by the UE to facilitate access for authorised members of the associated
Closed Subscriber Group.
**CSG Indicator** : An indication transmitted on the broadcast channel of the
CSG cell that allows the UE to identify such as CSG cell.
**CSG manager** : A CSG manager can, under the operator\'s supervision, add,
remove and view the list of CSG members.
**Current directory:** The latest MF or DF selected on the UICC.
**Current EF:** The latest EF selected.
**Current serving cell:** This is the cell on which the MS is camped.
## D
**Data field:** Obsolete term for Elementary File.
**Data Object:** Information coded as TLV objects, i.e. consisting of a Tag, a
Length and a Value part.
**Dedicated Channel:** A channel dedicated to a specific UE.
**De-personalisation:** Is the process of deactivating the personalisation so
that the ME ceases to carry out the verification checks.
**Dedicated File (DF):** A file containing access conditions and, optionally,
Elementary Files (EFs) or other Dedicated Files (DFs).
**Delivered QoS:** Actual QoS parameter values with which the content was
delivered over the lifetime of a QoS session.
**Demand service:** A type of telecommunication service in which the
communication path is established almost immediately, in response to a user
request effected by means of user-network signalling (source: ITU-T I.112).
**Dependability:** A performance criterion that describes the degree of
certainty (or surety) with which a function is performed regardless of speed
or accuracy, but within a given observational interval (source: ITU-T I.350).
**Destination user:** Entity to which calls to the General Packet Radio
Service (GPRS) are directed.
**Directory:** General term for the MF or a DF on the UICC.
**Directory Number:** A string consisting of one or more of the characters
from the set {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, *, #, a, b, c} associated with a
nature of address indicator and number plan indicator. When using the public
MMI for the control of supplementary services however, * and # cannot be part
of any SC or SI field.
NOTE 1: No such restriction on the SC and SI fields exists when using other
(e.g. menu-driven) MMI for the control of supplementary services.
NOTE 2: When using the public MMI, certain limitations on the use of one and
two digit directory numbers may apply. The use of other MMI can remove these
restrictions.
NOTE 3: This definition is not intended to require the support of all these
characters in the MMI itself.
**Distribution service:** Service characterised by the unidirectional flow of
information from a given point in the network to other (multiple) locations
(source: ITU-T I.113).
**DL RS power:** The resource element power of Downlink Reference Symbol.
**Domain:** The highest-level group of physical entities. Reference points are
defined between domains.
**Domain Specific Access Control** : Access control functionality for access
barring in either domain (i.e. CS domain or PS domain).
**Donor coupling loss:** the coupling loss between the repeater and the donor
base station.
**Donor network:** The subscription network from which a number is ported in
the porting process. This may or may not be the number range owner network.
**Downlink:** Unidirectional radio link for the transmission of signals from a
UTRAN access point to a UE. Also in general the direction from Network to UE.
**Downlink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
downlink.
**Downlink Pilot Timeslot:** Downlink part of the special subframe (for TDD
operation)
**Drift RNS:** The role an RNS can take with respect to a specific connection
between a UE and UTRAN. An RNS that supports the Serving RNS with radio
resources when the connection between the UTRAN and the User Equipment need to
use cell(s) controlled by this RNS is referred to as Drift RNS.
## E
**Element Manager:** Provides a package of end-user functions for management
of a set of closely related types of network elements. These functions can be
divided into two main categories.
**Element Management Functions:** Set of functions for management of network
elements on an individual basis. These are basically the same functions as
supported by the corresponding local terminals.
**Elementary File (EF):** A file containing access conditions and data and no
other files on the UICC.
**Elementary procedure (EP):** The RANAP, RNSAP, NBAP, S1AP, X2AP, PCAP,
HNBAP, LPPa, RNA, RUA, RETAP and TMAAP protocols consist of elementary
procedures (EPs).
An EP consists of an initiating message and possibly a response message.
Three kinds of EP are used:
\- Class 1: Elementary Procedures with response (success or failure).
\- Class 2: Elementary Procedures without response.
\- Class 3: Elementary Procedures with possibility of multiple responses
(RANAP only).
For Class 1 EPs, the types of responses can be as follows:
Successful
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the elementary procedure has
been successfully completed with the receipt of the response.
Unsuccessful
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the EP failed.
Class 2 EPs are considered always successful.
Class 3 EPs have one or several response messages reporting both successful
and unsuccessful outcome of the requests, and temporary status information
about the requests. This type of EP only terminates through response(s) or EP
timer expiry.
**End-User:** An End-User is an entity (typically a user), associated with one
or multiple subscriptions through identities (e.g. IMSIs, MSISDNs, IMPIs,
IMPUs and application-specific identities). In the 3GPP system an End-User is
characterised by an End-User Identity.
**End-User Identity (EUI):** An End-User Identity is an identity that uniquely
characterises an End-User in the 3GPP system. An End-User Identity is mainly
intended for administration purposes of the operator.
**Enterprise Systems:** Information Systems that are used in the
telecommunication organisation but are not directly or essentially related to
the telecommunications aspects (Call Centre\'s, Fraud Detection and Prevention
Systems, Invoicing etc).
**Equivalent HPLMN / Equivalent Home PLMN (EHPLMN):** Any of the PLMN entries
contained in the Equivalent HPLMN list.
**Equivalent HPLMN list:** To allow provision for multiple HPLMN codes, PLMN
codes that are present within this list shall replace the HPLMN code derived
from the IMSI for PLMN selection purposes. This list is stored on the USIM and
is known as the EHPLMN list. The EHPLMN list may also contain the HPLMN code
derived from the IMSI. If the HPLMN code derived from the IMSI is not present
in the EHPLMN list then it shall be treated as a Visited PLMN for PLMN
selection purposes.
**E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer (E-RAB):** An E-RAB uniquely identifies the
concatenation of an S1 Bearer and the corresponding Data Radio Bearer. When an
E-RAB exists, there is a one-to-one mapping between this E-RAB and an EPS
bearer of the Non Access Stratum as defined in [7].
**Essential UE Requirement (Conditional):** Requirement which has to be
implemented under certain Service conditions. e.g. AMR codec in UE which
supports speech service
**Essential UE Requirement (Unconditional):** Requirement which has to be
implemented in any 3G UE in order to exist in and communicate with 3G network
(e.g. Chiprate of 3.84Mcps).
**Evolved Packet Core:** Is a framework for an evolution or migration of the
3GPP system to a higher-data-rate, lower-latency, packet-optimized system that
supports, multiple RATs.
**Evolved Packet System:** Is an evolution of the 3G UMTS characterized by
higher-data-rate, lower-latency, packet-optimized system that supports
multiple RATs. The Evolved Packet System comprises the Evolved Packet Core
together with the evolved radio access network (E-UTRA and E-UTRAN).
**Evolved UTRA:** Evolved UTRA is an evolution of the 3G UMTS radio-access
technology towards a high-data-rate, low-latency and packet-optimized radio-
access technology.
**Evolved UTRAN:** Evolved UTRAN is an evolution of the 3G UMTS radio-access
network towards a high-data-rate, low-latency and packet-optimized radio-
access network.
**Explicit Diversity Gain (dB):** The effective gain achieved using diversity
techniques.
**Extended DRX: A power saving feature where paging cycles can range from
seconds to several hours, depending on Radio Access Technology.**
**Extra SDU delivery probability:** The ratio of total (unrequested) extra
service data units (SDUs) to total service data units received by a
destination user in a specified sample (source: ITU-T X.140).
NOTE: the term \"user information unit\" has been replaced by the term
\"service data unit\".
## F
**File:** A named and hierarchically-classified data set on the UICC.
**File identifier (FID):** The 2-byte name of a file or a directory on the
UICC.
**Fixed Network User Rate:** The user rate between IWF and the fixed network.
**FC (Flow Control):** A set of mechanisms used to prevent the network from
becoming overloaded by regulating the input rate transmissions.
**Flexible Layer One (FLO)** : GERAN feature that allows the channel coding of
the layer one to be configured at call setup.
**Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)** : In a given network configuration, the
capabilities that provide service and application to the end-user irrespective
of the fixed or mobile access technologies and independent of user\'s
location. In the NGN environment, it means to provide NGN services to end-
users regardless of the access technology.
**Framework:** A framework defines a set of Application Programming Interface
(API) classes for developing applications and for providing system services to
those applications.
**Frequency layer:** set of cells with the same carrier frequency.
**Functional group:** A set of functions that may be performed by a single
equipment (source: ITU-T I.112).
## G
**Geographical routing:** The conversion of the PDU's geographical area
definition, which specifies the area in which the PDU will be broadcast, into
an equivalent radio coverage map.
**GERAN Radio Network Temporary Identifier (G-RNTI): G-RNTI is an MS
identifier which is allocated by the Serving BSC and is unique within this
SBSC. It is allocated for all MSs having an RRC connection. The G-RNTI is
always reallocated when the Serving BSC for the RRC connection is changed and
deallocated when the RRC connection is released. The G-RNTI is also used at
RLC/MAC during contention resolution.**
**GPRS MS:** An MS capable of GPRS services is a GPRS MS**.**
**Group:** A set of members allowed to participate in the group call service.
The group is defined by a set of rules that identifies a collection of members
implicitly or explicitly. These rules may associate members for the purpose of
participating in a group call, or may associate members who do not participate
in data transfer but do participate in management, security, control, or
accounting for the group.
**Group call:** The relationship that exists between the members of a group
for the purpose of transferring data. More than one group call may exist in a
group. A group call establishes an active group.
**Group call initiator:** A member (or third party) authorised to initiate a
group call. More than one member may initiate group calls.
**Group call participant:** A member of a group participating in a particular
group call at a given time.
**Group call server:** A logical entity that provides the group call service
to the members.
**Group call service:** A PTM service in which a relationship exists between
participants of the group, and in which a single data unit transmitted by a
source participant is received by multiple destination participants; it is a
one-in, many-out service.
**Group controller:** The member (or third party) responsible for the group
creation and membership control.
**GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network:** GERAN is a conceptual term identifying that
part of the network which consists of BSCs and BTSs between A/Gb or Iu and Um
interfaces.
**GSM BSS:** refers in this specification to the GSM/GPRS access network.
**GSM core network:** refers in this specification to the GSM NSS and GPRS
backbone infrastructure.
**GSM coverage:** an area where mobile cellular services are provided in
accordance with GSM standards
**GSM session:** That part of the card session dedicated to the GSM operation.
**Guaranteed service:** A service model which provides highly reliable
performance, with little or no variance in the measured performance criteria.
## H
**Handoff Gain/Loss (dB):** This is the gain/loss factor (+ or -) brought by
handoff to maintain specified reliability at the cell boundary.
**Handover:** The transfer of a user's connection from one radio channel to
another (can be the same or different cell).
**Handove** r**:** The process in which the radio access network changes the
radio transmitters or radio access mode or radio system used to provide the
bearer services, while maintaining a defined bearer service QoS.
**Hard Handover:** Hard handover is a category of handover procedures where
all the old radio links in the UE are abandoned before the new radio links are
established.
**Heterogeneous Network:** a 3GPP access network consisting of multiple cells
with different characteristics (e.g., for the case of E-UTRA: a variety of
e-NodeBs, Home e-NodeBs, e-UTRA Relays).
**HE-VASP:** Home Environment Value Added Service Provider. This is a VASP
that has an agreement with the Home Environment to provide services. The Home
Environment provides services to the user in a managed way, possibly by
collaborating with HE-VASPs, but this is transparent to the user. The same
service could be provided by more than one HE-VASP and each HE-VASP can
provide more than one service.
**Home Environment:** responsible for overall provision and control of the
Personal Service Environment of its subscribers.
**HNB Name** : The HNB Name is a broadcast string in free text format that
provides a human readable name for the Home NodeB/eNodeB.
**Home PLMN:** This is a PLMN where the MCC and MNC of the PLMN identity match
the MCC and MNC of the IMSI. Matching criteria are defined in TS 23.122.
**Hybrid cell:** A cell broadcasting a CSG indicator set to false and a
specific CSG identity. This cell is accessible as a CSG cell by UEs which are
members of the CSG and as a normal cell by all other UEs.
## I
**IC Card:** A card holding an Integrated Circuit containing subscriber, end
user, authentication and/or application data for one or more applications.
**IC card SIM:** Obsolete term for ID‑1 SIM.
**ICS proforma:** A document, in the form of a questionnaire, which when
completed for an implementation or system becomes an ICS.
**ID-000 SIM:** A UICC having the form on an ID-000 card (see ISO 7816-1 [24])
that contains a SIM application.
**ID‑1 SIM:** A UICC having the format of an ID‑1 card (see ISO 7816‑1 [24])
that contains a SIM.
**Idle mode:** The state of UE switched on but which does not have any
established RRC connection.
**IP Flow Mobility** : distribution of IP flows on a UE between 3GPP and WLAN
available accesses based on the different characteristics of the IP flows, the
operator policies and the capabilities of the available accesses.
**Implementation capability:** A capability that relates to a particular
technical domain. Examples: a spreading factor of 128 (in the domain of the
physical layer); the A5 algorithm; a 64 bit key length (in the domain of
security); a power output of 21 dBm (in the domain of transmitter
performance); support of AMR Codec (in the domain of the Codec); support of
CHV1 (in the domain of the USIM).
**Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS):** A statement made by the
supplier of an implementation or system claimed to conform to a given
specification, stating which capabilities have been implemented. The ICS can
take several forms: protocol ICS, profile ICS, profile specific ICS,
information object ICS, etc.
**Information Data Rate:** Rate of the user information, which must be
transmitted over the Air Interface. For example, output rate of the voice
codec.
**Initial paging information:** This information indicates if the UE needs to
continue to read more paging information and eventually receive a page
message.
**Initial paging occasion:** The paging occasion the UE uses as starting point
for its paging DRX cycle.
**Integrity:** (in the context of security) The avoidance of unauthorised
modification of information.
**Inter‑cell handover:** A handover between different cells. An inter‑cell
handover requires network connections to be altered.
**Inter PLMN handove** r**:** Handover between different PLMNs, ie having
different MCC-MNC.
**Inter system handover:** Handover between networks using different
radiosystems , e.g. UMTS -- GSM.
**Interactive service:** A service which provides the means for bi-directional
exchange of information between users. Interactive services are divided into
three classes of services: conversational services, messaging services and
retrieval services (source: ITU-T I.113).
**Interface:** The common boundary between two associated systems (source:
ITU-T I.112).
**International Mobile Station Equipment Identity (IMEI):** An \"International
Mobile Station Equipment Identity\" is a unique number which shall be
allocated to each individual mobile station equipment in the PLMN and shall be
unconditionally implemented by the MS manufacturer.
**International mobile user number (IMUN):** The International Mobile User
Number is a diallable number allocated to a 3GPP System user.
**Interference Signal Code Power (ISCP):** Given only interference power is
received, the average power of the received signal after despreading and
combining.
**Interpreter: A software program that simulates a hypothetical computer by
performing the operations defined by the instructions of this computer.(see
also \'byte code\' and \'virtual machine\').**
**Interworking WLAN (I-WLAN)** : A WLAN that interworks with a 3GPP system.
**Intra‑cell handover:** A handover within one sector or between different
sectors of the same cell. An intra‑cell handover does not require network
connections to be altered.
**Intra PLMN handove** r**:** Handover within the same network, ie having the
same MCC-MNC regardless of radio access system.
Note: this includes the case of UMTS \<>GSM handover where MCC-MNC are the
same in both cases.
**IP-Connectivity Access Network (IP-CAN):** The collection of network
entities and interfaces that provides the underlying IP transport connectivity
between the UE and the IMS entities**.** An example of an \"IP-Connectivity
Access Network\" is GPRS.
**IP-Connectivity Access Network bearer (IP-CAN bearer):** The data
communications bearer provided by the IP-Connectivity Access Network. When
using GPRS, the IP-Connectivity Access Network bearers are provided by PDP
Contexts.
**IRP Information Model:** An IRP Information Model consists of an IRP
Information Service and a Network Resource Model (see below for definitions of
IRP Information Service and Network Resource Model).
**IRP Information Service:** An IRP Information Service describes the
information flow and support objects for a certain functional area, e.g. the
alarm information service in the fault management area. As an example of
support objects, for the Alarm IRP there is the alarm record and alarm list.
**IRP Solution Set:** An IRP Solution Set is a mapping of the IRP Information
Service to one of several technologies (CORBA/IDL, SNMP/SMI, CMIP/GDMO, etc.).
An IRP Information Service can be mapped to several different IRP Solution
Sets. Different technology selections may be done for different IRPs.
**Inter System Change** : a change of radio access between different radio
access technologies such as GSM and UMTS.
**IMS Credentials (IMC):** A set of IMS security data and functions for IMS
access by a terminal that does not support any 3GPP access technology.. The
IMC is not including an ISIM or a USIM. The IMC is not used if ISIM or USIM is
present.
**IMS Multimedia Telephony:** A service that allows multimedia conversational
communications between two or more users. It provides real time bidirectional
conversational transfer of media, e.g. speech, video, text or other types of
data. The IMS multimedia telephony service includes Supplementary Services and
takes account of regulatory requirements.
**IMS SIM (ISIM):** An application residing on the UICC that provides access
to IP Multimedia Services.
**Iu:** Interconnection point between an RNC or a BSC and a 3G Core Network.
It is also considered as a reference point.
**Iu-flex:** Routing functionality for intra domain connection of RAN nodes to
multiple CN nodes.
**Iu mode: mode of operation of the MS when connected to the Core Network via
GERAN or UTRAN and the Iu interface.**
**Iub:** Interface between an RNC and a Node B.
**Iur:** A logical interface between two RNC. Whilst logically representing a
point to point link between RNC, the physical realisation may not be a point
to point link.
## J
\
## K
**Key pair:** Key pairs are matching private and public keys. If a block of
data is encrypted using the private key, the public key from the pair can be
used to decrypt it. The private key is never divulged to any other party, but
the public key is available, e.g. in a certificate.
## L
**Local Service:** Services, which are provided by current roamed to network
that are not HE services. The same service can be provided by a network as a
local service to inbound roamers and as a HE service to the subscribers of
this network.
**Local IP Access (LIPA):** Allows an IP-capable UE connected via a H(e)NB
direct access to other IP-capable devices in the local residential/corporate
IP network.
**Localised Service Area (LSA):** A LSA is an operator-defined group of cells,
for which specific access conditions apply. This may correspond to an area in
which the Core Network offers specific services. A LSA may be defined within a
PLMN or globally. Therefore, a LSA may offer a non-contiguous radio coverage.
**Location Registration (LR):** The UE registers its presence in a
registration area, for instance regularly or when entering a new registration
area.
**Logical Channel:** A logical channel is an information stream dedicated to
the transfer of a specific type of information over the radio interface.
Logical Channels are provided on top of the MAC layer.
**Logical Channel** (UICC): A command/response communication context
multiplexed on the physical channel between the ME and the UICC.
**Logical Model:** A Logical Model defines an abstract view of a network or
network element by means of information objects representing network element,
aggregations of network elements, the topological relationship between the
elements, endpoints of connections (termination points), and transport
entities (such as connections) that transport information between two or more
termination points.\ The information objects defined in the Logical Model are
used, among others, by connection management functions. In this way a physical
implementation independent management is achieved.
**Logical O &M:** Logical O&M is the signalling associated with the control of
logical resources (channels, cells,) owned by the RNC but physically
implemented in the Node B. The RNC controls these logical resources. A number
of O&M procedures physically implemented in Node B impact on the logical
resources and therefore require an information exchange between RNC and Node
B. All messages needed to support this information exchange are classified as
Logical O&M forming an integral part of NBAP.
**Lower RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of the lower edge of the Base
Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter and
receiver requirements
**LSA exclusive access cell:** A UE may only camp on this cell if the cell
belongs to the LSAs to which the user has subscribed. Nevertheless, if no
other cells are available, the UE of non-LSA users may originate emergency
calls from this cell.
**LSA only access:** When LSA only access applies to the user, the UE can only
access cells that belong to the LSAs to which the user has subscribed. Outside
the coverage area of the subscribed LSAs, the UE may camp on other cells and
limited services apply.
**LSA preferential access cell:** A LSA preferential access cell is a cell
which is part of the LSA. UEs of users that have subscribed to a LSA of a LSA-
preferential-access cell have higher priority to resources than non-LSA users
in the same cell.
## M
**Macro cells:** \"Macro cells\" are outdoor cells with a large cell radius.
**Macro diversity handover:** \"Macro diversity\" is a operation state in
which a User Equipment simultaneously has radio links with two or more UTRAN
access points for the sole aim of improving quality of the radio connection or
providing seamless.
**Management Infrastructure:** The collection of systems (computers and
telecommunications) a 3GPP System Organisation has in order to manage a 3GPP
System.
**Mandatory UE Requirement:** Regulatory requirement which is applicable to 3G
UEs. It is determined by each country/region and beyond the scope of 3GPP
specification (e.g. spurious emission in UK).
**Master File (MF):** The root directory of the file system hierarchy on the
UICC.
**Maximum Base Station RF bandwidth:** The maximum RF bandwidth supported by a
BS within an operating band.
**Maximum output Power:** For UE, this is a measure of the maximum power
supported by the UE (i.e. the actual power as would be measured assuming no
measurement error) (TS 25.101). For FDD BS, the mean power level per carrier
of the base station measured at the antenna connector in a specified reference
condition (TS 25.104). For TDD BS this refers to the measure of power when
averaged over the transmit timeslot at the maximum power setting (TS 25.105).
For LTE: the mean power level per carrier of the base station measured at the
antenna connector in a specified reference condition.
**Maximum possible AIUR:** The highest possible AIUR that the multiple TCH/F
can provide, e.g. 2 TCH/F using TCH/F9.6 provides a maximum possible AIUR of
19,2 kbit/s.
**Maximum throughput:** maximum achievable throughput for a reference
measurement channel.
**Maximum total output power:** sum of the power of all carriers available at
the antenna connector for a specified reference condition.
**Maximum Transmitter Power Per Traffic Channel (dBm):** The maximum power at
the transmitter output for a single traffic channel.
**MBMS-service-associated signalling:** When M2AP messages associated to one
MBMS service uses the MBMS-service-associated logical M2-connection for
association of the message to the respective MBMS service in eNB and EPC.
**Mean bit rate:** A measure of throughput. The average (mean) bit rate
available to the user for the given period of time (source: ITU-T I.210).
**Mean power:** When applied to E-UTRA transmission this is the power measured
in the operating system bandwidth of the carrier. The period of measurement
shall be at least one subframe (1ms) unless otherwise stated.
**Mean transit delay:** The average transit delay experienced by a (typically)
large sample of PDUs within the same service category.
**Measurement bandwidth:** The bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**Medium Access Control:** A sub-layer of radio interface layer 2 providing
unacknowledged data transfer service on logical channels and access to
transport channels.
**Messaging service:** An interactive service which offers user-to-user
communication between individual users via storage units with store-and-
forward, mailbox and/or message handling, (e.g., information editing,
processing and conversion) functions (source: ITU-T I.113).
**MExE Classmark:** A MExE classmark identifies a category of MExE UE
supporting MExE functionality with a minimum level of processing, memory,
display, and interactive capabilities. Several MExE classmarks may be defined
to differentiate between the functionalities offered by different MExE UEs. A
MExE application or applet defined as being of a specific MExE Classmark
indicates that it is supportable by a MExE UE of that Classmark.
**MExE executable:** An executable is an applet, application, or executable
content, which conforms to the MExE specification and may execute on the ME.
**MExE server:** A node supporting MExE services in the MExE service
environment.
**MExE service:** a service enhanced (or made possible) by MExE technology.
**MExE service environment:** Depending on the configuration of the PLMN, the
operator may be able to offer support to MExE services in various ways.
Examples of possible sources are from traditional GSM nodes, IN nodes,
operator-specific nodes, operator franchised nodes and services provider
nodes, together with access to nodes external (i.e. vendor-specific) to the
PLMN depending on the nature of the MExE service. These nodes are considered
to constitute the MExE service environment. The MExE service environment shall
support direct MExE UE to MExE UE interaction of MExE services.
**MExE service provider:** an organisation which delivers MExE services to the
subscriber. This is normally the PLMN operator, but could be an organisation
with MExE responsibility (which may have been delegated by the PLMN operator).
**MExE SIM:** A (U)SIM application that is capable of storing a security
certificate that is accessible using standard mechanisms.
**MExE subscriber:** The owner of a subscription who has entered into an
agreement with a MExE service provider for MExE services.
**Micro cells:** \"Micro cells\" are small cells.
**Minimum transmit power:** The minimum controlled output power of the TDD BS
is when the power control setting is set to a minimum value. Thei si when the
power control indicates a miminum transmit output power is required (TS
25.105).
**Mobile Equipment (ME):** The Mobile Equipment is functionally divided into
several entities, i.e.one or more Mobile Terminations (MT) and one or more
**Terminal Equipments (TE).**
**Mobile evaluated handover:** Mobile evaluated handover (MEHO) is a type of
handover triggered by an evaluation made in the mobile. The mobile evaluates
the necessity of handover based on the measured radio environment and based on
criteria defined by the network. When the evaluation meets the hand-off
criteria the necessary information is sent from the mobile to the network. The
network then decides on the necessity of the handover based on the reported
evaluation result and other conditions, e.g. uplink radio environment and/or
availability of network resources, the network may then execute the handover.
**Mobile Station (MS):** A Mobile Station (MS) corresponds to a User Equipment
(UE). See 3GPP TS 24.002.
**Mobile number portability:** The ability for a mobile subscriber to change
subscription network within the same country whilst retaining their original
MSISDN(s).
**Mobile Termination (MT):** The Mobile Termination is the component of the
Mobile Equipment (ME) which supports functions specific to management of the
PLMN access interface (3GPP or non-3GPP). The MT is realized as a single
functional entity..
**Mobility:** The ability for the user to communicate whilst moving
independent of location.
**Mobility Management:** A relation between the mobile station and the UTRAN
that is used to set-up, maintain and release the various physical channels.
**MSR Base station:** Base Station characterized by the ability of its
receiver and transmitter to process two or more carriers in common active RF
components simultaneously in a declared RF bandwidth, where at least one
carrier is of a different RAT than the other carrier(s).
**MTC Device:** A MTC Device is a UE equipped for Machine Type Communication,
which communicates through a PLMN with MTC Server(s) and/or other MTC
Device(s).
NOTE: A MTC Device might also communicate locally (wirelessly, possibly
through a PAN, or hardwired) with other entities which provide the MTC Device
\"raw data\" for processing and communication to the MTC Server(s) and/or
other MTC Device(s). Local communication between MTC Device(s) and other
entities is out of scope of this technical specification.
**MTC Server:** A MTC Server is a server, which communicates to the PLMN
itself, and to MTC Devices through the PLMN. The MTC Server can also have an
interface which can be accessed by the MTC User. The MTC Server can:
> \- Provide services for other servers (e.g. The MTC Server is a Services
> Capability Server [9] for an Application Server [9]), and/or
>
> \- Provide services for applications and can host the application (e.g. The
> MTC Server is an Application Server [x]).
**MTC User:** A MTC User uses the service provided by the MTC Server.
**MTC Subscriber:** A MTC Subscriber is a subscriber, i.e. a legal entity
having a contractual relationship with the network operator to provide service
to one or more MTC Devices.
NOTE: Typically a M2M service provider is the party holding subscriptions in
order to provide connectivity between MTC Devices and the MTC Server. In
practise certain roles can collapse, e.g. the network operator acts as the
same time as Service Provider.
**Multi-carrier transmission configuration:** A set of one or more contiguous
carriers that a BS is able to transmit simultaneously according to the
manufacturer's specification.
**Multi mode terminal:** UE that can obtain service from at least one UTRA
radio access mode, and one or more different systems such as GSM bands or
possibly other radio systems such IMT-2000 family members.
**Multicast service:** A unidirectional PTM service in which a message is
transmitted from a single source entity to all subscribers currently located
within a geographical area. The message contains a group identifier indicating
whether the message is of interest to all subscribers or to only the subset of
subscribers belonging to a specific multicast group.
**Multipoint:** A value of the service attribute \"communication
configuration\", which denotes that the communication involves more than two
network terminations (source: ITU-T I.113).
**Multimedia service:** Services that handle several types of media such as
audio and video in a synchronised way from the user\'s point of view. A
multimedia service may involve multiple parties, multiple connections, and the
addition or deletion of resources and users within a single communication
session.
## N
**Name:** A name is an alpha numeric label used for identification of end
users and may be portable.
**Negotiated QoS:** In response to a QoS request, the network shall negotiate
each QoS attribute to a level that is in accordance with the available network
resources. After QoS negotiation, the bearer network shall always attempt to
provide adequate resources to support all of the negotiated QoS profiles.
**Network code:** MCC and MNC.
**Network code group:** Same as network code.
**Network connection:** An association established by a network layer between
two users for the transfer of data, which provides explicit identification of
a set of network data transmissions and agreement concerning the services to
be provided by the set (source: ITU-T X.213 / ISO-IEC 8348).
**Network Element:** A discrete telecommunications entity which can be managed
over a specific interface e.g. the RNC.
**Network Manager:** Provides a package of end-user functions with the
responsibility for the management of a network, mainly as supported by the
EM(s) but it may also involve direct access to the network elements. All
communication with the network is based on open and well standardized
interfaces supporting management of multi-vendor and multi-technology network
elements.
**Network operator:** See PLMN operator.
**Network personalisation:** Allows the network operator to personalise a ME
so that it can only be used with that particular network operator\'s (U)SIMs.
**Network Resource Model:** A protocol independent model describing managed
objects representing network resources, e.g. an RNC or NodeB.
**Network service data unit (NSDU):** A unit of data passed between the user
and the GPRS network across a Network Service Access Point (NSAP).
**Network subset code:** digits 6 and 7 of the IMSI.
**Network subset code group:** Combination of a network subset code and the
associated network code.
**Network subset personalisation:** A refinement of network personalisation,
which allows network operators to limit the usage of a ME to a subset of
(U)SIMs
**Network termination:** A functional group on the network side of a user-
network interface (source: ITU-T I.112).
**Node B:** A logical node responsible for radio transmission / reception in
one or more cells to/from the User Equipment. Terminates the Iub interface
towards the RNC.
**Nomadic Operating Mode:** Mode of operation where the terminal is
transportable but being operated while stationary and may in addition require
user co-operation (e.g. close to open spaces, antenna setup...).
**Nominal Maximum Output Power:** This is the nominal power defined by the UE
power class.
**Non-Access Stratum:** Protocols between UE and the core network that are not
terminated in the UTRAN.
**Normal GSM operation:** Relating to general, CHV related, GSM security
related and subscription related procedures.
**Normal mode of operation:** The mode of operation into which the ME would
have gone if it had no personalisation checks to process.
**NTDD:** Narrow TDD -- the 1.28 Mcps chip rate UTRA-TDD option
**Number:** A string of decimal digits that uniquely indicates the public
network termination point. The number contains the information necessary to
route the call to this termination point.
A number can be in a format determined nationally or in an international
format. The international format is known as the International Public
Telecommunication Number which includes the country code and subsequent
digits, but not the international prefix.
**Number portability:** A capability that allows a user to retain the same
public telecommunication number when changing from one service provider to
another. Additional regulatory constraints may apply in different regions.
**Number range owner network:** The network to which the number range
containing the ported number has been allocated.
## O
**Occupied bandwidth:** The width of a frequency band such that, below the
lower and above the upper frequency limits, the mean powers emitted are each
equal to a specified percentage β/2 of the total mean power of a given
emission.
**Offline charging:** charging mechanism where charging information does not
affect, in real time, the service rendered.
**Offline Charging System:** the entity that collects and processes offline
charging information prior to delivery to the Billing Domain.
**Online Charging** : charging mechanism where charging information can
affect, in real time, the service rendered and therefore a direct interaction
of the charging mechanism with the bearer/session/service control is required.
**Online Charging System:** the entity that performs real-time Credit-Control
and includes transaction handling, rating, online correlation and management
of subscriber accounts/balances.
**One Stop Billing:** One bill for all charges incurred using the 3GPP System.
**Open group:** A group that does not have a pre-defined set of members. Any
user may participate in an open group.
**Open Service Access:** Concept for introducing a vendor independent means
for introduction of new services.
**Operating band:** A frequency range in which E-UTRA operates (paired or
unpaired), that is defined with a specific set of technical requirements.
**Operations System:** This abbreviation indicates a generic management
system, independent of its location level within the management hierarchy.
**Optional UE** **Requirement:** Any other requirements than mandatory UE
requirement, essential UE requirement (conditional), essential UE requirement
(unconditional). It is totally up to individual manufacturer to decide whether
it should be implemented or not (e.g. Network initiated MM connection
establishment).
**Originating network:** The network where the calling party is located.
**Orthogonal Channel Noise Simulator** a mechanism used to simulate the users
or control signals on the other orthogonal channels of a downlink
**OSA Interface:** Standardised Interface used by application/clients to
access service capability features.
**Output power (P~out~):** The mean power of one carrier of the UE, delivered
to a load with resistance equal to the nominal load impedance of the
transmitter.
## P
**Packet:** An information unit identified by a label at layer 3 of the OSI
reference model (source: ITU-T I.113). A network protocol data unit (NPDU).
**Packet data protocol (PDP):** Any protocol which transmits data as discrete
units known as packets, e.g., IP, or X.25.
**Packet transfer mode:** Also known as packet mode. A transfer mode in which
the transmission and switching functions are achieved by packet oriented
techniques, so as to dynamically share network transmission and switching
resources between a multiplicity of connections (source: ITU-T I.113).
**Padding:** One or more bits appended to a message in order to cause the
message to contain the required number of bits or bytes.
**Paging:** The act of seeking a User Equipment.
**Paging DRX cycle:** The individual time interval between monitoring Paging
Occasion for a specific UE
**Paging Block Periodicity (PBP):** The period of the occurrence of Paging
Blocks. (For FDD, PBP = 1).
**Paging Message Receiving Occasion:** The frame where the UE receives actual
paging message.
**Paging occasion:** The frame where the UE monitors in FDD or the paging
block, which consists of several frames, for TDD. For Paging Blocks, the value
of Paging Occasion is equal to the first frame of the Paging Block.
**Pass band:** The frequency range that the repeater operates in with
operational configuration. This frequency range can correspond to one or
several consecutive nominal channels. If they are not consecutive each subset
of channels shall be considered as an individual pass band.
**Peak bit rate:** A measure of throughput. The maximum bit rate offered to
the user for a given time period (to be defined) for the transfer of a bursty
signal (source: ITU-T I.210). (The maximum user information transfer rate
achievable by a user for a single service data unit transfer.)
**Performance:** The ability to track service and resource usage levels and to
provide feedback on the responsiveness and reliability of the network.
**Personal Service Environment:** contains personalised information defining
how subscribed services are provided and presented towards the user. Each
subscriber of the Home Environment has her own Personal Service Environment.
The Personal Service Environment is defined in terms of one or more **User
Profiles**.
**Personalisation:** The process of storing information in the ME and
activating the procedures which verify this information against the
corresponding information stored in applications on the (U)SIM whenever the ME
is powered up or when a UICC containing network access applications (SIM,
USIM, etc.) is inserted, in order to limit the applications with which the ME
will operate.
**Personalisation entity:** Network, network subset, SP, Corporate or (U)SIM
to which the ME is personalised
**Phonebook:** A dataset of personal or entity attributes. The simplest form
is a set of name-subscriber phone number pairs as supported by GSM (U)SIMs.
**Physical channel data stream:** In the uplink, a data stream that is
transmitted on one physical channel. In the downlink, a data stream that is
transmitted on one physical channel in each cell of the active set.
**Physical Channel:** In FDD mode, a physical channel is defined by code,
frequency and, in the uplink, relative phase (I/Q). In TDD mode, a physical
channel is defined by code, frequency, and time-slot.
**Pico cells:** \"Pico cells\" are cells, mainly indoor cells, with a radius
typically less than 50 metres.
**PICH Monitoring Occasion:** The time instance where the UE monitors PICH
within Paging Occasion.
**Pilot Identity:** A service specific public address used for initial
contact, associated with a group of publicly addressable identities (e.g.
E.164 numbers or SIP URI).
**PLMN Area:** The PLMN area is the geographical area in which a PLMN provides
communication services according to the specifications to mobile users. In the
PLMN area, the mobile user can set up calls to a user of a terminating
network. The terminating network may be a fixed network, the same PLMN,
another PLMN or other types of PLMN. Terminating network users can also set up
calls to the PLMN. The PLMN area is allocated to a PLMN. It is determined by
the service and network provider in accordance with any provisions laid down
under national law. In general the PLMN area is restricted to one country. It
can also be determined differently, depending on the different
telecommunication services, or type of MS. If there are several PLMNs in one
country, their PLMN areas may overlap. In border areas, the PLMN areas of
different countries may overlap. Administrations will have to take precautions
to ensure that cross border coverage is minimised in adjacent countries unless
otherwise agreed.
**PLMN Operator:** Public Land Mobile Network operator. The entity which
offers telecommunications services over an air interface..
**Plug-in SIM:** A physical form factor of SIM (see ID-000 SIM).
**point-to-multipoint service:** A service type in which data is sent to \"all
service subscribers or a pre-defined subset of all subscribers\" within an
area defined by the Service Requester.
**Point-to-point:** A value of the service attribute \"communication
configuration\", which denotes that the communication involves only two
network terminations.
**Point-to-point service:** A service type in which data is sent from a single
network termination to another network termination.
**Port:** A particular interface, of the specified equipment (apparatus), with
the electromagnetic environment. For example, any connection point on an
equipment intended for connection of cables to or from that equipment is
considered as a port.
**Ported number:** A MSISDN that has undergone the porting process.
**Ported subscriber:** The subscriber of a ported number.
**Porting process:** A description of the transfer of a number between network
operators.
**Power control dynamic range:** The difference between the maximum and the
minimum total transmit output power for a specified reference condition (TS
25.104).
**Power Saving Mode:** A mode of operation similar to power-off, allowing a UE
to greatly reduce its power consumption while remaining registered with the
network, without the need to re-attach or to re-establish PDN connections.
**Predictive service:** A service model which provides reliable performance,
but allowing a specified variance in the measured performance criteria.
**Prepay billing** : Billing arrangement between customer and operator/service
provider where the customer deposits an amount of money in advance, which is
subsequently used to pay for service usage.
**Postpay billing** : Billing arrangement between customer and
operator/service provider where the customer periodically receives a bill for
service usage in the past period.
**Proactive SIM:** A SIM, which is capable of issuing commands to the
Terminal. Part of SIM Application Toolkit.
**ProSe Communication:** A communication between two or more ProSe-enabled UEs
in proximity by means of a ProSe Communication path. Unless explicitly stated
otherwise, the term \"ProSe Communication\" refers to any/all of the
following:
\- ProSe E-UTRA Communication between only two ProSe-enabled UEs; or
\- ProSe Group Communication or ProSe Broadcast Communication among Public
Safety ProSe-enabled UEs; or
\- ProSe-assisted WLAN direct communication.
**ProSe Discovery:** A process that identifies that a ProSe-enabled UE is in
proximity of another, using E-UTRA (with or without E-UTRAN) or EPC.
**ProSe-enabled UE:** a UE that fulfills ProSe requirements for ProSe
Discovery and/or ProSe Communication. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, a
ProSe-enabled UE refers to any ProSe-enabled UE (i.e. Public Safety or not).
**Protocol:** A formal set of procedures that are adopted to ensure
communication between two or more functions within the within the same layer
of a hierarchy of functions (source: ITU-T I.112).
**Protocol data unit:** In the reference model for OSI, a unit of data
specified in an (N)-protocol layer and consisting of (N)-protocol control
information and possibly (N)-user data (source: ITU-T X.200 / ISO-IEC 7498-1).
**Public land mobile network:** A telecommunications network providing mobile
cellular services.
## Q
**QoS profile:** a QoS profile comprises a number of QoS parameters. A QoS
profile is associated with each QoS session. The QoS profile defines the
performance expectations placed on the bearer network.
**QoS session:** Lifetime of PDP context. The period between the opening and
closing of a network connection whose characteristics are defined by a QoS
profile. Multiple QoS sessions may exist, each with a different QoS profile.
**Quality of Service:** The collective effect of service performances which
determine the degree of satisfaction of a user of a service. It is
characterised by the combined aspects of performance factors applicable to all
services, such as;
\- service operability performance;
\- service accessibility performance;
\- service retainability performance;
\- service integrity performance; and
\- other factors specific to each service.
## R
**Radio access bearer:** The service that the access stratum provides to the
non-access stratum for transfer of user data between User Equipment and CN.
**Radio Access Mode:** Mode of the cell, FDD or TDD.
**Radio Access Network Information Management:** Functionality supporting the
exchange of information, via the Core Network, between peer application
entities located in a GERAN or in a UTRAN access network.
**RAN sharing:** Two or more CN operators share the same RAN, i.e. a RAN node
(RNC or BSC) is connected to multiple CN nodes (SGSNs and MSC/VLRs) belonging
to different CN operators.
**Radio Access Network Application Part:** Radio Network Signalling over the
Iu.
**Radio Access Network Operator:** Operator that offers radio access to one or
more core network operators.
**Radio Access Technology:** Type of technology used for radio access, for
instance E-UTRA, UTRA, GSM, CDMA2000 1xEV-DO (HRPD) or CDMA2000 1x (1xRTT).
**Radio Bearer:** The service provided by the Layer 2 for transfer of user
data between User Equipment and UTRAN.
**Radio communications equipment:** Telecommunications equipment which
includes one or more transmitters and/or receivers and/or parts thereof for
use in a fixed, mobile or portable application. It can be operated with
ancillary equipment but if so, is not dependent on it for basic functionality.
**Radio digital unit:** Equipment which contains base band and functionality
for controlling Radio unit.
**Radio equipment:** Equipment which contains Radio digital unit and Radio
unit.
**Radio frame:** A radio frame is a numbered time interval of 10 ms duration
used for data transmission on the radio physical channel. A radio frame is
divided into 15 time slots of 0.666 ms duration. The unit of data that is
mapped to a radio frame (10 ms time interval) may also be referred to as radio
frame.
**Radio interface:** The \"radio interface\" is the tetherless interface
between User Equipment and a UTRAN access point. This term encompasses all the
functionality required to maintain such interfaces.
**Radio link:** A \"radio link\" is a logical association between single User
Equipment and a single UTRAN access point. Its physical realisation comprises
one or more radio bearer transmissions.
**Radio link addition:** The procedure where a new radio link is added to the
active set.
**Radio Link Control:** A sublayer of radio interface layer 2 providing
transparent, unacknowledged and acknowledged data transfer service.
**Radio link removal:** The procedure where a radio link is removed from the
active set.
**Radio Link Set:** A set of one or more Radio Links that has a common
generation of Transmit Power Control (TPC) commands in the DL
**Radio Network Controller:** This equipment in the RNS is in charge of
controlling the use and the integrity of the radio resources.
**Radio Network Subsystem Application Part:** Radio Network Signalling over
the Iur.
**Radio Network Subsystem:** Either a full network or only the access part of
a UTRAN offering the allocation and the release of specific radio resources to
establish means of connection in between an UE and the UTRAN.\ A Radio Network
Subsystem is responsible for the resources and transmission/reception in a set
of cells.
**Radio Network Temporary Identifier:** A Radio Network Temporary Identifier
is a generic term of an identifier for a UE when an RRC connection exists.
Following types of RNTI are defined: Cell RNTI (C-RNTI), Serving RNC RNTI
(S-RNTI), UTRAN RNTI (U-RNTI) and GERAN RNTI (G-RNTI).
**Radio Resource Control:** A sublayer of radio interface Layer 3 existing in
the control plane only which provides information transfer service to the non-
access stratum. RRC is responsible for controlling the configuration of radio
interface Layers 1 and 2.
**Radio system:** the selected 2^nd^ or 3^rd^ generation radio access
technology, eg UTRAN or GERAN.
**Radio unit:** Equipment which contains transmitter and receiver.
**Rated Output Power:** For FDD BS, rated output power is the mean power level
per carrier that the manufacturer has decared to be available at the antenna
connector. For TDD BS rated output power is the mean power level per carrier
over an active timeslot that the manufacturer has declared to be available at
the antenna connector.
**RE power control dynamic range:** The difference between the power of a RE
and the average RE power for a BS at maximum output power for a specified
reference condition.
**Real time:** Time, typically in number of seconds, to perform the on-line
mechanism used for fraud control and cost control.
**Received Signal Code Power:** Given only signal power is received, the
average power of the received signal after despreading and combining.
**Receiver Antenna Gain (dBi):** The maximum gain of the receiver antenna in
the horizontal plane (specified as dB relative to an isotropic radiator).
**Receiver exclusion band:** The receiver exclusion band is the band of
frequencies over which no tests of radiated immunity of a receiver are made.
The exclusion band for receivers is expressed relative to the base station
receive band.
**Receiver Noise Figure (dB):** Receiver noise figure is the noise figure of
the receiving system referenced to the receiver input.
**Receiver Sensitivity (dBm):** This is the signal level needed at the
receiver input that just satisfies the required Eb/(No+Io).
**Recipient network:** The network which receives the number in the porting
process. This network becomes the subscription network when the porting
process is complete.
**Record:** A string of bytes within an EF handled as a single entity.
**Record number:** The number, which identifies a record within an EF.
**Record pointer:** The pointer, which addresses one record in an EF.
**Reference bandwidth:** The bandwidth in which an emission level is
specified.
**Reference configuration:** A combination of functional groups and reference
points that shows possible network arrangements (source: ITU-T I.112).
**Reference point:** A conceptual point at the conjunction of two non-
overlapping functional groups (source: ITU-T I.112).
**Regionally Provided Service:** A service entitlement to only certain
geographical part(s) of a PLMN, as controlled by the network operator.
**Registration:** This is the process of camping on a cell of the PLMN and
doing any necessary LRs.
**Registered PLMN (RPLMN):** This is the PLMN on which the UE has performed a
location registration successfully.
**Registration Area:** A (NAS) registration area is an area in which the UE
may roam without a need to perform location registration, which is a NAS
procedure.
**Relay:** Terminal devices capable of ODMA relay communications.
**Relay/Seed Gateway:** Relay or Seed that communicates with the UTRAN, in
either TDD or FDD mode.
**Relaylink:** Relaylink is a communications link between two ODMA relay
nodes.
**Release 99:** A particular version of the 3GPP System standards produced by
the 3GPP project. Also: Release 4, Release 5, Release 6 etc..
**Repeater:** A device that receives, amplifies and transmits the radiated or
conducted RF carrier both in the down-link direction (from the base station to
the mobile area) and in the up-link direction (from the mobile to the base
station)
**Requested QoS:** a QoS profile is requested at the beginning of a QoS
session. QoS modification requests are also possible during the lifetime of a
QoS session.
**Required Eb/(No+Io) (dB):** The ratio between the received energy per
information bit to the total effective noise and interference power density
needed to satisfy the quality objectives.
**Residual error rate:** A parameter describing service accuracy. The
frequency of lost SDUs, and of corrupted or duplicated network SDUs delivered
at the user-network interface.
**Retrieval service:** An interactive service which provides the capability of
accessing information stored in data base centres. The information will be
sent to the user on demand only. The information is retrieved on an individual
basis, i.e., the time at which an information sequence is to start is under
the control of the user (source ITU-T I.113).
**Roaming:** The ability for a user to function in a serving network different
from the home network. The serving network could be a shared network operated
by two or more network operator.
**Root directory:** Obsolete term for Master File.
**Root Relay:** ODMA relay node where communications originate or terminate.
**RRC Connection:** A point-to-point bi-directional connection between RRC
peer entities on the UE and the UTRAN sides, respectively. An UE has either
zero or one RRC connection.
**RRC filtered mean power:** The mean power of a UTRA carrier as measured
through a root raised cosine filter with roll-off factor a and a bandwidth
equal to the chip rate of the radio access mode.
NOTE 1: The RRC filtered mean power of a perfectly modulated UTRA signal is
0.246 dB lower than the mean power of the same signal.
## S
**S1:** interface between an eNB and an EPC, providing an interconnection
point between the EUTRAN and the EPC. It is also considered as a reference
point.
**SDU error probability:** The ratio of total incorrect service data units
(SDUs) to total successfully transferred service data units plus incorrect
service data units in a specified sample (source: ITU-T X.140).
NOTE: the source document term \"user information unit\" has been replaced by
the term \"service data unit\".
**SDU loss probability:** The ratio of total lost service data units (SDUs) to
total transmitted service data units in a specified sample (source: ITU-T
X.140).
NOTE: the source document term \"user information unit\" has been replaced by
the term \"service data unit\".
**SDU misdelivery probability:** The ratio of total misdelivered service data
units (SDUs) to total service data units transferred between a specified
source and destination user in a specified sample (source: ITU-T X.140).
NOTE: the source document term \"user information unit\" has been replaced by
the term \"service data unit\".
**SDU transfer delay:** The value of elapsed time between the start of
transfer and successful transfer of a specified service data unit (SDU)
(source: ITU-T X.140).
NOTE: the source document term \"user information unit\" has been replaced by
the term \"service data unit\".
**SDU transfer rate:** The total number of successfully transferred service
data units (SDUs) in a transfer sample divided by the input/output time for
that sample. The input/output time is the larger of the input time or the
output time for the sample (source: ITU-T X.140).
NOTE: the source document term \"user information unit\" has been replaced by
the term \"service data unit\".
**Seamless handover:** \"Seamless handover\" is a handover without perceptible
interruption of the radio connection.
**Sector:** A \"sector\" is a sub‑area of a cell. All sectors within one cell
are served by the same base station. A radio link within a sector can be
identified by a single logical identification belonging to that sector.
**Secured Packet:** The information flow on top of which the level of required
security has been applied. An Application Message is transformed with respect
to a chosen Transport Layer and chosen level of security into one or more
Secured Packets.
**Security:** The ability to prevent fraud as well as the protection of
information availability, integrity and confidentiality.
**Seed:** Deployed ODMA relay node with or without a display/keypad.
**Selected IP Traffic Offload (SIPTO):** Offload of selected types of IP
traffic (e.g. internet traffic) towards a defined IP network close to the
UE\'s point of attachment to the access network. SIPTO is applicable to
traffic offload for the macro-cellular access network and for the H(e)NB
subsystem.
**Selected PLMN:** This is the PLMN that has been selected by the non-access
stratum, either manually or automatically.
**Service:** a component of the portfolio of choices offered by service
providers to a user, a functionality offered to a user.
**Service-less UE:** A UE that has only the Baseline capabilities.
**Service Access Point:** A conceptual point where a protocol layer offers
access to its services to upper layer.
**Service Area:** The Service Area is defined in the same way as the Service
Area according to ITU-T Recommendation Q.1001 [4]. In contrast to the PLMN
area it is not based on the coverage of a PLMN. Instead it is based on the
area in which a fixed network user can call a mobile user without knowing his
location. The Service Area can therefore change when the signalling system is
being extended, for example.
**Service attribute:** A specified characteristic of a telecommunication
service (source: ITU-T I.112).
NOTE: the value(s) assigned to one or more service attributes may be used to
distinguish that telecommunications service from others.
**Service bit rate:** The bit rate that is available to a user for the
transfer of user information (source: ITU-T I.113).
**Service Capabilities:** Bearers defined by parameters, and/or mechanisms
needed to realise services. These are within networks and under network
control.
**Service Capability Feature:** Functionality offered by service capabilities
that are accessible via the standardised application interface
**Service Capability Server:** Network functionality providing open interfaces
towards the functionality offered by 3GPP System service capabilities.
**Service category or service class:** A service offered to the users
described by a set of performance parameters and their specified values,
limits or ranges. The set of parameters provides a comprehensive description
of the service capability.
**Service Continuity:** The uninterrupted user experience of a service that is
using an active communication (e.g. an ongoing voice call) when a UE undergoes
a radio access technology change or a CS/PS domain change without, as far as
possible, the user noticing the change.
NOTE: In particular Service Continuity encompasses the possibility that after
a RAT / domain change the user experience is maintained by a different
telecommunication service (e.g. tele- or bearer service) than before the RAT /
domain change.
**Service Control:** The ability of the user, home environment or serving
environment to determine what a particular service does, for a specific
invocation of that service, within the limitations of that service.
**Service Data Unit (SDU):** In the reference model for OSI, an amount of
information whose identity is preserved when transferred between peer
(N+1)-layer entities and which is not interpreted by the supporting (N)-layer
entities (source: ITU-T X.200 / ISO-IEC 7498-1).
**Service delay:** The time elapsed from the invocation of the service
request, to the corresponding service request indication at the Service
Receiver, indicating the arrival of application data.
**Service Enabler** : a capability which may be used, either by itself or in
conjunction with other service enablers, to provide a service to the end user.
**Service Execution Environment:** A platform on which an application or
programme is authorised to perform a number of functionalities; examples of
service execution environments are the user equipment, integrated circuit card
and a network platform or any other server.
**Service Feature:** Functionality that a 3GPP System shall offer to enable
provision of services. Services, are made up of different service features.
**Service Implementation Capabilities:** Set of implementation capabilities,
in each technical domain, required to enable a UE to support a set of UE
Service Capabilities.
**Service model:** A general characterisation of services based upon a QoS
paradigm, without specifying the actual performance targets.
**Service Provider:** A Service Provider is either a network operator or an
other entity that provides services to a subscriber (e.g. a MVNO)
**Service receiver:** The entity which receives the service request indication
primitive, containing the SDU.
**Service relationship:** The association between two or more entities engaged
in the provision of services.
**Service request:** This is defined as being one invocation of the service
through a service request primitive.
**Service requester:** The entity which requests the initiation of a GPRS
operation, through a service request.
**Service Specific Entities:** Entities dedicated to the provisioning of a
given (set of) service(s). The fact that they are implemented or not in a
given PLMN should have limited impact on all the other entities of the PLMN.
**Service subscriber:** Entity which subscribes to the General Packet Radio
Service (GPRS) service.
**Services (of a mobile cellular system):** The set of unctions that the
mobile cellular system can make available to the user.
**Serving BSS:** A role a BSS can take with respect to a specific connection
between an MS and GERAN. There is one Serving BSS for each MS that has a
connection to GERAN. The Serving BSS is in charge of the RRC connection
between an MS and the GERAN. The Serving BSS terminates the Iu for this
connection.
**Serving Network:** The serving network provides the user with access to the
services of home environment.
**Serving RNS:** A role an RNS can take with respect to a specific connection
between an UE and UTRAN. There is one Serving RNS for each UE that has a
connection to UTRAN. The Serving RNS is in charge of the RRC connection
between a UE and the UTRAN. The Serving RNS terminates the Iu for this
connection.
**Settlement:** Payment of amounts resulting from the accounting process.
**Shared Channel:** A radio resource (transport channel or physical channel)
that can be shared dynamically between several UEs.
**Shared Network:** When two or more network operator sharing network
elements.
**Short File Identifier (SFI): A 5-bit abbreviated name for a file in a
directory on the UICC.**
**Short time:** Time, typically in number of minutes, to perform the off-line
mechanism used for accounting.
**Signalling:** The exchange of information specifically concerned with the
establishment and control of connections, and with management, in a
telecommunications network (source: ITU-T I.112).
**Signalling connection:** An acknowledged-mode link between the user
equipment and the core network to transfer higher layer information between
the entities in the non-access stratum**.**
**Signalling link:** Provides an acknowledged-mode link layer to transfer the
UE-UTRAN signalling messages as well as UE - Core Network signalling messages
(using the signalling connection.
**SIM application toolkit procedures:** The portion of the communication
protocol between the ME and the UICC that enables applications on the UICC to
send commands to the ME.
**SIM code:** Code which when combined with the network and NS codes refers to
a unique SIM. The code is provided by the digits 8 to 15 of the IMSI
**(U)SIM code group:** Combination of the (U)SIM code and the associated
network subset and network codes (it is equivalent to the IMSI).
**(U)SIM personalisation:** Enables a user to personalise a ME so that it may
only be used with particular (U)SIM(s).
**Simultaneous use of services:** The concurrent use of a circuit-mode service
(voice or data) and packet-mode services (GPRS) by a single mobile station.
**Soft Handover:** Soft handover is a category of handover procedures where
the radio links are added and abandoned in such manner that the UE always
keeps at least one radio link to the UTRAN.
**SP code:** code which when combined with the network code refers to a unique
SP. The code is provided in the GID1 file on the SIM (see Annex A.1.) and is
correspondingly stored on the ME.
**SP code group:** Combination of the SP code and the associated network code.
**SP personalisation:** Allows the service provider to personalise a ME so
that it can only be used with that particular service provider\'s (U)SIMs.
**Speed:** A performance criterion that describes the time interval required
to perform a function or the rate at which the function is performed. (The
function may or may not be performed with the desired accuracy.) (source:
ITU-T I.350).
**SRNC Radio Network Temporary Identifier (S-RNTI):** S-RNTI is UE identifier
which is allocated by the Serving RNC and unique within this SRNC. It is
allocated for all UEs having a RRC connection. S-RNTI is reallocated always
when the Serving RNC for the RRC connection is changed and deallocated when
the RRC connection is released.
**SRNS Relocation:** The change of Iu instance and transfer of the SRNS role
to another RNS.
**Stratum:** Grouping of protocols related to one aspect of the services
provided by one or several domains.
**Steering of Roaming:** A technique whereby a roaming UE is encouraged to
roam to a preferred VPLMN by the HPLMN.
**Sub Network Management Functions:** Set of functions that are related to a
network model for a set of network elements constituting a clearly defined
sub-network, which may include relations between the network elements. This
model enables additional functions on the sub-network level (typically in the
areas of network topology presentation, alarm correlation, service impact
analysis and circuit provisioning).
**Subscribed QoS:** The network will not grant a QoS greater than the
subscribed. The QoS profile subscription parameters are held in the HLR. An
end user may have several QoS subscriptions. For security and the prevention
of damage to the network, the end user cannot directly modify the QoS
subscription profile data.
**Subscriber:** A Subscriber is an entity (associated with one or more users)
that is engaged in a Subscription with a service provider. The subscriber is
allowed to subscribe and unsubscribe services, to register a user or a list of
users authorised to enjoy these services, and also to set the limits relative
to the use that associated users make of these services.
**Subscription:** A subscription describes the commercial relationship between
the subscriber and the service provider.
**Subscription Management (SuM):** set of capabilities that allow Operators,
Service Providers, and indirectly subscribers, to provision, control, monitor
the Subscription Profile.
**Suitable Cell:** This is a cell on which an UE may camp. It must satisfy
certain conditions.
**Supplementary service:** A service which modifies or supplements a basic
telecommunication service. Consequently, it cannot be offered to a user as a
standalone service. It must be offered together with or in association with a
basic telecommunication service. The same supplementary service may be common
to a number of basic telecommunication services.
**System Area:** The System Area is defined as the group of PLMN areas
accessible by MSs. Interworking of several PLMNs and interworking between
PLMNs and fixed network(s) permit public land mobile communication services at
international level.
## T
**Teleaction service:** A type of telecommunication service that uses short
messages, requiring a low transmission rate, between the user and the network
(source: ITU-T I.112).
**Telecommunication port:** Ports which are intended to be connected to
telecommunication networks (e.g. public switched telecommunication networks,
integrated services digital networks), local area networks (e.g. Ethernet,
Token Ring) and similar networks.
**Telecommunication service:** What is offered by a PLMN operator or service
provider to its customers in order to satisfy a specific telecommunication
requirement. (source: ITU-T I.112). Telecommunication services are divided
into two broad families: bearer services and teleservices (source: ITU-T
I.210).
**Teleservice:** Is a type of telecommunication service that provides the
complete capability, including terminal equipment functions, for communication
between users according to standardised protocols and transmission
capabilities established by agreement between operators.
**Terminal:** A device into which a UICC can be inserted and which is capable
of providing access to 3GPP System services to users, either alone or in
conjunction with a UICC.
**Terminal Equipment (TE):** Equipment that provides the functions necessary
for the operation of the access protocols by the user. A functional group on
the user side of a user-network interface (source: ITU-T I.112).
**Test environment:** A \"test environment\" is the combination of a test
propagation environment and a deployment scenario, which together describe the
parameters necessary to perform a detailed analysis of a radio transmission
technology.
Text conversation: Real time transfer of text between users in at least two
locations.
**Text Telephony:** An audiovisual conversation service providing bi-
directional real time transfer of text and optionally audio between users in
two locations. Audio may be transmitted alternating with text or
simultaneously with text. (Source ITU-T F.703)
**Transient phenomenon:** Pertaining to or designating a phenomenon or a
quantity which varies between two consecutive steady states during a time
interval short compared with the time-scale of interest (IEC 60050-161 [6]).
**Throughput:** A parameter describing service speed. The number of data bits
successfully transferred in one direction between specified reference points
per unit time (source: ITU-T I.113).
**Toolkit applet:** An application on the UICC that generates proactive
commands to the ME.
**Total Conversation** : An audiovisual conversation service providing bi-
directional symmetric real-time transfer of motion video, text and voice
between users in two or more locations. (source ITU-T F.703)
**Total power dynamic range:** The difference between the maximum and the
minimum total transmit output power for a specified reference condition
(TS25.104).
**Traffic channel:** A \"traffic channel\" is a logical channel which carries
user information.
**Transit delay:** A parameter describing service speed. The time difference
between the instant at which the first bit of a protocol data unit (PDU)
crosses one designated boundary (reference point), and the instant at which
the last bit of the PDU crosses a second designated boundary (source: ITU-T
I.113).
**Transmission bandwidth:** Bandwidth of an instantaneous transmission from a
UE or BS, measured in Resource Block units.
**Transmission bandwidth configuration:** The highest transmission bandwidth
allowed for uplink or downlink in a given channel bandwidth, measured in
Resource Block units.
**Transmission Time Interval:** Transmission Time Interval is defined as the
inter-arrival time of Transport Block Sets, i.e. the time it shall take to
transmit a Transport Block Set.
**Transmitter Antenna Gain (dBi):** The maximum gain of the transmitter
antenna in the horizontal plane (specified as dB relative to an isotropic
radiator.
**Transmitter exclusion band:** The transmitter exclusion band is the band of
frequencies over which no tests of radiated immunity of a transmitter are
made. The exclusion band for transmitters is expressed relative to the carrier
frequencies used (the carrier frequencies of the base stations activated
transmitter(s).
**Transmitter OFF period:** The time period during which the BS transmitter is
not allowed to transmit.
**Transmitter ON period:** The time period during which the BS transmitter is
transmitting data and/or reference symbols, i.e. data subframes or DwPTS.
**Transmitter transient period:** The time period during which the transmitter
is changing from the OFF period to the ON period or vice versa.
**Transport Block:** Transport Block is defined as the basic data unit
exchanged between L1 and MAC. An equivalent term for Transport Block is \"MAC
PDU\".
**Transport Block Set:** Transport Block Set is defined as a set of Transport
Blocks that is exchanged between L1 and MAC at the same time instance using
the same transport channel. An equivalent term for Transport Block Set is
\"MAC PDU Set\".
**Transport Block Set Size:** Transport Block Set Size is defined as the
number of bits in a Transport Block Set.
**Transport Block Size:** Transport Block Size is defined as the size (number
of bits) of a Transport Block.
**Transport channel:** The channels offered by the physical layer to Layer 2
for data transport between peer L1 entities are denoted as Transport Channels.
Different types of transport channels are defined by how and with which
characteristics data is transferred on the physical layer, e.g. whether using
dedicated or common physical channels.
**Transport Format:** A Transport Format is defined as a format offered by L1
to MAC for the delivery of a Transport Block Set during a Transmission Time
Interval on a Transport Channel. The Transport Format constitutes of two parts
-- one dynamic part and one semi-static part.
**Transport Format Combination:** A Transport Format Combination is defined as
the combination of currently valid Transport Formats on all Transport Channels
of an UE, i.e. containing one Transport Format from each Transport Channel.
**Transport Format Combination Set:** A Transport Format Combination Set is
defined as a set of Transport Format Combinations to be used by an UE.
**Transport Format Combination Indicator (TFCI):** A Transport Format
Combination Indicator is a representation of the current Transport Format
Combination.
**Transport Format Identification (TFI in UTRAN, TFIN in GERAN):** A label for
a specific Transport Format within a Transport Format Set.
**Transport Format Set:** A set of Transport Formats. For example, a variable
rate DCH has a Transport Format Set (one Transport Format for each rate),
whereas a fixed rate DCH has a single Transport Format.
## U
**UE Service Capabilities:** Capabilities that can be used either singly or in
combination to deliver services to the user. The characteristic of UE Service
Capabilities is that their logical function can be defined in a way that is
independent of the implementation of the 3GPP System (although all UE Service
Capabilities are of course constrained by the implementation of the 3GPP
System). Examples: a data bearer of 144 kbps; a high quality speech
teleservice; an IP teleservice; a capability to forward a speech call.
**UICC:** a physically secure device, an IC card (or \'smart card\'), that can
be inserted and removed from the terminal. It may contain one or more
applications. One of the applications may be a USIM.
**Universal Subscriber Identity Module (USIM):** An application residing on
the UICC used for accessing services provided by mobile networks, which the
application is able to register on with the appropriate security.
**Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (UTRAN):** UTRAN is a conceptual
term identifying that part of the network which consists of RNCs and Node Bs
between Iu and Uu interfaces.
**Usage Parameter Control (UPC):** Set of actions taken by the network to
monitor and control the offered traffic and the validity of the connection
with respect to the traffic contract negotiated between the user and the
network.
**Uplink:** An \"uplink\" is a unidirectional radio link for the transmission
of signals from a UE to a base station, from a Mobile Station to a mobile base
station or from a mobile base station to a base station.
**Uplink operating band:** The part of the operating band designated for
uplink.
**Uplink Pilot Timeslot:** Uplink part of the special subframe (for TDD
operation)
**Upper RF bandwidth edge:** The frequency of the upper edge of the Base
Station RF bandwidth, used as a frequency reference point for transmitter and
receiver requirements
**URA updating:** URA updating is a family of procedures that updates the
UTRAN registration area of a UE when a RRC connection exists and the position
of the UE is known on URA level in the UTRAN.
**User:** An entity, not part of the 3GPP System , which uses 3GPP System
services. Example: a person using a 3GPP System mobile station as a portable
telephone.
**User-network interface:** The interface between the terminal equipment and a
network termination at which interface the access protocols apply (source:
ITU-T I.112).
**User-user protocol:** A protocol that is adopted between two or more users
in order to ensure communication between them (source: ITU-T I.112).
**User access or user network access:** The means by which a user is connected
to a telecommunication network in order to use the services and/or facilities
of that network (source: ITU-T I.112).
**User Equipment (UE):** Allows a user access to network services. For the
purpose of 3GPP specifications the interface between the UE and the network is
the radio interface. A User Equipment can be subdivided into a number of
domains, the domains being separated by reference points. Currently the User
Equipment is subdivided into the UICC domain and the ME Domain. The ME Domain
can further be subdivided into one or more Mobile Termination (MT) and
Terminal Equipment (TE) components showing the connectivity between multiple
functional groups.
In the context of Fixed Broadband Access to IMS, TISPAN defines the term UE in
ETSI TR180 000 [5].
**User Interface Profile:** Contains information to present the personalised
user interface within the capabilities of the terminal and serving network.
**User Services Profile:** Contains identification of subscriber services,
their status and reference to service preferences.
**UTRA Radio access mode:** the selected UTRA radio access mode ie UTRA-
FDD;UTRA-TDD.
**UTRA-NTDD:** Time Division Duplex UTRA access mode 1.28 Mcps option
**UTRA-TDD:** Time Division Duplex UTRA Radio access mode (Includes UTRA-NTDD
and UTRA-WTDD)
**UTRA-WTDD** : Time Division Duplex UTRA access mode 3.84 Mcps option
**UTRAN access point:** A conceptual point within the UTRAN performing radio
transmission and reception. A UTRAN access point is associated with one
specific cell, i.e. there exists one UTRAN access point for each cell. It is
the UTRAN-side end point of a radio link.
**UTRAN Registration Area:** The UTRAN Registration Area is an area covered by
a number of cells. The URA is only internally known in the UTRAN.
**UTRAN Radio Network Temporary Identifier:** The U-RNTI is a unique UE
identifier that consists of two parts, an SRNC identifier and a C-RNTI. U-RNTI
is allocated to an UE having a RRC connection. It identifies the UE within
UTRAN and is used as an UE identifier in cell update, URA update, RRC
connection reestablishment and (UTRAN originated) paging messages and
associated responses on the radio interface.
**User Profile:** Is the set of information necessary to provide a user with a
consistent, personalised service environment, irrespective of the user's
location or the terminal used (within the limitations of the terminal and the
serving network).
**Uu:** The Radio interface between UTRAN and the User Equipment.
## V
**Value Added Service Provider:** Provides services other than basic
telecommunications service for which additional charges may be incurred.
**Variable bit rate service:** A type of telecommunication service
characterised by a service bit rate specified by statistically expressed
parameters which allow the bit rate to vary within defined limits (source:
ITU-T I.113).
**Virtual Home Environment:** A concept for personal service environment
portability across network boundaries and between terminals.
**Virtual Machine: A software program that simulates a hypothetical computer
central processing unit. The programs executed by a virtual machine are
represented as byte codes, which are primitive operations for this
hypothetical computer**.
**Visited PLMN:** This is a PLMN different from the HPLMN (if the EHPLMN list
is not present or is empty) or different from an EHPLMN (if the EHPLMN list is
present).
**Visited PLMN of home country:** This is a Visited PLMN where the MCC part of
the PLMN identity is the same as the MCC of the IMSI.
## W
**WTDD** : Wide TDD -- the 3.84 Mcps chip rate UTRA-TDD option.
**WLAN UE: WLAN User Equipment:** \-- a UE (equipped with UICC card including
(U)SIM) utilized by a subscriber capable of accessing a WLAN network. A WLAN
UE may include entities whose configuration, operation and software
environment are not under the exclusive control of the 3GPP system operator,
such as a laptop computer or PDA with a WLAN card, UICC card reader and
suitable software applications.
## X
\
## Y
\
## Z
\
# 4 Abbreviations
## 0-9
1x RTT CDMA2000 1x Radio Transmission Technology
2G 2^nd^ Generation
3G 3^rd^ Generation
3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project
8-PSK 8-state Phase Shift Keying
## A
A-SGW Access Signalling Gateway
A3 Authentication algorithm A3
A38 A single algorithm performing the functions of A3 and A8
A5/1 Encryption algorithm A5/1
A5/2 Encryption algorithm A5/2
A5/X Encryption algorithm A5/0-7
A8 Ciphering key generating algorithm A8
AAL ATM Adaptation Layer
AAL2 ATM Adaptation Layer type 2
AAL5 ATM Adaptation Layer type 5
AB Access Burst
AC Access Class (C0 to C15)
Access Condition
Application Context
Authentication Centre
ACC Automatic Congestion Control
ACELP Algebraic Code Excited Linear Prediction
ACCH Associated Control Channel
ACIR Adjacent Channel Interference Ratio
ACK Acknowledgement
ACL APN Control List
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Power Ratio
ACM Accumulated Call Meter
Address Complete Message
ACMmax ACM (Accumulated Call Meter) maximal value
ACRR Adjacent Channel Rejection Ratio
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
ACU Antenna Combining Unit
ADC Administration Centre
Analogue to Digital Converter
ADCH Associated Dedicated Channel
ADF Application Dedicated File
ADM Access condition to an EF which is under the control of the authority
which creates this file
ADN Abbreviated Dialling Numbers
ADPCM Adaptive Differential Pulse Code Modulation
AE Application Entity
AEC Acoustic Echo Control
AEF Additional Elementary Functions
AESA ATM End System Address
AFC Automatic Frequency Control
AGCH Access Grant CHannel
Ai Action indicator
AI Acquisition Indicator
AICH Acquisition Indicator Channel
AID Application IDentifier
AIUR Air Interface User Rate
AK Anonymity Key
AKA Authentication and Key Agreement
AKI Asymmetric Key Index
ALCAP Access Link Control Application Protocol
ALSI Application Level Subscriber Identity
ALW ALWays
AM Acknowledged Mode
AMF Authentication Management Field
AMN Artificial Mains Network
AMR Adaptive Multi Rate
AMR-WB Adaptive Multi Rate Wide Band
AN Access Network
ANP Access Network Provider
AoC Advice of Charge
AoCC Advice of Charge Charging
AoCI Advice of Charge Information
AP Access preamble
APDU Application Protocol Data Unit
API Application Programming Interface
APN Access Point Name
ARFCN Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
ARP Address Resolution Protocol
ARQ Automatic Repeat ReQuest
ARR Access Rule Reference
AS Access Stratum
ASC Access Service Class
ASCI Advanced Speech Call Items
ASE Application Service Element
ASN.1 Abstract Syntax Notation One
AT command ATtention Command
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
ATR Answer To Reset
ATT (flag) Attach
AU Access Unit
AuC Authentication Centre
AUT(H) Authentication
AUTN Authentication token
AWGN Additive White Gaussian Noise
## B
B-ISDN Broadband ISDN
BA BCCH Allocation
BAIC Barring of All Incoming Calls
BAOC Barring of All Outgoing Calls
BC Band Category
BCC Base Transceiver Station (BTS) Colour Code
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
BCD Binary Coded Decimal
BCF Base station Control Function
BCFE Broadcast Control Functional Entity
BCH Broadcast Channel
BCIE Bearer Capability Information Element
BDN Barred Dialling Number
BER Bit Error Ratio
Basic Encoding Rules (of ASN.1)
BFI Bad Frame Indication
BG Border Gateway
BGT Block Guard Time
BI all Barring of Incoming call
BIC Baseline Implementation Capabilities
BIC-Roam Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming outside the home PLMN country
BID Binding Identity
BLER Block Error Ratio
Bm Full-rate traffic channel
BMC Broadcast/Multicast Control
BN Bit Number
BO all Barring of Outgoing call
BOC Bell Operating Company
BOIC Barring of Outgoing International Calls
BOIC-exHC Barring of Outgoing International Calls except those directed to the
Home PLMN Country
BPSK Binary Phase Shift Keying
BS Base Station
Basic Service (group)
Bearer Service
BSG Basic Service Group
BSC Base Station Controller
BSIC Base transceiver Station Identity Code
BSIC-NCELL BSIC of an adjacent cell
BSR Buffer Status Report
BSS Base Station Subsystem
BSSAP Base Station Subsystem Application Part
BSSGP Base Station Subsystem GPRS Protocol
BSSMAP Base Station Subsystem Management Application Part
BSSOMAP Base Station Subsystem Operation and Maintenance Application Part
BTFD Blind Transport Format Detection
BTS Base Transceiver Station
BVC BSS GPRS Protocol Virtual Connection
BVCI BSS GPRS Protocol Virtual Connection Identifier
BW Bandwidth
BWT Block Waiting Time
## C
C Conditional
C- Control-
C/I Carrier-to-Interference Power Ratio
CA Carrier Aggregation
C-APDU Command APDU
C-RNTI Cell Radio Network Temporary Identity
C-TPDU Command TPDU
CA Capacity Allocation
Cell Allocation
Certification Authority
CAA Capacity Allocation Acknowledgement
CAD Card Acceptance Device
CAI Charge Advice Information
CAMEL Customised Application for Mobile network Enhanced Logic
CAP CAMEL Application Part
CAZAC Constant Amplitude Zero Auto-Correlation
CB Cell Broadcast
CBC Cell Broadcast Centre
Cipher Block Chaining
CBCH Cell Broadcast CHannel
CBMI Cell Broadcast Message Identifier
CBR Constant Bit Rate
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
CC Call Control
Country Code
Cryptographic Checksum
Component Carrier
CC/PP Composite Capability/Preference Profiles
CCBS Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber
CCCH Common Control Channel
CCE Control Channel Element
CCF Call Control Function
CCH Control Channel
CCI Capability / Configuration Identifier
CCITT Comité Consultatif International Télégraphique et Téléphonique (The
International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee)
CCK Corporate Control Key
CCM Certificate Configuration Message
Current Call Meter
CCO Cell Change Order
CCP Capability/Configuration Parameter
CCPCH Common Control Physical Channel
Cct Circuit
CCTrCH Coded Composite Transport Channel
CD Capacity Deallocation
Collision Detection
CDA Capacity Deallocation Acknowledgement
CDCH Control-plane Dedicated CHannel
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access
CDN Coupling/Decoupling Network
CDR Charging Data Record
CDUR Chargeable DURation
CED called station identifier
CEIR Central Equipment Identity Register
CEND end of charge point
CEPT Conférence des administrations Européennes des Postes et
Telecommunications
CF Conversion Facility
all Call Forwarding services
CFB Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Busy
CFN Connection Frame Number
CFNRc Call Forwarding on mobile subscriber Not Reachable
CFNRy Call Forwarding on No Reply
CFU Call Forwarding Unconditional
CGI Common Gateway Interface
Cell Global Identifier
CHAP Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol
CHP CHarging Point
CHV Card Holder Verification information
CI Cell Identity
CUG index
CID Cell-ID (positioning method)
CIM Common Information Model
CIR Carrier to Interference Ratio
CK Cipher Key
CKSN Ciphering Key Sequence Number
CLA CLAss
CLI Calling Line Identity
CLIP Calling Line Identification Presentation
CLIR Calling Line Identification Restriction
CLK Clock
CM Connection Management
CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert Service
CMC Connection Mobility Control
CMD Command
CMIP Common Management Information Protocol
CMISE Common Management Information Service
CMM Channel Mode Modify
CN Core Network
Comfort Noise
CNAP Calling Name Presentation
CNG Calling Tone
CNL Co-operative Network List
CNTR Counter
CLNP Connectionless network protocol
CLNS Connectionless network service
COLI COnnected Line Identity
COLP COnnected Line identification Presentation
COLR COnnected Line identification Restriction
COM COMplete
CONNACK Connect Acknowledgement
CONS Connection-oriented network service
CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture
CP Cyclic prefix
CP-Admin Certificate Present (in the MExE SIM)-Administrator
CP-TP Certificate Present (in the MExE SIM)-Third Party
CPBCCH COMPACT Packet BCCH
CPICH Common Pilot Channel
CPCH Common Packet Channel
CPCS Common Part Convergence Sublayer
CPS Common Part Sublayer
CPU Central Processing Unit
C-plane Control Plane
C/R Command/Response field bit
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CRE Call Ree-establishment procedure
CRNC Controlling Radio Network Controller
CS-GW Circuit Switched Gateway
CS Circuit Switched
Coding Scheme
CSCF Call Server Control Function
CSD Circuit Switched Data
CSE Camel Service Environment
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
CSGID Closed Subscriber Group Identity
CSI Channel State Information
CSPDN Circuit Switched Public Data Network
CT Call Transfer supplementary service
Channel Tester
Channel Type
CTCH Common Traffic Channel
CTDMA Code Time Division Multiple Access
CTFC _Calculated Transport Format Combination_
CTM Cellular Text telephone Modem
CTR Common Technical Regulation
CTS Cordless Telephony System
CUG Closed User Group
CW Call Waiting
Continuous Wave (unmodulated signal)
CWI Character Waiting Integer
CWT Character Waiting Time
C-RNTI Cell RNTI
## D
DAC Digital to Analog Converter
DAD Destination ADress
DAM DECT Authentication Module
DB Dummy Burst
DC Dedicated Control (SAP)
Direct Current
DCA Dynamic Channel Allocation
DCCH Dedicated Control Channel
DCE Data Circuit terminating Equipment
DCF Data Communication Function
DCH Dedicated Channel
DCI Downlink Control Information
DCK Depersonalisation Control Key
DCN Data Communication Network
DCS Data Coding Scheme
DCS1800 Digital Cellular Network at 1800MHz
DC-HSDPA Dual Cell HSDPA
DDI Direct Dial In
DECT Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications
DET Detach
DES Data Encryption Standard
DF Dedicated File
DFT Discrete Fourier Transformation
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
DHO Diversity Handover
diff-serv Differentiated services
DISC Disconnect
DL Data Layer
Downlink (Forward Link)
DLCI Data Link Connection Identifier
DLD Data Link Discriminator
DL-SCH Downlink Shared channel
Dm Control channel (ISDN terminology applied to mobile service)
DMR Digital Mobile Radio
DMTF Distributed Management Task Force
DN Destination Network
DNIC Data Network Identifier
DNS Directory Name Service
DO Data Object
DP Dial/Dialled Pulse
DPCCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel
DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel
DPDCH Dedicated Physical Data Channel
DRAC Dynamic Resource Allocation Control
DRB Data Radio Bearer
DRNC Drift Radio Network Controller
DRNS Drift RNS
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DS-CDMA Direct-Sequence Code Division Multiple Access
DSAC Domain Specific Access Control
DSCH Downlink Shared Channel
DSE Data Switching Exchange
DSI Digital Speech Interpolation
DSS1 Digital Subscriber Signalling No1
DTAP Direct Transfer Application Part
DTCH Dedicated Traffic Channel
DTE Data Terminal Equipment
DTMF Dual Tone Multiple Frequency
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television
DTX Discontinuous Transmission
DUT Device Under Test
DwPTS Downlink Pilot Timeslot
## E
E-CID Enhanced Cell-ID (positioning method)
E-GGSN Enhanced GGSN
E-HLR Enhanced HLR
E-RAB E-UTRAN Radio Access Bearer
E-SMLC Enhanced Serving Mobile Location Centre
E-TM E-UTRA Test Model
EA External Alarms
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
EBSG Elementary Basic Service Group
ECB Electronic Code-book
ECC Emergency Call Code
Elliptic Curve Cryptography
ECEF Earth Centred, Earth Fixed
EC-EGPRS Extended Coverage EGPRS [deprecated: replaced by EC-GSM-IoT]
ECGI E-UTRAN Cell Global Identifier
EC-GSM-IoT Extended Coverage GSM Internet of Things
ECI Earth-Centered-Inertial
ECM Error Correction Mode (facsimile)
EPS Connection Management
Ec/No Ratio of energy per modulating bit to the noise spectral density
ECSD Enhanced CSD
ECT Explicit Call Transfer supplementary service
ECTRA European Committee of Telecommunications Regulatory Affairs
EDC Error Detection Code byte
EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution
eDRX Extended Discontinous Reception
EEL Electric Echo Loss
EF Elementary File (on the UICC)
EFR Enhanced Full Rate
EFS Error free seconds
EGPRS Enhanced GPRS
EHPLMN Equivalent Home PLMN
EIR Equipment Identity Centre
Equipment Identity Register
EIRP Equivalent Isotropic Radiated Power
EL Echo Loss
EF Elementary File
EM Element Manager
EMC ElectroMagnetic Compatibility
eMLPP enhanced Multi-Level Precedence and Pre-emption
EMMI Electrical Man Machine Interface
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
evolved Node B
EP Elementary Procedure
EPA Extended Pedestrian A model
EPC Enhanced Power Control
Evolved Packet Core
EPRE Energy Per Resource Element
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved UTRAN
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
EPS Evolved Packet System
EPCCH Enhanced Power Control Channel
EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory
ERP Ear Reference Point
Equivalent Radiated Power
ERR Error
ESD Electrostatic discharge
ETNS European Telecommunications Numbering Space
ETR ETSI Technical Report
ETS European Telecommunication Standard
ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
etu elementary time unit
ETU Extended Typical Urban model
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
EUI End-User Identity
EVA Extended Vehicular A model
EVM Error Vector Magnitude
## F
FA Full Allocation
Fax Adaptor
FAC Final Assembly Code
FACCH Fast Associated Control CHannel
FACCH/F Fast Associated Control Channel/Full rate
FACCH/H Fast Associated Control Channel/Half rate
FACH Forward Access Channel
FAUSCH Fast Uplink Signalling Channel
FAX Facsimile
FB Frequency correction Burst
FBI Feedback Information
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FCCH Frequency Correction CHannel
FCI File Control Information
FCP File Control Parameter
FCS Frame Check Sequence
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
FDM Frequency Division Multiplex
FDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access
FDN Fixed Dialling Number
FDR False transmit format Detection Ratio
FEC Forward Error Correction
FER Frame Erasure Rate, Frame Error Rate
FFS For Further Study
FFT Fast Fourier Transformation
FH Frequency Hopping
FLO Flexible Layer One
FM Fault Management
FMC Fixed Mobile Convergence
FN Frame Number
FNUR Fixed Network User Rate
FP Frame Protocol
FPLMN Forbidden PLMN
FR Full Rate
FRC Fixed Reference Channel
FTAM File Transfer Access and Management
ftn forwarded-to number
## G
G-RNTI GERAN Radio Network Temporary Identity
GAGAN GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation
GBR Guaranteed Bit Rate
GC General Control (SAP)
GCR Group Call Register
GERAN GSM EDGE Radio Access Network
GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node
GID1 Group Identifier (level 1)
GID2 Group Identifier (level 2)
GLONASS GLObal\'naya NAvigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema (Engl.: Global
Navigation Satellite System)
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Centre
GMM GPRS Mobility Management
GMSC Gateway MSC
GMSK Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying
GP Guard Period
GPA GSM PLMN Area
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
GPS Global Positioning System
GRA GERAN Registration Area
GSA GSM System Area
GSIM GSM Service Identity Module
GSM Global System for Mobile communications
GSN GPRS Support Nodes
GT Global Title
GTP GPRS Tunneling Protocol
GTP-U GPRS Tunnelling Protocol for User Plane
GTT Global Text Telephony
GUMMEI Globally Unique MME Identifier
GUP 3GPP Generic User Profile
## H
H-CSCF Home CSCF
HANDO Handover
HARQ Hybrid ARQ, Hybrid Automatic Repeat Request
HCS Hierarchical Cell Structure
HDLC High Level Data Link Control
HE Home Environment
HE-VASP Home Environment Value Added Service Provider
HF Human Factors
HFN HyperFrame Number
HHO Hard Handover
HLC High Layer Compatibility
HLR Home Location Register
HN Home Network
HO Handover
HOLD Call hold
HPLMN Home Public Land Mobile Network
HPS Handover Path Switching
HPU Hand Portable Unit
HR Half Rate
HRPD CDMA2000 High Rate Packet Data
HRR Handover Resource Reservation
HSCSD High Speed Circuit Switched Data
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HSN Hopping Sequence Number
HSPA High Speed Packet Access
HSS Home Subscriber Server
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
HTTP Hyper Text Transfer Protocol
HTTPS Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (https is http/1.1 over SSL, i.e.
port 443)
HU Home Units
## I
I-Block Information Block
I-ETS Interim European Telecommunications Standard
I/O Input/Output
I Information frames (RLP)
IA Incoming Access (closed user group SS)
IAM Initial Address Message
IC Integrated Circuit
Interlock Code (CUG SS)
IC(pref) Interlock Code of the preferential CUG
ICB Incoming Calls Barred (within the CUG)
ICC Integrated Circuit Card
ICCID Integrated Circuit Card Identification
ICD Interface Control Document
ICGW Incoming Call Gateway
ICI Incoming Call Information
ICIC Inter-Cell Interference Coordination
ICM In-Call Modification
ICMP Internet Control Message Protocol
ICS In-Channel Selectivity
ICT Incoming Call Timer
ID Identifier
IDFT Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform
IDL Interface Definition Language
IDN Integrated Digital Network
IDNNS Intra Domain NAS Node Selector
IE Information Element
IEC International Electrotechnical Commission
IED Information Element Data
IEI Information Element Identifier
IEIDL Information Element Identifier Data Length
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IF Infrastructure
IFD Interface Device
IFOM IP FlOw Mobility
IFS Information Field Sizes
IFSC Information Field Size for the UICC
IFSD Information Field Size for the Terminal
IHOSS Internet Hosted Octet Stream Service
IIOP Internet Inter-ORB Protocol
IK Integrity key
IM Intermodulation
IP Multimedia
IMA Inverse Multiplexing on ATM
IMC IMS Credentials
IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity
IMGI International mobile group identity
IMPI IP Multimedia Private Identity
IMPU IP Multimedia PUblic identity
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
IMT-2000 International Mobile Telecommunications 2000
IMUN International Mobile User Number
IN Intelligent Network
Interrogating Node
INAP Intelligent Network Application Part
INF INFormation field
IP Internet Protocol
IP-CAN IP-Connectivity Access Network
IP-M IP Multicast
IPv4 Internet Protocol Version 4
IPv6 Internet Protocol Version 6
IR Infrared
IRP Integration Reference Point
IS Interface Specification
ISC International Switching Centre
ISCP Interference Signal Code Power
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
ISIM IM Services Identity Module
ISO International Organisation for Standardisation
ISP Internet Service Provider
ISUP ISDN User Part
ITC Information Transfer Capability
ITU International Telecommunication Union
ITU-R Radiocommunication Sector of the ITU
IUI International USIM Identifier
IUT Implementation Under Test
IWF InterWorking Function
I-WLAN Interworking WLAN
IWMSC InterWorking MSC
IWU Inter Working Unit
## J
JAR file Java Archive File
JCRE Java Card™ Run Time Environment
JD Joint Detection
JNDI Java Naming Directory Interface
JP Joint Predistortion
JPEG Joint Photographic Experts Group
JTAPI Java Telephony Application Programming Interface
JVM Java™ Virtual Machine
## K
k Windows size
K Constraint length of the convolutional code
USIM Individual key
kbps kilo-bits per second
Kc Ciphering key
Ki Individual subscriber authentication key
KSI Key Set Identifier
ksps kilo-symbols per second
## L
L1 Layer 1 (physical layer)
L2 Layer 2 (data link layer)
L2ML Layer 2 Management Link
L2R Layer 2 Relay
L2R BOP L2R Bit Orientated Protocol
L2R COP L2R Character Orientated Protocol
L3 Layer 3 (network layer)
LA Location Area
LAC Link Access Control
Location Area Code
LAI Location Area Identity
LAN Local Area Network
LAPB Link Access Protocol Balanced
LAPDm Link Access Protocol on the Dm channel
LATA Local Access and Transport Area
LAU Location Area Update
LB Load Balancing
LCD Low Constrained Delay
LCG Logical Channel Group
LCN Local Communication Network
LCP Link Control Protocol
LCR Low Chip Rate
LCS Location Services
LCSC LCS Client
LCSS LCS Server
LE Local Exchange
LEN LENgth
LI Language Indication
Length Indicator
Line Identity
LIPA Local IP Access
LLC Logical Link Control
Low Layer Compatibility
Lm Traffic channel with capacity lower than a Bm
LMSI Local Mobile Station Identity
LMU Location Measurement Unit
LN Logical Name
LNA Low Noise Amplifier
LND Last Number Dialled
LNS L2TP Network Server
LPLMN Local PLMN
LPP LTE Positioning Protocol
LPPa LTE Positioning Protocol Annex
LR Location Register
Location Registration
LSA Localised Service Area
LSB Least Significant Bit
LSTR Listener SideTone Rating
LTE Local Terminal Emulator
Long Term Evolution
LTZ Local Time Zone
LU Local Units
Location Update
LV Length and Value
## M
M Mandatory
M Mandatory
MA Mobile Allocation
Multiple Access
MAC Medium Access Control (protocol layering context)
Message authentication code (encryption context)
MAC-A MAC used for authentication and key agreement (TSG T WG3 context)
MAC-I MAC used for data integrity of signalling messages (TSG T WG3 context)
MACN Mobile Allocation Channel Number
MAF Mobile Additional Function
MAH Mobile Access Hunting supplementary service
MAHO Mobile Assisted Handover
MAI Mobile Allocation Index
MAIO Mobile Allocation Index Offset
MAP Mobile Application Part
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service
MBSFN
Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
MCC Mobile Country Code
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MCE Multi-cell/multicast Coordination Entity
MCH Multicast channel
MCI Malicious Call Identification supplementary service
MCML Multi-Class Multi-Link PPP
Mcps Mega-chips per second
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MCU Media Control Unit
MD Mediation Device
MDL (mobile) Management (entity) - Data Link (layer)
MDS Multimedia Distribution Service
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
ME Maintenance Entity
Mobile Equipment
MEF Maintenance Entity Function
MEHO Mobile evaluated handover
MER Message Error Ratio
MExE Mobile Execution Environment
MF Master File
MultiFrame
MGCF Media Gateway Control Function
MGCP Media Gateway Control Part
MGT Mobile Global Title
MGW Media GateWay
MHEG Multimedia and Hypermedia Information Coding Expert Group
MHS Message Handling System
MIB Management Information Base
Master Information Block
MIC Mobile Interface Controller
MIM Management Information Model
MIMO Multiple Input Multiple Output
MIP Mobile IP
MIPS Million Instructions Per Second
MLC Mobile Location Centre
MM Man Machine
Mobility Management
Multimedia
MME Mobile Management Entity
MMI Man Machine Interface
MNC Mobile Network Code
MNP Mobile Number Portability
MO Mobile Originated
MO-LR Mobile Originating Location Request
MO-SMS Mobile Originated Short Message Service
MOHO Mobile Originated Handover
MOS Mean Opinion Score
MoU Memorandum of Understanding
MP Multi-link PPP
MPEG Moving Pictures Experts Group
MPH (mobile) Management (entity) - PHysical (layer) [primitive]
MPTY MultiParTY
MRF Media Resource Function
MRP Mouth Reference Point
MS Mobile Station
MSA MCH Subframe Allocation
MSB Most Significant Bit
MSC Mobile Switching Centre
MSCM Mobile Station Class Mark
MSCU Mobile Station Control Unit
MSD Maximum Sensitivity Degradation
MSE MExE Service Environment
MSID Mobile Station Identifier
MSD Maximum Sensitivity Degradation
MSI MCH Scheduling Information
MSIN Mobile Station Identification Number
MSISDN Mobile Subscriber ISDN Number
MSP Multiple Subscriber Profile
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
MSRN Mobile Station Roaming Number
MT Mobile Terminated
Mobile Termination
MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel
MT-LR Mobile Terminating Location Request
MT-SMS Mobile Terminated Short Message Service
MTM Mobile-To-Mobile (call)
MTP Message Transfer Part
MTP3-B Message Transfer Part level 3
MTU Maximum Transfer Unit
MU Mark Up
MUI Mobile User Identifier
MUMS Multi User Mobile Station
MVNO Mobile Virtual Network Operator
## N
NACC Network Assisted Cell Change
NACK Negative Acknowledgement
NAD Node Address byte
NAI Network Access Identifier
NAS Non-Access Stratum
NBAP Node B Application Part
NB Normal Burst
NCELL Neighbouring (of current serving) Cell
NBAP Node B Application Part
NBIN A parameter in the hopping sequence
NCC Network (PLMN) Colour Code
NCH Notification CHannel
NCK Network Control Key
NCP Network Control Protocol
NDC National Destination Code
NDUB Network Determined User Busy
NE Network Element
NEF Network Element Function
NEHO Network evaluated handover
NET NETwork
> Norme Europeenne de Télécommunications
NEV NEVer
NF Network Function
NI-LR Network Induced Location Request
NIC Network Independent Clocking
NITZ Network Identity and Time Zone
NM Network Manager
NMC Network Management Centre
NMR Network Measurement Results
NMO Network Mode of Operation
NMS Network Management Subsystem
NMSI National Mobile Station Identifier
NNI Network-Node Interface
NO Network Operator
NP Network Performance
NPA Numbering Plan Area
NPI Numbering Plan Identifier
NRI Network Resource Identifier
NRM Network Resource Model
NRT Non-Real Time
NSAP Network Service Access Point
NSAPI Network Service Access Point Identifier
NSCK Network Subset Control Key
NSDU Network service data unit
NSS Network Sub System
Nt Notification (SAP)
NT Network Termination
Non Transparent
NTAAB New Type Approval Advisory Board
NTDD Narrow-band Time Division Duplexing
NUA Network User Access
NUI National User / USIM Identifier
Network User Identification
NUP National User Part (SS7)
NW Network
## O
O Optional
O&M Operations & Maintenance
OA Outgoing Access (CUG SS)
OACSU Off-Air-Call-Set-Up
OCB Outgoing Calls Barred within the CUG
OCCCH ODMA Common Control Channel
OCF Open Card Framework
OCI Outgoing Call Information
OCNG OFDMA Channel Noise Generator
OCNS Orthogonal Channel Noise Simulator
OCS Online Charging System
OCT Outgoing Call Timer
OD Optional for operators to implement for their aim
ODB Operator Determined Barring
ODCCH ODMA Dedicated Control Channel
ODCH ODMA Dedicated Channel
OLR Overall Loudness Rating
ODMA Opportunity Driven Multiple Access
ODTCH ODMA Dedicated Traffic Channel
OID Object Identifier
OFCS Offline Charging System
OFDM Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex
Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
OFDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access
OFM Operational Feature Monitor
OMC Operation and Maintenance Centre
OML Operations and Maintenance Link
OOB Out-of-band
OPLMN Operator Controlled PLMN (Selector List)
OR Optimal Routeing
ORACH ODMA Random Access CHannel
ORLCF Optimal Routeing for Late Call Forwarding
OS Operations System
OSA Open Service Access
OSI Open System Interconnection
OSI RM OSI Reference Model
OSP Octet Stream Protocol
OSP:IHOSS Octet Stream Protocol for Internet Hosted Octet Stream Service
OTA Over-The-Air
OTDOA Observed Time Difference Of Arrival (positioning method)
OTP One Time Password
OVSF Orthogonal Variable Spreading Factor
## P
P-CCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel
P-CPIH Primary Common Pilot Channel
P-RNTI Paging RNTI
P-TMSI Packet TMSI
PA Power Amplifier
PAPR Peak-to-Average Power Ratio
PABX Private Automatic Branch eXchange
PACCH Packet Associated Control Channel
PAD Packet Assember/Disassembler
PAGCH Packet Access Grant Channel
PAP Password Authentication Protocol
PAR Peak to Average Ratio
PB Pass Band
PBID PhoneBook IDentifier
PBCCH Packet Broadcast Control Channel
PBCH Physical Broadcast Channel
PBP Paging Block Periodicity
PBX Private Branch eXchange
PC Power Control
Personal Computer
PCB Protocol Control Byte
PCCC Parallel Concatenated Convolutional Code
PCCCH Packet Common Control Channel
PCCH Paging Control Channel
PCDE Peak Code Domain Error
PCell Primary Cell
PCFICH Physical control format indicator channel
PCG Project Co-ordination Group
PCH Paging Channel
PCK Personalisation Control Key
PCM Pulse Code Modulation
PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association
PCPCH Physical Common Packet Channel
PCS Personal Communication System
PCU Packet Control Unit
PD Protocol Discriminator
Public Data
PDCCH Physical Downlink Control Channel
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDCH Packet Data Channel
PDH Plesiochronous Digital Hierarchy
PDN Public Data Network
Packet Data Network
PDP Packet Data Protocol
PDSCH Physical Downlink Shared Channel
PDTCH Packet Data Traffic Channel
PDU Protocol Data Unit
PG Processing Gain
PH Packet Handler
PHysical (layer)
PHF Packet Handler Function
PHI Packet Handler Interface
PHICH Physical hybrid-ARQ indicator channel
PHS Personal Handyphone System
PHY Physical layer
PhyCH Physical Channel
PI Page Indicator
Presentation Indicator
PICH Page Indicator Channel
PICS Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement
PID Packet Identification
PIN Personal Identification Number
PIXT Protocol Implementation eXtra information for Testing
PKCS Public-Key Cryptography Standards
PL Preferred Languages
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PMCH Physical Multicast Channel
PMD Physical Media Dependent
PMI Precoding Matrix Indicator
PN Pseudo Noise
PNE Présentation des Normes Européennes
PNP Private Numbering Plan
POI Point Of Interconnection (with PSTN)
PoR Proof of Receipt
POTS Plain Old Telephony Service
PP Point-to-Point
PPCH Packet Paging Channel
PPE Primative Procedure Entity
PPF Paging Proceed Flag
PPM Parts Per Million
PPP Point-to-Point Protocol
PPS Protocol and Parameter Select (response to the ATR)
PRACH Physical Random Access Channel
Packet Random Access Channel
PRB Physical Resource Block
Pref CUG Preferential CUG
ProSe Proximity-based Services
PRS Positioning Reference Signal
PS Packet Switched
Location Probability
PSC Primary Synchronisation Code
Packet Scheduling
PSCH Physical Shared Channel
PSE Personal Service Environment
PSM Power Saving Mode
PSPDN Packet Switched Public Data Network
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
PTCCH Packet Timing advance Control Channel
PTM Point-to-Multipoint
PTM-G PTM Group Call
PTM-M PTM Multicast
PTP Point to point
PU Payload Unit
PUCCH Physical Uplink Control Channel
PUCT Price per Unit Currency Table
PUK PIN Unblocking Key
PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
PVC Permanent Virtual Circuit
PW Pass Word
PWS Public Warning System
## Q
QA Q (Interface) - Adapter
QAF Q - Adapter Function
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QCI QoS Class Identifier
QoS Quality of Service
QPSK Quadrature (Quaternary) Phase Shift Keying
QZSS Quasi-Zenith Satellite System
## R
R Value of Reduction of the MS transmitted RF power relative to the maximum
allowed output power of the highest power class of MS (A)
R-APDU Response APDU
R-Block Receive-ready Block
R-PDCCH Relay Physical Downlink Control Channel
R-SGW Roaming Signalling Gateway
R-TPDU Response TPDU
R99 Release 1999
RA Routing Area
Random mode request information field
RA-RNTI Random Access RNTI
RAB Radio Access Bearer
Random Access Burst
RAC Routing Area Code
RACH Random Access Channel
RADIUS Remote Authentication Dial In User Service
RAI Routing Area Identity
RAN Radio Access Network
RANAP Radio Access Network Application Part
RAND RANDom number (used for authentication)
RAT Radio Access Technology
RAU Routing Area Update
RB Radio Bearer
RBC Radio Bearer Control
RBER Residual Bit Error Ratio
RDF Resource Description Format
RDI Restricted Digital Information
RE Resource Element
REC RECommendation
REG Resource Element Group
REJ REJect(ion)
REL RELease
Rel-4 Release 4
Rel-5 Release 5
REQ REQuest
RES user RESponse
64-bit signed RESponse that is the output of the function f2 in a 3G AKA
RET Remote Electrical Tilting
RETAP Remote Electrical Tilting Application Part
RF Radio Frequency
RFC Request For Comments
Radio Frequency Channel
RFCH Radio Frequency CHannel
RFE Routing Functional Identity
RFN Reduced TDMA Frame Number
RFU Reserved for Future Use
RI Rank Indication
RIM RAN Information Management
RL Radio Link
RLC Radio Link Control
RLCP Radio Link Control Protocol
RLP Radio Link Protocol
RLR Receiver Loudness Rating
RLS Radio Link Set
RMS Root Mean Square (value)
RN Relay Node
RNC Radio Network Controller
RNL Radio Network Layer
RNS Radio Network Subsystem
RNSAP Radio Network Subsystem Application Part
RNTABLE Table of 128 integers in the hopping sequence
RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identity
ROHC Robust Header Compression
RPLMN Registered Public Land Mobile Network
RPOA Recognised Private Operating Agency
RR Radio Resources
RRC Radio Resource Control
RRM Radio Resource Management
RS Reference Symbol
RSA Algorithm invented by Rivest, Adleman and Shamir
RSCP Received Signal Code Power
RSE Radio System Entity
RSL Radio Signalling Link
RSRQ Reference Signal Received Quality
RSSI Received Signal Strength Indicator
RST Reset
RSTD Reference Signal Time Difference
RSVP Resource ReserVation Protocol
RSZI Regional Subscription Zone Identity
RT Real Time
RTE Remote Terminal Emulator
RTP Real Time Protocol
RU Resource Unit
RWB Resolution Bandwidth
RX Receive
RXLEV Received signal level
RXQUAL Received Signal Quality
## S
S1AP S1 Application Protocol
S1-MME S1 for the control plane
S1-U S1 for the user plane
S-Block Supervisory Block
S-CCPCH Secondary Common Control Physical Channel
S-CPICH Secondary Common Pilot Channel
S-CSCF Serving CSCF
S-GW Serving Gateway
S-RNTI SRNC Radio Network Temporary Identity
S-TMSI SAE Temporary Mobile Station Identifier
SAAL Signalling ATM Adaptation Layer
SABM Set Asynchronous Balanced Mode
SACCH Slow Associated Control Channel
SACCH/C4 Slow Associated Control CHannel/SDCCH/4
SACCH/C8 Slow Associated Control CHannel/SDCCH/8
SACCH/T Slow Associated Control CHannel/Traffic channel
SACCH/TF Slow Associated Control CHannel/Traffic channel Full rate
SACCH/TH Slow Associated Control CHannel/Traffic channel Half rate
SAD Source Address
SAE System Architecture Evolution
SAP Service Access Point
SAPI Service Access Point Identifier
SAR Segmentation and Reassembly
SAT SIM Application Toolkit
SB Synchronization Burst
SBAS Space Based Augmentation System
SBLP Service Based Local Policy
SBSC Serving Base Station Controller
SBSS Serving Base Station Subsystem
SC Service Centre (used for SMS)
Service Code
SC-FDMA Single-Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access
SCCH Synchronisation Control Channel
SCCP Signalling Connection Control Part
SCell Secondary Cell
SCF Service Control Function (IN context), Service Capability Feature (VHE/OSA
context)
SCH Synchronisation Channel
SCI Subscriber Controlled Input
SCN Sub-Channel Number
SCP Service Control Point
SCTP S Common Transport Protocol
SCUDIF Service Change and UDI/RDI Fallback
SDCCH Stand-Alone Dedicated Control Channel
SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy
SDL Specification Description Language
SDMA Spatial Division Multiple Access
SDN Service Dialling Number
SDP Service Discovery Protocol (Bluetooth related)
Session Description Protocol
SDT SDL Development Tool
SDU Service Data Unit
SE Security Environment
Sending Entity
Support Entity
SEF Support Entity Function
SET SUPL Enabled Terminal
SF Spreading Factor
SFH Slow Frequency Hopping
SFI Short EF Identifier
SFN System Frame Number
SGSN Serving GPRS Support Node
SHCCH Shared Channel Control Channel
SI Screening Indicator
Service Interworking
Supplementary Information (SIA = Supplemenatary Information A)
System Information
SI-RNTI System Information RNTI
SIB System Information Block
SIC Service Implementation Capabilities
SID SIlence Descriptor
SIM GSM Subscriber Identity Module
SIP Session Initiated Protocol
SIPTO Selected IP Traffic Offload
SIR Signal-to-Interference Ratio
SLA Service Level Agreement
SLP SUPL Location Platform
SLPP Subscriber LCS Privacy Profile
SLR Send Loudness Rating
SLTM Signalling Link Test Message
SM Session Management
Short Message
SMDS Switched Multimegabit Data Service
SME Short Message Entity
SMG Special Mobile Group
SMI Structure of Management Information (RFC 1155)
SMLC Serving Mobile Location Centre
SMS Short Message Service
SMS-CB SMS Cell Broadcast
SMS-PP Short Message Service/Point-to-Point
SMS-SC Short Message Service - Service Centre
Smt Short message terminal
SN Serial Number
> Serving Network
>
> Sequence Number
Subscriber Number
SNDCP Sub-Network Dependent Convergence Protocol
SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol
SNR Serial NumbeR
Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SOA Suppress Outgoing Access (CUG SS)
SoLSA Support of Localised Service Area
SON Self Organizing Networks
SoR Steering of Roaming
SP Switching Point
Service Provider
SPC Signalling Point Code
Suppress Preferential CUG
SPCK Service Provider Control Key
SPI Security Parameters Indication
SQN Sequence number
SR Scheduling Request
SRB Signalling Radio Bearer
SRES Signed RESponse (authentication value returned by the SIM or by the USIM
in 2G AKA)
SRNC Serving Radio Network Controller
SRNS Serving RNS
SRS Sounding Reference Signal
SS Supplementary Service
System Simulator
SS7 Signalling System No. 7
SSC Secondary Synchronisation Code
Supplementary Service Control string
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
SSCF Service Specific Co-ordination Function
SSCF-NNI Service Specific Coordination Function -- Network Node Interface
SSCS Service Specific Convergence Sublayer
SSDT Site Selection Diversity Transmission
SSE Service Specific Entities
SSF Service Switching Function
SSN Sub-System Number
SSSAR Service Specific Segmentation and Re-assembly sublayer
STC Signalling Transport Converter
STMR SideTone Masking Rating
STP Signalling Transfer Point
STTD Space Time Transmit Diversity
SuM Subscription Management
SUPL Secure User Plane Location
SV Space Vehicle
SVC Switched virtual circuit
SVN Software Version Number
SW Status Word
Software
SW1/SW2 Status Word 1/Status Word 2
## T
T-SGW Transport Signalling Gateway
T Timer
Transparent
Type only
TA Terminal Adaptation
Timing Advance
Tracking Area
TAC Type Approval Code
TAF Terminal Adaptation Function
TAR Toolkit Application Reference
TB Transport Block
TBD To Be Defined
TBF Temporary Block Flow
TBR Technical Basis for Regulation
TC Transaction Capabilities
TransCoder
Transmission Convergence
TCH Traffic Channel
TCH/F A full rate TCH
TCH/F2,4 A full rate data TCH (≤2,4kbit/s)
TCH/F4,8 A full rate date TCH (4,8kbit/s)
TCH/F9,6 A full rate data TCH (9,6kbit/s)
TCH/FS A full rate Speech TCH
TCH/H A half rate TCH
TCH/H2,4 A half rate data TCH (≤2,4kbit/s)
TCH/H4,8 A half rate data TCH (4,8kbit/s)
TCH/HS A half rate Speech TCH
TC-TR Technical Committee Technical Report
TCI Transceiver Control Interface
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
TD-CDMA Time Division-Code Division Multiple Access
TDD Time Division Duplex(ing)
TDMA Time Division Multiple Access
TDoc Temporary Document
TE Terminal Equipment
TE9 Terminal Equipment 9 (ETSI sub-technical committee)
Tei Terminal endpoint identifier
TEID Tunnel End Point Identifier
TF Transport Format
TFA TransFer Allowed
TFC Transport Format Combination
TFCI Transport Format Combination Indicator
TFCS Transport Format Combination Set
TFI Transport Format Indicator
Temporary Flow Identity
TFIN Transport Format INdicator
TFP TransFer Prohibited
TFS Transport Format Set
TFT Traffic Flow Template
TI Transaction Identifier
TLLI Temporary Logical Link Identity
TLM TeLeMetry word
TLS Transport Layer Security
TLV Tag Length Value
TM Telecom Management
Transparent Mode
TMA Tower Mounted Amplifier
TMAAP Tower Mounted Amplifier application part
TMF Telecom Management Forum
TMN Telecom Management Network
TMSI Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity
TN Termination Node
Timeslot Number
TNL Transport Network Layer
TO Telecom Operations Map
TOA Time of Arrival
TON Type Of Number
TP Third Party
TPC Transmit Power Control
TPDU Transfer Protocol Data Unit
TR Technical Report
TRAU Transcoder and Rate Adapter Unit
TrCH Transport Channel
TRX Transceiver
TS Technical Specification
Teleservice
Time Slot
TSC Training Sequence Code
TSDI Transceiver Speech & Data Interface
TSG Technical Specification Group
TSTD Time Switched Transmit Diversity
TTCN Tree and Tabular Combined Notation
TTI Transmission Timing Interval
TUP Telephone User Part (SS7)
TV Type and Value
TX Transmit
TXPWR Transmit PoWeR; Tx power level in the MS_TXPWR_REQUEST and MS_TXPWR_CONF
parameters
## U
U-plane User plane
U-RNTI UTRAN Radio Network Temporary Identity
UARFCN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
UARFN UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Number
UART Universal Asynchronous Receiver and Transmitter
UCS2 Universal Character Set 2
UDD Unconstrained Delay Data
UDI Unrestricted Digital Information
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UDUB User Determined User Busy
UDCH User-plane Dedicated CHannel
UE User Equipment
UE~R~ User Equipment with ODMA relay operation enabled
UEM operating band Unwanted Emissions Mask
UI User Interface
Unnumbered Information (Frame)
UIA 3G Integrity Algorithm
UIC Union Internationale des Chemins de Fer
UL Uplink (Reverse Link)
UL-SCH Uplink Shared channel
UM Unacknowledged Mode
UML Unified Modelling Language
UMS User Mobility Server
UMSC UMTS Mobile Services Switching Centre
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UNI User-Network Interface
UP User Plane
UPCMI Uniform PCM Interface (13-bit)
UPE User Plane Entity
UPD Up to date
UpPTS Uplink Pilot Timeslot
UPT Universal Personal Telecommunication
URA User Registration Area
UTRAN Registration Area
URAN UMTS Radio Access Network
URB User Radio Bearer
URI Uniform Resource Identifier
URL Uniform Resource Locator
USAT USIM Application Toolkit
USB Universal Serial Bus
USC UE Service Capabilities
USCH Uplink Shared Channel
USF Uplink State Flag
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
USSD Unstructured Supplementary Service Data
UT Universal Time
UTRA Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
UUI User-to-User Information
UUS Uu Stratum
User-to-User Signalling
## V
V Value only
VA Voice Activity factor
VAD Voice Activity Detection
VAP Videotex Access Point
VASP Value Added Service Provider
VBR Variable Bit Rate
VBS Voice Broadcast Service
VC Virtual Circuit
VGCS Voice Group Call Service
VHE Virtual Home Environment
VLR Visitor Location Register
VMSC Visited MSC
VoIP Voice Over IP
VPLMN Visited Public Land Mobile Network
VPN Virtual Private Network
VRB Virtual Resource Block
VSC Videotex Service Centre
V(SD) Send state variable
VTX host The components dedicated to Videotex service
## W
WA Wide Area
WAAS Wide Area Augmentation System
WAE Wireless Application Environment
WAP Wireless Application Protocol
WBEM Web Based Enterprise Management
WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access
WDP Wireless Datagram Protocol
WG Working Group
WGS-84 World Geodetic System 1984
WIM Wireless Identity Module
WIN Wireless Intelligent Network
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
WLAN UE WLAN User Equipment
WPA Wrong Password Attempts (counter)
WS Work Station
WSP Wireless Session Protocol
WTA Wireless Telephony Applications
WTAI Wireless Telephony Applications Interface
WTDD Wideband Time Division Duplexing
WTLS Wireless Transport Layer Security
WTP Wireless Transaction Protocol
WTX Waiting Time eXtenstion
WWT Work Waiting Time
WWW World Wide Web
## X
X2-C X2-Control plane
X2-U X2-User plane
XID eXchange IDentifier
XMAC exXpected Message Authentication Code (calculated by the USIM application
in 3G AKA)
XML eXtensible Markup Language
XRES EXpected user RESponse
## Y
\
## Z
ZC Zone Code
# 5 Equations
* * *
          The ratio of the received energy per PN chip of the CPICH to the total transmit power spectral density at the Node\_B (SS) antenna connector.
          Average energy per PN chip for DPCH.
          The ratio of the transmit energy per PN chip of the DPCH to the total transmit power spectral density at the Node\_B antenna connector.
          The ratio of the transmit energy per PN chip of the DPCCH to the total transmit power spectral density at the Node B antenna connector.
          The ratio of the transmit energy per PN chip of the DPDCH to the total transmit power spectral density at the Node B antenna connector.
          Average energy per PN chip.
          The ratio of the average transmit energy per PN chip for different fields or physical channels to the total transmit power spectral density.
F~uw~ Frequency of unwanted signal The total received power spectral density,
including signal and interference, as measured at the UE antenna connector.
The power spectral density of the adjacent frequency channel as measured at
the UE antenna connector. The power spectral density of a band limited white
noise source (simulating interference from cells, which are not defined in a
test procedure) as measured at the UE antenna connector.The power spectral
density of a band limited white noise source (simulating interference from
other cells) as measured at the UE antenna connector. The total transmit power
spectral density of the Forward down link at the base stationNode_B antenna
connector. The received power spectral density of the down link as measured at
the UE antenna connector. Unwanted signal power level. Average energy per PN
chip for the OCNS. The ratio of the average transmit energy per PN chip for
the OCNS to the total transmit power spectral density. Average* energy per PN
chip for P-CCPCH. The ratio of the received P-CCPCH energy per chip to the
total received power spectral density at the UE antenna connector. The ratio
of the average* transmit energy per PN chip for the P-CCPCH to the total
transmit power spectral density. Average* energy per PN chip for P-CPICH.
Average* energy per PN chip for PICH. The ratio of the received energy per PN
chip of the PICH to the total transmit power spectral density at the [Node
B]{.underline} (SS) antenna connector. The ratio of the received PCCPCH energy
per chip to the total received power spectral density at the UE antenna
connector. The ratio of the average transmit energy per PN chip for the PCCPCH
to the total transmit power spectral density. The ratio of the sum DPCH_Ex for
one service in case of multicode to the total tramsmit power spectral density
of the downlink at the BS antenna connector. Average energy per PN chip for
S-CCPCH. Average* energy per PN chip for S-CPICH. Average* energy per PN chip
for SCH. Average energy per PN chip for SCCPCH.
* * *
*Note: Averaging period for energy/power of discontinuously transmitted channels should be defined.
#