# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This specification is only applicable for a GERAN PLMN. In the 2nd generation
is this a GSM PLMN. In the 3rd generation is this a PLMN that uses a GERAN as
radio access network operating either in A/Gb mode or in Iu mode.
A PLMN may be described by a limited set of access interfaces (refer to 3GPP
TS 24.002 and 22.001) and a limited set of PLMN connection types to support
the telecommunication services described in the 3GPP 22-series of
specifications. The present document identifies and defines these connection
types in so far as they relate to the particular network capabilities for a
PLMN.
The basic lower layer capabilities of a PLMN are represented by a set of PLMN
connection types. The definition of a set of PLMN connection types provides
the necessary input to identify network capabilities of a PLMN. In addition to
describing network capabilities of a PLMN, the identification of connection
types facilitates the specification of network-to-network interfaces. It may
also assist in the allocation of network performance parameters.
The present document should be considered in conjunction with other 3GPP
specifications with particular reference to 3GPP TS 22.001, 22.002, 22.003,
23.002, 24.002 and 44.004.
The present document provides a bridge between the service specification in
the 3GPP TS 22-series of specifications and the more detailed specifications
such as the 3GPP TS 43, 44, 23, 24, 27 and 29 series. As such, it establishes
a framework for the specification and understanding of the more detailed
specifications. It is therefore not a specification against which detailed
conformance testing can be performed. However, it shall be considered
mandatory for the understanding of the more detailed specifications and used
to resolve issues of conflict in these specifications.
From R99 onwards the following services are no longer required by a PLMN:
  * the dual Bearer Services "alternate speech/data" and "speech followed by data"
  * the dedicated services for PAD and Packet access
  * the single asynchronous and synchronous Bearer Services (BS 21..26, BS 31..34)
From Release 4 onwards the following services are no longer required by a
PLMN:
\- the synchronous Bearer Service non-transparent (BS 30 NT).
\- the Basic Packet access
\- the Teleservice Facsimile non-transparent (TS 61/62 NT).
If a PLMN network still provides these services it has to fulfil the
specification of former releases.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] Void
[2] Void
[3] 3GPP TS 22.001: \" Principles of telecommunications services supported by
a Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.002: \" Circuit Bearer Services (BS) supported by a Public Land
Mobile Network (PLMN)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.003: \" Circuit Teleservices supported by a Public Land Mobile
Network (PLMN)\".
[6] Void.
[7] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.009: \"Handover procedures\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.034: \"High Speed Circuit Switched Data (HSCSD) - Stage 2
Service Description\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS) Point‑to‑Point (PP)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Short Message Service Cell
Broadcast (SMSCB)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 43.045: \" Technical realization of facsimile group 3
transparent\".
[13] 3GPP TS 44.001: \" Mobile Station ‑ Base Station System (MS ‑ BSS)
interface General aspects and principles\".
[14] 3GPP TS 24.002: \" GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".
[15] 3GPP TS 44.004: \" Layer 1 -- General Requirements\".
[16] 3GPP TS 44.005: \" Data Link (DL) layer; General aspects\".
[17] 3GPP TS 44.006: \" Mobile Station ‑ Base Station System (MS ‑ BSS)
interface Data Link (DL) layer specification\".
[18] 3GPP TS 24.007: \" Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3; General
aspects\".
[19] 3GPP TS 24.008: \" Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point‑to‑Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support
on mobile radio interface\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.012: \" Short Message Service Cell Broadcast (SMSCB) support
on the mobile radio interface\".
[22] 3GPP TS 44.021: \" Rate adaption on the Mobile Station ‑ Base Station
System (MS ‑ BSS) interface\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.022: \" Radio Link Protocol (RLP) for circuit switched bearer
and teleservices\"
[24] 3GPP TS 45.001: \" Physical layer on the radio path (General
description)\".
[25] 3GPP TS 45.003: \" Channel coding\".
[26] 3GPP TS 45.008: \" Radio subsystem link control\".
[27] 3GPP TS 46.031: \" Discontinuous Transmission (DTX) for full rate speech
traffic channels\".
[28] 3GPP TS 27.001: \" General on Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for
Mobile Stations (MS)\".
[29] 3GPP TS 27.002: \" Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for services using
asynchronous bearer capabilities\".
[30] 3GPP TS 27.003: \" Terminal Adaptation Functions (TAF) for services using
synchronous bearer capabilities\".
[31] 3GPP TS 48.004: \" Base Station System ‑ Mobile‑services Switching Centre
(BSS ‑ MSC) interface Layer 1 specification\".
[32] 3GPP TS 48.006: \" Signalling transport mechanism specification for the
Base Station System ‑ Mobile‑services Switching Centre (BSS ‑ MSC)
interface\".
[33] 3GPP TS 48.008: \" Mobile Switching Centre ‑ Base Station System (MSC ‑
BSS) interface Layer 3 specification\".
[34] 3GPP TS 48.020: \" Rate adaption on the Base Station System ‑
Mobile‑services Switching Centre (BSS ‑ MSC) interface\".
[35] Void.
[36] 3GPP TS 29.007: \"General requirements on interworking between the Public
Land Mobile Network (PLMN) and the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)
or Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)\".
[37] ITU-T Recommendation I.460: \"Multiplexing, rate adaption and support of
existing interfaces\".
[38] ITU-T Recommendation V.110: \"Support of Data Terminal Equipments (DTEs)
with V-Series interfaces by an integrated services digital network\".
[39] ITU-T Recommendation V.21: \"300 bits per second duplex modem
standardised for use in the general switched telephone network\".
[40] ITU-T Recommendation V.22: \"1 200 bits per second duplex modem
standardised for use in the general switched telephone network and on
point‑to‑point 2-wire leased telephone-type circuits\".
[41] ITU-T Recommendation V.22bis: \"2 400 bits per second duplex modem using
the frequency division technique standardised for use on the general switched
telephone network and on point-to-point 2-wire leased telephone-type
circuits\".
[42] ITU-T Recommendation V.24: \"List of definitions for interchange circuits
between Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) and Data Circuit-terminating Equipment
(DCE)\".
[43] ITU-T Recommendation V.26ter: \"2 400 bits per second duplex modem using
the echo cancellation technique standardised for use on the general switched
telephone network and on point-to-point 2-wire leased telephone-type
circuits\".
[44] ITU-T Recommendation V.32: \"A family of 2-wire, duplex modems operating
at data signalling rates of up to 9 600 bit/s for use on the general switched
telephone network and on leased telephone-type circuits\".
[45] ITU-T Recommendation V.42bis: \"Data Compression for Data Circuit
terminating Equipment (DCE) using Error Correction Procedures\".
[46] ITU-T Recommendation V.120: \"Support by an ISDN of data terminal
equipment with V-Series type interfaces with provision for statistical
multiplexing\".
[47] ITU-T Recommendation X.21: \"Interface between Data Terminal Equipment
(DTE) and Data Circuit-terminating Equipment (DCE) for synchronous operation
on public data networks\".
[48] ITU-T Recommendation X.21bis: \"Use on public data networks of Data
Terminal Equipment (DTE) which is designed for interfacing to synchronous
V‑series modems\".
[49] ITU-T Recommendation X.25: \"Interface between Data Terminal Equipment
(DTE) and Data Circuit-terminating Equipment (DCE) for terminals operating in
the packet mode and connected to public data networks by dedicated circuit\".
[50] ITU-T Recommendation X.28: \"DTE/DCE interface for a start-stop mode data
terminal equipment accessing the Packet Assembly/Disassembly facility (PAD) in
a public data network situated in the same country\".
[51] ITU-T Recommendation X.30: \"Support of X.21, X.21bis and X.20bis based
Data Terminal Equipments (DTEs) by an Integrated Services Digital Network
(ISDN)\".
[52] ITU-T Recommendation X.31: \"Support of packet mode terminal equipment by
an ISDN\".
[53] ITU-T Recommendation X.32: \"Interface between Data Terminal Equipment
(DTE) and Data Circuit-terminating Equipment (DCE) for terminals operating in
the packet mode and accessing a packet switched public data network through a
public switched telephone network or an integrated services digital network or
a circuit switched public data network\".
[54] ITU‑T Recommendation V.34 (1994): \"A modem operating at data signalling
rates of up to 28 800 bits for use on the general switched telephone network
and on leased point-to-point 2-wire telephone-type circuits\".
[55] ITU-T Recommendation I.440 (1989): \"ISDN user-network interface data
link layer - General aspects\".
[56] ITU-T Recommendation I.450 (1989): \"ISDN user-network interface layer 3
General aspects\".
[57] ISO/IEC 6429 (1992): \"Information technology - Control functions for
coded character sets\".
[58] 3GPP TS 23.060: \" General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) Service
Description; Stage 2\".
[59] ITU-T Recommendation V.90 - A digital modem and analogue modem pair for
use on the public switched telephone network (PSTN) at data signalling rates
of up to 56 000 bit/s downstream and up to 33 600 bit/s upstream.
[60] 3GPP TS 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following definitions apply.
**(DIGITAL) connection:** A concatenation of (digital) transmission channels
or (digital) telecommunication circuits, switching and other functional units
set up to provide for the transfer of (digital) signals between two or more
points in a telecommunication network to support a single communication.
**PLMN connection:** A connection that is established through PLMN between
specified PLMN reference points.
**PLMN connection type:** A description of a set of PLMN connections which
have the same characteristics.
**EDGE channels:** A general term referring to channels based on 8PSK
modulation; i.e. TCH/F28.8, TCH/F32.0, and TCH/F43.2.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in this specification are listed in 3GPP TS 21.905.
# 4 General considerations
Low layer capabilities are defined in 3GPP TS 22.001 and characterized in 3GPP
TS 22.002 for Bearer Services and 3GPP TS 22.003 for Teleservices. Apart from
the short message service and GPRS, all Bearer Services and Teleservices are
provided using low layer capabilities in the connection mode.
Network capabilities to support the short message services are defined in 3GPP
TS 23.040 and 3GPP TS 24.011 for the point-to-point service, and in 3GPP TS
23.041 and 3GPP TS 24.012 for the cell broadcast service. Network capabilities
to support GPRS are described in 3GPP TS 23.060.
## 4.1 Relationship between lower layer capabilities and radio traffic
channels
The realization of low layer capabilities for the provision of
telecommunication services will make use of a physical medium consisting of a
traffic channel TCH (refer to 3GPP TS 44.004) or a combination of several full
rate traffic channels (Multislot configuration for data) except for the short
message point-to-point which uses a dedicated control channel DCCH (see 3GPP
TS 24.011) or the cell broadcast service which uses the CBCH (see 3GPP TS
24.012). No multiplexing of data connections on one TCH is allowed.
Either a full rate or a half rate channel may be used depending on the
requirements of the individual service. User data rates below or equal to 4
800 bit/s may be supported either on a full rate channel or on a half rate
channel. Single slot configurations of 9.6Kbit/s and above are always
supported on a full rate channel. Multislot configurations for data use
combinations of 4.8 kbit/s or 9.6 kbit/s or 14.4 kbit/s full rate traffic
channels only.
Technically every MS, regardless of whether it uses a half or a full rate TCH
for speech transmission, should be able to use both half and full rate TCHs
for data transmission and telematic services. However, particular designs of
MS may only provide access to a limited set of services and therefore only use
limited options.
For the alternate speech and group 3 facsimile teleservice, when a full rate
traffic channel is required for the speech or data portion of the service, a
full rate traffic channel will be used for the duration of the call, see 3GPP
TS 22.002.
Within a PLMN, the transport of user data and access interface status
information (if present) will use a rate adaptation method based on ITU-T
Recommendation V.110 except on TCH/F14.4 or EDGE channels for which PLMN
specific rate adaption is used between the mobile station and the interworking
function. For the access interface, the rate adaptation schemes used are
referenced in the 3GPP TS 27-series.
On the radio path, rate adaptation leads to rates of 43.5, 32.0, 29.0, 14.5,
12.0, 6.0 and 3.6 kbit/s per TCH (see 3GPP TS 44.021). However, in multislot
configurations for data the 3.6 kbit/s per TCH/F rate is excluded. At the BSS
to MSC interface, the rate adaptation scheme used is described in 3GPP TS
48.020.
Protection of information from errors on the radio path (i.e. between MS and
BSS) will be implemented by use of FEC techniques (see 3GPP TS 45.003).
## 4.2 Transparent and non-transparent lower layer capabilities
Two classes of low layer capabilities have been identified (see 3GPP TS 22.002
and 3GPP TS 22.003):
\- a transparent class which is characterized by constant throughput, constant
transit delay and variable error rate;
\- a non-transparent class for which an ARQ technique is used (see 3GPP TS
24.022) on the radio path and extended to an appropriate interworking
function. This class is characterized by improved error rate with variable
transit delay and throughput. Data compression can optionally be used in
combination of non-transparent lower layer capability, to increase the data
rate on the DTE/DCE interface (or the equivalent interface depending on the TE
type).
The considerations described above provide the basis for the definition of a
limited set of connection types to be implemented by a GERAN PLMN.
## 4.3 The PLMN environment
### 4.3.1 The hand-over procedure
The PLMN connection is heterogeneous and merges PCM links and radio path as a
unit for the user.
One of the most specific characteristics of the mobile networks is the hand-
over procedure (see 3GPP TS 23.009, 24.008, 45.008, 48.008) which result in a
temporary break of the TCH, and consequently in a loss of information.
The PLMN makes it possible to use one TCH slot for signalling (frame stealing
for FACCH) in one TDMA frame resulting in a loss of information.
For the transparent data calls, this will result in a period of highly errored
stream. For the non-transparent services, the use of the ARQ procedure (3GPP
TS 24.022) will overcome this problem.
After a hand-over, in case of loss of synchronization, the process to recover
synchronization, as described in 3GPP TS 29.007 and 44.021 should apply. If
data compression is used, V.42bis procedure should apply.
### 4.3.2 DTX procedure
For the full rate speech traffic channel, DTX function goes along with other
procedures such as voice activity detection, generation of comfort noise, and
is described in 3GPP TS 46.031.
For the non-transparent traffic channels, DTX apply according to 3GPP TS
48.020.
# 5 Framework for the description of connection types
## 5.1 Introduction
A PLMN provides a set of network capabilities, which enable telecommunication
services to be offered to a user.
A PLMN connection is a connection established between PLMN reference points. A
PLMN connection type is a way of referring to and describing PLMN connection.
Thus a PLMN connection is a physical or a logical realization of a PLMN
connection type. Each PLMN connection can be characterized as belonging to a
PLMN connection type.
Figure 1 illustrates the concepts (see also figure 1 of 3GPP TS 22.001).
┌────┐ ┌────────┐ ┌───────────────┐ ┌───────────┐ ┌────┐
│ TE ├──┼───┼─ ─ ─ ─ ┼┼┼─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─┼─┼─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─┼─┼─┤ TE │
└────┘ · │ PLMN│·│Transit network│ │Terminating│ · └────┘
access │ │││ │ │ Network │ │
point └────────┘·└───────────────┘ └───────────┘ ·
│ PLMN │ │
· connection · ·
│\│ │
· Network connection ·
│\│
Figure 1: Framework for the description of GSM PLMN connections
## 5.2 Purpose of PLMN connection types
The definition of a set of PLMN connection types provides the necessary input
to identify the network capabilities of a PLMN. Other key requirements of a
PLMN are contained in other GSM specifications, in particular 3GPP TS 44.001
and 24.002. In addition to describing network capabilities of a PLMN, the
identification of connection types facilitates the specification of network-
to-network interfaces. It may also assist in the allocation of network
performance parameters.
Note 1: The user specifies only the telecommunication service required while
the GSM PLMN allocates the resources to set up a connection of the specific
type as necessary to support the requested service. It is further noted that,
for certain service offerings, additional network functions, e.g. additional
lower layer functions and/or higher layer functions, may be required (see
figure 2).
> Service offering Network capability
>
> ┌───────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────────────┐
>
> │ Telecommunication │\
> │ Service │ │ connection types │
>
> └───────────────────┘ ├─────────────────────────┤
>
> │ Additional network │
>
> │ functions where required│
>
> │ to support the service, │
>
> │ e.g., additional lower │
>
> │ layer functions, higher │
>
> │ layer functions. │
>
> └─────────────────────────┘
Figure 2: The role of network capabilities in supporting service offerings
## 5.3 Functions associated with a PLMN connection
Any GSM PLMN connection involves an association of functions to support
telecommunication services as shown in figure 3. Three sets of functions are
required.
i) Connection means - including transmission and switching.
ii) Control functions and protocols - including signalling, flow/congestion
control and routing functions.
iii) Operations and management functions - including network management and
maintenance functions.
┌───────────────────────────────────────┐
────────┤ Connection means for user information ├───────
└────────┬───────────────────┬──────────┘
│ │
┌─────┴─────┐ ┌───────┴────────┐
│ Control │ │ Operations │
│ functions │ │ and management │
│ │ │ functions │
└───────────┘ └────────────────┘
Figure 3: Functional description
## 5.4 Applications of GSM PLMN connection types
The following situations to which GSM PLMN connection types apply (see figure
4) may arise:
\- Between two GSM PLMN user access points (refer to 3GPP TS 22.001 and
24.002): see figure 4a.
\- Between a PLMN user access point and a network-to-network interface: see
figure 4b.
\- Between a PLMN user access point and an interface to a specialized resource
within the GSM PLMN: see figure 4c.
\- Between a PLMN user access point and an interface to a specialized resource
outside the GSM PLMN: see figure 4d.
a)
user access point user access point
┌──────────┐ (Note 1)
├───────────┼─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┼─────────────┤
╖ │ GSM PLMN │ ╖
│ └──────────┘ │
╖ ╖
│\│
PLMN connection
b)
user access network-to-network
point ┌──────────┐ interface ┌─────────┐
├──────────┼ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─┼─────────────┤ ├─────┤ Network │
╖ │ PLMN │ ╖ ╖ │ Note 2 │
│ └──────────┘ │ │ └─────────┘
│\│
PLMN connection
c)
user access ┌─────────────────────────────────────────┐
point │ ┌────────┐ │
├───────────┼─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┼────┤ Note 3 │ │
╖ │ PLMN ╖ └────────┘ │
│ └────────────────────────┼────────────────┘
│\│
PLMN connection
d)
user access network-to-specialized
point ┌──────────┐ resource interface ┌─────────┐
├─────────┼ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─┼─────────────┤ ├──────┤ Network │
╖ │ PLMN │ ╖ ╖ │ Note 3 │
│ └──────────┘ │ │ └─────────┘
│\│
PLMN connection
NOTE 1: See 3GPP TS 22.001.
NOTE 2: Network means here any fixed network as described in 3GPP TS 22.001.
NOTE 3: The box represents a specialized resource. Its use originates from a
service request. Further study is required to give some examples.
Figure 4: Applications of PLMN connection types
## 5.5 PLMN connection involving several networks
A PLMN connection may comprise a number of tandem network connections. Figure
5 shows an example in which each end network is a PLMN. The intermediate
network(s) must offer the appropriate network capabilities for the service
provided by the (overall) PLMN connection. In (overall) PLMN connections
involving several networks, each network provides a part of the connection and
may be categorized by different attribute values.
The IWF/MSC can interwork with different type of networks, e.g.:
\- analogue (A);
\- digital circuit (D) with V.110/X.31 in band protocol;
Examples of such networks are:
\- GSM (D);
\- ISDN (A, D, P);
\- PSTN (A).
(Overall) PLMN connection
│\│
╖ ╖
│ PLMN Network PLMN │
╖ connection connection connection ╖
│\│\│\│
╖ ┌──────────┐ ╖ ┌─────────────────┐ ╖ ┌──────────┐ ╖
├────┼ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─┼─┼─┼ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┼─┼─┼─ ─ ─ ─ ─ ┼───┤
access │ PLMN │ ╖ │ Transit Network │ ╖ │ PLMN │access
point └──────────┘ │ └─────────────────┘ │ └──────────┘ point
network-to-network network-to-network
interface interface
Figure 5: Example of a PLMN connection involving several networks
# 6 PLMN connection types
## 6.1 Description of PLMN connection types
The characterization of PLMN connection types is done by using a set of
attributes. A PLMN connection type attribute is a specific characteristic of a
PLMN connection type whose values distinguish it from another PLMN connection
type. Particular values are assigned to each attribute when a given PLMN
connection type is described and specified.
A list of definitions of attributes and values is contained in the annex A to
this specification.
A PLMN connection type is partitioned into connection elements. This
partitioning is based on the two most critical transitions of a connection,
firstly, the change of signalling system, secondly, the type of transmission
system. In a PLMN, the change in signalling and transmission between the radio
interface and the A interface leads to two connection elements, the radio
interface connection element and the A interface connection element. Subclause
6.3 describes the relationship between the attribute values of connection
elements and connection types.
To complete the description of PLMN connection types, the definition of
functions within the different entities of a PLMN which are involved in the
realization of a PLMN Connection is needed. These functions will be used in
subclauses 6.4 and 6.5 to describe the limited set of PLMN connection types.
The following functions have been identified:
\- rate adaptation functions;
\- the radio link protocol function;
\- the forward error correction function;
\- the Layer 2 relay function.
### 6.1.1 Rate adaptation
The RA0 rate adaptation is only used with asynchronous interfaces. Incoming
asynchronous data is padded by the addition of stop elements to fit the same
or nearest higher synchronous rate defined by 2 to the power n (where n≤ 6)
times 600 bit/s, 14.4 kbit/s or 28.8 kbit/s. Thus 300 bit/s user data
signalling rate shall be adapted to a synchronous 600 bit/s stream. This
function is described in 3GPP TS 44.021. The RA0 used in the PLMN is not
identical to that described in ITU‑T Recommendation V.110 which converts the
14,4 and 28,8 kbit/s user rates to 19,2 and 38,4 kbit/s, respectively.
The intermediate rate adaptation function (RA1) is a rate adaptation function
which turns either the output of the RA0 function or a synchronous user data
stream into a data stream at 8, 16, or 32 kbit/s by bit repetition and frame
addition. This function is described in 3GPP TS 48.020.
The adaptation of intermediate rates to 64 kbit/s (RA2) performs the final
conversion from the intermediate rates generated by the RA1 function to 64
kbit/s.
The radio interface intermediate rate adaptation function (RA1\') is in the
case of transparent data transmission a variant of the RA1 function and it
adapts synchronous user data stream or the output of the RA0 function to one
of the following data rates: 3.6, 6.0 or 12.0 or 14.5 kbit/s over the radio
path. In case of a TCH/F28.8 channel two 14.5 kbit/s substreams produced by
the RA1\' function are multiplexed into a 29.0 kbit/s air interface channel by
an EDGE multiplexing function. For the non‑transparent case, the RA1\'
function provides direct access to the 12.0 or 6.0 kbit/s data rates. This is
achieved by allowing the V.110 frame status bits to be used as additional data
bits. This function is described in 3GPP TS 44.021 and 3GPP TS 48.020. RA1' is
not applied in TCH/F14.4 or EDGE non-transparent operation.
For TCH/F14.4 channel coding five PLMN-specific adaptation functions are used:
namely, RA1'/RAA', RAA', RA1'/RAA", RAE and RAA'' (3GPP TS 48.020). On the
network side of the air interface, the 14.5 kbit/s substreams multiplexed into
a 29.0 or 43.5 kbit/s air interface channel are transferred just as in a
multislot connection of TCH/F14.4 substreams. RA1'/RAA' adapts between the
14.5 kbit/s air-interface rate and the 16 kbit/s rate used across the Abis-
interface. RAA' adapts between the 16 kbit/s Abis Interface-rate and 16.0
kbit/s A-interface substream. (Up to four such A-interface substreams may be
multiplexed into the 64kbit/s A-interface stream). RAA'' converts between the
A-interface data substream(s) and the overall synchronous stream. In non-
transparent operation the RAA'' converts between the A-interface stream and
the 290-bit blocks containing bits M1, M2, and 288 data bits as described in
3GPP TS 44.021. The RA1'/RAA" function shall be used for channel codings
TCH/F14.4 if the AIUR is equal to 64 kbit/s. It adapts between the 64 kbit/s
data stream and the 14.5 kbit/s air-interface rate. For GERAN Iu mode exists
another PLMN specific rate adaptation function, namely RAE. This function is
the subsequent execution of RAA' and RAA", i.e., it adapts between the 16
kbit/s Abis Interface rate and the overall synchronous stream.
In multislot data configurations the intermediate rates 16, 32, and 64 kbit/s
are supported on those sections of the network where the overall data stream
is not split into multiple channels (3GPP TS 44.021 and 48.020).
RA1-adaptation is not applied to rates higher than 38.4 kbit/s. Instead, a
PLMN-specific rate adaptation function RA1'' to user rates 48 and 56 kbit/s is
applied; this function adapts between these rates and the 64 kbit/s
\"intermediate\" rate. The RA2 function passes rate 64 kbit/s on as such.
In multislot data connections, the rate adaptation functions are performed per
TCH/F between the Split/Combine-functions. On the A-interface up to four
TCH/Fs are multiplexed into one 64 kbit/s channel according to the procedures
defined in 3GPP TS 48.020. However, multiplexing is not applied to those user
rates which make use of more than four TCH/Fs; for such rates the
Split/Combine-function is located at the BSS.
The splitting and recombining of the data flow into/from TCH/Fs takes place at
the RA1-function or RAA" function (transparent service) at the MSC/IWF and at
the MS's RA1'-function, or between the RLP and RA1' (RA1' not applied to
TCH/F14.4) (non-transparent service) at the MS and between RA1 or RAA" and RLP
at MSC/IWF (figures 6 and 7). The TCH/Fs are treated as independent channels
between the Split/Combine-functions.
For user rates requiring more than four TCH/Fs (transparent only) the
Split/Combine-function is located at the RA1'-function at the MS and at the
RA1'/RA1" or RA1'/RAA"-function at the BSS (figures 6 and 7). The rate
adaptation functions for the various user data rates are summarized in tables
1 to 3. It should be noted that in the case of synchronous data transmission,
the RA0 is not present.
For 56 and 64 kbit/s connections using a 2×TCH/F32.0 channel configuration
across the radio interface, no rate adaptation is applied as the PLMN offers a
\'64 kbit/s pipe\' between TE and an external network.
For 32 kbit/s connections using a 1×TCH/F32.0 channel configuration across the
radio interface, the ITU-T I.460 rate adaptation is applied as described in
3GPP TS 44.021.
Table 1: Rate adaptation functions for the support of TE2 in the transparent
case
* * *
R I/F RA0 RA1\' Radio I/F async \ sync  
≤ 2.4 \ ≤ 2.4 \
3.6 4.8 \ 4.8 \
6.0 9.6 \ 9.6 \
12.0 or 2 × 6.0 14.4 \ 14.4
\ 14.5 or 2 × 12.0 or 3 ×
6.0 19.2 \ 19.2 \
2 × 12.0 or 4 × 6.0 28.8 \ 28.8
\ 1 x 29.0 or 2 x 14.5 or
3 × 12.0 32 \ 1 × 32 38.4
\ 38.4 \ 3 x 14.5
or 4 × 12.0 48.0 \ 4 x
14.5 or 5 × 12.0 56.0 \ 2
x 32.0 or 4 x 14.5 or 5 × 12.0 note 1 64.0
\ 2 x 32.0 or 5 x 14.5 or
6 × 12.0 note 1
* * *
NOTE 1: AIUR of 11.2 kbit/s per 12.0 kbit/s air interface channel (3GPP TS
44.021).
Table 2: Void.
* * *
Void
* * *
Table 3: RA1\' function in the non-transparent case
* * *
         RA1\'
6.0 \ 6.0 12.0 \ 12.0
* * *
NOTE: RA1' not applicable to TCH/F14.4, TCH/F28.8, or TCH/F43.2
### 6.1.2 Radio Link Protocol
The Radio Link Protocol (RLP) is a layer 2 LAPB based protocol which performs
grouping of user data for the purpose of implementing error control and
retransmission mechanisms in the case of non-transparent low layer
capabilities. The RLP layer is in charge of the transmission of the data
compression parameters to the peer RLP entity and to the L2R layer, when those
parameters have to be negotiated. The function that realizes the
implementation of the protocol (described in 3GPP TS 24.022) takes place at
both ends of the PLMN connection in the MT and the IWF/MSC.
### 6.1.3 Layer 2 Relay function
The Layer 2 Relay function (L2R) performs protocol conversion between the user
data structure (e.g. characters or X.25 Layer 2 frames) and a structure more
adapted to the radio link protocol. This function is described in the relevant
3GPP TS 27-series specifications.
The L2R function includes the data compression function.
### 6.1.4 Resources allocated by the PLMN network
Part of the PLMN connection concerns the resources allocated by the PLMN
network on the basis of the attribute values of the connection elements.
For the speech calls, the PLMN codec is allocated.
For data calls, resources are provided at the IWF/MSC such as:
\- V.110 based rate adaptation for such channel codings as TCH/F 4.8 and
TCH/F9.6 and PLMN specific rate adaption for channel codings TCH/F14.4,
TCH/F28.8, TCH/F43.2 (3GPP TS 44.021, 48.020);
\- filtering of status bits (TS 27.001);
\- RLP for non-transparent services (TS 24.022);
\- Data compression (TS 24.022, 27.002).
These are sufficient for data services such as:
\- asynchronous circuit (bearer service series 20), used with unrestricted
digital information transfer capability;
\- synchronous circuit (bearer service series 30), used with unrestricted
digital information transfer capability when interworking with circuit
switched digital networks.
In addition to the above listed resources, further resources are allocated in
the other cases:
\- modems for asynchronous circuit (bearer service series 20) or synchronous
circuit (bearer service series 30) used with 3.1 kHz information transfer
capability;
\- fax adaptor for the fax group 3 (teleservice series 60);
## 6.2 PLMN connection elements
The radio interface connection element is the portion of the connection
spanning from the Mobile Termination to an appropriate internal reference
point within the Base Station System.
The A interface connection element is the portion of the connection from the
above internal reference point within the base station to an appropriate
internal reference point within the interworking function (IWF) of the MSC.
By using connection elements and attributes which have a layered nature the
construction of a connection type is more easily viewed. The use of different
values for the same attribute allows a greater degree of description and
flexibility.
## 6.3 Rules of association for the attribute values of connection elements
and connection types
This subclause describes the relationship between the attribute values of
connection elements and connection types. For each attribute the various
possible values recommended are listed. The definitions of the attributes and
attribute values are contained in the annex A. In addition to the (possible)
attribute values applicable to the connection elements, an association law is
given (where appropriate) for each attribute to show how the value of the
attribute for the overall connection type is obtained from the values of the
attribute applicable to the connection elements.
### 6.3.1 Information transfer mode
Attribute values for connection elements:
Circuit.
Attribute values for overall connection type:
Circuit.
Association Law:
Circuit.
### 6.3.2 Information transfer rate (kbit/s)
Attribute values for connection elements:
3.6 or 6.0 or 12.0 or 13.0 or 14.5 or 29.0 or 32.0 or 43.5 or 64.0
or n × 6.0 ( 1 ≤ n ≤ 4 ) or n × 12.0 ( 1 ≤ n ≤ 6 ) or n x 14.5 ( 1 ≤ n ≤ 5 )
or 2 x 29.0 or 2 x 32.0
Attribute values for overall connection type:
3.6 or 6.0 or 12.0 or 13.0 or 14.5 29.0 or 32.0 or 43.5 or 64.0;
or n × 6.0 ( 1 ≤ n ≤ 4 ) or n × 12.0 ( 1 ≤ n ≤ 6 ) or n x 14.5 ( 1 ≤ n ≤ 5 )
or 2 x 29.0 or 2 x 32.0..
Association Law:
The value for the overall connection type will be equal to the lowest value of
any of its connection elements.
### 6.3.3 Information transfer susceptance
Attribute values for connection elements:
Speech processing functions (e.g. PLMN Speech Coding/A Law conversion,
Discontinuous Transmission) and/or Echo suppression functions and/or Multiple
satellite hops or null.
Attribute values for overall connection types:
Unrestricted Digital Information or Speech.
Association Law:
For an overall connection type to have the value Unrestricted digital no
connection element may contain speech processing functions or echo suppression
functions. Connection elements containing speech processing devices having the
flexibility to change operation between speech and unrestricted digital would
on the other hand be allowed to be part of a number of different connection
types.
For an overall connection type to have the value speech it must contain PLMN
Speech Coding/A Law conversion equipment and echo suppression functions when
appropriate.
### 6.3.4 Establishment of connection
Attribute values for connection elements:
Demand.
Attribute values for overall connection type:
Demand.
Association Law:
If any of the connection elements are Demand, then the overall connection type
is Demand.
### 6.3.5 Symmetry
Attribute values for connection elements:
Bidirectional Symmetric.
Bidirectional Asymmetric (Multislot connections for data).
Attribute values for overall connection type:
Bidirectional Symmetric.
Bidirectional Asymmetric (Multislot connections for data).
Association Law:
The overall symmetry can only be generated from the connection elements by
analysis of the connection element values in the context of the architecture
of the connection.
### 6.3.6 Connection configuration Topology
Attribute values for connection elements:
Point-to-point.
Attribute values for the overall connection type:
Not applicable.
Association Law:
Not applicable.
### 6.3.7 Structure
Attribute values for connection elements:
Unstructured or Service Data Unit Integrity.
Attribute values for the overall connection type:
As per values for connection elements.
Association Law:
Unspecified.
### 6.3.8 Channels
#### 6.3.8.1 Information channel (rate)
Attribute values for connection elements:
Radio interface connection element: Full rate TCH or Full rate TCHs or Half
rate TCH.
A interface connection element: 64.0 kbit/s.
Attribute values for the overall connection type:
Not applicable.
#### 6.3.8.2 Signalling channel (rate)
Attribute values for connection elements:
Radio interface connection element: Dm.
A interface connection element: Common channel signalling system (64.0
kbit/s).
Attribute values for the overall connection type:
Not applicable.
### 6.3.9 Connection control protocol
Attribute values for connection elements:
Radio interface connection element:
Layer 1: 3GPP TS 44.004 and 3GPP TS 45-series.
Layer 2: 3GPP TS 44.005 and 44.006.
Layer 3: 3GPP TS 24.007 and 24.008, 24.011.
A interface connection element:
Layer 1: 3GPP TS 48.004.
Layer 2: 3GPP TS 48.006.
Layer 3: TS 24.007, 24.008 and 48.008.
Attribute values for the overall connection type:
Not applicable.
### 6.3.10 Information transfer coding/protocol
Attribute values for connection elements:
Radio interface connection elements:
Layer 1: 3GPP TS 44.021, 3GPP TS 45-series and 46-series.
Layer 2: 3GPP TS 44.006, 24.022 and 3GPP TS 27.002 or 3GPP TS 24.022 and 3GPP
TS 27.003 or transparent.
Layer 3: Transparent, 3GPP TS 24.011.
A interface connection element:
Layer 1: 3GPP TS 48.004 and 3GPP TS 48.020.
Layer 2: 3GPP TS 24.022 and 3GPP TS 27.002 or 3GPP TS 24.022 and 3GPP TS
27.003 or transparent.
Layer 3: Transparent.
Attribute values for the overall connection type:
Not applicable.
### 6.3.11 Further attributes and attribute values
This subclause has outlined the relationships between those attributes values
presently existing, the possibility for new values being added remains.
Table 4 summarizes the attributes values for PLMN connection elements.
Table 4: Values for attributes for PLMN connection elements
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attributes | Values for | | | | attributes | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Radio interface | A interface | | | | | | | connection element | connection element | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 Information | Circuit | Circuit | | Transfer Mode | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 Information | 3.6 or 6.0 or 12.0 | 64.0 kbit/s | | Transfer Rate | or 13.0 or 14.5 | | | | | | | Layer 1 | or 29.0 or 32.0 or | | | | 43.5 or n × 6.0 ( 1 | | | | ≤ n ≤ 4 ) or n × | | | | 12.0 ( 1 ≤ n ≤ 6 ) | | | | or n x 14.5 ( 1 ≤ n | | | | ≤ 5 ) or 2 x 29.0 or | | | | 2 x 32.0 kbit/s | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 Information | Speech processing | Speech processing | | Transfer Susceptance | | | | | equipment, | equipment, | | | | | | | Echo suppression | Echo suppression | | | | | | | equipment, | equipment, | | | | | | | Null | Null | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 4 Establishment of | Demand | Demand | | Connection | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 Symmetry | Bidirectional | Bidirectional | | | symmetric | symmetric | | | | | | | Bidirectional | Bidirectional | | | asymmetric | asymmetric | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6 Connection | Point-to-point | Point-to-point | | Configuration | | | | Topology | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 7 Structure | Unstructured | Unstructured | | | | | | | SDU integrity | SDU integrity | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 8 Channel Rate | TCH/F(s) or TCH/H | 64.0 kbit/s | | | | | | Information Channel | Dm | Common channel | | | | | | Signalling Channel | | signalling system | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 9 Connection Control | 3GPP TS 44.004 and | 3GPP TS 48.004 | | Protocol | 45 series | | | | | 3GPP TS 48.006 | | Layer 1 | 3GPP TS 44.005 and | | | | 44.006 | 3GPP TS 24.007, | | Layer 2 | | 24.008, 48.008 | | | 3GPP TS 24.007, | | | Layer 3 | 24.008, 24.011 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 Information | 3GPP TS 44.021 45 | 3GPP TS 48.004 and | | Transfer | and 46 series | 48.020 | | Coding/Protocol | | | | | 3GPP TS 24.022 and | 3GPP TS 24.022 and | | Layer 1 | 27.002 or 24.022 and | 27.002 or 24.022 and | | | 27.003 | 27.003 | | Layer 2 | | | | | 44.006 or | or transparent | | Layer 3 | transparent | | | | | Transparent | | | Transparent, 24.011 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.4 PLMN connection types for GERAN A/Gb mode
### 6.4.1 Limited set of PLMN connection types (for TCH/F4.8 and TCH/F9.6
channel codings)
From the two connection elements defined in subclause 6.2, the list of
attributes and their possible values given in subclause 6.3, and from the
service requirements defined in 3GPP TS 22.002 and 22.003, a limited set of
PLMN connection types have been identified (see also table 5 and table 6 for
the relationship between connection elements and telecommunication services).
Figure 6 gives the information transfer protocol models for the identified set
of PLMN connection types. The S bits correspond to status bits and the D bits
to data bits (3GPP TS 44.021); S* indicates that S bits are used only when 3.1
kHz audio ex PLMN. D\' bits corresponds to user bits passed in the place of
status bits in the non transparent case Moreover, it should be noted that the
RLP rate of 6 and 12 kbit/s correspond to the 8 and 16 kbit/s intermediate
rate in the transparent case.
Protocol Models 1 b and e are the models for asynchronous data transmission in
the transparent mode.
Protocol Models 2 b and e are the models for synchronous data transmission in
the transparent mode.
Protocol Models 3 b and e are the models for character \"asynchronous\" mode
data transmission in the non-transparent mode. In this case, L2RCOP represents
the protocol used between the Layer 2 Relay functions (L2R) to convey
characters between the MS and the IWF (see 3GPP TS 27.002). The data
compression function is located in the L2R COP function.
In all of the above models, the b variants are for singleslot, the e variants
are for multislot data configurations.
Protocol Model 5a is the model for the transparent support of group 3
facsimile transmission. Model 5b is for transparent support of group 3
facsimile transmission in multislot data configurations.
Protocol Model 6 is the model for speech transmission.
In the multislot-data models the data is split into parallel substreams
between the Split/Combine-functions (S/C). These substreams are transmitted
through parallel TCH/Fs which are treated as independent channels. Between the
S/C-functions parallel RA- and FEC-functions are used.
For all the models, only the minimum functionality of the IWF is shown.
Additional functions will be required for various interworking situations.
These additional functions are described in specification 3GPP TS 29.007.
It should be noted that, in Figure 6, the representation of the transcoding
and rate adaptation from the intermediate rate on the radio interface to the
64 kbit/s rate required by the MSC is not intended to indicate a particular
implementation. The annex B to 3GPP TS 43.010 identifies alternative
arrangements.
Figure 6: Information transfer protocol models for PLMN connections
Figure 6 (continued): Information transfer protocol models for PLMN
connections
Figure 6 (continued): Information transfer protocol models for PLMN
connections
Figure 6 (concluded): Information transfer protocol models for PLMN
connections
* * *
Legend to Figure 6: FA = Fax Adaptor GSC = GSM Speech Codec FEC = Forward
Error Correction MPX = Multiplex/Demultiplex MUX = Multiplex/Demultiplex S/C =
Split/ Combine
* * *
### 6.4.2 Limited set of PLMN connection types (for TCH/F14.4 channel coding)
Figure 7 provides the information transfer protocol models for the identified
set of PLMN connection types for support of TCH/F14.4. The description of
models given in subclause 6.4.1 applies also to figure 7.
Figure 7 : Information transfer protocol models for PLMN connections using
14.4 channels
Figure 7 (continued) : Information transfer protocol models for PLMN
connections using 14.4 channels
Figure 7 (continued) : Information transfer protocol models for PLMN
connections using 14.4 channels
Figure 7 (concluded) : Information transfer protocol models for PLMN
connections using 14.4 channels
* * *
Legend to Figure 7: FA = Fax Adaptor GSC = GSM Speech Codec FEC = Forward
Error Correction MPX = Multiplex/Demultiplex MUX = Multiplex/Demultiplex S/C =
Split/ Combine
* * *
### 6.4.3 Limited set of PLMN connection types (for EDGE channels)
Figure 8 provides the information transfer protocol models for the identified
set of PLMN connection types for support of TCH/F28.8 or TCH/F43.2 and figure
9 the models for the support of TCH/F32.0. The description of models given in
subclause 6.4.1 applies also to figures 8 and 9.
When a TCH/F28.8 channel is used in multislot configurations, multiple EDGE
multiplexing functions are applied on both sides of the air-interface; i.e.
one multiplexing function  on each side of the air interface  is associated
with each air-interface channel.
When TCH/F32.0 channels are used in double slot configurations, no rate
adaptation is applied as the PLMN offers a \'64 kbit/s pipe\' between TE and
an external network. When TCH/F32.0 channels are used in single slot
configurations, the ITU-T I.460 rate adaptation is applied. (For details refer
to 3GPP TS 44.021).
Figure 8: Information transfer protocol models for PLMN connections using EDGE
channels
Figure 9: Information transfer protocol models for PLMN connections using
TCH/F32.0 EDGE channels
## 6.5 PLMN connection types for GERAN Iu mode
### 6.5.1 Limited set of PLMN connection types (for TCH/F9.6 channel coding)
Figure 10 provides the information transfer protocol models for the identified
set of PLMN connection types for TCH/F9.6 channel coding. The description of
models given in subclause 6.4.1 applies also to figure 10.
Figure 10: Information transfer protocol models for PLMN connections
* * *
Legend to Figure 10: RLC = Radio Link Control MAC = Medium Access Control PHY
= Physical Layer S/C = Split/ Combine function Iu UP = Iu User Plane protocol
ATM = Asynchronous Transfer Mode
* * *
Figure 10 (concluded): Information transfer protocol models for PLMN
connections
### 6.5.2 Limited set of PLMN connection types (for TCH/F14.4 channel coding)
Figure 11 provides the information transfer protocol models for the identified
set of PLMN connection types for support of TCH/F14.4. The description of
models given in subclause 6.4.1 applies also to figure 11.
Figure 11: Information transfer protocol models for PLMN connections using
14.4 channels
Figure 11 (concluded): Information transfer protocol models for PLMN
connections using 14.4 channels
### 6.5.3 Limited set of PLMN connection types (for EDGE channels)
Figure 12 provides the information transfer protocol models for the identified
set of PLMN connection types for support of TCH/F28.8 or TCH/F43.2 and figure
13 the models for the support of TCH/F32.0. The description of models given in
subclause 6.4.1 applies also to figures 12 and 13.
When a TCH/F28.8 channel is used in multislot configurations, multiple EDGE
multiplexing functions are applied on both sides of the air-interface; i.e.
one multiplexing function  on each side of the air interface  is associated
with each air-interface channel.
When TCH/F32.0 channels are used in double slot configurations, no rate
adaptation is applied as the PLMN offers a \'64 kbit/s pipe\' between TE and
an external network. When TCH/F32.0 channels are used in single slot
configurations, the ITU-T I.460 rate adaptation is applied. (For details refer
to 3GPP TS 44.021).
Figure 12: Information transfer protocol models for PLMN connections using
EDGE channels
Figure 13: Information transfer protocol models for PLMN connections using
TCH/F32.0 EDGE channels
# 7 Relationship between Telecommunication services and connection types
## 7.1 General
Given a request for a telecommunication service at the initiation of a call,
the PLMN must establish a connection of a connection type that supports the
attributes of the service requested. This establishment of a connection is
effected at the time of call set up.
It should be noted that PLMN connection types represent the technical
capabilities of a PLMN and provide a basis for the definition of performance
and interworking with other networks. Telecommunication services supported by
PLMN are the packages offered to customers and the definition of their
attributes is the means to standardize the service offerings in all PLMNs.
Quality of service and commercial attributes are relevant to telecommunication
services whereas connection types are characterized by network performance,
network operations and maintenance attributes.
## 7.2 Relationship between Bearer services and connection types
Table 5 shows the relationship between Bearer services and PLMN connection
types. In table 5, the connection elements for each connection type related to
a Bearer service are shown.
Dominant attributes of the connection elements, such as information transfer
mode, information transfer rate, information transfer capability and structure
are indicated. The type of radio traffic channel used is also shown (half rate
and full rate). In the multislot cases the minimum number of timeslots per
connection (n) is 1.
## 7.3 Relationship between Teleservices and connection types
Table 6 shows the relationship between teleservices and connection type
elements, for those teleservices having PLMN connection type which does not
correspond to the PLMN connection type of a bearer service. As in table 5/3GPP
TS 43.010, dominant attributes of the connection elements and the type of
radio traffic channel are shown. In the multislot cases the minimum number of
timeslots per connection (n) is 1.
## 7.4 Network capability to support in-call modification
Specifications 3GPP TS 22.002 and 22.003 identify a particular need for a PLMN
to support the Alternate speech and group 3 facsimile.
This service allows the use of in-call modification to change the mode of
service. The network capability to support in-call modification is described
in 3GPP TS 24.008. An in-call modification of the service mode is not possible
for other services.
## 7.5 Network capability to support channel mode modification
Specification 3GPP TS 43.045 (Technical Realization of the Group 3 Facsimile
Teleservice) identifies a need for a PLMN to support channel mode modification
within the facsimile phase of the alternate speech and facsimile group 3
service. The network capability to support channel modification is described
in 3GPP TS 24.008. Channel mode modification is not possible for other
services. A channel mode modification results in a change of connection
element over the radio interface with resultant change in access at the mobile
station.
Table 5: Relationship between Bearer services and PLMN Connection elements
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Co |** Bearer | **Radio |** Inte | * | ** | | nnection | service | i | rmediate | _BSS-MSC | Protocol | | descr | user | nterface | rate at | co | model in | | iption_ _| data | co | the | nnection | figure | | | rate_ _| nnection | BSS-MSC | e | 6, 7, 8, | | | | e | int | lement_ _| 9, 10, | | | | lement_ _| erface_ _| | 11, 12 | | | | | | | or 13_ * | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Circuit | Data | cct mode | 8 or 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | mode | circuit | unst | kbit/s | unst | 1 e, 2 e | | unst | duplex | ructured | per | ructured | | | ructured | async n | unre | TCH/F. | unre | Fig 10 : | | with | × 4 800 | stricted | | stricted | 1 e, 2 e | | unre | (n ≤ 4) | n × 6 | For data | 64 | | | stricted | or | kbit/s | con | kbit/s. | | | digital | | (n ≤ 4) | nections | | | | ca | n × | or | using 5 | | | | pability | 9 600 | n × 12 | or 6 | | | | tran | bit/s | kbit/s | TCH/Fs | | | | sparent. | (n ≤ 4). | (n ≤ 6) | no | | | | | | on n | inte | | | | | Data | full | rmediate | | | | | circuit | rate | rate(s) | | | | | duplex | c | . | | | | | sync | hannels. | | | | | | | | | | | | | n × | | | | | | | 4 800 | | | | | | | (n ≤ 4) | | | | | | | or n × | | | | | | | 9 600 | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 5) | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | n × | | | | | | | 1 1200 | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | | | (n = 5 | | | | | | | or 6). | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 7 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s | unst | 1 e, 2 e | | | duplex | ructured | per | ructured | | | | async | unre | TCH/F. | unre | Fig 11 : | | | | stricted | | stricted | 1 e, 2 e | | | n × 14 | n x 14.5 | | 64 | | | | 400 | kbit/s | | kbit/s. | | | | bit/s ( | (n ≤ 5) | | | | | | n ≤ 3). | on n | | | | | | | full | | | | | | Data | rate | | | | | | circuit | channels | | | | | | duplex | | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | | | | | | | | n × 14 | | | | | | | 400 | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 5) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 8 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s | unst | 1 b, 2 b | | | duplex | ructured | per | ructured | | | | async | unre | TCH/F. | unre | Fig 12 : | | | | stricted | | stricted | 1 b, 2 b | | | 28 800 | 29.0 | | 64 | | | | bit/s. | kbit/s | | kbit/s. | | | | | on full | | | | | | Data | rate | | | | | | circuit | channel | | | | | | duplex | | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 28 800 | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 32 | | Fig 9 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s | | 2 b | | | duplex | ructured | | | | | | | | | | Fig 13 : | | | Sync | unre | | | 2 b | | | | stricted | | | | | | 32 000 | 32 | | | | | | bit/s | kbit/s | | | | | | | on full | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | No | | Fig 9 : | | | circuit | unst | inte | | 2 e | | | duplex | ructured | rmediate | | | | | sync | unre | rate for | | Fig 13 : | | | | stricted | the | | 2 e | | | 64 000 | 2 x 32.0 | | | | | | bit/s | kbit/s | 64 000 | | | | | | on full | bit/s | | | | | | rate | rate | | | | | | channels | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 7 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s | unst | 1 b, | | | duplex | ructured | | ructured | | | | async 14 | unre | | unre | 2 b | | | 400 | stricted | | stricted | | | | bit/s | 14.5 | | 64 | Fig 11 : | | | | kbit/s | | kbit/s. | 1 b, 2 b | | | Data | on full | | | | | | circuit | rate | | | | | | duplex | Channel | | | | | | sync 14 | | | | | | | 400 | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s. | unst | 1 b | | | duplex | ructured | | ructured | | | | async | unre | | unre | 2 b | | | 9 600 | stricted | | stricted | | | | bit/s. | 12 | | 64 | | | | | kbit/s | | kbits/s. | | | | Data | on full | | | | | | circuit | rate | | | | | | duplex | channel. | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | 9 600 | | | | | | | bit/s. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 8 | cct mode | Fig 6 1 | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s. | unst | b | | | duplex | ructured | | ructured | | | | async | unre | | unre | 2 b | | | 4 800 | stricted | | stricted | | | | bit/s. | 6 kbit/s | | 64 | | | | | on full | | kbits/s. | | | | Data | rate | | | | | | circuit | channel | | | | | | duplex | and half | | | | | | sync | rate | | | | | | 4 800 | channel. | | | | | | bit/s. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 8 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s. | unst | 1 b | | | duplex | ructured | | ructured | | | | async | unre | | unre | | | | 300. | stricted | | stricted | | | | | 3.6 | | 64 | | | | Data | kbit/s | | kbits/s. | | | | circuit | on full | | | | | | duplex | rate | | | | | | async | channel | | | | | | 1 200. | and half | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | Data | channel. | | | | | | circuit | | | | | | | duplex | | | | | | | async | | | | | | | 2 400. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | circuit | | | | | | | duplex | | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | 1 200. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Data | | | | | | | circuit | | | | | | | duplex | | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | 2 400. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Co |** Bearer | **Radio |** Inte | * | ** | | nnection | service | i | rmediate | _BSS-MSC | Protocol | | descr | user | nterface | rate at | co | model in | | iption_ _| data | co | the | nnection | figure | | | rate_ _| nnection | BSS-MSC | e | 6, 7, 8, | | | | e | int | lement_ _| 9, 10, | | | | lement_ _| erface_ _| | 11, 12 | | | | | | | or 13_ * | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Circuit | Data | cct mode | 8 or 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | mode | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 e | | unst | duplex | unre | per | ructured | | | ructured | async n | stricted | TCH/F. | unre | Fig 10 : | | with | × 4 800 | n × 6 | | stricted | 3 e | | unre | (n ≤ 4) | kbit/s | | 64 | | | stricted | or | (n ≤ 4) | | kbit/s. | | | digital | | or | | | | | ca | n × | n × 1 | | | | | pability | 9 600 | 2 kbit/s | | | | | | bit/s | (n ≤ 4) | | | | | non | (n ≤ 4). | on full | | | | | tran | | rate | | | | | sparent. | | c | | | | | | | hannels. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 7 : | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 e | | | duplex | unre | | ructured | | | | async | stricted | | unre | Fig 11 : | | | | n × 14. | | stricted | 3 e | | | n × | 5 kbit/s | | 64 | | | | 14 400 | (n ≤ 4) | | kbit/s. | | | | bit/s | on full | | | | | | (n ≤ 4). | rate | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | hannels. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 8 : | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 b | | | duplex | unre | per | ructured | | | | async | stricted | TCH/F. | unre | Fig 12 : | | | | n × 29. | | stricted | 3 b | | | n x 28 | 0 kbit/s | 16 | 64 | | | | 800 | (n ≤ 2) | kbit/s | kbit/s. | | | | bit/s | on full | per | | | | | (n ≤ 2). | rate | TCH/F. | | | | | | c | | | | | | Data | hannels. | | | | | | circuit | | | | | | | duplex | cct mode | | | | | | async | SDU | | | | | | | unre | | | | | | 43 200 | stricted | | | | | | bit/s | 43. | | | | | | | 5 kbit/s | | | | | | | on a | | | | | | | full | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 7 : | | | circuit | SDUunre | kbit/s | unst | 3 b | | | duplex | stricted | | ructured | | | | async 14 | 14.5 | | unre | Fig 11 : | | | 400 | kbit/s | | stricted | 3 e | | | bit/s | on full | | 64 | | | | | rate | | kbit/s. | | | | | channel | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s. | unst | 3 b | | | duplex | unre | | ructured | | | | async | stricted | | unre | Fig 10 : | | | 9 600 | 12 | | stricted | 3 b | | | bit/s. | kbit/s | | 64 | | | | | on full | | kbits/s. | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 b | | | duplex | unre | FR | ructured | | | | async | stricted | | unre | Fig 10 : | | | 4 800 | full | 8 kbit/s | stricted | 3 b | | | bit/s. | rate | HR. | 64 | | | | | channel, | | kbits/s. | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | kbit/s | | | | | | | or half | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel, | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | kbit/s. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 b | | | duplex | unre | FR | ructured | | | | async | stricted | | unre | Fig 10 : | | | 300. | full | 8 kbit/s | stricted | 3 b | | | | rate | HR. | 64 | | | | Data | channel, | | kbits/s. | | | | circuit | 12 | | | | | | duplex | kbit/s | | | | | | async | or half | | | | | | 1 200. | rate | | | | | | | channel, | | | | | | Data | 6 | | | | | | circuit | kbit/s. | | | | | | duplex | | | | | | | async | | | | | | | 2 400. | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Co |** Bearer | **Radio |** Inte | * | ** | | nnection | service | i | rmediate | _BSS-MSC | Protocol | | descr | user | nterface | rate at | co | model in | | iption_ _| data | co | the | nnection | figure | | | rate_ _| nnection | BSS-MSC | e | 6, 7, 8, | | | | e | int | lement_ _| 9, 10, | | | | lement_ _| erface_ _| | 11, 12 | | | | | | | or 13_ * | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Circuit | Data | cct mode | 8 or 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | mode | circuit | unst | kbit/s | unst | 1 e, 2 e | | unst | duplex | ructured | TCH/F. | ructured | | | ructured | async n | unre | | | Fig 10 : | | with 3.1 | × 4 800 | stricted | | unre | 1 e, 2 e | | kHz | bit/s | n × 6 | | stricted | | | audio ex | (n ≤ 4) | kbit/s | | 64 | | | PLMN | or | (n ≤ 4) | | kbit/s. | | | tran | | or | | | | | sparent. | n × | n × 12 | | | | | | 9 600 | kbit/s | | | | | | bit/s | (n ≤ 3) | | | | | | (n ≤ 3). | on n | | | | | | | full | | | | | | Data | rate | | | | | | circuit | c | | | | | | duplex | hannels. | | | | | | sync n × | | | | | | | 4 800 | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 4) | | | | | | | or n × | | | | | | | 9 600 | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 3). | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 7 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s | unst | 1 e, 2 e | | | duplex | ructured | per | ructured | | | | async | unre | TCH/F | unre | Fig 11 : | | | | stricted | | stricted | 1 e, 2 e | | | n × 14 | x 14.5 | | 64 | | | | 400 | kbit/s | | kbit/s. | | | | bit/s | (n ≤ 2) | | | | | | (n ≤ 2). | on n | | | | | | | full | | | | | | Data | rate | | | | | | circuit | channels | | | | | | duplex | | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | | | | | | | | n × 14 | | | | | | | 400 | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 2) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 8 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s | unst | 1 b, 2 b | | | duplex | ructured | per | ructured | | | | async | unre | TCH/F. | unre | Fig 12 : | | | | stricted | | stricted | 1 b, 2 b | | | 28 800 | 29.0 | | 64 | | | | bit/s. | kbit/s | | kbit/s. | | | | | on a | | | | | | Data | full | | | | | | circuit | rate | | | | | | duplex | channel | | | | | | sync | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 28 800 | | | | | | | bit/s | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 7 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s | unst | 1 b for | | | duplex | ructured | | ructured | async | | | asynch | unre | | unre | | | | 14 400 | stricted | | stricted | Fig 7 :2 | | | bit/s | 14.5 | | 64 | b for | | | | kbit/s | | kbit/s. | synch | | | synch 14 | on full | | | | | | 400 | rate | | | | | | bit/s | channels | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | | | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s. | | | | | duplex | ructured | | | | | | async | unre | | | | | | 9.6 | stricted | | | | | | kbit/s | 12 | | | | | | | kbit/s | | | | | | sync 9.6 | full | | | | | | kbit/s. | rate | | | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 8 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s. | unst | 1 b for | | | duplex | ructured | | ructured | asynch. | | | async | unre | | unre | | | | 4.8 | stricted | | stricted | Fig 6 : | | | kbit/s | 6 kbit/s | | 64 | 2 b for | | | | full and | | kbit/s. | synch. | | | sync 4.8 | half | | | | | | kbit/s. | rate | | | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 8 | | | | | circuit | unst | kbit/s. | | | | | duplex | ructured | | | | | | async ≤ | unre | | | | | | 2 400 | stricted | | | | | | | 3.6 | | | | | | sync ≤ | kbit/s | | | | | | 2 400. | full and | | | | | | | half | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Co |** Bearer | **Radio |** Inte | * | ** | | nnection | service | i | rmediate | _BSS-MSC | Protocol | | descr | user | nterface | rate at | co | model in | | iption_ _| data | co | the | nnection | figure | | | rate_ _| nnection | BSS-MSC | e | 6, 7, 8, | | | | e | int | lement_ _| 9, 10, | | | | lement_ _| erface_ _| | 11, 12 | | | | | | | or 13_ * | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Circuit | Data | cct mode | 8 or 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | mode | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 e | | unst | duplex | unre | per | ructured | | | ructured | async n | stricted | TCH/F. | | Fig 10 : | | with 3.1 | × 4 800 | n × | | unre | 3 e | | kHz | (n ≤ 4) | 6 kbit/s | | stricted | | | audio ex | or n × | (n ≤ 4) | | 64 | | | PLMN non | 9 600 | or | | kbits/s. | | | tran | (n ≤ 4) | n × 1 | | | | | sparent. | bit/s. | 2 kbit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 4) | | | | | | | on full | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | hannels. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 7 : | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 e | | | duplex | unre | per | ructured | | | | async | stricted | TCH/F | | Fig 11 : | | | | n x 14.5 | | unre | 3 e | | | n × 14 | kbit/s | | stricted | | | | 400 | (n ≤ 4) | | 64 | | | | bit/s | on n | | kbits/s. | | | | (n ≤ 4). | full | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channels | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 8 : | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 b | | | duplex | unre | per | ructured | | | | async | stricted | TCH/F. | | Fig 12 : | | | | 29. | | unre | 3 e | | | 28 800 | 0 kbit/s | 16 | stricted | | | | bit/s. | on a | kbit/s | 64 | | | | | full | per | kbits/s. | | | | Data | rate | TCH/F. | | | | | circuit | channel. | | | | | | duplex | | | | | | | async | cct mode | | | | | | | SDU | | | | | | 43 200 | unre | | | | | | bit/s | stricted | | | | | | | 43. | | | | | | | 5 kbit/s | | | | | | | on a | | | | | | | full | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 7 : | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 b | | | duplex | unre | | ructured | | | | asynch | stricted | | | Fig 11 : | | | 14 400 | 14.5 | | unre | 3 b | | | bit/s | kbit/s | | stricted | | | | | full | | 64 | | | | | rate | | kbits/s. | | | | | channel | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | | | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s. | | | | | duplex | | | | | | | async | unre | | | | | | 9.6 | stricted | | | | | | kbit/s | 12 | | | | | | | kbit/s | | | | | | | full | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | | circuit | SDU | kbit/s | unst | 3 b | | | duplex | unre | FR | ructured | | | | async | stricted | | unre | Fig 10 : | | | 4.8 | half | 8 kbit/s | stricted | 3 b | | | kbit/s | rate | HR. | 64 | | | | | channel, | | kbit/s. | | | | | 6 kbit/s | | | | | | | or full | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel, | | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | kbit/s. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Data | cct mode | | | | | | circuit | SDU | | | | | | duplex | unre | | | | | | async ≤ | stricted | | | | | | 2 400 | half | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel, | | | | | | | 6 kbit/s | | | | | | | or full | | | | | | | rate | | | | | | | channel, | | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | kbit/s. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 6: Relationship between Teleservices and PLMN connection types
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Tel |** Access | **Radio |** Inte | **B |** Pr | | eservice | at**| int | rmediate | SS-MSC** | otocol**| | in a** | | erface**| rate at | | | | |** mobile | | the | **co |** model | | **PLMN** | s | **co | BSS-MSC | nnection | in** | | | tation**| nnection | int | e | | | | | e | erface** | lement**|** figure | | | | lement**| | | 6 or 7** | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Te | | cct mode | NA. | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | lephony. | | speech. | | st | 6 | | | | | | ructured | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 64 | | | | | | | kbit/s | | | | | | | speech. | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E | | cct mode | NA. | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | mergency | | speech. | | st | 6 | | calls. | | | | ructured | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 64 | | | | | | | kbit/s | | | | | | | speech. | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | Data cct | cct mode | Speech | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | lternate | duplex | speech | NA | st | 5a or 5b | | | syn | alt | | ructured | and 6 | | Speech/ | chronous | ernating | 8 or 16 | | | | | access | with | kbit/s | 64 | | | F | a | unst | | kbit/s | | | acsimile | lternate | ructured | per | a | | | | speech/ | unre | TCH/F. | lternate | | | Group 3. | | stricted | | spee | | | | group 3 | 3.6 or 6 | | ch/unres | | | | fax. | or | | tricted. | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | 2 kbit/s | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | n × | | | | | | | 6 kbit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 3) | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | n × 1 | | | | | | | 2 kbit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 2) | | | | | | | on FR | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | sparent. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | cct mode | Speech | | Fig 7 : | | | | speech | NA | | 5a or 5b | | | | alt | | | and 6 | | | | ernating | 16 | | | | | | with | kbit/s | | | | | | unst | | | | | | | ructured | per | | | | | | unre | TCH/F. | | | | | | stricted | | | | | | | 14. | | | | | | | 5 kbit/s | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | n × 14. | | | | | | | 5 kbit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 2) | | | | | | | on FR | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsparent | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | A | Data cct | cct mode | 8 or 16 | cct mode | Fig 6 : | | utomatic | duplex | unst | kbit/s | st | 5a, 5b | | | syn | ructured | | ructured | | | F | chronous | unre | per | | | | acsimile | access | stricted | TCH/F. | 64 | | | | group 3 | 3.6 or 6 | | kbit/s | | | Group 3. | fax. | or | | unres | | | | | 1 | | tricted. | | | | | 2 kbit/s | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | n × | | | | | | | 6 kbit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 3) | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | n × 1 | | | | | | | 2 kbit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 2) | | | | | | | on FR | | | | | | | tran | | | | | | | sparent. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | cct mode | 16 | | | | | | unst | kbit/s | | | | | | ructured | | | | | | | unre | per | | | | | | stricted | TCH/F. | | | | | | 14. | | | | | | | 5 kbit/s | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | n × 14. | | | | | | | 5 kbit/s | | | | | | | (n ≤ 2) | | | | | | | on FR | | | | | | | tra | | | | | | | nsparent | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
NA: Not Applicable
NOTE: The multislot data connections and the connections using TCH/F14.4
coding belong to the General Bearer Services (Classes 20 and 30 in 3GPP TS
22.002).
###### ## Annex A (informative): List of definitions of PLMN connection type
attributes and values
# A.1 Attribute definition and their values
[Information transfer mode:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the operational mode for transferring (transportation
and switching) user information through a PLMN connection in the network.
Value: - Circuit
[Information transfer capability:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the capability associated with the transfer of
different types of information through a PLMN connection.
Values: - Unrestricted digital information
\- Speech
\- Group 3 facsimile
\- 3.1 kHz audio ex PLMN
\- Restricted digital information (Note: this value is signalled in the
\"Other ITC\" element, due to a lack of further code points in the \"ITC\"
element.)
[Information transfer rate:]{.underline}
This attribute describes either the bit rate (circuit mode) or the throughput
(packet mode, for further study). It refers to the transfer of digital
information on a PLMN connection.
Values: - Appropriate bit rate
\- Throughput rate
[Establishment of connection:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the mode of establishment used to establish and
release PLMN connections.
Value: - Demand
[Symmetry:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the relationship of information flow between two (or
more) access points or reference points involved in a PLMN connection.
Values: - Bidirectional symmetric
\- Bidirectional asymmetric (Multislot configurations for data)
[Connection configuration:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the spatial arrangement for transferring information
on a given PLMN connection.
Value: - Point-to-point
[Structure:]{.underline}
This attribute refers to the capability of a PLMN connection to deliver
information to the destination access point or reference point in a structure
that was presented in a corresponding signal structured at the origin (access
point or reference point).
Values: - Service data unit integrity (see note 1)
\- Unstructured (see note 2)
NOTE 1: Applicable for connection element \"non transparent\".
NOTE 2: Applicable for connection element \"transparent\".
[Channel rate:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the channels and their bit rate used to transfer the
user information and/or signalling information.
Value: - Name of channel (designation) and/or the corresponding bit rate
NOTE 3: This attribute can be used several times for connection
characterization.
[Connection control protocol, information transfer coding/protocol (layer 1 to
3):]{.underline}
These attributes characterize the protocols on the connection control and/or
user information transfer channel.
Value: - Appropriate protocol for each layer
NOTE 4: This attribute can be used several times for connection
characterization.
[Synchronous/Asynchronous:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the type of transmission between the reference access
points.
Values: - Synchronous
\- Asynchronous
[Negotiation:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the possibility of inband parameter exchange
(according to V.110) between reference access points.
Value: - In band negotiation not possible
[User Rate:]{.underline}
This element is relevant between the IWF and the fixed network.
Values: - 0.3 kbit/s
\- 1.2 kbit/s
\- 2.4 kbit/s
\- 4.8 kbit/s
\- 9.6 kbit/s
[Intermediate rate:]{.underline}
This attribute defines the intermediate rate (according to 3GPP TS 48.020 and
ITU-T V.110) at the A interface connection element part.
Values: - 8 kbit/s
\- 16 kbit/s
[]{.underline}
[Fixed network user rate FNUR:]{.underline}
This element is relevant between the MSC and the fixed network.
Values: - 9.6 kbit/s
\- 14.4 kbit/s
\- 19.2 kbit/s
\- 28.8 kbit/s
\- 32.0 kbit/s
\- 38.4 kbit/s
\- 48.0 kbit/s
\- 56.0 kbit/s
\- 64.0 kbit/s
[Acceptable channel coding(s) ACC:]{.underline}
This attribute indicates the channel codings acceptable to the MS. This
parameter is given at call set-up and it is non negotiable.
Values: 4.8 kbit/s
and/or 9.6 kbit/s
and/or 14.4 kbit/s
and/or 28.8 kbit/s
and/or 32.0 kbit/s
and/or 43.2 kbit/s
[Maximum number of TCH/Fs (Multislot configurations for data):]{.underline}
This attribute is given at call set-up and it enables the mobile user to limit
the number of TCH/Fs used during the call.
Values: 1
2
3
4
5
6
7 (note 5)
8 (note 5)
NOTE 5: Not used by the currently specified services.
[Wanted air interface user rate (AIUR):]{.underline}
This attribute is applicable to non-transparent services only, and it gives
the AIUR that the mobile user wants and which the network tries to achieve but
which it is not allowed to exceed.
Values: Not applicable
9.6 kbit/s
14.4 kbit/s
19.2 kbit/s
28.8 kbit/s
38.4 kbit/s
43.2 kbit/s
57.6 kbit/s
[User initiated modification indication (Multislot configurations for
data):]{.underline}
This element is relevant between the MT and the IWF.
Values: - User initiated modification not requested
\- User initiated modification up to 1 TCH/F requested
\- User initiated modification up to 2 TCH/F requested
\- User initiated modification up to 3 TCH/F requested
\- User initiated modification up to 4 TCH/F requested
The parameters where it is indicated that they are related to Multislot
configurations for data are optional.
For multislot configuration, the following applies to the parameters contained
in the BC-IE:
\- Half rate channels are not supported. The MS shall code the radio channel
requirement as \"Full rate support only MS\" or \"Dual rate support MS, full
rate preferred\". In the second case, the network shall assign full rate
channel(s) only.
\- The \"fixed network user rate\" and \"other modem type\" take precedence
over the \"user rate\" and \"modem type\", except for modem types
"autobauding", "modem for undefined interface" or "none".
\- The \"intermediate rate\" parameter is overridden. The intermediate rate
used per each TCH/F is derived from the chosen channel type:
channel type IR per TCH/F
TCH/F4.8 8 kbit/s
TCH/F9.6 16 kbit/s
TCH/F14.4 16 kbit/s (on the A interface but 32 kbit/s inside the MS)
\- The user rate per TCH is derived from the chosen channel type:
channel type user rate per TCH
TCH/F4.8 4.8 kbit/s
TCH/F9.6 9.6 kbit/s
TCH/F14.4 14.4 kbit/s
For CE: T, the padding procedure described in 3GPP TS 44.021 can be applied.
[Network independent clocking on Tx:]{.underline}
This attribute defines the usage of NIC at the reference access point in the
transmit direction.
Values: - Not required
\- Required
[Network independent clocking on Rx:]{.underline}
This attribute defines the usage of NIC at the reference access point in the
receive direction.
Values: - Not accepted
\- Accepted
[Number of stop bits:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the number of stop bits for the asynchronous type of
transmission between reference access points.
Values: - 1 bit
\- 2 bit
[Number of data bits excluding parity if present:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the number of data bits for a character oriented mode
of transmission between reference access points.
Values: - 7 bit
\- 8 bit
[Parity information:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the type of parity information for a character
oriented mode of transmission between the reference access points.
Values: - Odd
\- Even
\- None
\- Forced to 0
\- Forced to 1
[Duplex mode:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the kind of transmission of the PLMN between
reference access points.
Value: - Full duplex
[Modem type:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the modem allocated by the IWF/MSC in the case of a
3.1 kHz audio used outside the PLMN information transfer capability.
Values: - V.21
\- V.22
\- V.22bis
\- V.26ter
\- V.32
\- Autobauding type 1
  * None
  * [Other Modem Type (OMT):]{.underline}
This element is relevant between the MS and IWF.
Values: - No other modem type
\- V.34
[Compression]{.underline}
This attribute describes the possible usage of data compression between the
reference access points. In the network to MS direction, it indicates the
possibility of using data compression. In the MS to network direction, it
indicates the allowance of data compression.
Values: - Data compression not possible/not allowed
\- Data compression possible/allowed (see note 6)
NOTE 6: Only applicable for the asynchronous transmission between the
reference access points, if connection element is \"non transparent\".
[Radio channel requirement:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the available channels for the transfer of the user
information between the reference access points.
Values: - Full rate channel (Bm)
\- Half rate channel (Lm)
\- dual rate/full rate preferred
\- Dual rate/half rate preferred
[Negotiation of Intermediate Rate Requested (NIRR)]{.underline}
This attribute indicates if 6 kbit/s radio interface rate is requested.
Values: - NIRR not requested/not accepted
\- NIRR requested/accepted
[Connection element:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the possible usage of layer 2 protocol between the
reference access points.
Values: - Transparent
\- Non-transparent (RLP)
\- Both, transparent preferred
\- Both, non transparent preferred
[User information layer 2 protocol:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the layer 2 relay protocol used between the reference
access points in non‑transparent transmissions.
Values: - ISO 6429, code set 0
\- X.25 (note 7)
\- Character oriented protocol with no flow control
NOTE 7: This value was used by services defined for former 3GPP releases and
does not need to be supported.
[Signalling access protocol:]{.underline}
This attribute characterizes the protocol on the signalling or user
information transfer channel at the mobile reference access point.
Values: - I.440/450
\- X.21 (note 7)
\- X.28, dedicated PAD, individual NUI (note 7)
\- X.28, dedicated PAD, universal NUI (note 7)
\- X.28, non dedicated PAD (note 7)
\- X.32 (note 7)
NOTE 7: This value was used by services defined for former 3GPP releases and
does not need to be supported.
[Rate adaptation:]{.underline}
This attribute describes the rate adaptation used at the fixed reference
access point.
Values: - V.110/X.30
\- X.31 flag stuffing (note 7)
\- No rate adaptation
\- V.120 (Note: This value is signalled in the \"Other Rate Adaption\"
element, due to a lack of further code points in the \"Rate Adaptation\"
element.)
NOTE 7: This value was used by services defined for former 3GPP releases and
does not need to be supported.
[Coding standard:]{.underline}
This attribute refers to the structure of the BC-IE defined in the 3GPP TS
24.008.
Value: - GSM
[User information layer 1 protocol:]{.underline}
This attribute characterizes the layer 1 protocol to be used at the Um
interface according to the 3GPP TS 45.001.
Value: - Default
[Rate adaption header/no header:]{.underline}
This attribute is relevant between IWF and the fixed network. It is only
applicable for V.120 rate adaptation.
Values: - Rate adaption header not included
\- Rate adaption header included
[Multiple frame establishment support in data link:]{.underline}
This attribute is relevant between IWF and the fixed network. It is only
applicable for V.120 rate adaptation.
Values: - Multiple frame establishment not supported. Only UI frames allowed
\- Multiple frame establishment supported
[Mode of operation:]{.underline}
This attribute is relevant between IWF and the fixed network. It is only
applicable for V.120 rate adaptation.
Values: - Bit transparent mode of operation
\- Protocol sensitive mode of operation
[Logical link identifier negotiation:]{.underline}
This attribute is relevant between IWF and the fixed network. It is only
applicable for V.120 rate adaptation.
Values: - Default, LLI=256 only
\- Full protocol negotiation (note 8)
NOTE 8: A connection over which protocol negotiation will be executed is
indicated in the \"In‑band[/]{.underline}out-band negotiation\" parameter.
[Assignor/assignee:]{.underline}
This attribute is relevant between IWF and the fixed network. It is only
applicable for V.120 rate adaptation.
Values: - Message originator is \"default assignee\"
\- Message originator is \"assignor only\"
[In-band/out-band negotiation:]{.underline}
This attribute is relevant between IWF and the fixed network. It is only
applicable for V.120 rate adaptation.
Values: - Negotiation is done with USER INFORMATION messages on a temporary
signalling connection
\- Negotiation is done in-band using logical link zero.
# A.2 Definition of values
Unrestricted digital data information:
Transfer of information sequence of bits at its specified bit rate without
alteration.
This implies: - bit sequence independence;
\- digit sequence integrity;
\- bit integrity.
Speech:
Digital representation of speech coded according to a specified encoding rule
(e.g. A Law, 3GPP TS 06‑series).
Demand connection:
A PLMN connection is set up at any time on demand via a digital channel in
response to signalling information received from subscriber, other MSCs or
other networks, i.e. on a per call basis.
Bidirectional symmetric:
This value applies when the information flow characteristics provided by the
PLMN connection are the same between two (or more) access points or reference
points in the forward and backward directions.
Bidirectional asymmetric (Multislot configurations for data):
This value applies when the information flow characteristics provided by the
PLMN connection differ between two (or more) access points or reference points
in the forward and backward directions on one or more TCH/Fs. In Multislot
configurations for data the asymmetry is downlink biased, i.e. the MS may
receive at a greater rate than it transmits.
Point-to-point connection:
This value applies when only two end points are provided by the connection.
Service data unit integrity:
This value applies when:
i) at each user-network interface, protocols provide a mechanism for
identifying the boundaries of service data units; and
ii) all bits submitted within a single service data unit are delivered in a
corresponding service data unit.
Unstructured:
This value is applicable when the PLMN connection neither provides structural
boundaries nor preserves structural integrity.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Location of the transcoding, multiplexing and
RA2 functions
The location of the transcoding and data rate adaptation functions used to
convert from the data rate used on the radio interface to the 64 kbits/s
required by the MSC, is considered in this annex B. There are four
alternatives which are equally valid from a connection type point of view. The
selection of which alternative to use is not considered in 3GPP TS 43.010. The
alternatives are shown in figure 10.
Alternative 1 assumes that all the transcoding and data rate adaptation is
located at the BSS end of the A interface.
Alternative 2 assumes that all the transcoding and data rate adaptation is
located at the MSC end of the A interface and gives no indication how the
information is carried on the link.
Alternative 3 assumes that the information is transferred on the A interface
in 8 or 16 kbit/s channels using one of the sub-multiplexing schemes described
in CCITT Recommendation I.460. The same sub-multiplexing scheme is used for
both speech and data.
Alternative 4 illustrates a multislot connection in which the information is
transferred on the A-interface in 64 kbit/s channel into which up to four
channels of intermediate rate 16 kbit/s have been multiplexed (refer to 3GPP
TS 48.020). Alternative 4 also shows a situation in which a multislot
connection of 5 or 6 TCH/Fs is used; the rate between the RA1'/RA1- and
RA1''-functions is 64 kbit/s.
The alternatives explained above correspond to all channels excluding
TCH/F14.4 and EDGE.
Alternatives 1b, 2b, 3b, and 4b show similar approaches for channel codings
TCH/F14.4, TCH/F28.8, and TCH/F43.2.
It should be noted that in all of the alternatives the transcoding and data
rate adaptation are performed on the BSS side of the A-interface and is
therefore considered to be a function of the BSS.
In the first three alternatives, the interface at the MSC is always based on
64 kbit/s without sub-multiplexing.
Figure 10: Location of transcoding and rate adaptation
Figure 10 (continued): Location of transcoding and rate adaptation
Figure 10 (concluded): Location of transcoding and rate adaptation
* * *
Legend to Figure 10 GSC = GSM Speech Codec FEC = Forward Error Correction MPX
= Multiplex/Demultiplex
* * *
Figure 10 (concluded): Location of transcoding and rate adaptation
#