# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document gives the stage 2 description of Lawful Interception
within a PLMN for circuit switched systems and GPRS. It does not address the
interface between the PLMN and the LEA lawful intercepted product and related
information collection functions. This is outside the scope of the GSM
standard.
The structure of the present document is as follows:
\- clause 4 covers the architecture of the interception system;
\- clause 5 describes how interception is activated, deactivated and
interrogated within the interception system;
\- clause 6 describes how the system is provisioned, defines events at which
interception takes place and what kind of information is generated at each
event;
\- clause 7 provides brief descriptions of various intercept cases;
\- clause 8 reviews security requirements for access to the interception
system;
\- annex A provides information flows to illustrate when intercepted traffic
and related data is generated;
\- annex B describes an interception system for GPRS. The annex is subdivided
into 5 sections that are identical in structure to clauses 4 through 8, but
applicable to a GPRS clause rather than a GSM circuit switched system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] GSM 01.04: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Abbreviations and acronyms\".
[2] 3GPP TS 41.033: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Lawful Interception requirements for GSM\".
[3] 3GPP TS 42.033: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+);
Lawful Interception stage 1\".
[4] GSM 03.60: \"Digital cellular telecommunications system (Phase 2+); GPRS
Service description stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Definitions can be found in 3GPP TS 42.033 in the stage 1 description of
Lawful interception and in GSM 03.60, the stage 2 service description for
GPRS.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
In addition to those below abbreviations used in the present document are
listed in GSM 01.04.
ADMF Administration Function
DF2 Delivery Function 2
DF2P Delivery Function 2 for GPRS
DF3 Delivery Function 3
DF3P Delivery Function 3 for GPRS
GCI Global Cell Identity
GSN GPRS Support Node (i.e.SGSN or GGSN)
IA Interception Area
IP Intercept Product
IRI Intercept Related Information
LEA Law Enforcement Agency
SCI Subscriber Controlled Input
# 4 Functional architecture
The following picture contains the reference configuration for the lawful
interception. The various entities and interfaces are described in more detail
in the succeeding subclauses.
There is one Administration Function (ADMF) in the network. Together with the
delivery functions it is used to hide from the MSC/VLR and GMSC that there
might be multiple activations by different Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs) on
the same target.
Figure 1: Reference configuration
The reference configuration is only a logical representation of the entities
involved in lawful interception and does not mandate separate physical
entities. This allows for higher levels of integration.
# 5 Activation, deactivation and interrogation
The following picture shows the extract from the reference configuration which
is relevant for activation, deactivation and interrogation of the lawful
interception.
Figure 2: Functional model for Lawful Interception activation, deactivation
and interrogation
In addition to the typical GSM functional entities, a new functional entity is
introduced - the ADMF - the Lawful Interception administration function. The
ADMF:
\- interfaces with all the LEAs that may require interception in the PLMN;
\- keeps the intercept activities of individual LEAs separate;
\- interfaces to the PLMN.
NOTE: The X1_1, X1_2 and X1_3-interfaces together are functionally equivalent
to the X1-interface represented in 3GPP TS 41.033.
Every physical MSC/VLR and GMSC is linked by an own X1_1-interface to the
ADMF. Consequently, every single MSC/VLR and GMSC performs interception
(activation, deactivation, interrogation as well as invocation) independently
from other MSC/VLRs and GMSCs. The X0_1-interface represents the interface
between the requester of the lawful interception and the Lawful administration
function; it is included for completeness, but is beyond the scope of
standardization.
In case of location dependent interception the following network/national
options exist:
\- target location versus Interception Areas (IAs) check in the MSC/VLR and
Delivery Functions (DFs);
\- target location versus IAs check in the DFs (physical collocation of the
DFs to the MSC/VLR, GMSC is required).
NOTE: The IA is previously defined by a set of cells. From the location of the
target this set of cells permits to find the relevant IA.
## 5.1 Activation
The following pictures show the information flow for the activation of the
Lawful interception.
### 5.1.1 X1_1-interface
The message sent from the ADMF to the MSC/VLR and GMSC respectively
(X1_1-interface) contains the:
\- identity of the target (MSISDN, IMSI or IMEI) (see note 4);
\- information whether the intercept product shall be provided (see note 1);
\- information whether the intercept related information shall be provided
(see note 1);
\- address of Delivery Function 2 (DF2) for the intercept related information
(see note 2);
\- address of Delivery Function 3 (DF3) for the circuit switched intercept
product (see note 3);
\- IA in case of location dependent interception.
NOTE 1: As an option, the filtering whether intercept product and/or intercept
related information has to be provided can be part of the delivery functions.
If the option is used, the corresponding information can be omitted on the
X1_1-interface, while \"information not present\" means \"intercept product
and related information has to be provided\" for the MSC. Furthermore the
delivery function which is not requested has to be \"pseudo-activated\", in
order to prevent error cases at invocation.
NOTE 2: As an option, only a single DF2 is used by and known to every MSC in
the network. In this case the address of DF2 can be omitted.
NOTE 3: As an option, only a single DF3 is used by and known to every MSC in
the network. In this case the address of DF3 can be omitted.
NOTE 4: Interception of IMEI is not applicable at the GMSC.
If after activation subsequently Intercept Product (IP) or Intercept Related
Information (IRI) has to be activated (or deactivated) an \"activation change
request\" with the same identity of the target is to be sent.
Figure 3: Information flow on X1_1-interface for Lawful Interception
activation
Interception of a target can be activated on request from different LEAs and
each LEA may request interception via a different identity. In this case, each
identity of the target on which to intercept will need to be sent via separate
activation message from ADMF to MSC/VLR and GMSC on the X1_1-interface. Each
activation can be for IP only, IRI only, or both IP and IRI.
When several LEAs request activation on the same identity then the ADMF
determines that there are existing activations on the identity. In this case,
the ADMF will not send an additional activation message to the MSC/VLR and
GMSC except when the activation needs to change from IP only or IRI only to IP
and IRI. In that case an activation change message will be sent to the MSC/VLR
and GMSC.
### 5.1.2 X1_2-interface (IRI)
For the delivery of IRI the message sent from the ADMF to the Delivery
Function contains:
\- the identity of the target;
\- the address for delivery of IRI (= LEA address);
\- which subset of information shall be delivered;
\- a DF2 activation identity, which uniquely identifies the activation for DF2
and is used for further interrogation or deactivation, respectively;
\- the IA in case of location dependent interception;
\- the warrant reference number if required by national option.
If a target is intercepted by several LEAs and/or several identities
simultaneously, a single activation of delivery is necessary for each
combination of LEA and identity.
Figure 4: Information flow on X1_2-interface for Lawful Interception
activation
### 5.1.3 X1_3-interface (IP)
For the delivery of circuit switched intercept product the message sent from
the ADMF to the Delivery Function contains:
\- the identity of the target;
\- the address of delivery for IP (= LEA address);
\- a DF3 activation identity, which uniquely identifies the activation for
delivery function 3 and is used for further interrogation or deactivation,
respectively;
\- the IA in case of location dependent interception;
\- the warrant reference number if required by national option.
If a target is intercepted by several LEAs and/or several identities
simultaneously, a single activation of delivery is necessary for each
combination of LEA and identity.
Figure 5: Information flow on X1_3-interface for Lawful Interception
activation
## 5.2 Deactivation
The following picture shows the information flow for the deactivation of the
Lawful interception.
### 5.2.1 X1_1-interface
The messages sent from the ADMF to the MSC/VLR and GMSC for deactivation
contains:
\- the identity of the target;
\- the possible relevant IAs in case of location dependent interception.
Figure 6: Information flow on X1_1-interface for Lawful Interception
deactivation
If interception of a target has been activated via different identities then a
separate deactivation message will need to be sent from the ADMF to the
MSC/VLR and the GMSC for each identity.
When several LEAs requested activation on the same identity and subsequently
request deactivation then the ADMF determines that there are remaining
activations on the identity. In this case, the ADMF will not send a
deactivation message to the MSC/VLR and the GMSC except when the activation
needs to change from IP and IRI to IP only or IRI only. In that case an
activation change message will be sent to the MSC/VLR and the GMSC.
### 5.2.2 X1_2-interface (IRI)
The ADMF sent for the deactivation to the Delivery Function 2 of the Intercept
Related Information:
\- a DF2 activation id, which uniquely identifies the activation to be
deactivated for DF2.
If a target is intercepted by several LEAs and/or several identities
simultaneously, a single deactivation is necessary for each combination of LEA
and identity.
Figure 7: Information flow on X1_2-interface for Lawful Interception
deactivation
### 5.2.3 X1_3-interface (IP)
For the deactivating the delivery of the IP the message from the ADMF to the
Delivery Function contains:
\- a DF3 activation id, which uniquely identifies the activation to be
deactivated for DF3.
If a target is intercepted by several LEAs and/or several identities
simultaneously, a single deactivation is necessary for each combination of LEA
and identity.
Figure 8: Information flow on X1_3-interface for Lawful Interception
deactivation
## 5.3 Interrogation
The purpose of interrogation is consistency checking for the interception
function. It can be use e.g. for audit functionality, but this is beyond the
scope of the present document.
Interrogation of all activations for a given LEA is an ADMF filter function.
### 5.3.1 Interrogation of the MSC/VLR and the GMSC
The following picture shows the information flow for the interrogation of the
Lawful interception. It must be possible to interrogate
\- a specific activation at this MSC/VLR or GMSC for a given target identity;
\- all activations at this MSC/VLR or GMSC.
As result of the interrogation the activation status and data are returned.
Figure 9: Interrogation of the Lawful Interception (MSC/VLR, GMSC)
### 5.3.2 Interrogation of Delivery Functions
The following picture shows the information flow for the interrogation of the
Lawful interception. It must be possible to interrogate:
\- a specific activation at a Delivery Function for a given activation id;
\- all activations at a Delivery Function for a given target identity;
\- all activations at a Delivery Function.
As result of the interrogation the activation status and data are returned.
Figure 10: Interrogation of the Lawful Interception (Delivery Functions)
# 6 Invocation of Lawful Interception
The following picture shows the extract from the reference configuration which
is relevant for the invocation of the lawful interception.
Figure 11: Functional model for Lawful Interception invocation
The X0_2 and X0_3-interfaces represent the interfaces between the LEA and two
delivery functions. Both interfaces are subject to national requirements. They
are included for completeness, but are beyond the scope of standardization.
The delivery functions are used:
\- to convert the information on the X2-interface to the corresponding
information on the X0_2-interface;
\- to distribute the intercept related information to the relevant LEA(s)
(based on IAs, if defined);
\- to distribute the intercept product to the relevant LEA(s) (based on IAs,
if defined).
In case a call is selected based on several identities (MSISDN, IMSI, IMEI) of
the same target, the MSC/VLR or GMSC will deliver IP and IRI only once to the
DF2 and DF3. DF2 and DF3 will then distribute the information to the relevant
LEA that requested interception on a particular target identity.
For the delivery of the IP and IRI the MSC/VLR or GMSC provides correlation
number and target identity to the DF2 and DF3 which is used there in order to
select the different LEAs where the product shall be delivered to.
NOTE: If interception has been activated for both parties of the call both IP
and IRI will be delivered for each party as separate intercept activity.
The location dependency check occurs at the establishment of each call.
Subsequent dependency checks for simultaneous calls are not required, but can
be a national option.
If a target is marked using an IA in the MSC/VLR, the MSC/VLR shall perform a
location dependency check at call set-up. Only if the target\'s location
matches the IA the call is intercepted.
If a target is marked using an IA in the DF2, the DF2 shall perform a location
dependency check at reception of the first IRI for the call. Only if the
target\'s location matches the IA for certain LEAs the IRI is relayed to these
LEAs. All subsequent IRIs for the call are sent to the same LEAs.
If a target is marked using an IA in the DF3, the DF3 shall perform a location
dependency check at reception of the IP. Only if the target\'s location
matches the IA for certain LEAs the IP is relayed to these LEAs.
Gateway intercept is not possible when optimal routing is employed.
## 6.1 Provision of Intercept Product - Circuit Switched
Depending on the existing possibilities within the MSC/VLR or GMSC the access
method for the delivering of call content can be bridged/ T-connection (see
figure 12) or looped access (see figure 13).
Figure 12: Bridged Access
Figure 13: Looped access
### 6.1.1 Void
### 6.1.2 Two stubline configuration (circuit switched data or speech) to LEA
Figure 16 shows the configuration for a circuit switched data call. The
signals of both parties of the configuration to be intercepted are delivered
separately to the requesting function. Again the requesting function itself
has no impact on the connection between the subscribers. Optionally this
configuration can be used for speech, too.
If in the MSC/VLR or GMSC it isn\'t known if a call is a data or speech call,
it will be assumed that it is a data call.
The two stublines towards the requesting function are established in parallel
to the call set up. For both stublines the address is used which has been
provided during activation.
For multi-monitoring the DF3 must be able combine the two stublines to one, if
one of the different LEAs wants this.
NOTE: For data calls it is necessary to provide means for fast call
establishment towards the LEA so that it doesn\'t miss the beginning of the
data transmission.
Figure 16: Two stubline configuration to the LEA for the interception of\ a
circuit switched data or speech call
### 6.1.3 X3-interface
The following information needs to be transferred from the MSC/VLR or the GMSC
to the DF3 in order to allow the DF3 to perform its functionality:
\- the identity of the target (MSISDN, IMSI or IMEI); note 1
\- the target location (if available) or the IAs in case of location dependent
interception. note 1
\- correlation number (IRI \ CC);
\- signal indicator (direction indication -- Signal from target or signal to
target); note 2
NOTE 1: For DF3 internal use only.
NOTE 2: e.g. integer, CC from target = 1, CC from other party = 2.
Additional information may be provided if required by national laws.
## 6.2 Provision of Intercept Product - Short Message Service
Figure 17 shows an SMS transfer from the MSC to the LEA. Quasi-parallel to the
delivery from / to the mobile subscriber a message, which contains the
contents of the SMS, is generated and sent via the Delivery Function 2 to the
LEA in the same way as the Intercept Related Information.
The IRI will be delivered to the LEA:
\- for a SMS-MO, when the SMS-Centre receives the SMS;
\- for a SMS-MT, when the MS receives the SMS.
Figure 17: Provision of Intercept Product - Short Message Service
## 6.3 Provision of Intercept Related Information
Intercept Related Information (Events) are necessary at the Begin and End of
the call, for all supplementary services during a call and for information
which are not call associated. There are call related events and non call
related events
Figure 18 shows the transfer of intercept related information to the DF2. If
an event for / from a mobile subscriber occurs, the MSC/VLR or GMSC sends the
relevant data to the DF2.
Figure 18: Provision of Intercept Related Information
### 6.3.1 X2-interface
The following information needs to be transferred from the MSC/VLR or the GMSC
to the DF2 in order to allow a DF2 to perform its functionality:
\- identity of the target (MSISDN, IMSI or IMEI);
\- the target location (if available) or the IAs in case of location dependent
interception;
\- events and associated parameters as defined in subclauses 6.3.3 and 6.3.4
may be provided.
### 6.3.2 Structure of the events
There are eight different events in which the information is sent to the DF2
if this is required. There are call related and non call related events.
Details are described in following subclause. The events for interception are
configurable (if the are sent to DF2) in the MSC/VLR or GMSC and can be
suppressed in the DF2.
It is a implementation option if the redundant information will be sent for
each further event.
The following events are applicable to the MSC/VLR:
Call related events:
\- Call establishment;
\- Answer;
\- Supplementary service;
\- Handover;
\- Release.
Non call related events:
\- SMS;
\- Location update;
\- Subscriber controlled input.
The following events are applicable to the GMSC:
Call related events:
\- Call establishment;
\- Answer;
\- Supplementary service;
\- Release.
A set of information is used to generate the events. The events transmit the
information from MSC/VLR or GMSC to DF2. This set of information can be
extended in MSC/VLR or GMSC, if this is necessary in a specific country. DF2
can extend this information if this is necessary in a specific country e.g. a
unique number for each surveillance warrant.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | observed MSISDN | | | | Target Identifier with the MSISDN of the target subscriber | | (monitored subscriber). | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | observed IMSI | | | | Target Identifier with the IMSI of the target subscriber (monitored | | subscriber). | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | observed IMEI | | | | Target Identifier with the IMEI of the target subscriber (monitored | | subscriber), | | | | it must be checked for each call over the radio interface | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | event type | | | | Description which type of event is delivered: Establishment, Answer, | | Supplementary service,\ | | Handover, Release, SMS, Location update, Subscriber controlled input | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | event date | | | | Date of the event generation in the MSC/VLR or GMSC | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | event time | | | | Time of the event generation in the MSC/VLR or GMSC | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | dialled number | | | | Dialled phone number before digit modification, IN-modification etc. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | connected number | | | | number of the answering party | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | other party address | | | | Directory number of the other party for MOC | | | | Calling party for MTC | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SMS-Centre address | | | | number of the involved SMS-Centre | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | call direction | | | | Information if the monitored subscriber is calling or called e.g. | | MOC/MTC or originating/ terminating | | | | in or/out | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | correlation number | | | | Unique number for each call sent to the DF, to help the LEA, to have | | a correlation between each | | | | call and the IRI | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | cell id | | | | Cell number of the target; for the location information | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | location area code | | | | Location-area-code of the target defines the Location Area in a PLMN | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | basic service | | | | Information about Tele service or bearer service. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | supplementary service | | | | Supplementary services used by the target e.g. CF, CW, ECT | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | forwarded to number | | | | Forwarded to number at CF | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | call release reason | | | | Call release reason of the target call | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SMS | | | | The SMS content with header which is sent with the SMS-service | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SCI | | | | Non call related Subscriber Controlled Input (SCI) which the MSC/VLR | | receives from the ME | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### 6.3.3 Call Related events
#### 6.3.3.1 Call establishment
For call establishment a call establishment-event is generated. At the begin
of a call when the MSC/VLR or GMSC wants to reach the subscriber this event is
generated. This information will be delivered to the DF2 if available:
* * *
observed MSISDN observed IMSI observed IMEI event type event date event time
dialled number other party address call direction correlation number cell id
location area code basic service supplementary service
* * *
#### 6.3.3.2 Answer
If the called party answers, a answer- event is generated. This information
will be delivered to the DF2 if available:
* * *
observed MSISDN observed IMSI observed IMEI event type event date event time
dialled number other party address connected party call direction correlation
number cell id location area code basic service supplementary service
* * *
#### 6.3.3.3 Supplementary Services
For supplementary services event are generated with the information which
supplementary service is used e.g. Call Forwarding (CF), Call Waiting (CW),
Explicit Call Transfer (ECT), Multi Party (MPTY), Call Hold and information
correlated to the service like the forwarded to number. This information will
be delivered to the DF2 if available:
* * *
observed MSISDN observed IMSI observed IMEI event type event date event time
dialled number other party address call direction correlation number cell id
location area code basic service supplementary service forwarded to number
* * *
#### 6.3.3.4 Handover
For each handover a handover-event with the information about the new location
(cell-id) is generated. This information will be delivered to the DF2 if
available:
* * *
observed MSISDN observed IMSI observed IMEI event type event date event time
correlation number cell id location area code
* * *
#### 6.3.3.5 Release
For release of the observed call a release-event is generated, this is for the
common (end) release of call and also for all failed call attempts, with the
information about the reason for failed call attempts. This information will
be delivered to the DF2 if available:
* * *
observed MSISDN observed IMSI observed IMEI event type event date event time
dialled number other party address call direction correlation number cell id
location area code basic service call release reason
* * *
### 6.3.4 Non Call Related events
#### 6.3.4.1 SMS
For MO-SMS the event is generated in the MSC/VLR, when the SMS-Centre
successfully receives the SMS; for MT-SMS the event is generated in the
MSC/VLR when the target receives the message. This information will be
delivered to the DF2 if available:
* * *
observed MSISDN observed IMSI observed IMEI event type event date event time
SMS-Centre address call direction cell id location area code SMS
* * *
#### 6.3.4.2 Location update
For location updates a Location update-event is generated, with the new
location (location area) information. This information will be delivered to
the DF2 if available:
* * *
observed MSISDN observed IMSI observed IMEI event type event date event time
cell id location area code
* * *
#### 6.3.4.3 Subscriber Controlled Input (SCI)
For subscriber controlled inputs (e.g. this are activations, deactivations and
changes of services) a SCI-event is generated with information about the SCI.
This information will be delivered to the DF2 if available:
* * *
observed MSISDN observed IMSI observed IMEI event type event date event time
cell id location area code SCI
* * *
## 6.4 Intercept cases for supplementary services
### 6.4.1 Interception of Multiparty call
Figure 19: Option 1: Interception of Multiparty for IP
Figure 20: Option 2: Interception of Multiparty for IP
#### 6.4.1.1 Intercept Product only for Multiparty
One correlation number for each leg of a call. Call Content is delivered like
it is in figure 19 or in figure 20 if subscriber A is monitored.
If one of B, C or D is monitored, the surveillance of intercept product works
like a ordinary telephony call.
#### 6.4.1.2 Intercept Related Information for Multiparty
In the event is the information about B, C and D if subscriber A is monitored.
If one of B, C or D is monitored in the events is only the information about A
but not the other parties of the conference.
### 6.4.2 Interception for Call Forwarding / Call Deflection
Figure 21: Interception for Call Forwarding / Deflection
For delivery of the Intercept Product it doesn\'t matter which of the three is
monitored.
For Intercept Related Information it depends who is monitored:
\- If subscriber A is monitored the number of A and B are mandatory in the
event information and the number of C if available.
\- If subscriber B is monitored the number of B and C are mandatory in the
event information and the number of A if available.
\- If subscriber C is monitored the number of C is mandatory in the event
information and the number of A if available.
When optimal routing is employed, interception of call forwarding by party B
may be unavailable.
### 6.4.3 Interception on Call Hold / Call Waiting
For interception on call hold it depends which method is used, if it is like
in figure 19 no interception on call hold is possible, with the method like in
figure 20 it is also possible to hear what the subscriber on hold is talking.
### 6.4.4 Interception after ECT
For interception on Explicit Call Transfer (ECT) it depends which method is
used, if it is like in figure 19 no interception on call hold is possible,
with the method like in figure 20 it is also possible to hear what the
subscriber on hold is talking. The explicit transfer is handled similar to a
forwarded call.
# 7 Security
## 7.1 Security
The security requirements are valid for the whole Lawful Interception system,
i.e. rules and procedures shall be used for all involved entities, ADMF, GMSC,
MSC/VLR and DF.
### 7.1.1 Administration security
The administration of the lawful interception function, i.e. Activation,
Deactivation and Interrogation of Lawful Interception, in the GMSC, MSC/VLR
and the DFs must be done secure as described below:
\- It shall be possible to configure the authorised user access to Activation,
Deactivation and Interrogation of Lawful Interception separately for every
physical or logical port at the GMSC, MSC/VLR and DF. This configuration
possibility shall be password protected.
\- Normally only the ADMF is allowed to have access to the lawful interception
functionality in the GMSC, MSC/VLR and DF.
\- The communication link between ADMF, GMSC, MSC/VLR, DF2 and DF3 shall be
secure and shall support security mechanisms, e.g.:
\- authentication;
\- Closed Used Group (CUG);
\- Connected Line Presentation (COLP);
\- encryption.
\- No network entities or remote access shall be capable to manipulate or to
eavesdrop lawful interception data in the GMSC, MSC/VLR or the DF.
### 7.1.2 IRI security
#### 7.1.2.1 Normal operation
The transmission of the IRI shall be done in a secure manner.
When DF2 is a physically separate from the MSC, the X2-interface shall support
security mechanisms, e.g.:
\- authentication;
\- CUG;
\- COLP;
\- encryption.
#### 7.1.2.2 Communication failure
Depending on the national law in case of communication failure IRI may be
buffered in the GMSC and MSC/VLR. After successful transmission of IRI the
whole buffer must be deleted. It shall be possible to delete the content
buffer via command or a timer, in an unrestoreable fashion.
### 7.1.3 IP security
The transmission of the IP shall be done in a secure manner.
When DF3 is physically separate from the MSC, the X3-interface shall support
security mechanisms, e.g.:
\- authentication;
\- CUG;
\- COLP;
\- encryption.
In case of transmission failure no buffering will be done.
### 7.1.4 Security aspects of Lawful Interception charging
Charging information shall be available at the DFs and the ADMF. Charging
information for Lawful Interception shall be separated from \"regular\" GSM
billing data.
Charging data transmission to the Lawful Interception billing system shall be
done in a secure manner.
In case of transmission failure data shall be buffered/stored in a secure way.
After successful transmission data shall be deleted in an unrestorable
fashion.
### 7.1.5 Other security issues
#### 7.1.5.1 Log files
Log files shall be generated by the ADMF, DF2, DF3 and the MSC/VLR. All log
files are retrievable by the ADMF, and are maintained by the ADMF.
#### 7.1.5.2 Data consistency
The administration function in the PLMN shall be capable to perform a periodic
consistency check to ensure whether the target list of MSISDN, IMSI or IMEI is
the same in all involved MSCs in the PLMN and the DFs. The reference data base
is the ADMF data base.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Information flows for Lawful Interception
invocation
The following figures show the information flows for the invocation of Lawful
Interception for various types of calls. The figures show some of the basic
signalling messages of the target calls and the events on the X2 and
X3-interfaces. The ISUP messages to and from the network are shown for
informational purposes only; some of them may not be sent or may be combined
in certain networks.
# A.1 Mobile originated circuit switched calls
Figure A.1 shows the interception of a basic mobile originated circuit
switched speech or data call where the originating mobile (A) is the target
for interception. B is not necessarily also a mobile subscriber and resides on
a different exchange.
Figure A.1: Interception of mobile originated circuit switched calls
In figure A.1 the result (answer) of the set-up of the stublines is not shown.
This assumes no special action is taken in case of failure.
# A.2 Mobile terminated circuit switched calls
Figure A.2 shows the interception of a basic mobile terminated circuit
switched speech or data call where the terminating mobile (B) is the target
for interception. A is not necessarily also a mobile subscriber and resides on
a different exchange.
Figure A.2: Interception of mobile terminated circuit switched calls
# A.3 Call hold / call waiting
Figures A.3 and A.4 show the interception of calls involving call hold / call
waiting. Figure A.3 covers the case where one pair of stublines is used per
target, figure A.4 covers the case where a pair of stublines is used for each
target call. The mobile that receives the waiting call (A) is the target for
interception.
Figure A.3: Interception of call hold / call waiting - stublines per target
Figure A.4: Interception of call hold / call waiting - stublines per target
call
# A.4 Multiparty calls
Figures A.5 and A.6 show the interception of multiparty calls. Figure A.5
covers the case where one pair of stublines is used per target, figure A.6
covers the case where a pair of stublines is used for each target call. The
mobile setting up the multiparty call (A) is the target for interception.
Figure A.5: Interception of multiparty calls - stublines per target
Figure A.6: Interception of multiparty calls - stublines per target call
# A.5 Call forwarding / call deflection
The following pictures show the information flows for the interception of
forwarded calls. Information flows will be given for three typical cases of
call forwarding. All other types of call forwarding / call deflection are
intercepted similar to one of these.
## A.5.1 Unconditional call forwarding
Figure A.7 shows the interception of unconditionally forwarded calls. The
mobile that activated unconditional call forwarding (B) is the target for
interception. In this case interception will be performed at the GMSC, where
the SRI request for B is issued and subsequently the SRI response indicating
that the call must be forwarded is received back.
Figure A.7: Interception of unconditional call forwarding
## A.5.2 Call forwarding on not reachable (IMSI detached)
Call forwarding on not reachable because the IMSI is detached is also handled
on the GMSC. Interception of this type of call forwarding is similar to
interception of unconditional call forwarding.
## A.5.3 Call forwarding on busy (network determined)
Figure A.8 shows the interception of call forwarding on busy (network
determined). The mobile that activated call forwarding on busy (B) is the
target for interception. In this case interception will be performed at the
MSC/VLR where B resides, where the busy condition is detected and the call is
forwarded.
Figure A.8: Interception of call forwarding on busy (network determined)
## A.5.4 Call forwarding on not reachable (no response to paging/radio channel
failure)
Call forwarding on not reachable because of no response to paging or radio
channel failure is also handled on the MSC/VLR similar to call forwarding on
busy (network determined). Interception of this type of call forwarding is
therefore done in the same way.
## A.5.5 Call forwarding on no reply
Figure A.9 shows the interception of call forwarding on no reply. The mobile
that activated call forwarding on no reply (B) is the target for interception.
In this case interception will be performed at the MSC/VLR where B resides,
where the no reply condition is detected and the call is forwarded. Initially,
the interception is similar to the interception of a basic mobile terminated
circuit switched speech of data call. On no reply time-out, the interception
will continue on the forwarded call to C.
Figure A.9: Interception of call forwarding on no reply
In figure A.9 the release of the stublines is done after the forwarded call is
released by A or C. It is a national option not to support interception of
forwarded calls. In that case, the release of the stublines is done after the
call is forwarded and B is no longer involved.
## A.5.6 Call forwarding on busy (user determined)/call deflection
Call forwarding on busy (user determined) and call deflection are also handled
on the MSC/VLR similar to call forwarding on no reply. Interception of this
type of call forwarding is therefore done in the same way.
## A.5.7 Call waiting / call forwarding on no reply
Figures A.10 and A.11 show the interception of a call involving both call
waiting and call forwarding on no reply. Figure A.10 covers the case where one
pair of stublines is used per target, figure A.11 covers the case where a pair
of stublines is used for each target call. The mobile that activated call
forwarding on no reply and receives the waiting call (B) is the target for
interception. In figure A.10 a new (pair of) stublines needs to be set up when
the call is forwarded since the first (pair of) stublines is still used for
the initial call.
Figure A.10: Interception of call waiting / call forwarding on no reply \-
stublines per target
Figure A.11: Interception of call waiting / call forwarding on no reply \-
stublines per target call
# A.6 Explicit call transfer
Figures A.12 and A.13 show the interception of explicit call transfer. Figure
A.12 covers the case where one pair of stublines is used per target, figure
A.13 covers the case where a pair of stublines is used for each target call.
The mobile transferring the call (B) is the target for interception.
Figure A.12: Interception of explicit call transfer - stublines per target
Figure A.13: Interception of explicit call transfer - stublines per target
call
In figures A.12 and A.13 the release of the stublines is done after the
transferred call is released by A or C. It is a national option not to support
interception of transferred calls. In that case, the release of the stublines
is done after the call is transferred and B is no longer involved.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Interception for GPRS
# B.1 Architecture
The following picture contains the reference configuration for the lawful
interception for GPRS systems. The various entities and interfaces are
described in more detail in the succeeding sections. Interception takes place
within the SGSN. As a national option, the GGSN may be used for interception.
There is one Administration Function (ADMF) in the network. Together with the
delivery functions it is used to hide from the SGSN and GGSN that there might
be multiple activations by different Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs) on the
same target.
{width="3.852777777777778in" height="2.176388888888889in"}
Figure B.1: Reference configuration for GPRS
The GSN (GPRS Support Node) can be SGSN or GGSN. The reference configuration
is only a logical representation of the entities involved in lawful
interception and does not mandate separate physical entities. This allows for
higher levels of integration.
# B.2 Activation, deactivation and interrogation
The following picture shows the extract from the reference configuration which
is relevant for activation, deactivation and interrogation of the lawful
interception for the GPRS system.
Figure B.2: Functional model for GPRS Lawful Interception activation,\
deactivation and interrogation
In addition to the typical GPRS functional entities, a new functional entity
is introduced - the ADMF - the Lawful Interception administration function.
The ADMF:
\- interfaces with all the LEAs that may require interception in the PLMN;
\- keeps the intercept activities of individual LEAs separate;
\- interfaces to the PLMN.
Every physical SGSN or GGSN is linked by an own X1_1p-interface to the ADMF.
Consequently, every single SGSN or GGSN performs interception (activation,
deactivation, interrogation as well as invocation) independently from other
SGSNs or GGSNs. The X0_1-interface represents the interface between the
requester of the lawful interception and the Lawful administration function;
it is included for completeness, but is beyond the scope of the present
document.
The target identity for GPRS interception can be the IMSI, MSISDN or IMEI.
NOTE 1: Interception by MSISDN works only with the basic MSISDN.
In case of location dependent interception the following network/national
options exist:
target location versus Interception Areas (IAs) check in the SGSN and Delivery
Functions (DFs);
target location versus IAs check in the DFs. (physical co-location of the SGSN
and DFs may be required by national law).
NOTE 2: The IA is previously defined by a set of cells. From the location of
the target this set of cells permits to find the relevant IAs.
NOTE 3: The GGSN is not used for interception when location dependent
interception is invoked in the network.
## B.2.1 Activation
The following pictures show the information flow for the activation of the
Lawful interception.
### B.2.1.1 X1_1p-interface
The message sent from the ADMF to the GSN through the X1_1p interface contains
the following:
\- identity of the target ;
\- information whether the IP shall be provided (see note 1);
\- information whether the IRI shall be provided (see note 1);
\- address of Delivery Function 2 (DF2P) for the IRI (see note 2);
\- address of Delivery Function 3 (DF3P) for GPRS product (see note 3);
\- IA in case of location dependent interception.
NOTE 1: As an option, the filtering whether intercept product and/or intercept
related information has to be provided can be part of the delivery functions.
If the option is used, the corresponding information can be omitted on the
X1_1p-interface, while \"information not present\" means \"intercept product
and related information has to be provided\" for the GSN. Furthermore the
delivery function which is not requested has to be \"pseudo-activated\", in
order to prevent error cases at invocation.
NOTE 2: As an option, only a single DF2P is used by and known to every SGSN or
GGSN in the network. In this case the address of DF2P can be omitted.
NOTE 3: As an option, only a single DF3P is used by and known to every SGSN or
GGSN in the network. In this case the address of DF3P can be omitted.
If after activation subsequently IP (Intercepted product) or IRI has to be
activated an \"activation change request\" with the same target ID is to be
sent.
Figure B.3: Information flow on X1_1p-interface for Lawful Interception
activation
Interception of a target can be activated on request from different LEAs and
each LEA may request interception via a different identity. In this case, each
identity of the target on which to intercept will need to be sent via separate
activation message from ADMF to GSN on the X1_1p-interface. Each activation
can be for IP only, IRI only, or both IP and IRI.
When several LEAs request activation on the same identity then the ADMF
determines that there are existing activations on the identity. In this case,
the ADMF will not send an additional activation message to the GSN except when
the activation needs to change from IP only or IRI only to IP and IRI. In that
case an activation change message will be sent to the GSN.
### B.2.1.2 X1_2p-interface (IRI)
For the delivery of IRI the message sent from the ADMF to the Delivery
Function contains:
\- the identity of the target;
\- the address for delivery of IRI (= LEA address);
\- which subset of information shall be delivered;
\- a DF2P activation identity, which uniquely identifies the activation for
DF2P and is used for further interrogation or deactivation, respectively;
\- the warrant reference number if required by national option;
\- IA in case of location dependent interception.
If a target is intercepted by several LEAs and/or several identities
simultaneously, a single activation of delivery is necessary for each
combination of LEA and identity.
Figure B.4: Information flow on X1_2p-interface for Lawful Interception
activation
### B.2.1.3 X1_3p-interface (IP)
For the delivery of GPRS intercept product the message sent from the ADMF to
the Delivery Function contains:
\- the identity of the target;
\- the address of delivery for IP (= LEA address);
\- a DF3 activation identity, which uniquely identifies the activation for
delivery function 3 and is used for further interrogation or deactivation,
respectively;
\- the warrant reference number if required by national option;
\- IA in case of location dependent interception.
If a target is intercepted by several LEAs and/or several identities
simultaneously, a single activation of delivery is necessary for each
combination of LEA and identity.
Figure B.5: Information flow on X1_3p-interface for Lawful Interception
activation
## B.2.2 Deactivation
The following picture shows the information flow for the deactivation of the
Lawful interception.
### B.2.2.1 X1_1p-interface
The messages sent from the ADMF to the GSN for deactivation contains:
\- the identity of the target;
\- IA in case of location dependent interception.
Figure B.6: Information flow on X1_1p-interface for Lawful Interception
deactivation
If interception of a target has been activated via different identities then a
separate deactivation message will need to be sent from the ADMF to the GSN
for each identity.
When several LEAs requested activation on the same identity and subsequently
request deactivation then the ADMF determines that there are remaining
activations on the identity. In this case, the ADMF will not send a
deactivation message to the GSN except when the activation needs to change
from IP and IRI to IP only or IRI only. In that case an activation change
message will be sent to the GSN.
### B.2.2.2 X1_2p-interface (IRI)
The ADMF sent for the deactivation to the Delivery Function 2 of the Intercept
Related Information:
\- a DF2P activation id, which uniquely identifies the activation to be
deactivated for DF2P.
If a target is intercepted by several LEAs and/or several identities
simultaneously, a single deactivation is necessary for each combination of LEA
and identity.
Figure B.7: Information flow on the X1_2p-interface for Lawful Interception
deactivation
### B.2.2.3 X1_3p-interface (IP)
For the deactivating the delivery of the IP the message from the ADMF to the
Delivery Function contains:
\- a DF3P activation id, which uniquely identifies the activation to be
deactivated for DF3P.
If a target is intercepted by several LEAs and/or several identities
simultaneously, a single deactivation is necessary for each combination of LEA
and identity.
Figure B.8: Information flow X1_3p-interface for Lawful Interception
deactivation
## B.2.3 Interrogation
The purpose of interrogation is consistency checking for the interception
function. It can be use e.g. for audit functionality, but this is beyond the
scope of the present document.
Interrogation of all activations for a given LEA is an ADMF filter function.
### B.2.3.1 Interrogation of the SGSN and GGSN
The following picture shows the information flow for the interrogation of the
Lawful interception. It must be possible to interrogate
\- a specific activation at this GSN for a given target identity;
\- all activations at this GSN.
As result of the interrogation the activation status and data are returned.
Figure B.9: Interrogation of the Lawful Interception (GSN)
### B.2.3.2 Interrogation of Delivery Functions
The following picture shows the information flow for the interrogation of the
Lawful interception. It must be possible to interrogate:
\- a specific activation at a Delivery Function for a given activation id;
\- all activations at a Delivery Function for a given target identity;
\- all activations at a Delivery Function.
As result of the interrogation the activation status and data are returned.
Figure B.10: Interrogation of the Lawful Interception (Delivery Functions)
# B.3 Invocation of Lawful Interception
The following picture shows the extract from the reference configuration which
is relevant for the invocation of the lawful interception.
Figure B.11: Functional model for GPRS Lawful Interception invocation
The X0_2 and X0_3-interfaces represent the interfaces between the LEA and two
delivery functions. Both interfaces are subject to national requirements. They
are included for completeness, but are beyond the scope of the present
document . The delivery functions are used:
\- to convert the information on the X2p-interface to the corresponding
information on the X0_2-interface;
\- to distribute the intercept related information to the relevant LEA(s);
\- to distribute the intercept product to the relevant LEA(s).
In case a packet data communication is selected based on several identities
(MSISDN, IMSI, IMEI, ,) of the same target, the SGSN or GGSN will deliver IP
and IRI only once to the DF2P and DF3P. DF2P and DF3P will then distribute the
information to the relevant LEA that requested interception on a particular
target identity.
For the delivery of the IP and IRI the SGSN or GGSN provides correlation
number and target identity to the DF2P and DF3P which is used there in order
to select the different LEAs where the product shall be delivered to.
The correlation number is unique in the whole PLMN and is used to correlate IP
with IRI and the different IRI\'s of one PDP context.
The correlation number shall be generated by using existing parameters related
to the PDP context.
NOTE: If interception has been activated for both parties of the packet data
communication both IP and IRI will be delivered for each party as separate
intercept activity.
In case of location dependent interception :
\- for each target, the location dependency check occurs at each packet data
session establishment or release and at each cell and/or RA update to
determine permanently the relevant IAs (and deduce, the possible LEAs within
these IAs),
\- concerning the IRI:
\- when an IA is left, a GPRS detach event is sent when changing SGSNs or a
cell and/or RA update event is sent when changing IAs inside the same SGSN to
DF2P.
\- when a new IA is entered a cell and/or RA update event is sent to DF2P and,
optionally, a Start of Interception with Active PDP Context event for each PDP
context
\- concerning the IP, when crossing IAs, the IP is not sent anymore to the
DF3P of the old IA but sent to the DF3P of the new IA.
## B.3.1 Provision of Intercept Product - GPRS
The access method for the delivering of GPRS Intercept Product is based on
duplication of packets without modification at GSN The duplicated packets with
additional information in the header are sent to DF3P for further delivery via
a tunnel.
Figure B.12: Configuration for interception of GPRS product data
### B.3.1.1 X3p-interface
The following information needs to be transferred from the GSN to the DF3P in
order to allow the DF3P to perform its functionality:
\- the identity of the target;
\- correlation number;
\- the target location (if available) or the IAs in case of location dependent
interception.
Additional information may be provided as a national option.
## B.3.2 Provision of Intercept Product - Short Message Service
Figure B13 shows an SMS transfer from the SGSN to the LEA. Quasi-parallel to
the delivery from / to the mobile subscriber a message, which contains the
contents of the SMS, is generated and sent via the Delivery Function 2P to the
LEA in the same way as the Intercept Related Information.
The IRI will be delivered to the LEA:
\- for a SMS-MO, when the SMS-Centre receives the SMS;
\- for a SMS-MT, when the MS receives the SMS.
Figure B.13: Provision of Intercept Product - Short Message Service
## B.3.3 Provision of Intercept Related Information
Intercept Related Information (Events) are necessary at the GPRS Attach, GPRS
Detach, PDP Context Activation, Start of intercept with PDP context active,
PDP Context Deactivation, Cell and/or RA update, and SMS events.
Figure B14 shows the transfer of intercept related information to the DF2P. If
an event for / from a mobile subscriber occurs, the GSN sends the relevant
data to the DF2P.
Figure B.14: Provision of Intercept Related Information
### B.3.3.1 X2p-interface
The following information needs to be transferred from the GSN to the DF2P in
order to allow a DF2P to perform its functionality:
\- identity of the target (MSISDN, IMSI, IMEI);
\- events and associated parameters as defined in section B.3.3.2 and B.3.3.3
may be provided;
\- the target location (if available) or the IAs in case of location dependent
interception.
### B.3.3.2 Structure of the events
There are seven different events in which the information is sent to the DF2P
if this is required. Details are described in following section. The events
for interception are configurable (if they are sent to DF2P) in the SGSN or
GGSN and can be suppressed in the DF2P.
**The following events are applicable to SGSN:**
\- GPRS attach;
\- GPRS detach;
\- PDP context activation;
\- Start of intercept with PDP context active;
\- PDP context deactivation;
\- Cell and /or RA update;
\- SMS.
NOTE: GGSN interception is a national option
The following events are applicable to GGSN:
\- PDP context activation ;
\- PDP context deactivation ;
\- Start of interception with PDP context active.
A set of fields as shown below is used to generate the events. The events
transmit the information from GSN to DF2P. This set of fields as shown below
can be extended in the GSN, if this is necessary as a national option. DF2P
can extend this information if this is necessary as a national option e.g. a
unique number for each surveillance warrant.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | observed MSISDN | | | | MSISDN of the target subscriber (monitored subscriber) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | observed IMSI | | | | IMSI of the target subscriber (monitored subscriber) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | observed IMEI | | | | IMEI of the target subscriber (monitored subscriber),it must be | | checked for each activation over the radio interface. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | event type | | | | Description which type of event is delivered: PDP attach, PDP | | detach, PDP context activation, Start of intercept with PDP context | | active, PDP context deactivation, SMS, Cell and/or RA update, | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | event date | | | | Date of the event generation in the GSN | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | event time | | | | Time of the event generation in the GSN | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PDP address | | | | The PDP address of the target subscriber. Note that this address | | might be dynamic. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Access Point Name | | | | The APN of the access point. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Routing Area Code | | | | The routing area code of the target defines the RA in a PLMN. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | PDP Type | | | | The used PDP type. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Correlation Number | | | | The correlation number is used to correlate IP and IRI. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | SMS | | | | The SMS content with header which is sent with the SMS-service. The | | header also includes the SMS-Centre address. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | CGI | | | | Cell Global Identity | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Failed attach reason | | | | Reason for failed attach of the target subscriber. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Failed context activation reason | | | | Reason for failed context activation of the target subscriber. | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | IAs | | | | The observed Interception Areas | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
### B.3.3.3 GPRS related events
#### B.3.3.3.1 GPRS attach
For attach an attach-event is generated. When an attach activation is
generated from the mobile to SGSN this event is generated. These fields will
be delivered to the DF2P if available:
* * *
Observed MSISDN Observed IMSI Observed IMEI Event Type Event Time Event Date
CGI Routing area code Failed attach reason IAs (if applicable)
* * *
#### B.3.3.3.2 GPRS detach
For detach a detach-event is generated, this is for the common (end) detach.
These fields will be delivered to the DF2P if available:
* * *
Observed MSISDN Observed IMSI Observed IMEI Event Type Event Time Event Date
CGI Routing Area code IAs (if applicable)
* * *
#### B.3.3.3.3 GPRS PDP context activation
For PDP context activation a PDP context activation-event is generated. When a
PDP context activation is generated from the mobile to GSN this event is
generated. These fields will be delivered to the DF2P if available:
* * *
Observed MSISDN Observed IMSI Observed IMEI PDP address of observed party
Event Type Event Time Event Date Correlation number Access Point Name PDP Type
CGI Routing area code Failed context activation reason IAs (if applicable)
* * *
#### B.3.3.3.4 Start of interception with PDP context active
This event will be generated if interception for a target is started and if
the target has at least one PDP context active. If more then one PDP context
are open for each of them an event record is generated. These fields will be
delivered to the DF2P if available:
* * *
Observed MSISDN Observed IMSI Observed IMEI PDP address of observed party
Event Type Event Time Event Date Correlation number Access Point Name PDP Type
CGI Routing area code IAs (if applicable)
* * *
#### B.3.3.3.5 GPRS PDP context deactivation
At PDP context deactivation a PDP context deactivation-event is generated.
These fields will be delivered to the DF2P if available:
* * *
Observed MSISDN Observed IMSI Observed IMEI PDP address of observed party
Event Type Event Time Event Date Correlation number Access point name CGI
Routing area code IAs (if applicable)
* * *
#### B.3.3.3.6 Cell and/or RA update
For each cell and/or RA update an update-event with the fields about the new
location is generated. These fields will be delivered to the DF2P if
available:
* * *
Observed MSISDN Observed IMSI Observed IMEI Event Type Event Time Event Date
CGI Routing area code IAs (if applicable)
* * *
#### B.3.3.3.7 SMS
For MO-SMS the event is generated in the SGSN, when the SMS-Centre
successfully receives the SMS; for MT-SMS the event is generated in the SGSN
when the target receives the message. This fields will be delivered to the
DF2P if available:
* * *
Observed MSISDN Observed IMSI Observed IMEI Event Type Event Time Event Date
CGI Routing area code SMS IAs (if applicable)
* * *
## B.3.4 Intercept cases for supplementary services
Supplementary services may be used with GPRS. However they are not
standardised and therefore Lawful Interception interwork cases can not be
defined.
# B.4 Security
## B.4.1 Security
The security requirements are valid for the whole Lawful Interception system,
i.e. rules and procedures shall be used for all involved entities, GSN and the
DF.
### B.4.1.1 Administration security
The administration of the LI function, i.e. Activation, Deactivation and
Interrogation of Lawful Interception, in the GSN and the DFs must be done
secure as described below:
\- It shall be possible to configure the authorised user access to Activation,
Deactivation and Interrogation of Lawful Interception separately for every
physical or logical port at the GSN and DF. This configuration possibility
shall be password protected.
\- Normally only the ADMF is allowed to have access to the LI functionality in
the GSN and DF.
\- The communication link between ADMF, GSN, DF2P, and DF3P shall be secure
and shall support security mechanisms, e.g.:
\- CUG / VPN;
\- COLP;
\- authentication;
\- encryption.
\- No network entities or remote equipment shall be able to access or
manipulate LI data in the GSN or the DF.
### B.4.1.2 IRI security
#### B.4.1.2.1 Normal operation
The transmission of the IRI shall be done in a secure manner.
When DF2P is physically separate from the GSN, the X2p-interface shall support
security mechanisms, e.g.:
\- CUG/VPN;
\- COLP;
\- authentication;
\- encryption.
#### B.4.1.2.2 Communication failure
Depending on the national law in case of communication failure IRI may be
buffered in the GSN. After successful transmission of IRI the whole buffer
must be deleted. It shall be possible to delete the content buffer via command
or a timer, in an unrestoreable fashion.
### B.4.1.3 IP security
The transmission of the IP shall be done in a secure manner.
When DF3P is physically separate from the GSN, the X3p-interface shall support
security mechanisms, e.g.:
\- CUG/VPN;
\- COLP;
\- authentication;
\- encryption.
In case of transmission failure no buffering will be done.
### B.4.1.4 Security aspects of Lawful Interception billing
Billing information shall be available at the DFs and the ADMF. Billing
information for Lawful Interception shall be separated from \"regular\" GPRS
billing data.
Billing data transmission to the Lawful Interception billing system shall be
done in a secure manner.
In case of transmission failure billing-data shall be buffered/stored in a
secure way. After successful transmission billing data shall be deleted in an
unrestorable fashion.
### B.4.1.5 Other security issues
#### B.4.1.5.1 Log files
Log files shall be generated by the ADMF, DF2P, DF3P and the GSN. All log
files are retrievable by the ADMF, and are maintained by the ADMF in a secure
manner.
#### B.4.1.5.2 Data consistency
The administration function in the PLMN shall be capable to perform a periodic
consistency check to ensure whether the target list of MSISDN, IMSI or IMEI is
the same in all involved SGSNs in the PLMN and the DFs. The reference data
base is the ADMF data base.
# B.5 Information flows for Lawful Interception invocation (informative)
The following figures show the information flows for the invocation of Lawful
Interception for GPRS and typical scenarios. The figures show some of the
basic signalling messages of the target packet data communication and the
events on the X2P and X3P-interfaces. The dotted lines indicate signalling
depending on whether IP and/or IRI information has been requested. GGSN may
setup/release packet tunnels and send IRI information depending on national
requirements.
The use of the GGSN for interception is a national option.
## B.5.1 GPRS attach
Figure B.15 shows the interception of a basic GPRS attach where the mobile (A)
is the target for interception.
Figure B.15: Interception of mobile originated GPRS attachment
## B.5.2 Mobile originated GPRS detach
Figure B.16 shows the interception of a mobile originated GPRS detach where
the originating mobile (A) is the target for interception.
Figure B.16: Interception of mobile originated GPRS detachment
## B.5.3 Network initiated GPRS detach
Figure B.17 shows the interception of a network initiated (by SGSN or HLR)
GPRS detach where the mobile (A) is the target for interception.
{width="5.770138888888889in" height="3.3847222222222224in"}
Figure B.17: Interception of network initiated GPRS detach
NOTE: * Additional signals in case of HLR initiated
## B.5.4 Intra SGSN Routing Area Update
Figure B.18 shows the interception of an Intra Routing Area Update where the
mobile (A) is the target for interception. The sequence is the same for the
combined RA / LA Update procedure but additional signalling is performed
between the SGSN and MSC/VLR, HLR and the old MSC/VLR before the Routing Area
Update Accept message is sent to the MS.
{width="5.854861111111111in" height="2.6354166666666665in"}
Figure B.18: Interception of an Intra Routing Area Update
## B.5.5 Inter SGSN Routing Area Update
Figure B.19 shows the interception of an Inter Routing Area Update where the
mobile (A) is the target for interception. The sequence is the same for the
combined RA / LA Update procedure but additional signalling is performed
between the SGSN and MSC/VLR, HLR and the old MSC/VLR before the Routing Area
Update Accept message is sent to the MS. In case of PDP context not being
active less signalling is required.
{width="5.813194444444444in" height="4.104861111111111in"}
Figure B.19: Interception of an Inter Routing Area Update
## B.5.6 PDP Context Activation
Figure B.20 shows the interception of a PDP Context activation where the
mobile (A) is the target for interception. The sequence for a network
initiated PDP Context activation is analogous but is preceded by the SGSN
sending a Request PDP Context Activation to the MS.
{width="5.990277777777778in" height="3.395138888888889in"}
Figure B.20: Interception of a PDP Context Activation
## B.5.7 Start of interception with PDP context active
A tunnel is established to DF3P and an event is sent to DF2P.
## B.5.8 MS initiated PDP Context Deactivation
Figure B.21 shows the interception of a MS initiated PDP Context deactivation
where the mobile (A) is the target for interception.
{width="5.957638888888889in" height="3.3847222222222224in"}
Figure B.21: Interception of a PDP Context Deactivation
## B.5.9 Network initiated PDP Context Deactivation
Figure B.22 shows the interception of a Network initiated PDP Context
deactivation where the mobile (A) is the target for interception. The GGSN may
send, (depending on national requirements) the PDP Context deactivation and
release the GPRS packet tunnel after the Delete PDP Context Response has been
sent or received, (signalling between the SGSN and the GGSN is not shown
here).
{width="4.813194444444444in" height="2.6354166666666665in"}
Figure B.22: Interception of a Network initiated PDP Context Deactivation
## B.5.10 SMS
Figure B.23 and B.24 shows the interception of a Mobile-terminated SMS and a
Mobile-originated SMS transfer where the mobile (A) is the target for
interception.
{width="6.001388888888889in" height="2.6243055555555554in"}
Figure B.23: Interception of a Mobile-terminated SMS transfer
{width="6.001388888888889in" height="2.6666666666666665in"}
Figure B.24: Interception of a Mobile-originated SMS transfer
#