# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Converged Charging description for network
slice management charging in the 5G System (5GS). The present document
specifies the charging aspects for management of network slicing in mobile
networks.
The following management operations are within the scope:
\- Network Slice Instance creation, modification and termination;
\- Network Slice Instance activation and deactivation.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[2] - [14] Void
[15] 3GPP TS 32.255: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; 5G
Data connectivity domain charging; stage 2\".
[16] - [49] Void
[50] 3GPP TS 32.290: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; 5G
system; Services, operations and procedures of charging using Service Based
Interface (SBI)\".
[51] 3GPP TS 32.291: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management; 5G
system; Charging service, stage 3\".
[52] - [54] Void.
[55] 3GPP TS 32.295: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) transfer\".
[56] 3GPP TS 32.297: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) file format and transfer\".
[57] 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) parameter description\".
[58] - [99] Void.
[70] 3GPP TS 28.201: \"Charging management; Network slice performance and
analytics charging in the 5G System (5GS); Stage 2\".
[71] - [99] Void.
[100] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[101] - [199] Void.
[200] - [249] Void.
[250] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture
framework\".
[251] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[252] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[253] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Management services\".
[254] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource
Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[255] - [299] Void.
[300] - [399] Void.
[400] - [499] Void.
[500] - [599] Void.
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[100] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[100].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Bns Reference point for the CDR file transfer from the Network slice CGF to
the BD.
Ga Reference point for CDR transfer between a CDF and the CGF.
Nchf Service based interface exhibited by CHF.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [100] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [100].
CEF Charging Enablement Function
MnS Management Service
NSI Network Slice Instance
NSM Network Slice Management
NSSAI Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
S-NSSAI Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
SLS Service Level Specification
# 4 Architecture considerations
## 4.1 High level architecture
The high level service based management architecture for Network Slicing
management is specified in TS 28.533 [250] clause 4, with Management Services
(MnS) produced by MnS Producer and consumed by MnS Consumer.
## 4.2 Network Slice Management converged charging architecture
### 4.2.1 High level architecture network slice charging
The scope of the present document is network slice management charging, the
details for other types of network slice charging are defined in TS 32.255
[15] and TS 28.201 [70].
### 4.2.2 Converged charging architecture
Network Slice Management converged charging can be achieved under the
alternatives:
\- Charging Trigger Function (CTF) based, as depicted in figure 4.2.2.1.
\- Charging Enablement Function (CEF) based, depicted in figure 4.2.2.2.
Figure 4.2.2.1: Network Slice Management converged charging architecture (CTF)
Figure 4.2.2.2: Network Slice Management converged charging architecture (CEF)
The Charging Trigger Function (CTF) is specified in TS 32.240 [1].
The Charging Enablement Function (CEF) is defined in TS 28.201 [70]: charging
information addressed by the CEF in the present document, are related to
provisioning for network slices.
The MnS producer is defined in TS 28.533 [250]: the MnS producer in the
present document is the producer of provisioning MnS.
For network slice management converged charging the CEF is a consumer of both:
\- provisioning service (MnS) for network slice exposed by the MnS Producer,
specified in TS 28.532 [253];
\- charging (Nchf) service.
Details on the interfaces and functions can be found in TS 32.240 [1] for the
general architecture components. Ga is described in clause 5.2.4 and Bns in
clause 5.2.5 of the present document, and Nchf is described in TS 32.290 [50].
# 5 Network Slice Management charging principles and scenarios
## 5.1 Network Slice Management charging principles
### 5.1.1 General
The charging functions for the Network Slice Management charging, are based on
provisioning management services used for provisioning of network slice.
The management services are specified under TS 28.533 [250], TS 28.532 [253]
and TS 28.541 [254]. Management services and procedures for provisioning are
described TS 28.531 [252].
How a MnS consumer consumes and is authorized to consume provisioning MnS
produced by the MnS producer, are out of the scope of the present document.
The network slice subscriber is the tenant, i.e. the party for which the
network slice instance(s) is(are) created, satisfying the requirements of
subscribed-to service(s).
NOTE 1: these service(s) requirements may take the form of Service Level
Specification (SLS) per TS 28.530 [251] definition, supplied by external
service providers (e.g. MVNO, Verticals, enterprises), in which case the
tenant is the external service provider.
NOTE 2: these service(s) requirements may be built by a MNO for its own
operational needs, in which case the tenant is the MNO itself, and the tenant
id may not be present.
Depending on the relationship and deployment model between the tenant and the
party owning the MnS producer, the MnS consumer of the provisioning MnS may be
the tenant.
The following provisioning of network slice procedures of clause 7 in TS
28.531 [252] are considered for Network Slice Management charging:
\- Network Slice Instance (NSI) Creation.
\- Network Slice Instance (NSI) Modification.
\- Network Slice Instance (NSI) Termination.
Network Slice Instance (NSI) is defined in TS 28.530 [251].
### 5.1.2 Requirements
The following are high-level charging requirements specific to the Network
Slice Management charging:
\- The CEF shall support converged charging.
\- The CEF shall collect charging information per NSI Creation, Modification
and Termination.
\- The Service Producer (CTF) shall support converged charging.
\- The Service Producer (CTF) shall collect charging information per NSI
Creation, Modification and Termination.
### 5.1.3 Network Slice Management charging information
The charging information for Network Slice Management charging are defined
under the following list:
\- identity of the MnS consumer of provisioning MnS.
\- identity of the tenant, i.e. viewed as the network slice subscriber.
\- operation type invoked by MnS consumer of provisioning MnS.
\- identifier of the Network Slice Instance.
\- network slice related requirements identified by a service profile as
defined in TS 28.531 [252] clause 4.5. and detailed in TS 28.541 [254] clause
6.3.3.
The following non-exhaustive list of information elements of the service
profile are identified for Network Slice Management charging:
\- Service Profile identifier.
> \- S-NSSAI(s).
>
> \- SST.
>
> \- Latency.
>
> \- Resource Sharing Level.
>
> \- Availability.
>
> \- Jitter.
\- Reliability.
\- Maximum Number of UEs.
\- Coverage Area.
\- Max Number of PDU sessions,
> \- UE mobility Level.
>
> \- Delay Tolerance.
>
> \- UL/DL Throughput Per UE.
>
> \- UL/DL Throughput Per UE.
>
> \- UL/DL Throughput Per Slice.
>
> \- KPI Monitoring.
>
> \- Supported Access Technology.
\- V2X Communication Mode.
### 5.1.4 CHF selection
The CHF selection by the MnS Producer (CTF)/CEF is based on the following
options and with this priority order (highest to lowest):
\- NRF based discovery;
\- pre-configured CHF address(s).
## 5.2 Network Slice Management charging scenarios
### 5.2.1 Basic principles
#### 5.2.1.1 General
Network Slice Management charging is performed by the Service Producer (CTF)
of provisioning MnS or the CEF interacting with CHF using Nchf specified in TS
32.290 [50] and TS 32.291 [51]. In order to provide the data required for the
charging management activities outlined in TS 32.240 [1], the Service Producer
(CTF) or CEF shall be able to perform converged charging for provisioning MnS
when consumed by MnS consumer for NSI allocation, modification and
deallocation.
The Service Producer (CTF) of provisioning MnS or CEF shall be able to perform
converged charging by interacting with CHF, for charging data related to
Network Slice Management. The Charging Data Request and Charging Data Response
are exchanged between the Service Producer (CTF) and the CHF or between the
CEF and the CHF, based on PEC scenarios specified in TS 32.290 [50]. The
Charging Data Request is issued by the Service Producer (CTF) or CEF towards
the CHF when certain conditions (chargeable events) are met.
The CEF shall be able to consume services related to provisioning MnS events,
defined in TS 28.531 [252], for collecting charging information related to
Network Slice Management.
The contents and purpose of each charging event that triggers interaction with
CHF, as well as the chargeable events that trigger them, are described in
clauses 5.2.2.
A detailed formal description of the converged charging parameters to CHF
defined in the present document can be found in TS 32.291 [51].
A detailed formal description of the CDR parameters defined in the present
document can be found in TS 32.298 [57].
Whether network slice management charging is active is configured in MnS
producer or CEF.
#### 5.2.1.2 Applicable triggers in Network Slice Management charging
A set of trigger conditions are defined for the CEF or Service Producer (CTF)
to invoke a Charging Data Request [Event] towards the CHF.
Table 5.2.1.2.1 summarizes the set of default trigger conditions and their
category which shall be supported by the CEF or Service Producer (CTF).
Table 5.2.1.2.1: Default Trigger conditions in CEF or Service Producer (CTF)
Trigger Conditions Trigger level Default category CHF allowed to change
category CHF allowed to enable and disable Message when \"immediate
reporting\" category
* * *
Creation Response sent - Immediate Not Applicable Not Applicable Charging Data
Request [Event] NSI Modification Response sent - Immediate Not Applicable Not
Applicable Charging Data Request [Event] NSI Termination Response sent -
Immediate Not Applicable Not Applicable Charging Data Request [Event]
The CDR generation mechanism processed by the CHF upon receiving Charging Data
Request [Event] issued by the CEF or Service Producer (CTF) for these
chargeable events, is specified in clause 5.2.3.
### 5.2.2 Message flows
#### 5.2.2.1 General
The management services for network slice provisioning, specified in TS 28.531
[252], enables its consumer to request allocating, deallocating or modifying
an NSI. There following operations are defined to enable this: createMOI,
deleteMOI, getMOIAttributes, modifyMOIAttributes, allocateNsi and
deallocateNsi. Use of any of these operations, with the exception of
getMOIAttributes, can be subscribed to for charging purposes.
The CEF shall use this subscription possibility to get notifications based on
the operations used and filtered for network slice.
The flows in the present document specify the interaction between an MnS
producer with a CTF and the CHF for Network Slice Management charging
functionality, in some scenarios, based on TS 28.531 [252] clause 7 procedures
and flows.
The table 5.2.2.1.1 describes the mapping between the messages used in the
flows, and the Operations specified in TS 28.531 [252].
Table 5.2.2.1.1: Messages mapping to Operations
+-----------------------------------+---------------------+ | Message | Operations | +===================================+=====================+ | NSI Creation Request/Response | createMOI | | | | | | allocateNsi | +-----------------------------------+---------------------+ | NSI Modification Request/Response | modifyMOIAttributes | +-----------------------------------+---------------------+ | NSI Termination Request/Response | deleteMOI | | | | | | deallocateNsi | +-----------------------------------+---------------------+
#### 5.2.2.2 NSI Creation - PEC
The scenario where a NSI Creation request is invoked towards a Service
Producer is described for the two architecture options in PEC mode.
Figure 5.2.2.2.1 describes the message flows with CTF internal to Service
Producer.
Figure 5.2.2.2.1: NSI Creation - Internal CTF - PEC
> 1\. The Service Producer (CTF) receives an NSI Creation Request from an MnS
> consumer.
>
> 2\. The Service Producer (CTF) performs NSI Creation process by creating a
> new NSI or using an existing NSI.
>
> 3\. The Service Producer (CTF) sends the NSI Creation Response with
> appropriate result.
>
> 3ch-a. The Service Producer (CTF) sends Charging Data Request [Event] to CHF
> associated to the NSI Creation transaction.
>
> 3ch-b. The CHF creates a CDR for this NSI Creation transaction.
>
> 3ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Event] to the
> Service Producer (CTF).
Figure 5.2.2.2.2 describes the message flows with CEF.
Figure 5.2.2.2.2: NSI creation - CEF - PEC
> 1\. Determination by CEF to subscribe to any new NSI creation using MnS
> provisioning.
2\. Subscribe Request: the CEF subscribes to new NSI creation using MnS
provisioning.
3\. Subscribe Response: the Service Producer sends successful subscription
response.
> 4\. The Service Producer receives an NSI Creation Request from an MnS
> consumer.
>
> 5\. The Service Producer performs NSI Creation process by creating a new NSI
> or using an existing NSI.
>
> 6\. The Service Producer sends the NSI Creation Response with appropriate
> result.
>
> 7\. Notification: the Service Producer notifies the CEF that a new NSI has
> been created using MnS provisioning.
>
> 8\. Notification Acknowledge sent by the CEF.
>
> Steps 4 to 8 can be repeated.
>
> 9\. NSI Creation completed
>
> 9ch-a. The CEF sends Charging Data Request [Event] to CHF associated to the
> NSI Creation transaction.
>
> 9ch-b. The CHF creates a CDR for this NSI Creation transaction.
>
> 9ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response to the CEF.
>
> Steps 9 to 9ch-c can be repeated.
#### 5.2.2.3 NSI Modification - PEC
The scenario where a NSI Modification request is invoked towards a Service
Producer (CTF) is described for the two architecture options in PEC mode.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1 describes the message flows with CTF internal to Service
Producer.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1: NSI Modification - internal CTF - PEC
> 1\. The Service Producer (CTF) receives an NSI Modification Request from an
> MnS consumer.
>
> 2\. The Service Producer (CTF) performs NSI Modification process.
>
> 3\. The Service Producer (CTF) sends the NSI Modification Response with
> appropriate result.
>
> 3ch-a. The Service Producer (CTF) sends Charging Data Request [Event] to CHF
> associated to the NSI Modification transaction.
>
> 3ch-b. The CHF creates a CDR for this NSI Modification transaction.
>
> 3ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Event] to the
> Service Producer (CTF).
Figure 5.2.2.3.2 describes the message flows with CEF.
Figure 5.2.2.3.2: NSI Modification - CEF - PEC
> 1\. Determination by CEF to subscribe to NSI modification.
>
> 2\. Subscribe Request: the CEF subscribes to NSI modification using MnS
> provisioning.
>
> 3\. Subscribe Response: the Service Producer sends successful response.
>
> 4\. The Service Producer receives an NSI Modification Request from an MnS
> consumer for this particular NSI.
>
> 5\. The Service Producer performs NSI Modification process.
>
> 6\. The Service Producer sends the NSI Modification Response with
> appropriate result.
>
> 7\. Notification: the Service Producer notifies the CEF by using MnS
> provisioning, that the particular NSI has been modified.
>
> 8\. Notification Acknowledge sent by the CEF.
>
> Steps 4 to 8 can be repeated.
>
> 9\. NSI Modification completed
>
> 9ch-a. The CEF sends Charging Data Request [Event] to CHF associated to the
> NSI Modification transaction.
>
> 9ch-b. The CHF creates a CDR for this NSI Modification transaction.
>
> 9ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Event] to the
> CEF.
>
> Steps 9 to 9ch-c can be repeated.
#### 5.2.2.4 NSI Termination - PEC
The scenario where a NSI Termination request is invoked towards a Service
Producer (CTF) is described for the two architecture options in PEC mode.
Figure 5.2.2.4.1: NSI Termination - internal CTF - PEC
> 1\. The Service Producer (CTF) receives an NSI Termination Request from an
> MnS consumer.
>
> 2\. The Service Producer (CTF) performs the NSI Termination process.
>
> 3\. The Service Producer (CTF) sends the NSI Termination Response.
>
> 3ch-a. The Service Producer (CTF) sends Charging Data Request [Event] to CHF
> associated to the NSI Termination transaction.
>
> 3ch-b. The CHF creates a CDR for this NSI Termination transaction.
>
> 3ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Event] to the
> Service Producer (CTF).
Figure 5.2.2.4.2 describes the message flows with CEF.
Figure 5.2.2.4.2: NSI Termination - CEF - PEC
1\. Determination by CEF to subscribe to NSI termination.
2\. Subscribe Request: the CEF subscribes to NSI Termination using MnS
provisioning.
3\. Subscribe Response: the Service Producer sends successful response.
> 4\. The Service Producer receives an NSI Termination Request from an MnS
> consumer for this particular NSI.
>
> 5\. The Service Producer performs NSI Termination process.
>
> 6\. The Service Producer sends the NSI Termination Response with appropriate
> result.
>
> 7\. Notification: the Service Producer notifies the CEF by using MnS
> provisioning, that the particular NSI has been terminated.
>
> 8\. Notification Acknowledge sent by the CEF.
>
> Steps 4 to 8 can be repeated.
>
> 9\. NSI Termination completed
>
> 9ch-a. The CEF sends Charging Data Request [Event] to CHF associated to the
> NSI Termination transaction.
>
> 9ch-b. The CHF creates a CDR for this NSI Termination transaction.
>
> 9ch-c. The CHF acknowledges by sending Charging Data Response [Event] to the
> CEF.
>
> Steps 9 to 9ch-c can be repeated.
### 5.2.3 CDR generation
#### 5.2.3.1 Introduction
The CHF CDRs for Network slice management charging are generated by the CHF to
collect charging information that they subsequently transfer to the Charging
Gateway Function (CGF).
The following clauses describe in detail the conditions for generating the CHF
CDR, which shall be supported by the CHF.
#### 5.2.3.2 Triggers for CHF CDR
##### 5.2.3.2.1 General
A Network slice management charging CHF CDR is used to capture charging
information related to Network slice management chargeable events.
##### 5.2.3.2.2 Triggers for CHF CDR generation
A Network slice management charging CHF CDR is generated by the CHF for each
received Charging Data Request [Event].
### 5.2.4 Ga record transfer flows
Details of the Ga protocol application are specified in TS 32.295 [55].
### 5.2.5 Bns CDR file transfer
Details of the Bns protocol application are specified in TS 32.297 [56].
# 6 Definition of charging information
## 6.1 Data description for network slice management charging
### 6.1.1 Message contents
#### 6.1.1.1 General
The Charging Data Request and Charging Data Response are specified in
subclause 5.1.2.2.1 of TS 32.290 [50].
Table 6.1.1.1.1 describes the use of these messages for network slice
management charging.
Table 6.1.1.1.1: Network slice management charging messages reference table
+------------------------+---------------+-----------------+ | **Message** | **Source** | **Destination** | +========================+===============+=================+ | Charging Data Request | MnS producer/ | CHF | | | | | | | CEF | | +------------------------+---------------+-----------------+ | Charging Data Response | CHF | MnS producer/ | | | | | | | | CEF | +------------------------+---------------+-----------------+
The following clauses describe the different fields used in the Charging Data
messages and the category in the tables is used according to the charging data
configuration defined in clause 5.4 of TS 32.240 [1].
#### 6.1.1.2 Charging Data Request message
Table 6.1.1.2.1 illustrates the basic structure of a Charging Data Request
message from the CEF or MnS producer as used for Network slice management
charging.
Table 6.1.1.2.1: Charging Data Request message contents
**Information Element** **Category for converged charging** **Description**
* * *
Session Identifier O~C~ Described in TS 32.290 [57] Subscriber Identifier -
This field is not applicable. Tenant Identifier O~M~ This fields holds the
identifier of the tenant the network slice instance is created for. MnS
Consumer Identifier O~M~ This fields holds the identifier of the MnS Consumer
of Provisioning MnS. NF Consumer Identification M Described in TS 32.290 [57]
and holds the identifier of the CEF or MnS producer. Invocation Timestamp M
Described in TS 32.290 [57] Invocation Sequence Number M Described in TS
32.290 [57] One-time Event O~C~ Described in TS 32.290 [57] One-time Event
Type O~C~ Described in TS 32.290 [57] Notify URI - This field is not
applicable. Service Specification Information O~C~ Described in TS 32.290 [57]
Triggers - This field is not applicable. Multiple Unit Usage - This field is
not applicable. NSM Charging information O~M~ This field holds NSM specific
information described in clause 6.2.1.2
#### 6.1.1.3 Charging data response message
Table 6.1.1.3.1 illustrates the basic structure of a Charging Data Response
message from the CHF to the MnS producer or CEF as used for Network slice
management charging.
Table 6.1.1.3.1: Charging Data Response message contents
**Information Element** **Category for converged charging** **Description**
* * *
Session Identifier O~C~ Described in TS 32.290 [57] Invocation Timestamp M
Described in TS 32.290 [57] Invocation Result O~C~ Described in TS 32.290 [57]
Invocation Sequence Number M Described in TS 32.290 [57] Session Failover -
This field is not applicable. Triggers - This field is not applicable.
Multiple Unit Information - This field is not applicable.
### 6.1.2 Ga message contents
See clause 5.2.4.
### 6.1.3 CDR description on the B~ns~ interface
#### 6.1.3.1 General
This clause describes the CDR content and format generated for Network Slice
Management charging.
The following tables provide a brief description of each CDR parameter. The
category in the tables is used according to the charging data configuration
defined in clause 5.4 of TS 32.240 [1]. Full definitions of the CDR
parameters, sorted by the name in alphabetical order, are provided in TS
32.298 [57].
#### 6.1.3.2 Network Slice Management charging CHF CDR data
If enabled, CHF CDRs for Network Slice Management charging shall be produced
for each Network Slice Management operations.
The fields of Network Slice Management charging CHF CDR are specified in table
6.1.3.2.1.
Table 6.1.3.2.1: Network Slice Management charging CHF record data
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Field | Category | Description | +============================+==========+============================+ | Record Type | M | CHF record. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Recording Network Function | OM | This field holds the name | | ID | | of the recording entity, | | | | i.e. the CHF id. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Subscriber Identifier | - | This field is not | | | | applicable. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Tenant Identifier | OM | This field holds the | | | | identifier of the tenant | | | | the network slice instance | | | | is created for. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | MnS Consumer Identifier | O~M~ | This fields holds the | | | | identifier of the MnS | | | | Consumer of Provisioning | | | | MnS. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | NF Consumer Information | M | This field holds the | | | | information of the entity | | | | that used the charging | | | | service (i.e. Service | | | | Producer (CTF), CEF). | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > NF Functionality | M | This field contains the | | | | function of the entity: | | | | Service Producer (CTF) or | | | | CEF | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > NF Name | OC | This field holds the name | | | | of the entity. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > NF Address | OC | This field holds the IP | | | | Address of the entity | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | > NF PLMN ID | Oc | This field holds the PLMN | | | | identifier (MCC MNC) of | | | | the entity. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Record Opening Time | M | Described in TS 32.298 | | | | [57] | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Duration | M | Described in TS 32.298 | | | | [57] | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Record Sequence Number | C | Described in TS 32.298 | | | | [57] | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Cause for Record Closing | M | Described in TS 32.298 | | | | [57] | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Diagnostics | OM | Described in TS 32.298 | | | | [57] | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Local Record Sequence | OM | Described in TS 32.298 | | Number | | [57] | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Record Extensions | OC | Described in TS 32.298 | | | | [57] | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | NSM Charging information | O~M~ | This field holds the | | | | Network Slice Management | | | | Charging information | | | | defined in clause 6.2.1.2. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
## 6.2 Network Slice management charging specific parameters
### 6.2.1 Definition of Network Slice management charging information
#### 6.2.1.1 General
The Charging Information parameter used for Network Slice management charging
is provided in the following clauses.
#### 6.2.1.2 Definition of Network Slice Management charging information
Specific charging information used for Network Slice Management charging is
provided within the NSM Charging Information.
The detailed structure of the NSM Charging Information can be found in table
6.2.1.2.1.
Table 6.2.1.2.1: Structure of NSM Charging Information
* * *
Information Element Category Description Management operation M This field
holds the management operation associated to with the provisioning. Identifier
of NetworkSlice Instance O~M~ This field holds the identifier of the Network
Slice Instance as defined in TS 28.531 [252] clause 4.6. List of Service
profile charging information O~M~ This field holds the list of service profile
charging information supported by the Network Slice instance and is defined in
clause 6.2.1.3. Management operation status O~C~ This field holds the status
of the management operation (Succeeded or Failed), as defined in TS 28.532
[253] clause 11.1.1.1.3. Operational state O~C~ This field indicates the
operational state of the network slice instance (enabled or disabled), as
defined in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4.1. Administrative state O~C~ This
indicates the administrative state of the network slice instance (locked,
unlocked or shuttingdown), as defined in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4.1.
* * *
#### 6.2.1.3 Definition of Service profile charging information
The service profile is defined in TS 28.541 [254], clause 6.3.3. Service
profile specific charging information used for Network Slice Management
charging is provided within the Service profile charging information.
The detailed structure of the Service profile charging information can be
found in table 6.2.1.3.1.
Table 6.2.1.3.1: Structure of Service profile Charging Information
* * *
Information Element Category Description Service Profile Id O~M~ Described in
TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 serviceProfileId attribute S-NSSAIs List O~M~
Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 sNSSAIList attribute SST O~M~
Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 sST attribute Latency O~C~ Described
in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 latency attribute Availability O~C~ Described in
TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 availability attribute Resource Sharing Level O~C~
Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 serviceProfile.resourceSharingLevel
attribute Jitter O~C~ Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 jitter attribute
Reliability O~C~ Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 d reliability
attribute Maximum Number of UEs O~C~ Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4
maxNumberofUEs attribute Coverage Area O~C~ Described in TS 28.541 [254]
clause 6.4 coverageArea attribute UE Mobility Level O~C~ Described in TS
28.541 [254] clause 6.4 uEMobilityLevel attribute Delay Tolerance O~C~
Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 delayTolerance attribute DL Throughput
Per Slice O~C~ Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 dLThptPerSlice
attribute DL Throughput Per UE O~C~ Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4
dLThptPerUE attribute UL Throughput Per Slice O~C~ Described in TS 28.541
[254] clause 6.4 uLThptPerSlic attribute UL Throughput Per UE O~C~ Described
in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 uLThptPerUE attribute Max Number of PDU sessions
O~C~ Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4 maxNumberofConns.nOofConn
attribute KPIs Monitoring list O~C~ Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4
kPIMonitoring attribute Supported Access Technology O~C~ Described in TS
28.541 [254] clause 6.4 SupportedAccessTech.accTechList attribute V2X
Communication Mode O~C~ Described in TS 28.541 [254] clause 6.4
V2XCommMode.v2XMode attribute Additional service profile charging information
O~C~ This fields holds additional attributes of the service profile.
* * *
### 6.2.2 Formal Network Slice management charging parameter description
#### 6.2.2.1 Network Slice management charging CHF CDR parameters
The detailed definitions, abstract syntax and encoding of Network Slice
management charging CHF CDRs parameters are specified in TS 32.298 [57].
#### 6.2.2.2 Network Slice management charging resources attributes
The detailed definitions of resources attributes used for Network Slice
management charging are specified in TS 32.291 [51].
#