# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
\- TS 28.307: Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**\- TS 28.308: Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement
collection Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
**\- TS 28.309: Management of Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement
collection Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
The present document is part of a TS-family which describes the information
service necessary for the Telecommunication Management (TM) of 3G systems. The
TM principles and TM architecture are specified in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2] and 3GPP
TS 32.102 [3].
Quality of Experience (QoE) information collection provides detailed
information at session level on a number of UEs. The QoE information from a
number of UEs is collected by the management system (e.g. an Operations System
(OS) in TMN terminology) for analysis and/or KPI calculations.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Solution Set definitions for the IRP whose
semantics are specified in **Management of Quality of Experience (QoE)
measurement collection Integration Reference Point (IRP)** : Information
Service (3GPP TS 28.308 [19]). The present document is applicable to UMTS
networks and EPS networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.442: \"Telecommunication management; Trace Management
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.311: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP): Requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.306: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set
definitions\".
[9] OMG TC Document telecom/98-11-01: \"OMG Notification Service\".
(http://www.omg.org/technology/documents/)
[10] 3GPP TS 32.342: \"Telecommunication management; File Transfer (FT)
Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[11] W3C REC-xml-20001006: \"Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second
Edition)\".
[12] W3C REC-xmlschema-0-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 0: Primer\".
[13] W3C REC-xmlschema-1-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 1: Structures\".
[14] W3C REC-xmlschema-2-20010502: \"XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes\".
[15] W3C SOAP 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-
SOAP-20000508/).
[16] W3C XPath 1.0 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-
xpath-19991116).
[17] W3C WSDL 1.1 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/NOTE-
wsdl-20010315).
[18] W3C SOAP 1.2 specification (http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/).
[19] 3GPP TS 28.308: \"Telecommunication management; **Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection** Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information
Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1]
apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1] and 3GPP TS 32.150 [4].
**IRP document version number string (or \"IRPVersion\"):** See 3GPP TS 32.311
[6].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1], in 3GPP TS 32.150 [4], and the following apply. An abbreviation defined
in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same
abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
DN Distinguished Name
SS Solution Set
# 4 Solution Set definitions
The present document defines the following 3GPP QMC Management IRP Solution
Set definitions:
\- Annex A provides the CORBA Solution Set.
\- Annex B provides the XML definitions.
\- Annex C provides the SOAP Solution Set.
###### ## Annex A (normative): CORBA Solution Set (SS)
# A.0 Introduction
This annex contains the CORBA Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics is
specified in QoE Management IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 28.308 [19]).
# A.1 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of QMC Management IRP is specified in 3GPP
TS 28.308 [19].
## A.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names (DN)
The format of a Distinguished Name (DN) is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [7].
The version of this IRP is represented as a string (see also 3GPP TS 32.311
[6]).
## A.1.2 Notification services
Notifications are sent according to the Notification IRP: CORBA SS (see 3GPP
TS 32.306 [8]).
The contents of the QMCIRP notifications are defined in the present document.
## A.1.3 Push and pull style
OMG Notification Service defines two styles of interaction. One is called push
style. In this style, IRPAgent pushes notifications to IRPManager as soon as
they are available. The other is called pull style. In this style, IRPAgent
keeps the notifications till IRPManager requests for them.
This CORBA SS specifies that support of Push style is Mandatory (M) and that
support of Pull style is Optional (O).
## A.1.4 Support multiple notifications in one push operation
For efficiency reasons, IRPAgent may send multiple notifications using one
single push operation. To pack multiple notifications into one push operation,
IRPAgent may wait and not invoke the push operation as soon as notifications
are available. To avoid IRPAgent to wait for an extended period of time that
is objectionable to IRPManager, IRPAgent shall implement an IRPAgent wide
timer configurable by administrator. On expiration of this timer, IRPAgent
shall invoke push if there is at least one notification to be conveyed to
IRPManager. This timer is re-started after each push invocation.
## A.1.5 QoE management notification interface
### A.1.5.0 Introduction
OMG CORBA Notification push operation is used to realise the notification of
QMCIRP Notifications. All the notifications in this interface are implemented
using this push_structured_event method.
### A.1.5.1 Method push (M)
module CosNotifyComm {
...
Interface SequencePushConsumer : NotifyPublish {
void push_structured_events(
in CosNotification::EventBatch notifications)
raises( CosEventComm::Disconnected);
...
}; // SequencePushConsumer
...
}; // CosNotifyComm
NOTE 1: The push_structured_events method takes an input parameter of type
EventBatch as defined in the OMG CosNotification module (OMG Notification
Service [9]). This data type is the same as a sequence of Structured Events.
Upon invocation, this parameter will contain a sequence of Structured Events
being delivered to IRPManager by IRPAgent to which it is connected.
NOTE 2: The maximum number of events that will be transmitted within a single
invocation of this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration
parameter.
NOTE 3: The amount of time the supplier (IRPAgent) of a sequence of Structured
Events will accumulate individual events into the sequence before invoking
this operation is controlled by IRPAgent wide configuration parameter as well.
NOTE 4: IRPAgent may push EventBatch with only one Structured Event.
# A.2 Mapping
## A.2.1 Operation and notification mapping
QMCIRP: IS 3GPP TS 28.309 [19] defines semantics of operation and notification
visible across the QMCIRP.\ Table A.2.1.1 indicates mapping of these
operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.2.1.1: Mapping from IS Operations and Notification to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operations/ notification 3GPP TS 28.308 [19] SS Method Qualifier
activateAreaQMCJob activateAreaQMCJob M deactivateQMCJob deactivateQMCJob M
listQMCJob listQMCJob M listActivatedQMCJobs listActivatedQMCJobs M
notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure push_structured_events(See subclause
A.1.5.1) O
* * *
## A.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
The QMCIRP: IS 3GPP TS 28.308 [19] defines semantics of parameters carried in
operations across the QMCIRP. The following tables indicate the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table A.2.2.1: Mapping from IS activateAreaQMCJob parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +===========================+===========================+===========+ | iOCInstance | KernelCmConstDefs::DN | M | | | moInstance | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | qoEReference | QmcI | M | | | RPConstDefs::QoeReference | | | | qoeReference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | qMCTarget | Q | M | | | mcIRPConstDefs::QmcTarget | | | | qmcTarget | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | q | QmcIRPConstDefs::Q | M | | oECollectionEntityAddress | oeCollectionEntityAddress | | | | q | | | | oeCollectionEntityAddress | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | serviceType | QmcIRPConstDefs:: | M | | | ServiceType serviceType | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | areaScope | QmcIRPConstDefs::DNSet | M | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | pLMNTarget | QmcIRPConstDefs: | CM | | | PLMNTarget pLMNTarget | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | qMCConfigurationFile | QmcIRPConstDefs: | M | | | QmcConfigurationFile | | | | qmcConfigurationFile | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | unsupportedList | QmcIRPConstDefs: | M | | | UnsupportedList | | | | unsupportedList | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | QmcIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | ActivateAreaQMCJob | | | | | | | | NotUniqueQoEReference | | | | | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | System::InvalidParameter, | | | | ManagedGenericIRP | | | | System::ValueNotSupported | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.2: Mapping from IS deactivateQMCJob parameters to SS equivalents
+------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +========================+===========================+===========+ | iOCInstance | KernelCmConstDefs::DN | M | | | moInstance | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | qoEReference | QmcI | M | | | RPConstDefs::QoeReference | | | | qoeReference | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | qMCTarget | Q | M | | | mcIRPConstDefs::QmcTarget | | | | qmcTarget | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | QmcIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | DeactivateQMCJob | | | | | | | | NotUniqueQoEReference | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | unsupportedList | QmcIRPConstDefs: | M | | | UnsupportedList | | | | unsupportedList | | +------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.3: Mapping from IS listQMCJob parameters to SS equivalents
+---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | IS Operation parameter | SS Method parameter | Qualifier | +===========================+===========================+===========+ | iOCInstance | KernelCmConstDefs::DN | M | | | moInstance | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | status | Return value of type | M | | | QmcIRPConstDefs::Result | | | | | | | | Exception: | | | | | | | | ListQMCJob | | | | | | | | NotUniqueQoEReference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | qoEReference | QmcI | M | | | RPConstDefs::QoeReference | | | | qoeReference | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | qMCTarget | Q | M | | | mcIRPConstDefs::QmcTarget | | | | qmcTarget | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | q | QmcIRPConstDefs::Q | M | | oECollectionEntityAddress | oeCollectionEntityAddress | | | | q | | | | oeCollectionEntityAddress | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | serviceType | QmcIRPConstDefs:: | M | | | ServiceType serviceType | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | areaScope | QmcIRPConstDefs::DNSet | M | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | pLMNTarget | QmcIRPConstDefs: | CM | | | PLMNTarget pLMNTarget | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+ | qMCConfigurationFile | QmcIRPConstDefs: | M | | | QmcConfigurationFile | | | | qmcConfigurationFile | | +---------------------------+---------------------------+-----------+
Table A.2.2.4: Mapping from IS listActivatedQMCJobs parameters to SS
equivalents
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier
* * *
qoEReferenceList QmcIRPConstDefs::QoEReferenceList qoeReferenceList M status
Return value of type QmcIRPConstDefs::Result M
## A.2.3 Notification parameter mapping
The QMCIRP: IS 3GPP TS 28.309 [19] defines semantics of parameters carried in
notifications. The following table indicates the mapping of these parameters
to their OMG CORBA Structured Event (defined in OMG Notification Service [9])
equivalents. The composition of OMG Structured Event, as defined in the OMG
Notification Service [9], is:
Header
Fixed Header
domain_name
type_name
event_name
Variable Header
Body
filterable_body_fields
remaining_body
The following tables list all OMG Structured Event attributes in the second
column. The first column identifies the QMCIRP: IS 3GPP TS 28.308 [19] defined
notification parameters.
Table A.2.3.1: Mapping for notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | IS Parameters | OMG CORBA | Qualifier | Comment | | | Structured | | | | | Event attribute | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | domain_name | M | It carries the | | corresponding | | | IRP document | | IS attribute. | | | version number | | | | | string. See | | | | | subclause 3.1. | | | | | | | | | | It indicates | | | | | the syntax and | | | | | semantics of | | | | | the Structured | | | | | Event as | | | | | defined by the | | | | | present | | | | | document. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | n | type_name | M | This is | | otificationType | | | constant string | | | | | \"notifyN | | | | | etworkRequestSe | | | | | ssionFailure\". | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | event_name | M | It carries no | | corresponding | | | information. | | IS attribute. | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | There is no | Variable Header | M | The Variable | | corresponding | | | Header consists | | IS attribute. | | | of a single | | | | | name/value (NV) | | | | | pair, namely | | | | | Priority. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | objectClass, | One NV pair of | M | NV stands for | | objectInstance | filterabl | | name-value | | | e_body_fields | | pair. Order | | | | | arrangement of | | | | | NV pairs is not | | | | | significant. | | | | | The name of | | | | | NV-pair is | | | | | always encoded | | | | | in string. | | | | | | | | | | Name of this NV | | | | | pair is the | | | | | MANAGED_O | | | | | BJECT_INSTANCE | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [8]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | notificationId | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the | | | | | N | | | | | OTIFICATION_ID | | | | | of interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a long. | | | | | See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [8]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | eventTime | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | EVENT_TIME of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | IRPTime. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [8]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | systemDN | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | SYSTEM_DN of | | | | | interface | | | | | Att | | | | | ributeNameValue | | | | | of module | | | | | Notificati | | | | | onIRPConstDefs. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. See | | | | | corresponding | | | | | table in | | | | | Notification | | | | | IRP: CORBA SS | | | | | (3GPP TS 32.306 | | | | | [8]). | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | qoEReference | One NV pair of | M | Name of NV pair | | | filterabl | | is the | | | e_body_fields | | QOE_REFERENCE | | | | | of | | | | | qmcIRPNotif | | | | | ications::notif | | | | | yNetworkRequest | | | | | SessionFailure. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is | | | | | QoeReference of | | | | | module | | | | | Q | | | | | mcIRPConstDefs. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | reason | One NV pair of | O | Name of NV pair | | | remaining_body | | is the REASON | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | qmcIRP | | | | | Notifications:: | | | | | notif | | | | | yNetworkRequest | | | | | SessionFailure. | | | | | | | | | | Value of NV | | | | | pair is a | | | | | string. | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
# A.3 Solution Set (SS) definitions
## A.3.1 IDL definition structure
Clause A.3.2 defines the constants and types used by the QMC Management IRP.
Clause A.3.3 defines the operations which are performed by the QMC Management
IRP agent.
Clause A.3.4 defines the notifications which are emitted by the QMC Management
IRP agent.
## A.3.2 IDL specification (file name \"QMCIRPConstDefs.idl\")
//File: QMCIRPConstDefs.idl
#ifndef _QMC_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#define _QMC_IRP_CONST_DEFS_IDL_
#include \
// This statement shall appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* ## Module: QMCIRPConstDefs
This module contains commonly used definitions for QMC IRP
===============================================================
*/
module QMCIRPConstDefs
{
enum Result Enum {SUCESS, FAILURE, PARTIAL_SUCCESS};
typedef struct QoeReference
{
short mcc;
short mnc;
unsigned long qmcId;
};
typedef sequence\ QoEReferenceList;
typedef string QoeCollectionEntityAddress;
enum QmcTarget {AREA_BASED_QMC,INDIVIDUAL_BASED_UE };
enum ServiceType {DASH,MTSI};
typedef string QmcConfigurationFile;
typedef sequence \ DNSet;
enum UnsupportedItem {MANAGED_ENTITY, QMC_TARGET, AREA_SCOPE, SERVICE_TYPE,
PLMN_TARGET};
typedef sequence\ UnsupportedList;
/**
* This block identifies attributes which are included as part of the
* notifications defined within QMCIRP. These attribute values should not
* clash with those defined for the attributes of notification
* header (see IDL of Notification IRP).
*/
interface AttributeNameValue
{
const string QOE_REFERENCE = \"QOE_REFERENCE\";
const string QMC_TARGET = \"QMC_TARGET\";
const string MO_INSTANCE = \"MO_INSTANCE\";
const string REASON = \"REASON\";
};
};
## A.3.3 IDL specification (file name "QMCIRPSystem.idl")
//File: QMCIRPSystem.idl
#ifndef _QMC_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#define _QMC_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
#include \
#include \
#include \
#include \
//This statement shall appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* Module: QMCIRPSystem
This module contains the specification of all operations of QMC IRP Agent.
=============================================================================
*/
module QMCIRP
{
exception ActivateAreaQMCJob { string reason; };
exception NotUniqueQMCReference { string reason; };
exception DeactivateQMCJob { string reason; };
exception ListQMCJob { string reason; };
exception ListActivatedQMCJob { string reason; };
interface QMCIRP
{
/**
* Request to activate a QMCJob through Itf-N.
**/
QMCIRPConstDefs::ResultEnum activateAreaQMCJob (
in KernelCmConstDefs::DN moInstance,
in QMCIRPConstDefs::QoeReference qoeReference,
in QMCIRPConstDefs::QmcTarget qmcTarget,
in QMCIRPConstDefs::QoeCollectionEntityAddress qoeCollectionEntityAddress,
in QMCIRPConstDefs::DNSet areaScope,
in QMCIRPConstDefs::ServiceType serviceType,
in QMCIRPConstDefs::PLMNTarget pLMNTarget,
in QMCIRPConstDefs::QmcConfigurationFile qmcConfigurationFile,
out QMCIRPConstDefs:: UnsupportedList unsupportedList
)
raises (ActivateAreaQMCJob,
NotUniqueQoEReference,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported
);
/**
* Request to deactivate a QMCJob through Itf-N.
**/
QMCIRPConstDefs::ResultEnum deactivateQMCJob (
in KernelCmConstDefs::DN moInstance,
in QMCIRPConstDefs::QoeReference qoeReference,
in QMCIRPConstDefs::QmcTarget qmcTarget,
out QMCIRPConstDefs:: UnsupportedList unsupportedList)
raises (DeactivateQMCJob,
NotUniqueQoEReference,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported);
/**
* Request to list the parameters of a specific QMCJob through Itf-N.
**/
QMCIRPConstDefs::ResultEnum listQMCJob (
in QMCIRPConstDefs::QoeReference qoeReference,
out KernelCmConstDefs::DN moInstance,
out QMCIRPConstDefs::QoeReference qoeReference,
out QMCIRPConstDefs::QmcTarget qmcTarget,
out QMCIRPConstDefs::QoeCollectionEntityAddress qoeCollectionEntityAddress,
out QMCIRPConstDefs::ServiceType serviceType,
out QMCIRPConstDefs::DNSet areaScope,
out QMCIRPConstDefs::PLMNTarget pLMNTarget,
out QMCIRPConstDefs::QmcConfigurationFile qmcConfigurationFile
)
raises (ListQMCJob,
NotUniqueQoEReference,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported);
/**
* Request to list the activated QMCJobs through Itf-N.
**/
QMCIRPConstDefs::ResultEnum listActivatedQMCJob (
out QMCIRPConstDefs:: QoEReferenceList qoeReferenceList)
raises (ListActivatedQMCJob,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::InvalidParameter,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::ValueNotSupported,
GenericIRPManagementSystem::OperationNotSupported);
};
};
#endif // _QMC_IRP_SYSTEM_IDL_
## A.3.4 IDL specification (file name "QMCIRPNotifications.idl")
//File: QMCIRPNotifications.idl
#ifndef _QMC_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#define _QMC_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
#include \
#include \
// This statement shall appear after all include statements
#pragma prefix \"3gppsa5.org\"
/* Module: QMCIRPNotifications
This module contains the specification of all notifications of QMC IRP Agent.
=============================================================================
*/
module QMCIRPNotifications
{
/**
* Constant definitions for the notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure notification
**/
interface NotifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure:
NotificationIRPNotifications::Notify
{
const string EVENT_TYPE = \"notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure\";
/**
* This constant defines the name of the QoeReference property.
* The data type for the value of this property is
* QMCIRPConstDefs::QoeReference.
**/
const string QOE_REFERENCE =
QMCIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::QOE_REFERENCE;
/**
* This constant defines the name of the reason property.
* The data type for the value of this property is string.
*/
const string REASON = QMCIRPConstDefs::AttributeNameValue::REASON;
};
};
#endif // _QMC_IRP_NOTIFICATIONS_IDL_
###### ## Annex B (normative): XML definitions
# B.0 Introduction
This annex contains the XML definitions for the QMC Management IRP for the IRP
whose semantics is specified in QMC Management IRP: Information Service (3GPP
TS 28.308 [19]).
This XML definitions specification defines the XML syntax of the QMC
Management IRP XML Data File.
# B.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of QMC Management IRP is specified in 3G TS
28.308 [19]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the XML
definitions.
## B.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names (DN)
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [7].
## B.1.2 Notification services
This annex defines the XML syntax of QMC Management IRP notifications that is
to be used for the QMC Management IRP SOAP Solution Set and in conjunction
with Notification Log IRP XML definitions for Notification Log IRP XML Data
File and the NL IRP XML Notification Format.
## B.1.3 IOC definitions
This annex defines the XML syntax for the IOC definitions of the QMC
Management IRP IS [19], which are used by the XML definitions for the QMC
Management IRP notifications and the QMC Management IRP IS operations.
## B.1.4 Supported W3C specification
The Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second Edition) [11], XML Schema
Part 0: Primer [12], XML Schema Part 1: Structures[13] and XML Schema Part 2:
Datatypes [14] are supported.
# B.2 Mapping
Not present in the current version of the present document.
# B.3 Solution Set (SS) definitions
## B.3.1 XML definition structure
Clause B.3.2 provides XML definitions of QMC Management IRP notifications as
defined in [19]. These definitions are to be used for the QMC Management IRP
SOAP Solution Set. For QMC IRP XML File Name Conventions the generic file name
definitions as specified by the FT IRP apply (see [10]).
Clause B.3.3 provides XML definitions of QMC Management IOC as defined in
[19].
## B.3.2 XML schema \"QMCIRPNotif.xsd\"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
## B.3.3 XML schema \"QMCIRPIOCs.xsd\"
\
\
\
elementFormDefault=\"qualified\" attributeFormDefault=\"unqualified\">
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
###### ## Annex C (normative): SOAP Solution Set
# C.0 Introduction
This annex specifies the SOAP Solution Set for the IRP whose semantics are
specified in QMC Management IRP: Information Service (3GPP TS 28.308 [19]).
# C.1 Architectural features
## C.1.0 General
The overall architectural feature of the QMC Management IRP is specified in
3GPP TS 28.308 [19]. This clause specifies features that are specific to the
SOAP solution set.
## C.1.1 Syntax for Distinguished Names (DN)
The syntax of a Distinguished Name is defined in 3GPP TS 32.300 [7].
## C.1.2 Notification services
The Trace Management IRP SOAP SS uses the Notification IRP SOAP SS of 3GPP TS
32.306 [8]. The IRPAgent shall support the push interface model, which means
that the IRPAgent sends trace management notifications to the IRPManager as
soon as new events occur. The IRPManager does not need to check (\"pull\") for
events.
## C.1.3 Supported W3C specifications
The SOAP 1.1 specification [15] and WSDL 1.1 specification [17] are supported.
The SOAP 1.2 specification [18] is supported optionally.
The present document uses \"document\" style in WSDL file.
The present document uses \"literal\" encoding style in WSDL file.
The filter language used in the SS is the XPath Language (see W3C XPath 1.0
specification [16]). IRPAgents may throw a FilterComplexityLimit fault when a
given filter is too complex.
Relevant definitions are imported from the QMC Management IRP XML definitions
of Annex B
## C.1.4 Prefixes and namespaces
The present document uses a number of namespace prefixes throughout that are
listed in Table C.1.4.1.
Table C.1.4.1: Prefixes and Namespaces used in the present document
* * *
**PREFIX** **NAMESPACE** (no prefix) http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/ soap
http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/soap/ QMCIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/28_series/28.309#QMCIRPSystem QMCIRPData
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/28_series/28.309#QMCIRPData xti
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/28_series/28.309#QMCIRPIOCs xn
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.626#genericNrm
genericIRPSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.316#GenericIRPSystem
ntfIRPNtfSystem
http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/32_series/32.306#NotificationIRPNtfSystem
* * *
# C.2 Mapping
## C.2.1 Operation and notification mapping
The QMC Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 28.308 [19]) defines semantics of operation
and notification visible across the Itf-N. Table C.2.1.1 indicates mapping of
these operations and notifications to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table C.2.1.1: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operations in 3GPP TS 32.442 [5] SS Operations SS Port Qualifier
activateAreaQMCJob activateAreaQMCJob QMCIRPManagementPort M deactivateQMCJob
deactivateQMCJob QMCIRPManagementPort M listQMCJob listQMCJob
QMCIRPManagementPort M listActivatedQMCJobs listActivatedQMCJobs
QMCIRPManagementPort O notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure notify (note 1)
NotificationIRPNtfPort O NOTE 1: The IS equivalent maps to an XML definition
specified in Annex B, and this being an input parameter to the operation
notify under the port type ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf and under the
binding ntfIRPNtfSystem:NotificationIRPNtf of 3GPP TS 32.306 [8].
* * *
## C.2.2 Operation parameter mapping
The QMC Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 28.308 [19]) defines semantics of
parameters carried in the operations. The tables below show the mapping of
these parameters, as per operation, to their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table C.2.2.1: Mapping from IS activateAreaQMCJob parameters to SS equivalents
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier
* * *
iOCInstance iOCInstance M qoEReference qoEReference M qMCTarget qMCTarget M
qoECollectionEntityAddress qoECollectionEntityAddress M areaScope areaScope M
unsupportedList unsupportedList M status status M pLMNTarget pLMNTarget CM
qMCConfigurationFile qMCConfigurationFile M serviceType serviceType M
Table C.2.2.2: Mapping from IS deactivateQMCJob parameters to SS equivalents
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier
* * *
qoEReference qoEReference M qMCTarget qMCTarget M status status M
unsupportedList unsupportedList M
Table C.2.2.3: Mapping from IS listQMCJob parameters to SS equivalents
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier
* * *
iOCInstance iOCInstance M qoEReference qoEReference M qMCTarget qMCTarget M
qoECollectionEntityAddress qoECollectionEntityAddress M areaScope areaScope M
status status M pLMNTarget pLMNTarget CM qMCConfigurationFile
qMCConfigurationFile M serviceType serviceType M
Table C.2.2.4: Mapping from IS listActivatedQMCJobs parameters to SS
equivalents
IS Operation parameter SS Method parameter Qualifier
* * *
qoEReferenceList qoEReferenceList M status status M
## C.2.3 Notification parameter mapping
The QMC Management IRP IS (3GPP TS 28.308 [19]) defines semantics of
parameters carried in notifications. The following tables indicate the mapping
of these parameters to their SS equivalents.
Table C.2.3.1: Mapping for notifyNetworkRequestSessionFailure
* * *
IS Parameters \ Parameters Qualifier Comment objectClass objectClass M  
objectInstance objectInstance M  
eventTime eventTime M  
notificationType notificationType M  
systemDN systemDN M  
notificationID notificationID O  
qoEReference qoEReference M  
reason reason O
* * *
# C.3 Solution Set (SS) definitions
## C.3.1 WSDL definition structure
Clause C.3.2 defines the services which are supported the QMC Management IRP
agent.
## C.3.2 WSDL specification \"QMCIRPSystem.wsdl\"
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
#