# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project, Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects, Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 28.304 Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**TS 28.305 Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)**
**TS 28.306 Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE)
parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Solution Set definitions for the control
and monitoring of Power, Energy and Environmental (PEE) parameters Integration
Reference Point (IRP).
The Solution Set definitions are related to 3GPP TS 28.305 V15.0.X [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.305: \"Control and monitoring of Power, Energy and
Environmental (PEE) parameters Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.616: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.606: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Basic CM Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.623: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.416: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.111-6: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
6: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Solution Set (SS)
definitions\".[9] IETF RFC 7159: \"The JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) Data
Interchange Format\".
[10] IETF RFC 2818: \"HTTP Over TLS\".
[11] IETF RFC 5246: \"The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol Version
1.2\".
[12] 3GPP TS 33 310: \"Network Domain Security (NDS); Authentication Framework
(AF)\".
[13] IETF RFC 3986: \"Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Solution Set Definitions
The present document defines the following Solution Set definitions:
\- Annex A provides the Solution Set definitions for solution 1.
\- Annex B provides the Solution Set definitions for solution 2.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Solution Set definitions for solution 1
# A.1 CORBA Solution Set
This clause specifies the CORBA Solution Set for the solution 1 of this IRP
whose semantics are specified in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clauses 5.1 and 6.1.
The CORBA Solution Set for solution 1 is based on Corba Solution Sets defined
in TS 28.623 [6], TS 32.606 [4], TS 32.616 [3], TS 32.416 [7], TS 32.111-6
[8].
# A.2 SOAP Solution Set and XML Definitions
This clause specifies the SOAP Solution Set and XML definitions for the
solution 1 of this IRP whose semantics are specified in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] --
clauses 5.1 and 6.1.
The SOAP Solution Set and XML definitions for solution 1 are based on:
\- XML definitions in TS 28.623 [6],
\- SOAP Solution Sets defined in TS 32.606 [4], TS 32.616 [3], TS 32.416 [7],
TS 32.111-6 [8].
# A.3 REST Solution Set
The REST Solution Set is not applicable to the solution 1 of this IRP.
###### ## Annex B (normative): Solution Set definitions for solution 2
# B.1 CORBA Solution Set
The CORBA Solution Set is not applicable to the solution 2 of this IRP.
# B.2 SOAP Solution Set
The SOAP Solution Set is not applicable to the solution 2 of this IRP.
# B.3 REST Solution Set
## B.3.0 Introduction
This annex specifies the REST Solution Set for the solution 2 of this IRP
whose semantics are specified in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clauses 5.2 and 6.2.
## B.3.1 Architectural Features
The overall architectural feature of PEECMON IRP solution 2 is specified in
3GPP TS 28.305 [2].
This clause specifies features that are specific to the REST SS.
## B.3.2 Mapping
### B.3.2.1 Operation mapping
PEECMON IRP IS (3GPP TS 28.305 [2]) defines semantics of operation and
notification visible across the PEECMON IRP. Tables B.3.2.1.1 to B.3.2.2.4
indicate, per interface, the mapping of operations and notifications to their
equivalents defined in this SS.
Table B.3.2.1.1: Mapping for CMONOperations_1 interface
+--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | IS Operations/ | HTTP Method | Resource URI | Qualifier | | notifications in | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 28.305 | | | | | [2] | | | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | readMEDescription | GET | /peemonito | M | | | | redentities/{meid} | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | writeMEDescription | PATCH | /peemonito | M | | | | redentities/{meid} | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+
Table B.3.2.1.2: Mapping for CMONOperations_2 interface
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IS Operations/ | **[HTTP |**[Resource | **[Qualifier] | | notifications | Method] | URI] | {.underline}** | | in | {.underline}**| {.underline}** | | | | | | | | **3GPP TS | | | | | 28.305 [2]** | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | readM | GET | /peemonitorede | M | | EConfiguration | | ntities/{meid} | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | writeM | PUT | /peemonitorede | M | | EConfiguration | | ntities/{meid} | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table B.3.2.1.3: Mapping for CMONOperations_3 interface
+--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | IS Operations/ | HTTP Method | Resource URI | Qualifier | | notifications in | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 28.305 | | | | | [2] | | | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | createCMONPMJob | POST | /cmonpmjobs | M | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | stopCMONPMJob | DELETE | /cmo | M | | | | npmjobs/{/pmjobid} | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+
### B.3.2.2 Notification mapping
Table B.3.2.2.1: Mapping for CMONNotifications_1 interface
+--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | IS Operations/ | HTTP Method | Resource URI | Qualifier | | notifications in | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 28.305 | | | | | [2] | | | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | not | POST | Notification | M | | ifyMeasurementData | | endpoint (client | | | | | provided) | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+
Table B.3.2.2.2: Mapping for CMONNotifications_2 interface
+--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | IS Operations/ | HTTP Method | Resource URI | Qualifier | | notifications in | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 28.305 | | | | | [2] | | | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | notifyAlarm | POST | Notification | M | | | | endpoint (client | | | | | provided) | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+
Table B.3.2.2.3: Mapping for CMONNotifications_3 interface
+--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | IS Operations/ | HTTP Method | Resource URI | Qualifier | | notifications in | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 28.305 | | | | | [2] | | | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | notifyC | POST | Notification | M | | onfigurationChange | | endpoint (client | | | | | provided) | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+
Table B.3.2.2.4: Mapping for CMONNotifications_4 interface
+--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | IS Operations/ | HTTP Method | Resource URI | Qualifier | | notifications in | | | | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 28.305 | | | | | [2] | | | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+ | notif | POST | Notification | M | | yThresholdCrossing | | endpoint (client | | | | | provided) | | +--------------------+-------------+--------------------+-----------+
### B.3.3 CMONOperations_1 interface
#### B.3.3.1 Description
The semantics of this interface is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.3.1.
#### B.3.3.2 Resource structure and methods
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in
clause XXX. The string \"cmonoperations_1\" shall be used to represent
{apiName}. The {apiVersion} shall be set to \"v1\" for the present document.
All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the above base
URI.
Figure B.3.3.2.1 shows the overall resource URI structure defined for the
CMONOperations_1 interface.
{width="3.3583333333333334in" height="1.5166666666666666in"}
Figure B.3.3.2.1: Resource URI structure of the CMONOperations_1 interface
#### B.3.3.3 Sequence diagrams (informative)
##### B.3.3.3.1 Flow of the readMEDescription operation
This clause describes a sequence flow for reading all attribute values of an
individual monitored entity.
{width="5.516666666666667in" height="3.183333333333333in"}
Figure B.3.3.3.1.1: Flow of the readMEDescription operation
NOTE: In figure B.3.3.3.1.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. Client sends a GET request to an individual monitored entity resource,
addressed by the appropriate monitored entity identifier in its resource URI.
2\. Server returns a \"200 OK\" response to the NM-RMS, and includes the
monitored entity Id and a data structure of type \"attNameValueList\" in the
payload body.
##### B.3.3.3.2 Flow of the writeMEDescription operation
This clause describes a sequence flow for modifying a list of attribute values
of an individual monitored entity.
{width="5.516666666666667in" height="3.183333333333333in"}
Figure B.3.3.3.2.1: Flow of the writeMEDescription operation
NOTE: In figure B.3.3.3.2.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. Client sends a PATCH request to an individual monitored entity resource,
addressed by the appropriate monitored entity identifier in its resource URI,
which includes in the payload body a data structure of type
\"attNameValueList\", containing the list of attribute name and value pairs
corresponding to attributes to be modified.
2\. Server returns a \"200 OK\" response to the NM-RMS, and includes the
monitored entity Id and a data structure of type \"attNameValueList\" in the
payload body, containing the list of attribute name and value pairs
corresponding to attributes whose values have been modified.
#### B.3.3.4 Resources
##### B.3.3.4.1 Introduction
This clause defines all the resources and methods provided by the
CMONOperations_1 interface.
##### B.3.3.4.2 Resource: Individual monitored entity
###### B.3.3.4.2.1 Description
This resource represents an individual monitored entity.
###### B.3.3.4.2.2 Resource definition
###### B.3.3.4.2.3 Resource methods
###### # B.3.3.4.2.3.1 GET
The client can use this method to get the value of all attributes of an
individual monitored entity.
Table B.3.3.4.2.3.1-1: Details of the GET request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description meId 1 The Id of the monitored entity.
* * *
Table B.3.3.4.2.3.1-2: Details of the GET response on this resource
+-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Data type | Cardinality | Response codes | Description | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | meId | 1 | 200 OK | The request was | | | | | accepted and | | | | | completed. | | | | | | | | | | The response | | | | | body shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity Id and | | | | | attribute name | | | | | and value pairs | | | | | for the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity. | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | A | 1 | | | | ttNameValueList | | | | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+
###### # B.3.3.4.2.3.2 PATCH
The client can use this method to write the value of a list of attributes of
an individual monitored entity.
Table B.3.3.4.2.3.2-1: Details of the PATCH request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description meId 1 The Id of the monitored entity.
AttNameValueList 1 The list of names and values of attributes to be modified.
* * *
Table B.3.3.4.2.3.1-2: Details of the PATCH response on this resource
+-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Data type | Cardinality | Response codes | Description | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | meId | 1 | 200 OK | The request was | | | | | accepted and | | | | | completed. | | | | | | | | | | The response | | | | | body shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity Id and | | | | | attribute | | | | | modifications | | | | | for | | | | | themonitored | | | | | entity. | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | A | 1 | | | | ttNameValueList | | | | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+
#### B.3.3.5 Data Model
##### B.3.3.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the request and response data structures of the
CMONOperations_1 interface. If a request or response contains attributes not
defined in the present document, a receiving functional block that does not
understand these attributes shall not treat their presence as an error, and
may choose to ignore them.
##### B.3.3.5.2 Resource and notification data types
###### B.3.3.5.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the data structures to be used in the resource
representations and notifications for the CMONOperations_1 interface.
###### B.3.3.5.2.2 Type: AttributeNameList
Table B.3.3.5.2.2-1: Definition of the AttributeNameList data type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description attributeName String 0..N
Name of the attribute whose value is queried.
* * *
###### B.3.3.5.2.3 Type: AttNameValueList
Table B.3.3.5.2.3-1: Definition of the AttNameValueList data type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description attributeNameValue Structure
(inlined) 0..N Pair of name+value of an attribute. > attributeName String 1
Name of the attribute. > attributeValue Any 1 Value of the attribute.
* * *
### B.3.4 CMONOperations_2 interface
#### B.3.4.1 Description
The semantics of this interface is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.4.
#### B.3.4.2 Resource structure and attributes
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in
clause B.3.10. The string \"cmonoperations_2\" shall be used to represent
{apiName}. The {apiVersion} shall be set to \"v1\" for the present document.
All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relatively to the above
base URI.
Figure B.3.4.3.2.1 shows the overall resource URI structure defined for the
CMONOperations_2 interface.
{width="3.3583333333333334in" height="1.5166666666666666in"}
Figure B.3.4.3.2.1: Resource URI structure of the CMONOperations_2 interface
#### B.3.4.3 Sequence diagrams (informative)
##### B.3.4.3.1 Flow of the readMEConfiguration operation
This clause describes a sequence flow for reading threshold values of an
individual monitored entity instance.
{width="5.029166666666667in" height="2.902083333333333in"}
Figure B.3.4.3.1.1: Flow of the readMEConfiguration operation
NOTE: in figure B.3.4.3.1.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. Client sends a GET request to an individual monitored entity resource,
addressed by the appropriate monitored entity identifier in its resource URI.
2\. Server returns a \"200 OK\" response to Client, and includes the monitored
entity Id and a data structure of type \"thresholdNameValueList\" in the
payload body.
##### B.3.4.3.2 Flow of the writeMEConfiguration operation
This clause describes a sequence flow for writing threshold values of an
individual monitored entity instance.
{width="5.725in" height="2.2805555555555554in"}
Figure B.3.4.3.2.1: Flow of the writeMEConfiguration operation
NOTE: in figure B.3.4.3.2.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. The Client sends a PUT request to the individual monitored entity instance
resource;
2\. The Server modifies values of the thresholds of the monitored entity
instance resource;
3\. The Server returns a "200 OK" response to the Client, with a payload body
containing the monitored entity Id and the actual values of the thresholds in
a data structure of type "thresholdNameValueList".
#### B.3.4.4 Resources
##### B.3.4.4.1 Introduction
This clause defines all the resources and methods provided by the
CMONOperations_2 interface.
##### B.3.4.4.2 Resource: Individual monitored entity
###### B.3.4.4.2.1 Description
This resource represents an individual monitored entity.
###### B.3.4.4.2.2 Resource definition
###### B.3.4.4.2.3 Resource methods
###### # B.3.4.4.2.3.1 GET
The client can use this method to get the value of all threshold values of an
individual monitored entity.
Table B.3.4.4.2.3.1-1: Details of the GET request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description meId 1 The monitored entity Id.
* * *
Table B.3.4.4.2.3.1-2: Details of the GET response on this resource
+-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Data type | Cardinality | Response codes | Description | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | meId | 1 | 200 OK | The request was | | | | | accepted and | | Thresho | | | completed. | | ldNameValueList | | | | | | | | The response | | | | | body shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity Id and | | | | | threshold name | | | | | and value pairs | | | | | of the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity. | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+
###### # B.3.4.4.2.3.2 PUT
The client can use this method to write the value of a list of thresholds of
an individual monitored entity.
Table B.3.3.4.2.3.2-1: Details of the PUT request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description meId 1 The monitored entity Id
ThresholdNameValueList 1 The list of names and values of thresholds to be
modified.
* * *
Table B.3.4.4.2.3.1-2: Details of the PUT response on this resource
+-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | Data type | Cardinality | Response codes | Description | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+ | meId | 1 | 200 OK | The request was | | | | | accepted and | | Thresho | | | completed. | | ldNameValueList | | | | | | | | The response | | | | | body shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity Id and | | | | | threshold | | | | | modifications | | | | | for the | | | | | monitored | | | | | entity. | +-----------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+
#### B.3.4.5 Data Model
##### B.3.4.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the request and response data structures of the
CMONOperations_2 interface. If a request or response contains attributes not
defined in the present document, a receiving functional block that does not
understand these attributes shall not treat their presence as an error, and
may choose to ignore them.
##### B.3.4.5.2 Resource and notification data types
###### B.3.4.5.2.1 Introduction
This clause defines the data structures to be used in the resource
representations and notifications for the CMONOperations_2 interface.
###### B.3.4.5.2.2 Type: ThresholdNameValueList
Table B.3.4.5.2.2-1: Definition of the ThresholdNameValueList data type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description thresholdNameValue Structure
(inlined) 0..N Pair of name+value of a threshold. > thresholdName String 1
Name of the threshold. > thresholdValue Any 1 Value of the threshold.
* * *
### B.3.5 CMONOperations_3 interface
#### B.3.5.0 Introduction
The semantics of this interface is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.5.
#### B.3.5.1 createCMONPMJob operation
##### B.3.5.1.1 Description
The semantics of this operation is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.5.1.
##### B.3.5.1.2 Resource structure and attributes
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in
clause B.3.10. The string \"cmonoperations_3\" shall be used to represent
{apiName}. The {apiVersion} shall be set to \"v1\" for the present document.
All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the above base
URI.
Figure B.3.5.1.2.1 shows the overall resource URI structure defined for the
createCMONPMJob operation.
{width="2.7416666666666667in" height="0.9583333333333334in"}
Figure B.3.5.1.2.1: Resource URI structure of the createCMONPMJob operation
##### B.3.5.1.3 Flow of the createCMONPMJob operation
This clause describes a sequence flow for creating an individual cmonpmjob
instance.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="2.4368055555555554in"}
Figure B.3.5.1.3.1: Flow of the createCMONPMJob operation
NOTE: in figure B.3.4.1.3.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. The Client sends a POST request to the cmonpmjobs resource, including in
the payload body a data structure of type "Createcmonpmjobparamaters";
2\. The Server creates a new Cmonpmjob instance, and the associated Cmonpmjob
instance identifier;
3\. The Server returns a "201 Created" response to the Client, containing a
representation of the Cmonpmjob instance resource just created by the Server,
and provides the URI of the newly created resource in the "Location" HTTP
header.
##### B.3.5.1.4 Resource: cmonpmjobs
###### B.3.5.1.4.1 Description
This resource represents cmonpmjobs. The client can use this resource to
request the creation of a new instance of cmonpmjob.
###### B.3.5.1.4.2 Resource definition
The resource URI is: **{apiRoot}/cmonoperations_3/v1/cmonpmjobs**
###### B.3.5.1.4.3 Resource method: POST
The client can use this method to create an individual cmonpmjob instance.
Table B.3.5.1.4.3-1: Details of the POST request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description MeIdList 1 The list of mEIds of
PEEMonitoredEntity instances on which measurements are to be collected.
MeasurementNameList 1 The list of names of measurements to be collected.
GranularityPeriod 1 The granularity period.
* * *
Table B.3.5.1.4.3-2: Details of the POST response on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Response codes Description CmonPmJobId 1 201 Created
(cmonpmjobid) The request was accepted. The new instance of cmonpmjob is
created by Server and its Id is sent to Client.
* * *
##### B.3.5.1.5 Data Model
###### B.3.5.1.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the request and response data structures of the
createCMONPMJob operation. If a request or response contains attributes not
defined in the present document, a receiving functional block that does not
understand these attributes shall not treat their presence as an error, and
may choose to ignore them.
###### B.3.5.1.5.2 Data Type: MeIdList
Table B.3.5.1.5.2-1: Definition of the MeIdList data type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description mEId Identifier 1..N
Identifier of monitored entity instance.
* * *
###### B.3.5.1.5.3 Data Type: MeasurementNameList
Table B.3.5.1.5.3-1: Definition of the MeasurementNameList data type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description measurementName String 1..N
Name of the the measurement. It shall correspond to an attribute name of
PEEMeasurementData.
* * *
###### B.3.5.1.5.4 Data Type: GranularityPeriod
Table B.3.5.1.5.4-1: Definition of the GranularityPeriod data type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description granularityPeriod Integer 1
It specifies the period between two successive measurements. Expressed in
munutes.
* * *
###### B.3.5.1.5.5 Data Type: ServerJobId
Table B.3.5.1.5.6-1: Definition of the CmonPmJobId data type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description cmonmjobid Identifier 1
Identifier of cmonpmjob instance, assigned by Server.
* * *
#### B.3.5.2 stopCMONPMJob operation
##### B.3.5.2.1 Description
The semantics of this operation is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.5.2.
##### B.3.5.2.2 Resource structure and attributes
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in
clause B.3.10. The string \"cmonoperations_3\" shall be used to represent
{apiName}. The {apiVersion} shall be set to \"v1\" for the present document.
All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the above base
URI.
Figure B.3.5.2.2.1 shows the overall resource URI structure defined for the
stopCMONPMJob operation.
{width="3.3583333333333334in" height="1.525in"}
Figure B.3.5.2.2.1: Resource URI structure of the stopCMONPMJob operation
##### B.3.5.2.3 Flow of the stopCMONPMJob operation
This clause describes a sequence flow for stopping an individual cmonpmjob.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="2.4451388888888888in"}
Figure B.3.5.2.3.1: Flow of the stopCMONPMJob operation
NOTE: in figure B.3.5.2.3.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. The Client sends a DELETE request to the individual cmonpmjob instance
resource;
2\. The Server deletes the cmonpmjob instance resource, and the associated
cmonpmjob instance identifier;
3\. The Server returns a "204 No Content" response to the Client, with an
empty payload body.
##### B.3.5.2.4 Resource: individual cmonpmjob instance
###### B.3.5.2.4.1 Description
This resource represents an individual cmonpmjob instance.
###### B.3.5.2.4.2 Resource definition
The resource URI is:
**{apiRoot}/cmonoperations_3/v1/cmonpmjobs/{cmonpmjobId}**
###### B.3.5.2.4.3 Resource method: DELETE
The client can use this method to delete an individual cmonpmjob instance.
Table B.3.5.2.4.3-1: Details of the DELETE request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description CmonPmJobId 1 The Id of the cmonpmjob
instance.
* * *
Table B.3.5.2.4.3-2: Details of the DELETE response on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Response codes Description N/A 204 The request was
accepted. The cmonpmjob instance is deleted by Server.
* * *
##### B.3.5.2.5 Data Model
###### B.3.5.2.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the request and response data structures of the
stopCMONPMJob operation. If a request or response contains attributes not
defined in the present document, a receiving functional block that does not
understand these attributes shall not treat their presence as an error, and
may choose to ignore them.
###### B.3.5.2.5.2 Data Type: CmonPmJobId
Table B.3.5.2.5.2-1: Definition of the CmonPmJobId data type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description cmonpmjobid Identifier 1
Identifier of a cmonpmjob instance.
* * *
### B.3.6 CMONNotifications_1 interface
#### B.3.6.0 Introduction
The semantics of this interface is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.6.
#### B.3.6.1 notifyMeasurementData notification
##### B.3.6.1.1 Description
The semantics of this notification is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] \--
clause 6.2.6.1.
##### B.3.6.1.2 Resource structure and attributes
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in
clause B.3.10. The string \"cmonnotifications_1\" shall be used to represent
{apiName}. The {apiVersion} shall be set to \"v1\" for the present document.
All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relatively to the above
base URI.
NOTE: This version of the specification does not define how the Client URL is
provisioned to the Server.
##### B.3.6.1.3 Flow of the notifyMeasurementData notification
This clause describes a sequence flow for notifying measurement data.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="3.1805555555555554in"}
Figure B.3.6.1.3.1: Flow of the notifyMeasurementData notification
NOTE: in figure B.3.6.1.3.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. The Server generates a notification which includes measurement data, and
sends it in the body of a POST request to the Client URI;
2\. The Client acknowledges the successful delivery of the notification by
returning a "204 No Content" response.
#####
##### B.3.6.1.4 Resource: notification endpoint
###### B.3.6.1.4.1 Description
This resource represents a notification endpoint. The Server can use this
resource to send notifications to the Client, which has provided the URI of
this resource.
###### B.3.6.1.4.2 Resource definition
The resource URI has been provided by the Client.
###### B.3.6.1.4.3 Resource method: POST
The Server can use this method to send a notification to the Client.
Table B.3.6.1.4.3-1: Details of the POST request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description NotificationHeader 1 The header of the
notification. MeasDataCollection 1 The collection of measurement data.
* * *
Table B.3.6.1.4.3-2: Details of the POST response on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Response codes Description None 204 The notification was
delivered successfully.
* * *
##### B.3.6.1.5 Data Model
###### B.3.6.1.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the request and response data structures of the
notifyMeasurementData notification. If a request or response contains
attributes not defined in the present document, a receiving functional block
that does not understand these attributes shall not treat their presence as an
error, and may choose to ignore them.
###### B.3.6.1.5.2 Data Type: NotificationHeader
Table B.3.6.1.5.2-1: Definition of the NotificationHeader data type
+------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | Cardinality | Description | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | notificationId | Identifier | 1 | Identifier of the | | | | | notification | | | | | instance. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | notificationType | String | 1 | The type of | | | | | notification | | | | | (="MeasDa | | | | | taNotification"). | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | senderInfo | Structure | 1 | Information about | | | | | the sender of the | | | (inlined) | | notification. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >senderName | String | 1 | The name of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >senderType | String | 1 | The type of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >vendorName | String | 1 | The name of the | | | | | vendor of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+
###### B.3.6.1.5.3 Data Type: MeasDataCollection
Table B.3.6.1.5.3-1: Definition of the MeasDataCollection data type
+-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | Cardinality | Description | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | MeasHeader | Structure | 1 | The measurement | | | | | header. | | | (inlined) | | | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | > | String | 1 | The format | | measFormatVersion | | | version of the | | | | | measurement data | | | | | collection | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >co | DateTime | 1 | The start of the | | llectionBeginTime | | | measurement | | | | | collection | | | | | interval | | | | | (granularity | | | | | period) for the | | | | | collected | | | | | measurement data. | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >jobId | Identifier | 1 | The identifier of | | | | | the cmonpmjob | | | | | thanks to which | | | | | these measurement | | | | | data are | | | | | collected. | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | | | | | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | MeasData | Structure | 1..N | The measurement | | | | | data. | | | (inlined) | | | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >mEId | Identifier | | Identifier of the | | | | | monitored entity | | | | | instance | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >measInfo | Structure | 1..N | The sequence of | | | | | measurements, | | | (inlined) | | values and | | | | | related | | | | | information. | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >>measName | String | 1 | The name of the | | | | | measurement | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >>measValue | Any | 1 | The value of the | | | | | measurement | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | MeasFooter | Structure | 1 | The measurement | | | | | footer. | | | (inlined) | | | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | > | DateTime | 1 | The end of the | | collectionEndTime | | | measurement | | | | | collection | | | | | interval | | | | | (granularity | | | | | period) for the | | | | | collected | | | | | measurement data. | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+
### B.3.7 CMONNotifications_2 interface
#### B.3.7.0 Introduction
The semantics of this interface is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.7.
#### B.3.7.1 notifyAlarm notification
##### B.3.7.1.1 Description
The semantics of this notification is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] \--
clause 6.2.7.1.
##### B.3.7.1.2 Resource structure and attributes
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in
clause B.3.10. The string \"cmonnotifications_2\" shall be used to represent
{apiName}. The {apiVersion} shall be set to \"v1\" for the present document.
All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the above base
URI.
NOTE: This version of the specification does not define how the Client URL is
provisioned to the Server.
##### B.3.7.1.3 Flow of the notifyAlarm notification
This clause describes a sequence flow for notifying an alarm.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="3.1805555555555554in"}
Figure B.3.7.1.3.1: Flow of the notifyAlarm notification
NOTE: in figure B.3.6.1.3.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. The Client generates a notification which includes alarm data, and sends
it in the body of a POST request to the Server URI;
2\. The Server acknowledges the successful delivery of the notification by
returning a "204 No Content" response.
##### B.3.7.1.4 Resource: notification endpoint
###### B.3.7.1.4.1 Description
This resource represents a notification endpoint. The Server can use this
resource to send notifications to the Client, which has provided the URI of
this resource.
###### B.3.7.1.4.2 Resource definition
The resource URI has been provided by the Client.
###### B.3.7.1.4.3 Resource method: POST
The Server can use this method to send a notification to the Client.
Table B.3.7.1.4.3-1: Details of the POST request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description NotificationHeader 1 The header of the
notification. AlarmInformation 1 The information about the alarm.
* * *
Table B.3.7.1.4.3-2: Details of the POST response on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Response codes Description None 204 The notification was
delivered successfully.
* * *
##### B.3.7.1.5 Data Model
###### B.3.7.1.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the request and response data structures of the
notifyAlarm notification. If a request or response contains attributes not
defined in the present document, a receiving functional block that does not
understand these attributes shall not treat their presence as an error, and
may choose to ignore them.
###### B.3.7.1.5.2 Data Type: NotificationHeader
Table B.3.7.1.5.2-1: Definition of the NotificationHeader data type
+------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | Cardinality | Description | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | notificationId | Identifier | 1 | Identifier of the | | | | | notification | | | | | instance. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | notificationType | String | 1 | The type of | | | | | notification | | | | | (="Ala | | | | | rmNotification"). | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | senderInfo | Structure | 1 | Information about | | | | | the sender of the | | | (inlined) | | notification. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >senderName | String | 1 | The name of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >senderType | String | 1 | The type of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >vendorName | String | 1 | The name of the | | | | | vendor of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+
###### B.3.7.1.5.3 Data Type: AlarmInformation
Table B.3.7.1.5.3-1: Definition of the AlarmInformation data type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description alarmId Identifier 1 See 3GPP
TS 28.305 [2] -- clause 6.2.7.1.2. alarmTime DateTime 1 See 3GPP TS 28.305 [2]
-- clause 6.2.7.1.2. alarmType String 1 See 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.7.1.2. perceivedSeverity String 1 See 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.7.1.2. probableCause String 1 See 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause 6.2.7.1.2.
additionalText String 0..1 See 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause 6.2.7.1.2.
* * *
### B.3.8 CMONNotifications_3 interface
#### B.3.8.0 Introduction
The semantics of this interface is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.8.
#### B.3.8.1 notifyConfigurationChange notification
##### B.3.8.1.1 Description
The semantics of this notification is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] \--
clause 6.2.8.1.
##### B.3.8.1.2 Resource structure and attributes
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in
clause B.3.10. The string \"cmonnotifications_3\" shall be used to represent
{apiName}. The {apiVersion} shall be set to \"v1\" for the present document.
All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relatively to the above
base URI.
NOTE: This version of the specification does not define how the Client URL is
provisioned to the Server.
##### B.3.8.1.3 Flow of the notifyConfigurationChange notification
This clause describes a sequence flow for notifying a configuration change.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="3.1805555555555554in"}
Figure B.3.8.1.3.1: Flow of the notifyConfigurationChange notification
NOTE: in figure B.3.8.1.3.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. The Client generates a notification which includes configuration change
data, and sends it in the body of a POST request to the Server URI;
2\. The Server acknowledges the successful delivery of the notification by
returning a "204 No Content" response.
##### B.3.8.1.4 Resource: notification endpoint
###### B.3.8.1.4.1 Description
This resource represents a notification endpoint. The Server can use this
resource to send notifications to the Client, which has provided the URI of
this resource.
###### B.3.8.1.4.2 Resource definition
The resource URI has been provided by the Client.
###### B.3.8.1.4.3 Resource method: POST
The Server can use this method to send a notification to the Client.
Table B.3.8.1.4.3-1: Details of the POST request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description NotificationHeader 1 The header of the
notification. ConfigurationChangeInformation 1 The information about the
configuration change.
* * *
Table B.3.8.1.4.3-2: Details of the POST response on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Response codes Description None 204 The notification was
delivered successfully.
* * *
##### B.3.8.1.5 Data Model
###### B.3.8.1.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the request and response data structures of the
notifyConfigurationChange notification. If a request or response contains
attributes not defined in the present document, a receiving functional block
that does not understand these attributes shall not treat their presence as an
error, and may choose to ignore them.
###### B.3.8.1.5.2 Data Type: NotificationHeader
Table B.3.8.1.5.2-1: Definition of the NotificationHeader data type
+------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | Cardinality | Description | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | notificationId | Identifier | 1 | Identifier of the | | | | | notification | | | | | instance. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | notificationType | String | 1 | The type of | | | | | notification | | | | | (=" | | | | | ConfigurationChan | | | | | geNotification"). | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | senderInfo | Structure | 1 | Information about | | | | | the sender of the | | | (inlined) | | notification. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >senderName | String | 1 | The name of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >senderType | String | 1 | The type of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >vendorName | String | 1 | The name of the | | | | | vendor of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+
###### B.3.8.1.5.3 Data Type: ConfigurationChangeInformation
Table B.3.8.1.5.3-1: Definition of the ConfigurationChangeInformation data
type
* * *
Attribute name Data type Cardinality Description mEId Identifier 1 See 3GPP TS
28.305 [2] -- clause 6.2.8.1.2. attNameValueList KeyValuePairs 1..N See 3GPP
TS 28.305 [2] -- clause 6.2.8.1.2.
* * *
### B.3.9 CMONNotifications_4 interface
#### B.3.9.0 Introduction
The semantics of this interface is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] -- clause
6.2.9.
#### B.3.9.1 notifyThresholdCrossingOrReaching notification
##### B.3.9.1.1 Description
The semantics of this notification is described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2] \--
clause 6.2.9.1.
##### B.3.9.1.2 Resource structure and attributes
All resource URIs of the API shall use the base URI specification defined in
clause B.3.10. The string \"cmonnotifications_4\" shall be used to represent
{apiName}. The {apiVersion} shall be set to \"v1\" for the present document.
All resource URIs in the clauses below are defined relative to the above base
URI.
NOTE: This version of the specification does not define how the Client URL is
provisioned to the Server.
##### B.3.9.1.3 Flow of the notifyThresholdCrossingOrReaching notification
This clause describes a sequence flow for notifying that a threshold has been
crossed or reached.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="2.8375in"}
Figure B.3.9.1.3.1: Flow of the notifyThresholdCrossingOrReaching notification
NOTE: in figure B.3.9.1.3.1, the Client is the NM-RMS and the Server can be
the XCU/DGU or VS-RMS or DM/EM.
This operation consists of the following steps:
1\. The Client generates a notification which includes threshold crossing
information, and sends it in the body of a POST request to the Server URI;
2\. The Server acknowledges the successful delivery of the notification by
returning a "204 No Content" response.
##### B.3.9.1.4 Resource: notification endpoint
###### B.3.9.1.4.1 Description
This resource represents a notification endpoint. The Server can use this
resource to send notifications to the Client, which has provided the URI of
this resource.
###### B.3.9.1.4.2 Resource definition
The resource URI has been provided by the Client.
###### B.3.9.1.4.3 Resource method: POST
The Server can use this method to send a notification to the Client.
Table B.3.9.1.4.3-1: Details of the POST request on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Description NotificationHeader 1 The header of the
notification. ThesholdCrossingOrReachingInformation 1 The information about
the threshold crossing / reaching.
* * *
Table B.3.9.1.4.3-2: Details of the POST response on this resource
* * *
Data type Cardinality Response codes Description None 204 The notification was
delivered successfully.
* * *
##### B.3.9.1.5 Data Model
###### B.3.9.1.5.1 Introduction
This clause defines the request and response data structures of the
notifyThresholdCrossingOrReaching notification. If a request or response
contains attributes not defined in the present document, a receiving
functional block that does not understand these attributes shall not treat
their presence as an error, and may choose to ignore them.
###### B.3.9.1.5.2 Data Type: NotificationHeader
Table B.3.9.1.5.2-1: Definition of the NotificationHeader data type
+------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | Cardinality | Description | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | notificationId | Identifier | 1 | Identifier of the | | | | | notification | | | | | instance. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | notificationType | String | 1 | The type of | | | | | notification | | | | | (="Threshol | | | | | dCrossingOrReachi | | | | | ngNotification"). | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | senderInfo | Structure | 1 | Information about | | | | | the sender of the | | | (inlined) | | notification. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >senderName | String | 1 | The name of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >senderType | String | 1 | The type of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >vendorName | String | 1 | The name of the | | | | | vendor of the | | | | | sender. | +------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+
###### B.3.9.1.5.3 Data Type: ThresholdCrossingOrReachingInformation
Table B.3.9.1.5.3-1: Definition of the ThresholdCrossingInformation data type
+-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | Attribute name | Data type | Cardinality | Description | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | mEId | Identifier | 1 | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 28.305 [2] -- | | | | | clause 6.2.9.1.2. | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | thresholdInfo | Structure | 1..N | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 28.305 [2] -- | | | (inlined) | | clause 6.2.9.1.2. | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >thresholdName | String | 1 | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 28.305 [2] -- | | | | | clause 6.2.9.1.2. | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >thresholdValue | (any type) | 1 | See 3GPP TS | | | | | 28.305 [2] -- | | | | | clause 6.2.9.1.2. | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+ | >thres | (any type) | 1 | See 3GPP TS | | holdObservedValue | | | 28.305 [2] -- | | | | | clause 6.2.9.1.2. | +-------------------+------------+-------------+-------------------+
### B.3.10 URI structure and supported content formats
This clause specifies the URI prefix and the supported formats applicable to
the APIs defined in the present document.
All resource URIs of the APIs shall have the following prefix:
{apiRoot}/{apiName}/{apiVersion}/
where:
{apiRoot} indicates the scheme (\"http\" or \"https\"), the host name and
optional port, and an optional prefix path.
{apiName} indicates the interface name in an abbreviated form. The {apiName}
of each interface is defined in the clause specifying the corresponding
interface.
{apiVersion} indicates the current version of the API and is defined in the
clause specifying the corresponding interface.
For HTTP requests and responses that have a body, the content format JSON (see
IETF RFC 7159 [9]) shall be supported. The JSON format shall be signalled by
the content type \"application/json\".
All APIs shall support and use HTTP over TLS (also known as HTTPS) (see IETF
RFC 2818 [10]). TLS version 1.2 as defined by IETF RFC 5246 [11] shall be
supported.
NOTE 1: The HTTP protocol elements mentioned in the present document originate
from the HTTP specification; HTTPS runs the HTTP protocol in a TLS layer. The
present document therefore uses the statement above to mention \"HTTP
request\", \"HTTP header\", etc., without explicitly calling out whether or
not these are run over TLS.
NOTE 2: There are a number of best practices and guidelines how to configure
and implement TLS 1.2 in a secure manner, as security threats evolve. A
detailed specification of those is beyond the scope of the present document;
the reader is referred to external documentation such as Annex E of 3GPP TS 33
310 [12].
All resource URIs of the API shall comply with the URI syntax as defined in
IETF RFC 3986 [13]. An implementation that dynamically generates resource URI
parts (path segments, query parameter values) shall ensure that these parts
only use the character set that is allowed by IETF RFC 3986 [13] for these
parts.
NOTE 3: This means that characters which are not part of this allowed set need
to be escaped using percentencoding as defined by IETF RFC 3986 [13].
### B.3.11 Solution Set definitions
#### B.3.11.1 Solution set definition structure
B.3.11.2 of the present document defines the OpenAPI schema
CMONOperations_1.json for the CMONOperations_1 interface defined in 3GPP TS
28.305 [2].
Note: To conform to RESTful principles, B.3.11.2 defines the following
additional operation which is not described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2]
GET /cmonoperations_1/v1/peemonitoredentities
B.3.11.3 of the present document defines the OpenAPI schema
CMONOperations_2.json for the CMONOperations_2 interface defined in 3GPP TS
28.305 [2].
Note: To conform to RESTful principles, B.3.11.3 defines the following
additional operation which is not described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2]
GET /cmonoperations_2/v1/peemonitoredentities
B.3.11.4 of the present document defines the OpenAPI schema
CMONOperations_3.json for the CMONOperations_3 interface defined in 3GPP TS
28.305 [2].
Note: To conform to RESTful principles, B.3.11.4 defines the following
additional operations which are not described in 3GPP TS 28.305 [2]
GET /cmonoperations_3/v1/cmonpmjobs
GET /cmonoperations_3/v1/cmonpmjobs/{CMONPMJobId}
B.3.11.5 of the present document defines the OpenAPI schema
CMONNotifications_1.json for the CMONNotifications_1 interface defined in 3GPP
TS 28.305 [2].
B.3.11.6 of the present document defines the OpenAPI schema
CMONNotifications_2.json for the CMONNotifications_2 interface defined in 3GPP
TS 28.305 [2].
B.3.11.7 of the present document defines the OpenAPI schema
CMONNotifications_3.json for the CMONNotifications_3 interface defined in 3GPP
TS 28.305 [2].
B.3.11.8 of the present document defines the OpenAPI schema
CMONNotifications_4.json for the CMONNotifications_4 interface defined in 3GPP
TS 28.305 [2].
#### B.3.11.2 OpenAPI definition \"CMONOperations_1.json\"
{
\"swagger\": \"2.0\",
\"info\": {
\"title\": \"CMONOperations_1 Interface\",
\"description\": \"PEE Monitoring\",
\"version\": \"1.0.0\"
},
\"host\": \"www.example.org\",
\"schemes\": [
\"http\",
\"https\"
],
\"basePath\": \"/cmonoperations_1/v1\",
\"produces\": [
\"application/json\"
],
\"paths\": {
\"/peemonitoredentities\": {
\"get\": {
\"summary\": \"Read descriptions for all monitored entities\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to get a list of all
monitored entities and their descriptions.\",
\"responses\": {
\"200\": {
\"description\": \"The request was accepted and completed\",
\"schema\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"meid\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Monitored entity ID\"
},
\"Description\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/PEEMEDescription\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"/peemonitoredentities/{meid}\": {
\"get\": {
\"summary\": \"Read description for a monitored entity\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to get the description of an
individual monitored entity.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"path\",
\"name\": \"meid\",
\"description\": \"Monitored Entity ID\",
\"required\": true,
\"type\": \"string\"
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"200\": {
\"description\": \"The request was accepted and completed\",
\"schema\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"meid\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Monitored entity ID\"
},
\"Description\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/PEEMEDescription\"
}
}
}
},
\"404\": {
\"description\": \"Invalid identifier\"
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
},
\"patch\": {
\"summary\": \"Modify description for a monitored entity\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to modify the description of
an individual monitored entity.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"path\",
\"name\": \"meid\",
\"description\": \"Monitored Entity ID\",
\"required\": true,
\"type\": \"string\"
},
{
\"in\": \"body\",
\"name\": \"Description\",
\"description\": \"Attributes of an individual monitored entity.\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/PEEMEDescription\"
}
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"200\": {
\"description\": \"The request was accepted and completed\",
\"schema\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"meid\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Monitored entity ID\"
},
\"Description\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/PEEMEDescription\"
}
}
}
},
\"404\": {
\"description\": \"Invalid identifier\"
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
}
},
\"definitions\": {
\"PEEMEDescription\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"siteIdentification\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Identification of the site of the monitored entity.\"
},
\"siteLatitude\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The latitude of the site location.\"
},
\"siteLongitude\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The longitude of the site location.\"
},
\"siteDescription\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Description of the site of the monitored entity.\"
},
\"equipmentType\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Indicates the type of equipment of the monitored entity.\"
},
\"environmentType\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Indicates the type of environment of the monitored
entity.\"
},
\"powerInterface\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Indicates the type of power interface of the monitored
entity.\"
},
\"xcuDguDescription\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Description of the XCU/DGU.\"
},
\"sensorDescription\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Description of the sensor.\"
},
\"vSRmsDescription\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Description of the VS-RMS.\"
}
}
},
\"Error\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"message\": {
\"type\": \"string\"
}
}
}
}
}
#### B.3.11.3 OpenAPI definition \"CMONOperations_2.json\"
{
\"swagger\": \"2.0\",
\"info\": {
\"title\": \"CMONOperations_2 Interface\",
\"description\": \"PEE Configurations\",
\"version\": \"1.0.0\"
},
\"host\": \"www.example.org\",
\"schemes\": [
\"http\",
\"https\"
],
\"basePath\": \"/cmonoperations_2/v1\",
\"produces\": [
\"application/json\"
],
\"paths\": {
\"/peemonitoredentities\": {
\"get\": {
\"summary\": \"Read configurations for all monitored entities\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to get a list of all
monitored entities and their configurations.\",
\"responses\": {
\"200\": {
\"description\": \"The request was accepted and completed\",
\"schema\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"meid\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Monitored entity ID\"
},
\"Configuration\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/PEEMEConfiguration\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"/peemonitoredentities/{meid}\": {
\"get\": {
\"summary\": \"Read configuration for a monitored entity\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to get the configuration of
an individual monitored entity\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"path\",
\"name\": \"meid\",
\"description\": \"Monitored Entity ID\",
\"required\": true,
\"type\": \"string\"
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"200\": {
\"description\": \"The request was accepted and completed\",
\"schema\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"meid\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Monitored entity ID\"
},
\"Configuration\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/PEEMEConfiguration\"
}
}
}
},
\"404\": {
\"description\": \"Invalid identifier\"
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
},
\"put\": {
\"summary\": \"Modify configuration for a monitored entity\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to modify the configuration
of an individual monitored entity.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"path\",
\"name\": \"meid\",
\"description\": \"Monitored Entity ID\",
\"required\": true,
\"type\": \"string\"
},
{
\"in\": \"body\",
\"name\": \"PEEMEConfigurationData\",
\"description\": \"Configuration data.\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/PEEMEConfiguration\"
}
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"200\": {
\"description\": \"The request was accepted and completed\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/PEEMEConfiguration\"
}
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
}
},
\"definitions\": {
\"PEEMEConfiguration\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"description\": \"Threshold values. Threshold monitoring is disabled for an
attribute if the threshold is empty or undefined.\",
\"properties\": {
\"powerMinThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for minimum power usage\"
},
\"powerMaxThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for maximum power usage\"
},
\"temperatureMinThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for minimum temperature\"
},
\"temperatureMaxThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for maximum temperature\"
},
\"voltageMinThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for minimum voltage\"
},
\"voltageMaxThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for maximum voltage\"
},
\"currentMinThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for minimum current\"
},
\"currentMaxThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for maximum current\"
},
\"humidityMinThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for minimum humidity\"
},
\"humidityMaxThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Threshold value for maximum humidity\"
},
\"reportingURL\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The URL where notifications should be sent when any
threshold is reached or crossed\"
}
}
},
\"Error\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"message\": {
\"type\": \"string\"
}
}
}
}
}
#### B.3.11.4 OpenAPI definition \"CMONOperations_3.json\"
{
\"swagger\": \"2.0\",
\"info\": {
\"title\": \"CMONOperations_3 Interface\",
\"description\": \"PEE Performance Monitoring\",
\"version\": \"1.0.0\"
},
\"host\": \"www.example.org\",
\"schemes\": [
\"http\",
\"https\"
],
\"basePath\": \"/cmonoperations_3/v1\",
\"produces\": [
\"application/json\"
],
\"paths\": {
\"/cmonpmjobs\": {
\"get\": {
\"summary\": \"Read list of performance monitoring jobs\",
\"description\": \"Read a list of all performance monitoring jobs and their
attributes.\",
\"responses\": {
\"200\": {
\"description\": \"The request was accepted and completed\",
\"schema\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"cmonpmjobid\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The performance monitoring job ID.\"
},
\"CMONPMJobData\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/CMONPMJob\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
},
\"post\": {
\"summary\": \"Create new performance monitoring job\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to create a new performance
monitoring job.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"body\",
\"name\": \"CMONPMJobData\",
\"description\": \"Measurement configuration for CMON PM job.\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/CMONPMJob\"
}
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"201\": {
\"description\": \"Created\",
\"headers\": {
\"Location\": {
\"description\": \"Link to new performance monitoring job\",
\"type\": \"string\"
}
},
\"schema\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"cmonpmjobid\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The performance monitoring job ID.\"
},
\"CMONPMJobData\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/CMONPMJob\"
}
}
}
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"/cmonpmjobs/{CMONPMJobId}\": {
\"get\": {
\"summary\": \"Read a single performance monitoring job\",
\"description\": \"Read the value of all attributes of an individual
performance monitoring job.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"path\",
\"name\": \"CMONPMJobId\",
\"description\": \"Performance monitoring job ID\",
\"required\": true,
\"type\": \"string\"
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"200\": {
\"description\": \"The request was accepted and completed\",
\"schema\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"cmonpmjobid\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The performance monitoring job ID.\"
},
\"CMONPMJobData\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/CMONPMJob\"
}
}
}
},
\"404\": {
\"description\": \"Invalid identifier\"
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
},
\"delete\": {
\"summary\": \"Delete a single performance monitoring job\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to delete a performance
monitoring job.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"path\",
\"name\": \"CMONPMJobId\",
\"description\": \"Performance monitoring job ID\",
\"required\": true,
\"type\": \"string\"
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"204\": {
\"description\": \"The resource was deleted\"
},
\"404\": {
\"description\": \"Invalid identifier\"
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
}
},
\"definitions\": {
\"CMONPMJob\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"meIdList\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"description\": \"List of monitored entities\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Identification of monitored entity.\"
}
},
\"measurementNames\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"description\": \"List of measurements\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Measurement name.\",
\"enum\": [
\"powerAverage\",
\"powerMin\",
\"powerMax\",
\"energyConsumption\",
\"temperatureAverage\",
\"temperatureMin\",
\"voltageAverage\",
\"voltageMin\",
\"voltageMax\",
\"currentAverage\",
\"currentMin\",
\"currentMax\",
\"humidityAverage\",
\"humidityMin\",
\"humidityMax\"
]
}
},
\"granularityPeriod\": {
\"type\": \"integer\",
\"description\": \"The period (in minutes) between two successive
measurements.\",
\"enum\": [ 5, 15, 30, 60, 720, 1440 ]
},
\"reportingURL\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The URL where notifications should be sent.\"
}
}
},
\"Error\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"message\": {
\"type\": \"string\"
}
}
}
}
}
#### B.3.11.5 OpenAPI definition \"CMONNotifications_1.json\"
{
\"swagger\": \"2.0\",
\"info\": {
\"title\": \"CMONNotifications_1 Interface\",
\"description\": \"PEE Performance Measurement Reporting\",
\"version\": \"1.0.0\"
},
\"host\": \"www.example.org\",
\"schemes\": [
\"http\",
\"https\"
],
\"basePath\": \"/cmonnotifications_1/v1\",
\"produces\": [
\"application/json\"
],
\"paths\": {
\"/\": {
\"post\": {
\"summary\": \"New performance measurement report\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to submit a new performance
measurement report.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"body\",
\"name\": \"CMONPMReport\",
\"description\": \"Measurement report for CMON PM job.\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/CMONPMReport\"
}
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"204\": {
\"description\": \"Created\"
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
}
},
\"definitions\": {
\"CMONPMReport\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"notificationHeader\": {
\"description\": \"Header information for the notification\",
\"properties\": {
\"notificationId\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Unique identifier of the notification\"
},
\"senderInfo\": {
\"description\": \"Information about the sender of the notification\",
\"properties\": {
\"senderName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The name of the sender\"
},
\"senderType\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The type of the sender\"
},
\"vendorName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The name of the vendor of the sender\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"measurementHeader\": {
\"description\": \"Header information for the measurement\",
\"properties\": {
\"measFormatVersion\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The format version of the measurement data collection\"
},
\"collectionBeginTime\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The start of the measurement collection interval \"
},
\"cmonpmjobid\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The performance monitoring job ID\"
}
}
},
\"measurementData\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"meId\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Identification of monitored entity.\"
},
\"measurementInfo\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/MeasurementInfo\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"measurementFooter\": {
\"description\": \"Footer information for the measurement\",
\"properties\": {
\"collectionEndTime\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The end of the measurement collection interval\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"MeasurementInfo\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"measurementName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Measurement name.\",
\"enum\": [
\"powerAverage\",
\"powerMin\",
\"powerMax\",
\"energyConsumption\",
\"temperatureAverage\",
\"temperatureMin\",
\"voltageAverage\",
\"voltageMin\",
\"voltageMax\",
\"currentAverage\",
\"currentMin\",
\"currentMax\",
\"humidityAverage\",
\"humidityMin\",
\"humidityMax\"
]
},
\"measurementValue\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Measurement value.\"
}
}
},
\"Error\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"message\": {
\"type\": \"string\"
}
}
}
}
}
#### B.3.11.6 OpenAPI definition \"CMONNotifications_2.json\"
{
\"swagger\": \"2.0\",
\"info\": {
\"title\": \"CMONNotifications_2 Interface\",
\"description\": \"PEE Fault Reporting\",
\"version\": \"1.0.0\"
},
\"host\": \"www.example.org\",
\"schemes\": [
\"http\",
\"https\"
],
\"basePath\": \"/cmonnotifications_2/v1\",
\"produces\": [
\"application/json\"
],
\"paths\": {
\"/\": {
\"post\": {
\"summary\": \"New fault notification\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to submit a new fault
report.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"body\",
\"name\": \"CMONAlarm\",
\"description\": \"Fault notification for CMON alarm.\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/CMONAlarm\"
}
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"204\": {
\"description\": \"Created\"
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
}
},
\"definitions\": {
\"CMONAlarm\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"notificationHeader\": {
\"description\": \"Header information for the notification\",
\"properties\": {
\"notificationId\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Unique identifier of the notification\"
},
\"senderInfo\": {
\"description\": \"Information about the sender of the notification\",
\"properties\": {
\"senderName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The name of the sender\"
},
\"senderType\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The type of the sender\"
},
\"vendorName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The name of the vendor of the sender\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"alarmInformation\": {
\"description\": \"Alarm details\",
\"properties\": {
\"alarmId\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The fault report ID\"
},
\"alarmTime\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Time at which the alarm was raised\"
},
\"alarmType\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"See Event Types in TS 32.111-2 -- Annex A\"
},
\"perceivedSeverity\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Alarm severity, see ITU-T Recommendation X.733\",
\"enum\": [
\"Critical\",
\"Major\",
\"Minor\",
\"Warning\",
\"Cleared\"
]
},
\"probableCause\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"See Probable Causes in TS 32.111-2 -- Annex B\"
},
\"additionalText\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Further information on the alarm\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"Error\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"message\": {
\"type\": \"string\"
}
}
}
}
}
#### B.3.11.7 OpenAPI definition \"CMONNotifications_3.json\"
{
\"swagger\": \"2.0\",
\"info\": {
\"title\": \"CMONNotifications_3 Interface\",
\"description\": \"PEE Configuration Change Reporting\",
\"version\": \"1.0.0\"
},
\"host\": \"www.example.org\",
\"schemes\": [
\"http\",
\"https\"
],
\"basePath\": \"/cmonnotifications_3/v1\",
\"produces\": [
\"application/json\"
],
\"paths\": {
\"/\": {
\"post\": {
\"summary\": \"New configuration change notification\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to submit a new
configuration change report.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"body\",
\"name\": \"CMONConfigChange\",
\"description\": \"Configuration change notification.\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/CMONConfigChange\"
}
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"204\": {
\"description\": \"Created\"
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
}
},
\"definitions\": {
\"CMONConfigChange\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"notificationHeader\": {
\"description\": \"Header information for the notification\",
\"properties\": {
\"notificationId\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Unique identifier of the notification\"
},
\"senderInfo\": {
\"description\": \"Information about the sender of the notification\",
\"properties\": {
\"senderName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The name of the sender\"
},
\"senderType\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The type of the sender\"
},
\"vendorName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The name of the vendor of the sender\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"configurationChangeInformation\": {
\"description\": \"Configuration change details\",
\"properties\": {
\"meId\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Monitored entity ID\"
},
\"attributes\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"attributeName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Name of the PEEMEDescription attribute which has changed\",
\"enum\": [
\"siteIdentification\",
\"siteLatitude\",
\"siteLongitude\",
\"siteDescription\",
\"equipmentType\",
\"environmentType\",
\"powerInterface\",
\"xcuDguDescription\",
\"sensorDescription\",
\"vSRmsDescription\"
]
},
\"attributeValue\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"New value of the attribute\"
}
}
}
}
}
}
}
},
\"Error\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"message\": {
\"type\": \"string\"
}
}
}
}
}
#### B.3.11.8 OpenAPI definition \"CMONNotifications_4.json\"
{
\"swagger\": \"2.0\",
\"info\": {
\"title\": \"CMONNotifications_4 Interface\",
\"description\": \"PEE Threshold Reporting\",
\"version\": \"1.0.0\"
},
\"host\": \"www.example.org\",
\"schemes\": [
\"http\",
\"https\"
],
\"basePath\": \"/cmonnotifications_4/v1\",
\"produces\": [
\"application/json\"
],
\"paths\": {
\"/\": {
\"post\": {
\"summary\": \"New threshold notification\",
\"description\": \"The client can use this method to submit a new threshold
report.\",
\"parameters\": [
{
\"in\": \"body\",
\"name\": \"CMONThreshold\",
\"description\": \"Threshold notification.\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/CMONThreshold\"
}
}
],
\"responses\": {
\"204\": {
\"description\": \"Created\"
},
\"default\": {
\"description\": \"Unexpected error\",
\"schema\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/definitions/Error\"
}
}
}
}
}
},
\"definitions\": {
\"CMONThreshold\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"notificationHeader\": {
\"description\": \"Header information for the notification\",
\"properties\": {
\"notificationId\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Unique identifier of the notification\"
},
\"senderInfo\": {
\"description\": \"Information about the sender of the notification\",
\"properties\": {
\"senderName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The name of the sender\"
},
\"senderType\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The type of the sender\"
},
\"vendorName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"The name of the vendor of the sender\"
}
}
}
}
},
\"thresholdEventInformation\": {
\"description\": \"Threshold event details\",
\"properties\": {
\"meId\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Monitored entity ID\"
},
\"thresholdInfo\": {
\"description\": \"Threshold event details\",
\"properties\": {
\"thresholdName\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Name of the threshold which has been reached or crossed\",
\"enum\": [
\"powerMinThreshold\",
\"powerMaxThreshold\",
\"temperatureMinThreshold\",
\"temperatureMaxThreshold\",
\"voltageMinThreshold\",
\"voltageMaxThreshold\",
\"currentMinThreshold\",
\"currentMaxThreshold\",
\"humidityMinThreshold\",
\"humidityMaxThreshold\"
]
},
\"thresholdValue\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Configured threshold value\"
},
\"observedValue\": {
\"type\": \"string\",
\"description\": \"Actual value of the attribute\"
}
}
}
}
}
}
},
\"Error\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"message\": {
\"type\": \"string\"
}
}
}
}
}
#