# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects
Management and orchestration of networks, as identified below:
**TS 28.313: Management and orchestration; Self-Organizing Networks (SON) for
5G networks.**
TS 28.552: Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements.
> TS 28.541: Management and orchestration; Self-Organizing Networks (SON)
> Network Resource Model (NRM) for 5G networks.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the concepts, use cases, requirements, and
procedures for the SON functions in 5GS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.500: \"Telecommunication Management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON); Concepts and requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\"
[4] 3GPP TS 38.321 \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.552 \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.511 \" Telecommunication management; Automatic Neighbour
Relation (ANR) management; Concepts and requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 38.300 \"NR; Overall description; Stage-2\".
[8] Void
[9] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\".
[10] Void
[11] 3GPP TS 28.531 \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[14] Void
[15] 3GPP TS 32.508: \"Telecommunication management; Procedure flows for
multi-vendor plug-and-play eNodeB connection to the network\".
[16] 3GPP TS 38.133: \"NR; Requirements for support of radio resource
management\".
[17] Void
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Centralized SON (C-SON):** SON solution where SON algorithms are executed in
the 3GPP management system. Centralized SON has two variants:
\- **Cross Domain-Centralized SON:** SON solution where SON algorithms are
executed in the 3GPP Cross Domain layer.
**\- Domain-Centralized SON:** SON solution where SON algorithms are executed
in the Domain layer.
**Distributed SON (D-SON):** SON solution where SON algorithms are executed in
the Network Function layer.
**Hybrid SON:** SON solution where SON algorithms are executed at two or more
of the following layers: NF layer or Domain layer or 3GPP Cross Domain layer.
**Searchlist:** list of frequencies and supporting information to be used for
neighbour cell measurements, which contains entries for NG-RAN and supported
IRATs.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ANR Automatic Neighbour Relation
NCR Neighbour Cell Relation
NG-RAN Next Generation Radio Access Network
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 SON concepts
### 4.1.1 Overview
Based on the location of the SON algorithm, SON is categorized into four
different solutions that are possible for implementing various SON use cases,
the solution is selected depending on the needs of the SON use cases.
a) Centralized SON:
1) Cross Domain-Centralized SON
2) Domain-Centralized SON
b) Distributed SON
c) Hybrid SON.
The SON algorithm is not standardized by 3GPP.
The following figure illustrates the overview of SON Framework.
{width="3.388888888888889in" height="2.576388888888889in"}
Figure 4.1.1-1: Overview of SON Framework
### 4.1.2 Centralized SON
#### 4.1.2.1 Introduction
Centralized SON (C-SON) means that the SON algorithm executes in the 3GPP
management system. The centralized SON concept has been defined for LTE in TS
32.500 [2].
Figure 4.1.2.1-1 shows a generic C-SON process, where the SON algorithms
execute in the 3GPP management system interact with network functions in RAN
and/or CN to implement SON functions. The SON algorithm may consist of the
following functionalities:
> \- Monitoring: monitor the network(s) by collecting management data,
> including the data provided by MDAS.
>
> \- Analysis: analyse the management data to determine if there are issues in
> the network(s) that need to be resolved.
>
> \- Decision: makes the decision on the SON actions to resolve the issues.
\- Execution: execute the SON actions.
\- Evaluation: evaluate whether the issues have been solved by analysing the
management data
NOTE: The management data as well as the exact algorithm may vary for
different SON cases. For example, for automated creation of NSI, NSSI and/or
NFs related cases, the management data may be SLA requirements received from
service management layer; for automated optimization related cases, the
management data may be performance measurements of the networks; for automated
healing related cases, the management data may be alarm information of the
networks. The management data and the algorithm are to be specified case by
case.
Figure 4.1.2.1-1: C-SON process
#### 4.1.2.2 Cross Domain-Centralized SON
The Cross Domain-Centralized SON means that the SON algorithm executes in the
3GPP Cross Domain layer.
For Cross Domain-Centralized SON, the MnF(s) in 3GPP Cross Domain layer
monitors the networks via management data, analyses the management data, makes
decisions on the SON actions, and executes the SON actions.
#### 4.1.2.3 Domain-Centralized SON
The Domain-Centralized SON means the SON algorithm executes in the Domain
layer.
For Domain-Centralized SON, the MnF(s) in Domain layer monitors the networks
via management data, analyses the management data, makes decisions on the SON
actions, and executes the SON actions.
The MnF(s) in 3GPP Cross Domain is responsible for management and control of
the Domain-Centralized SON function. The management and control may include
switching on/off a Domain-Centralized SON function, making policies for a
Domain-Centralized SON function, and/or evaluating the performance of a
Domain-Centralized SON function.
### 4.1.3 Distributed SON
The distributed SON (D-SON) means that the SON algorithm is located in the
NFs. The distributed SON concept has been defined for LTE in TS 32.500 [2].
For D-SON, the NFs monitors the network events, analyses the network data,
makes decisions on the SON actions and executes the SON actions in the network
nodes.
Figure 4.1.3-1 shows that the 3GPP management system (MnF in Domain or 3GPP
Cross Domain) is responsible for the following functions:
a) D-SON management function:
1) Switch on/off a D-SON function,
2) Provide policies, targets, and supplementary information (e.g., the range
attributes) for a D-SON function.
b) D-SON evaluation function: evaluate whether the issues have been resolved,
and may apply D-SON management actions.
Figure 4.1.3-1: D-SON process
### 4.1.4 Hybrid SON
The hybrid SON (H-SON) means the SON algorithm are executed at two or more of
the following levels: NF layer, Domain layer or 3GPP Cross Domain layer. The
hybrid SON concept has been defined for LTE in TS 32.500 [2].
The 3GPP management system (i.e. MnF(s) in Domain or 3GPP Cross Domain) and
NFs work together, in a coordinated manner, to build up a complete SON
algorithm. The decisions on SON actions may be made by 3GPP management system
and/or NFs, depending on the specific cases.
Figure 4.1.4-1 shows that the C-SON component is monitoring and executes SON
actions.
Figure 4.1.4-1: H-SON process
## 4.2 Self-establishment of new RAN NE in network
### 4.2.1 Introduction
Self-establishment of new RAN NE in network describes the procedure of a new
NG-RAN NE can automatically establish when it is powered up and connect to the
IP network in multi-vendor scenario, which includes:
\- Network Configuration data handling
\- Plug and connect to management system
\- Self-Configuration
### 4.2.2 Network configuration data handling
Network configuration data handling makes the network configuration data
available to the management system support self-configuration process, which
may include network configuration data preparation, network configuration data
transfer and network configuration data validation. This happens except all of
the network configuration data for NE can be generated by the management
system supporting self-configuration process.
**Network configuration data preparation:** This makes the network
configuration data ready in operator\'s network management system who provides
the network configuration data. How to prepare the network configuration data
in operator\'s network management system is out of scope of the present
document.
**Network configuration data transfer:** This transfers the Network
configuration data from network configuration data Provider to the network
configuration data Consumer.
**Network configuration data validation:** This validates the syntax and
semantics of network configuration data. It takes place in the network
configuration data Consumer.
### 4.2.3 Plug and connect to management system
Plug and connect to management system connects the deployed NE to its
management system providing support for self-configuration process as
automatically as possible. The following functionality is included: initial IP
Autoconfiguration service, Certificate enrolment, establish secure connection,
establish connect to management system providing support for self-
configuration process.
### 4.2.4 Self-configuration
Self-configuration puts the NE into a state to be ready to carry traffic in an
automated manner. Self-configuration includes following functionality: create
self-configuration task, monitor self-configuration process, generate
configuration data if needed, download and activate software, download and
active configuration data, perform self-test and update network resource
model, etc.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 Distributed SON management
**REQ-NR-ANR-CON-01 For NG-RAN ANR management, the i** nitial status of a
newly created NCR by the ANR function to a NG-RAN cell shall be such that HO
is allowed, X2 or Xn connection setup is allowed, and the NCR is allowed to be
removed by the ANR function in the gNB.
**REQ-NR-ANR-CON-02** NG-RAN ANR management shall support NCRs from NG-RAN to
NG-RAN and from NG-RAN to E-UTRAN.
**REQ-NR-ANR-CON-03** For E-UTRAN ANR management, the initial status of a
newly created NCR by ANR function to a NG-RAN cell shall be such that HO is
allowed, X2 connection setup is allowed, and the NCR is allowed to be removed
by the ANR function in the eNB.
**REQ-NR-ANR-CON-04 E-** UTRAN ANR management shall support NCRs from E-UTRAN
to NG-RAN, in addition to support to other technologies, described in TS
32.511 [6] clause 5.1.
## 5.2 Actor roles
Not applicable
## 5.3 Telecommunication resources
Not applicable
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Distributed SON management
#### 6.1.1.1 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimisation)
**REQ-RACH-FUN-1** MnS producer should have a capability allowing the
authorized consumer to set and update the targets for RACH optimization
function.
**REQ-RACH-FUN-2** MnS producer should have a capability allowing an
authorized consumer to enable or disable the RACH optimization function.
**REQ-RACH-FUN-3** MnS producer should have a capability allowing the
authorized consumer to collect performance measurements that are used to
evaluate the RACH performance.
#### 6.1.1.2 MRO (Mobility Robustness Optimisation)
**REQ-MRO-FUN-1** The MnS producer should have a capability allowing the MnS
consumer to set the targets, HO offset ranges, and control parameters for MRO
function.
**REQ-MRO-FUN-2** The MnS producer should have a capability allowing the MnS
consumer to collect the handover related performance measurements that are
used to evaluate the MRO performance.
**REQ-MRO-FUN-3** MnS producer should have a capability allowing the MnS
consumer to enable or disable the MRO function.
**REQ-MRO-FUN-4** The producer of provisioning MnS should have a capability
allowing the MnS consumer to update the targets, HO offset ranges, and control
information for MRO function.
#### 6.1.1.3 ANR management in NG-RAN
The business level requirements in clause 5.1.1 are decomposed into the
following specification level requirements, applicable for NG-RAN:
REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-01 Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to request establishment of an Xn connection
to the neighbour gNB, or an Xn connection to the neighbour ng-eNB.
REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-02 Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to request that an existing Xn connection to a
neighbour gNB, or an Xn connection to a neighbour ng-eNB to be released, and
that the establishment of such a connection is prohibited.
**REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-03** Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to request that an NCR is allowed to be
removed.
**REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-04** Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to request that an NCR is not allowed to be
removed.
**REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-05** Producer of provisioning MnS shall support a capability
allowing an authorized consumer to disable or enable the ANR function in one
or more gNBs.
#### 6.1.1.4 PCI configuration and re-configuration
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to set or update the list(s) of PCI
value(s) for NR cell(s).
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to enable or disable the PCI
configuration function.
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability to notify the authorized consumer with the PCI value(s) being
selected for NR cell(s).
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-4** producer of fault supervision MnS should have a
capability to notify the authorized consumer about the detection or resolution
of PCI collision or PCI confusion problems for NR cells.
**REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-5** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to configure or re-configure the
PCI list at the PCI configuration function.
### 6.1.2 Centralized SON
#### 6.1.2.1 PCI configuration
**REQ- CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability allowing an authorized consumer to configure or re-configure the
PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
**REQ- CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2** producer of provisioning MnS should have a
capability to notify the authorized consumer with the PCI value(s) being
assigned to NR cell(s).
**REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3** producer of fault supervision MnS should have a
capability to notify the authorized consumer about the detection or resolution
of PCI collision or PCI confusion problems for NR cells.
#### 6.1.2.2 Requirements for RAN NE plug and connect to management system
**REQ-PnC-CON-1 NE shall be able to get its own IP addresses and MnF IP
address without manual configuration** during plug and play for a NE
connection to the network**.**
#### 6.1.2.3 Requirements for self-configuration of a new RAN NE
**REQ-SCM-CON-1** The MnS for self-configuration management shall have the
capability allowing MnS consumer request MnS producer to create, query and
delete Self-configuration management profile.
**REQ-SCM-CON-2** The MnS for Self-configuration management shall have the
capability allowing MnS consumer obtain the progress of self-configuration
process form MnS producer.
## 6.2 Actor roles
See use cases in clause 6.4.
## 6.3 Telecommunication resources
See use cases in clause 6.4.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 Distributed SON management
#### 6.4.1.1 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimisation)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | configure the RACH | | | | parameters in a cell in | | | | order to achieve the | | | | optimal network | | | | performance by reducing | | | | the network access | | | | time, and minimize the | | | | failures. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support | | | | RACH Optimization | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - RACH Optimization | | | | function is in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The D-SON management | | | | function decides to | | | | enable the RACH | | | | Optimization function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to set | | | | the targets for the | | | | RACH optimization | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | enable the RACH | | | | optimization function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function collects the | | | | RACH related | | | | measurements, and | | | | analyse them to | | | | evaluate the RACH | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (O)** | If the D-SON management | | | | function determines | | | | that the RACH | | | | performance does not | | | | meet the target, it | | | | updates the targets for | | | | RACH optimization | | | | function; | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The RACH performance | | | | has been optimized. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-RACH-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-RACH-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-RACH-FUN-3** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.2 MRO (Mobility Robustness Optimisation)
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | configure the handover | | | | parameters in cells in | | | | order to improve the | | | | handover performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - MRO is in | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The D-SON management | | | | decides to enable MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to set | | | | the targets, HO offset | | | | ranges, and control | | | | information for the MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | enable the MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The MRO function | | | | detects handover issues | | | | (e.g. too late HO, too | | | | early HO and HO to a | | | | wrong cell) in | | | | intra-RAT or inter-RAT | | | | mobility by analysing | | | | reports from UEs and | | | | network side | | | | information, and acts | | | | to mitigate the HO | | | | issues by adjusting HO | | | | related parameters. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function collects MRO | | | | related measurements, | | | | and analyses them to | | | | evaluate the MRO | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function performs the | | | | following action, if | | | | the MRO performance | | | | does not meet the | | | | target: | | | | | | | | 1. Update the targets | | | | for MRO function. | | | | | | | | 2. Update the ranges | | | | for MRO function. | | | | | | | | 3. Update the control | | | | information for MRO | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The MRO performance has | | | | been optimized. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | **REQ-MRO-FUN-1, REQ- | | | | MR-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-MRO-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-MRO-FUN-4** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.3 ANR management
##### 6.4.1.3.1 Starting the ANR function
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to make the | | | | ANR function in the gNB | | | | is enabled. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is not | | | | active. | | | | | | | | The gNB may have NCRs. | | | | The NCRs may be | | | | configured by a MnS | | | | consumer or may have | | | | been added by the ANR | | | | function if the ANR | | | | function has been active | | | | previously. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to enable the ANR | | | | function in a gNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS consumer enables | | | | the ANR function in the | | | | gNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The ANR function in gNB | | | | is successfully enabled | | | | by the MnS consumer, or | | | | if unsuccessful, still | | | | disabled. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0h | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.2 Stopping the ANR function
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to make the | | | | ANR function in the gNB | | | | is disabled. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to disable the ANR | | | | function in a gNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS consumer | | | | disables the ANR | | | | function in the gNB. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The ANR function in gNB | | | | is successfully disabled | | | | by the MnS consumer, or | | | | if unsuccessful, still | | | | enabled. All existing | | | | NCRs, whether created by | | | | ANR or otherwise are | | | | unaltered. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0h | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.3 Sending notification of added or deleted NCR
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is for the MnS | | | | producer to send a | | | | notification of added or | | | | deleted NCR to the MnS | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management. | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | An NCR is added or | | | | deleted. This could be | | | | the result of either the | | | | ANR function\'s action, | | | | or the creation of the | | | | deletion of an NCR by a | | | | MnS consumer. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS producer sends a | | | | notification to the MnS | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The MnS consumer is | | | | aware of the creation or | | | | deletion of the NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0m | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.4 Handover Whitelisting
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to make an | | | | NCR present in the NCRT, | | | | useful for handovers. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to whitelist an NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (O)** | The MnS consumer creates | | | | the NCR | | | | | | | | This step is executed if | | | | it the wanted NCR not | | | | already present in the | | | | NCRT. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The MnS consumer marks | | | | the NCR so that | | | | handovers are allowed, | | | | and so that the ANR | | | | function is not allowed | | | | to remove the NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The wanted NCR is | | | | present in the NCRT. It | | | | is protected from being | | | | removed by the ANR | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0c, | | | | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0i | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.5 Handover Blacklisting
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to make an | | | | NCR is present in the | | | | NCRT and made | | | | unavailable for | | | | handovers. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to blacklist an NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (O)** | The MnS consumer creates | | | | the NCR. | | | | | | | | This step is executed if | | | | it the wanted NCR not | | | | already present in the | | | | NCRT. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The MnS consumer marks | | | | the NCR so that | | | | handovers are | | | | prohibited, and so that | | | | the ANR function is not | | | | allowed to remove the | | | | NCR. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The wanted NCR is | | | | present in the NCRT. It | | | | is protected from being | | | | removed by the ANR | | | | function. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0d, | | | | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0i | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.6 Prohibiting X2 or Xn connection to a peer node (X2/Xn
blacklisting)
+-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +=======================+==========================+==============+ | **Goal** | The goal is to prohibit | | | | a gNB from setting up an | | | | X2 or Xn connection to a | | | | peer gNB or eNB. If such | | | | a connection existed, it | | | | is brought down. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON management | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins when | | | | the MnS consumer decides | | | | to prohibit the setting | | | | up of X2 or Xn | | | | connections to a peer | | | | node. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS consumer | | | | configures the MnS | | | | producer with the peer | | | | node into the list of | | | | nodes for which X2 or Xn | | | | connections are | | | | prohibited. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The peer node is in the | | | | black-list. If an X2 or | | | | Xn connection was | | | | present to the peer | | | | node, it is brought | | | | down. | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0g | | +-----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.3.7 Prohibiting handover over X2 or Xn (X2/Xn handover
blacklisting)
+-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +=======================+========================+==================+ | **Goal** | The goal is to | | | | prohibit a gNB from | | | | using an X2 or Xn | | | | connection to a peer | | | | gNB or eNB for | | | | handover. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A MnS consumer of the | | | | MnS of D-SON | | | | management. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The MnS producer of | | | | D-SON management | | | | | | | | gNB | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The ANR function is | | | | active. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Begins when** | The Use Case begins | | | | when the MnS consumer | | | | decides to prohibit | | | | using the X2 or Xn | | | | connection to a peer | | | | node for handover. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The MnS consumer | | | | configures the MnS | | | | producer to mark the | | | | NCR to the peer node | | | | so that handovers over | | | | the X2 or Xn | | | | connection are | | | | prohibited. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails | | | | and retry is | | | | unsuccessful. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Post Conditions** | The gNB is prohibited | | | | from using the using | | | | the X2 or Xn | | | | connection to the peer | | | | node for handovers. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NR-ANR-FUN-0o | | +-----------------------+------------------------+------------------+
#### 6.4.1.4 PCI configuration
##### 6.4.1.4.1 Initial PCI configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | configure the PCIs for | | | | NR cells that have not | | | | been assigned with | | | | PCIs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support | | | | initial PCI | | | | configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - No PCI values have | | | | been assigned to NR | | | | cells. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The D-SON management | | | | function decided to | | | | configure the PCI list | | | | for NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | configure the PCI list | | | | at the PCI | | | | configuration function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | enable the PCI | | | | configuration function | | | | at NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The PCI configuration | | | | function selects PCI | | | | value(s) from the list | | | | of PCI values provided | | | | by the producer of | | | | provisioning MnS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | notifies the consumer | | | | with the PCI value(s) | | | | being assigned for the | | | | NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PCI value of a NR | | | | cell has been selected. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | * | | | | _REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-5_ * | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
##### 6.4.1.4.2 PCI re-configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | re-configure the PCIs | | | | of NR, due to the PCI | | | | collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | D-SON management | | | | function to support PCI | | | | re-configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | fault supervision | | | | MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cell(s) have | | | | being assigned with | | | | PCI value(s). | | | | | | | | - The PCI | | | | configuration | | | | function is in | | | | operation, and | | | | enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | PCI configuration | | | | function has detected | | | | the PCI problem of PCI | | | | collision or PCI | | | | confusion for NR | | | | cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function receives an | | | | alarm from the producer | | | | of fault supervision | | | | MnS indicating the PCI | | | | collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems for | | | | an NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function requests the | | | | producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | re-configure the PCI | | | | list at the PCI | | | | configuration function. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The PCI configuration | | | | function selects PCI | | | | value(s) from the PCI | | | | list. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | notifies the consumer | | | | with the PCI value(s) | | | | being assigned for the | | | | NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The D-SON management | | | | function receives a | | | | clear alarm | | | | notification from the | | | | producer of fault | | | | supervision MnS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PCI collision or | | | | PCI confusion have been | | | | resolved. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | * | | | | _REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-DPCI-CONFIG-FUN-5_ * | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 6.4.2 Centralized SON
#### 6.4.2.1 PCI configuration
##### 6.4.2.1.1 Initial PCI configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | configure the PCIs of | | | | NR cell(s) that have | | | | not been assigned with | | | | PCI value(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | C-SON function to | | | | support PCI | | | | configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells have | | | | not been assigned | | | | with PCI values | | | | yet. | | | | | | | | - The C-SON has been | | | | enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The C-SON function | | | | decides to configure | | | | PCI values for NR | | | | cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | determines the PCI | | | | value(s) for the NR | | | | cell(s) that have no | | | | collision or confusion | | | | with its neighbours. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | requests the producer | | | | of provisioning MnS to | | | | configure the PCI | | | | value(s) at the NR | | | | cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | notifies the consumer | | | | with the PCI value(s) | | | | being assigned for the | | | | NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PCI value of a NR | | | | cell has been selected. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | * | | | | _REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2_ * | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
##### 6.4.2.1.2 PCI re-configuration
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +=======================+=========================+===============+ | **Goal** | To automatically | | | | re-configure the PCIs | | | | of NR cells, due to the | | | | PCI collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | C-SON to support PCI | | | | re-configuration. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | - gNB; | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | | | | | - The producer of | | | | fault supervision | | | | MnS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | - 5G NR cells are in | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | - The C-SON function | | | | has been in | | | | operation, and | | | | enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The C-SON function | | | | requests the producer | | | | of provisioning MnS to | | | | collect the PCI related | | | | measurements reported | | | | by NG-RAN. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | analyses the PCI | | | | related information and | | | | detects that NR cells | | | | have experienced PCI | | | | conflict or confusion | | | | issues. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The producer of fault | | | | supervision MnS | | | | notifies the C-SON | | | | function about the PCI | | | | collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems for | | | | NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The C-SON function | | | | determines the new PCI | | | | value(s), and requests | | | | the producer of | | | | provisioning MnS to | | | | re-configure the PCI | | | | value for the NR | | | | cell(s) experienced PCI | | | | conflict or confusion | | | | issues. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The producer of | | | | provisioning MnS | | | | notifies the C-SON | | | | function about the | | | | resolution of PCI | | | | collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems for | | | | NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The producer of fault | | | | supervision MnS | | | | notifies the | | | | consumer-SON function | | | | about the resolution of | | | | PCI collision or PCI | | | | confusion problems for | | | | NR cell(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The PCI value of a NR | | | | cell has been selected. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | * | | | | _REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-2, | | | | REQ-CPCI-CONFIG-FUN-3_ * | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.2.2 Use case for establishment of a new RAN NE in network
##### 6.4.2.2.1 Use case for RAN NE plug and connect to management system
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \ | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Goal | After NE | | | | installation, connect | | | | the NE to its MnF | | | | providing support for | | | | self-configuration | | | | process, and to the | | | | External Network(s) | | | | as automatically as | | | | possible. | | | | | | | | The NE described in | | | | this use case can be | | | | gNB in non-split | | | | scenario and gNB-DU | | | | in split scenario. | | | | | | | | Note: The NE within | | | | virtualization or | | | | other type of RAN NE | | | | (e.g. GNB-CU) is not | | | | addressed in this use | | | | case. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Actors and Roles | NE | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Telecom resources | IP networks: | | | | Non-Secure Operator | | | | Network, External | | | | Network, and its | | | | elements like DHCP | | | | server optionally | | | | DNS, CA/RA servers, | | | | Security Gateway(s) | | | | (each protecting one | | | | or more Secure | | | | Operator Networks), | | | | Secure Operator | | | | Network(s) including | | | | MnF providing support | | | | for | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Assumptions | There is a functional | | | | power supply for the | | | | NE. There may be one | | | | or more IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Services like DHCP | | | | and Router | | | | Advertisements and | | | | zero or more DNS | | | | servers. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Pre conditions | The NE is installed. | | | | | | | | IP connectivity | | | | exists between the | | | | involved telecom | | | | resources. | | | | | | | | The involved telecom | | | | resources are | | | | functional. | | | | | | | | The relevant | | | | information is stored | | | | and available: | | | | | | | | \\- Vendor Certificate | | | | at the NE | | | | | | | | > \- Operator | | | | > Certificate at the | | | | > CA/RA | | | | > | | | | > \- For the External | | | | > Network or | | | | > Non-Secure Operator | | | | > Network: | | | | > | | | | > \- (Outer) IP | | | | > autoconfiguration | | | | > information at the | | | | > IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN of the | | | | > initial OAM SeGW at | | | | > the NE\ | | | | > and/or\ | | | | > FQDN or IP address | | | | > of the initial OAM | | | | > SeGW at the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN of the | | | | > CA/RA servers at | | | | > the NE\ | | | | > and/or\ | | | | > FQDN or IP address | | | | > of the CA/RA | | | | > servers at the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- If FQDNs need to | | | | > be resolved, | | | | > corresponding IP | | | | > address(es) at the | | | | > DNS server(s) | | | | > | | | | > \- For the Secure | | | | > Operator Network: | | | | > | | | | > \- (Inner) IP | | | | > autoconfiguration | | | | > information at the | | | | > IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service or at the | | | | > initial OAM SeGW | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN or IP | | | | > address of the | | | | > initial MnF at the | | | | > NE and/or DHCP | | | | > Server of the | | | | > Secure Operator | | | | > Network. | | | | > | | | | > \- If FQDNs need to | | | | > be resolved, | | | | > corresponding IP | | | | > address(es) at the | | | | > DNS server(s) | | | | > | | | | > \- Configuration | | | | > and software for | | | | > the NE at the | | | | > MnF(s) | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Begins when | **The NE is** | | | | installed**.** | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | **If a VLAN ID is | | | | available the NE uses | | | | it**. Otherwise the | | | | NE uses the **native | | | | VLAN where PnP | | | | traffic is sent and | | | | received untagged** | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | The NE acquires its | | | | IP address through | | | | stateful or stateless | | | | IP autoconfiguration. | | | | This may provide 0 or | | | | more DNS server | | | | addresses. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | The NE acquires the | | | | IP address of the | | | | CA/RA server. The | | | | FQDN of the CA/RA | | | | server may be | | | | pre-configured in the | | | | NE or the FQDN or IP | | | | address of the CA/RA | | | | server may be | | | | provided by the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Service. FQDNs are | | | | resolved through the | | | | DNS if necessary. | | | | Information provided | | | | by the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Services shall | | | | supersede those | | | | pre-configured at the | | | | NE. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 4 (M) | The NE performs | | | | Certificate | | | | Enrolment. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 5 (M) | The NE acquires the | | | | IP address of the OAM | | | | SeGW. The FQDN of the | | | | OAM SeGW may be | | | | pre-configured in the | | | | NE or the FQDN or the | | | | IP address of the OAM | | | | SeGW may be provided | | | | by the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Service. FQDNs are | | | | resolved through the | | | | DNS if necessary. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 6 (M) | The NE establishes a | | | | secure connection | | | | (tunnel) to the | | | | Security Gateway | | | | given by Step 5. | | | | | | | | The NE receives its | | | | (inner) IP | | | | autoconfiguration | | | | information (which | | | | may be the same as | | | | the outer IP address | | | | obtained in step2) | | | | and optionally the | | | | address of one or | | | | more DNS servers | | | | within the Secure | | | | Operator Network from | | | | the Configuration | | | | Parameters of IKEv2 | | | | during tunnel | | | | establishment. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 7 (M) | The NE acquires the | | | | IP address of the | | | | correct MnF by | | | | either, issuing a | | | | DHCP request | | | | including the NE\'s | | | | vendor information, | | | | resolving FQDNs via | | | | DNS if necessary, or | | | | by having a | | | | pre-configured FQDN | | | | (including the NE\'s | | | | vendor information) | | | | resolved via DNS. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 8 (M) | The NE establishes a | | | | connection to the | | | | provided MnF and | | | | acquires its | | | | configuration and | | | | software if any. | | | | | | | | The configuration may | | | | contain an address to | | | | another MnF that this | | | | specific node shall | | | | use as MnF. | | | | | | | | The configuration may | | | | contain an address to | | | | another SeGW that | | | | should be used before | | | | connecting to the | | | | MnF. | | | | | | | | The MnF may then | | | | | | | | - release the | | | | connection to the | | | | current MnF and OAM | | | | SeGW and then restart | | | | (returning to step | | | | 1), | | | | | | | | - release the | | | | connection to the | | | | current MnF and OAM | | | | SeGW and then return | | | | to step 6, | | | | | | | | - release the | | | | connection to the | | | | current MnF and then | | | | repeat step 8, or | | | | | | | | - continue with step | | | | 9. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 9 (M) | The NE establishes a | | | | connection to the | | | | External Network(s) | | | | using the transport | | | | (VLAN ID, IP | | | | addresses) and | | | | security parameters | | | | provided in step 8. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when all | | | | mandatory steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs.** | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Post Conditions | One or more secure | Clause 6.4.2.2.2 Use | | | connections exist | case for | | | between the NE and | self-configuration of | | | the MnF and the | a new RAN NE | | | External Network(s). | | | | Via the connection to | | | | the MnF the NE can | | | | receive further | | | | instructions to | | | | become operational | | | | and carry user | | | | traffic, e.g. the | | | | administrativeState | | | | is set to | | | | \"unlocked\". | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Traceability | All requirements of | | | | clause 6.1.2.2 | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 6.4.2.2.2 Use case for self-configuration of a new RAN NE
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Goal (*) | After installation, | | | | put in an automated | | | | manner the NE into a | | | | state to be ready to | | | | carry traffic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Actors and Roles | MnF providing | | | (*) | support for | | | | self-configuration | | | | process act as MnS | | | | Producer for | | | | Self-configuration | | | | management | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Telecom resources | NE | | | | | | | | MnS Consumer of | | | | Self-configuration | | | | management | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Assumptions | IP network | | | | connectivity exists | | | | between the NE and | | | | the MnF(s) providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Pre conditions | The NE is installed | Clause 6.4.2.2.1 Use | | | and connected to an | case for Plug and | | | IP network. | connect to | | | | management system | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Begins when | **The field | | | | personnel start the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. It is also | | | | possible that the | | | | process is triggered | | | | automatically after | | | | the completion of an | | | | NE self-test or | | | | receiving the | | | | self-configuration | | | | management profile | | | | creation request | | | | from** MnS Consumer | | | | for | | | | self-configuration | | | | management**.** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Step 1 (O) | MnF providing | | | | support for | | | | self-configuration | | | | process may notify | | | | MnS Consumer of | | | | self-configuration | | | | management about the | | | | start of the self | | | | configuration | | | | process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Step 1 (*) (M\|O) | The order of the | | | | bullet points in the | | | | list below does not | | | | imply any statements | | | | on the order of | | | | execution. | | | | | | | | - An NE IP address | | | | is allocated to the | | | | new NE. | | | | | | | | - Basic information | | | | about the transport | | | | network (e. g. | | | | gateways) | | | | environment is | | | | provided to the NE. | | | | With this | | | | information the NE | | | | is able to exchange | | | | IP packets with | | | | other internet | | | | hosts. | | | | | | | | - The NE provides | | | | information about | | | | its type, hardware | | | | and other relevant | | | | data about itself to | | | | the MnF(s) providing | | | | support for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | - The address(es) | | | | of the MnF(s) | | | | providing support | | | | for the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process (e.g. MnF | | | | for software | | | | download, MnF for | | | | configuration data | | | | download) is | | | | provided to the NE. | | | | The address is equal | | | | to an IP address and | | | | a port number, or a | | | | DNS name and port | | | | number, or an URI. | | | | | | | | The address(es) of | | | | the MnF(s) providing | | | | support for normal | | | | OAM functions after | | | | completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process are provided | | | | to the NE. The | | | | address is equal to | | | | an IP address and a | | | | port number, or a | | | | DNS name and port | | | | number, or an URI. | | | | | | | | - The NE connects | | | | to the MnF providing | | | | support for the | | | | software download. | | | | | | | | - The decision | | | | which software or | | | | software packages | | | | have to be | | | | downloaded to the NE | | | | is taken. | | | | | | | | - The software is | | | | downloaded into the | | | | NE. | | | | | | | | - The NE connects | | | | to the MnF providing | | | | support for the | | | | configuration data | | | | download. | | | | | | | | - The configuration | | | | data for the NE is | | | | made available by | | | | either preparing it | | | | or making prepared | | | | configuration data | | | | available. | | | | | | | | - The configuration | | | | data is downloaded | | | | into the NE. | | | | | | | | - Dependent | | | | External nodes are | | | | updated with new | | | | configuration data | | | | as well (if | | | | required). | | | | | | | | - The NE connects | | | | to the MnF providing | | | | support for normal | | | | OAM functions after | | | | completion of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | | | | | | | - **The inventory | | | | system in the MnF is | | | | informed that a new | | | | NE is in the | | | | field.** | | | | | | | | - **The NE performs | | | | a self-test. | | | | Self-tests of | | | | different types can | | | | run at different | | | | places within the | | | | self-configuration | | | | procedure.** | | | | | | | | - **The operator is | | | | informed about the | | | | progress of the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process and | | | | important events | | | | occurring during the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process.** | | | | | | | | - **The network | | | | resource models are | | | | updated during and | | | | after the | | | | self-configuration | | | | process.** | | | | | | | | - **SW is | | | | installed, i.e. | | | | prepared in such a | | | | way, that the NE is | | | | ready to use it. NE | | | | is allowed to use | | | | the SW.** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Step 3 (O) | MnF providing | | | | support for | | | | self-configuration | | | | process may notify | | | | MnS Consumer of | | | | Self-configuration | | | | management about the | | | | progress of the self | | | | configuration during | | | | self-configuration | | | | process. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Ends when (*) | **Ends when all | | | | steps identified | | | | above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs.** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Exceptions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Post Conditions | The NE is ready to | | | | carry traffic. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traceability (*) | All requirements of | | | | clause 6.1.2.3 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 7 Management services for SON
## 7.1 Management services for D-SON management
### 7.1.1 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimisation)
#### 7.1.1.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.1.1.1-1: RACH optimization type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1of TS | MnS for NF, as defined in 28.531 | | 28.532 [3]: | [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | and clause 6.2.3 of TS 28.550 | defined in 28.550 [12]. | | [12]: | | | | | | - notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.1.1.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.1.1.2.1 Targets information
The targets of RACH optimization are shown in Table 7.1.2.1.1-1.
Table 7.1.1.1.2-1: RACH optimization targets
* * *
Targets Definition Legal Values UE access delay probability The probability
distribution of UE access delay per cell. CDF of access delay Number of
preambles sent probability The probability of the number of preambles sent per
cell. CDF of access probability
* * *
##### 7.1.1.2.2 Control information
The parameter is used to control the RACH optimization function.
Table 7.1.1.2.2-1: RACH optimization control
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Control parameter | Definition | Legal Values | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | RACH optimization | This attribute allows | Boolean | | control | authorized consumer to | | | | enable/disable the RACH | On, off | | | optimization | | | | functionality. See | | | | attribute | | | | drachOptimizationControl | | | | in TS 28.541 [13]. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.1.1.2.3 Parameters to be updated
Void.
#### 7.1.1.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.1.1.3.1 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related to the RACH optimization are captured in
Table 7.1.1.3.1-1:
Table 7.1.1.3.1-1: RACH optimization related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Related targets
* * *
Distribution of RACH preambles sent Distribution of the number of preambles
UEs sent to achieve synchronization per SSB, where the number of preambles
sent corresponds to PREAMBLE_TRANSMISSION_COUNTER (see clause 5.1.1 in TS
38.321 [4]) in UE. UE access delay probability per SSB Distribution of UEs
access delay per SSB Distribution of the time needed for UEs to successfully
attach to the network per SSB. Number of preambles send per SSB probability
### 7.1.2 MRO (Mobility Robustness Optimisation)
#### 7.1.2.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.1.2.1-1: MRO type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1 of TS | MnS for NF, as defined in TS | | 28.532 [3]: | 28.531 [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | and clause 6.2.3 of TS 28.550 | defined in TS 28.550 [12]. | | [12]: | | | | | | - notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.1.2.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.1.2.2.1 Targets information
The targets of MRO are shown in the Table 7.1.2.2.1-1.
Table 7.1.2.2.1-1: MRO targets
* * *
Target Name Definition Legal Values Total handover failure rate (the number of
failure events related to handover) / (the total number of handover events)
[0..100] in unit percentage Total intra-RAT handover failure rate (the number
of failure events related to intra-RAT handover) / (the total number of
handover events) [0..100] in unit percentage Total inter-RAT handover failure
rate (the number of failure events related to inter-RAT handover) / (the total
number of handover events) [0..100] in unit percentage
* * *
##### 7.1.2.2.2 Control information
The parameter is used to control the MRO function.
Table 7.1.2.2.2-1: MRO control
+----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Control parameter | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | MRO function control | This attribute allows | Boolean | | | the operator to | | | | enable/disable the MRO | On, off | | | functionality. See | | | | attribute dmroControl in | | | | TS 28.541 [13]. | | +----------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 7.1.2.2.3 Parameters to be updated
Table 7.1.2.2.3-1: Ranges of handover parameters
* * *
Control parameters Definition Legal Values Maximum deviation of Handover
Trigger This parameter defines the maximum allowed absolute deviation of the
Handover Trigger, from the default point of operation (see clause 15.5.2.5 in
TS 38.300 [7] and clause 9.2.2.61 in TS 38.423 [17]). [-20..20] in unit 0.5 dB
Minimum time between Handover Trigger changes This parameter defines the
minimum allowed time interval between two Handover Trigger change performed by
MRO. This is used to control the stability and convergence of the algorithm
(see clause 15.5.2.5 in TS 38.300 [7]). [0.. 604800] in unit Seconds
Tstore_UE_cntxt The timer used for detection of too early HO, too late HO and
HO to wrong cell. Corresponds to Tstore_UE_cntxt timer described in clause
15.5.2.5 in TS 38.300 [7]. [0..1023] in unit 100 milliseconds
* * *
#### 7.1.2.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.1.2.3.1 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related MRO are captured in Table 7.1.2.3.1.-1:
Table 7.1.2.3.1-1. MRO related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Related targets
* * *
Number of handover events Includes all successful and unsuccessful handover
events (see clause 5.1.1.6 in TS 28.552 [5]). Total handover failure rate
Number of handover failures Includes unsuccessful handover events with failure
causes (see clause 5.1.1.6 in TS 28.552 [5]). Total handover failure rate
Number of intra-RAT handover events Includes all successful and unsuccessful
intra-RAT handover events (see clauses 5.1.1.6.1 and 5.1.1.6.2 in TS 28.552
[5]). Total intra-RAT handover failure rate Number of intra-RAT handover
failures Includes unsuccessful intra-RAT handover events with failure causes
(see clauses 5.1.1.6.1 and 5.1.1.6.2 in TS 28.552 [5]). Total intra-RAT
handover failure rate Number of inter-RAT handover events Includes all
successful and unsuccessful inter-RAT handover events (see clause 5.1.1.6.3 in
TS 28.552 [5]). Total inter-RAT handover failure rate Number of inter-RAT
handover failures Includes unsuccessful inter-RAT handover events with failure
causes (see clause 5.1.1.6.3 in TS 28.552 [5]). Total inter-RAT handover
failure rate Number of intra-RAT too late handover failures Detected when an
RLF occurs after the UE has stayed for a long period of time in the source
cell; the UE attempts to re-establish the radio link connection in the target
cell (see clause 5.1.1.25.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of intra-RAT too early handover failures Detected when an RLF occurs
shortly after a successful handover from a source cell to a target cell or a
handover failure occurs during the handover procedure; the UE attempts to re-
establish the radio link connection in the source cell (see clause 5.1.1.25.1
in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of intra-RAT handover failures to wrong cell Detected when an RLF
occurs shortly after a successful handover from a source cell to a target cell
or a handover failure occurs during the handover procedure; the UE attempts to
re-establish the radio link connection in a cell other than the source cell or
the target cell (see clause 5.1.1.25.1 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of inter-RAT too late handover failures Detected when an RLF occurs
after the UE has stayed in an NG-RAN cell for a long period of time; the UE
attempts to reconnect to a cell belonging to an E-UTRAN node (see clause
5.1.1.25.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of inter-RAT too early handover failures Detected when an RLF occurs
shortly after a successful handover from an E-UTRAN cell to a target cell in a
NG-RAN node (see clause 5.1.1.25.2 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of unnecessary handover to another RAT Detected when a UE is handed
over from NG-RAN to other system (e.g. UTRAN) even though quality of the NG-
RAN coverage was sufficient for the service used by the UE (see clause
5.1.1.25.3 in TS 28.552 [5]).  
Number of inter-RAT handover ping pong Detected when an UE is handed over from
a cell in a source system (e.g. NG-RAN) to a cell in a target system different
from the source system (e.g. E-UTRAN), then within a predefined limited time
the UE is handed over back to a cell in the source system, while the coverage
of the source system was sufficient for the service used by the UE (see clause
5.1.1.25.4 in TS 28.552 [5]).
### 7.1.3 PCI configuration
#### 7.1.3.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.1.3.1-1: PCI type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1 of TS | MnS for NF, as defined in 28.531 | | 28.532 [3]: | [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - modifyMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.1.3.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.1.3.2.1 Control information
The parameter is used to control the D-SON PCI configuration function.
Table 7.1.3.2.1-1: PCI contol
* * *
Control parameter Definition Legal Values PCI configuration control This
attribute allows authorized consumer to enable/disable the D-SON PCI
configuration functionality. See attribute dPciConfigurationControl in TS
28.541 [13]. enable, disable
* * *
##### 7.1.3.2.2 Parameters to be updated
The table below lists the parameter related to the D-SON PCI configuration
function.
Table 7.1.3.2.2-1: PCI update
* * *
Parameters Definition Legal Values PCI list The list of PCI values to be used
by D-SON PCI configuration function to assign the PCI for NR cells. (See
attribute nRPciList in TS 28.541 [13]). List of integers
* * *
#### 7.1.3.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.1.3.3.1 Notification information
The table below lists the notifications related to D-SON PCI configuration.
Table 7.1.3.3-1: PCI performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
PCI collision notification The collision notification is used to indicate two
neighbouring cells of a serving cell are using the same PCIs.  
PCI Confusion notification The confusion notification is used to indicate that
a serving cell has 2 neighbouring cells that are using the same PCI value.
### 7.1.4 ANR management
This management service is used for management of ANR, and ANR is specified in
TS 38.300 [7], clauses 15.3.3.
Stage 2 for ANR management is located in TS 28.541 [13], clauses 4.3.2.2,
4.3.2.3, 4.3.32.2 and 4.3.32.3.
Stage 3 for ANR management is located in TS 28.541 [13], clauses C.4.3, D.4.3,
and E.5.
## 7.2 Management services for C-SON
### 7.2.1 PCI configuration
#### 7.2.1.1 MnS component type A
Table 7.2.1.1-1: PCI type A
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | MnS Component Type A | Note | +==================================+==================================+ | Operations and notifications | It is supported by Provisioning | | defined in clause 11.1.1 of TS | MnS for NF, as defined in 28.531 | | 28.532 [3]: | [11]. | | | | | - createMOI operation | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes operation | | | | | | --- modifyMOIAttributes | | | operation | | | | | | - - deleteMOI operation | | | | | | - - | | | notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges | | | operation | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Operations defined in clause | It is supported by Performance | | 11.3.1.1.1 in TS 28.532 [3] | Assurance MnS for NFs, as | | and clause 6.2.3 of TS 28.550 | defined in 28.550 [12]. | | [12]: | | | | | | - notifyFileReady operation | | | | | | - reportStreamData operation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 7.2.1.2 MnS Component Type B definition
##### 7.2.1.2.1 Control information
The parameter is used to control the C-SON PCI configuration function.
Table 7.2.1.2.1-1: PCI control
+------------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | Control parameter | Definition | Legal Values | +------------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | PCI configuration | This attribute allows | disable, enable | | control | authorized consumer to | | | | enable/disable the | | | | C-SON PCI | | | | configuration | | | | functionality. | | | | | | | | See attribute | | | | cP | | | | ciConfigurationControl | | | | in TS 28.541 [13]. | | +------------------------+------------------------+-----------------+
##### 7.2.1.2.2 Parameters to be updated
The table below lists the parameter related to the C-SON PCI configuration
function.
Table 7.2.1.2.2-1: PCI dpdate
* * *
**Updated parameters** **Definition** **Legal Values** NR PCI This parameter
contains the PCI of the NR cell. Integer
* * *
#### 7.2.1.3 MnS Component Type C definition
##### 7.2.1.3.1 Notifications information
The table below lists the notifications related to PCI configuration are
generated from the NR cells.
Table 7.2.1.3.1-1: PCI notification
Notification information Description Note
* * *
PCI collision notification The collision notification is used to indicate two
neighbouring cells are using the same PCIs.  
PCI Confusion notification The confusion notification is used to indicate that
a serving cell has 2 neighbouring cells that are using the same PCI value.
##### 7.2.1.3.2 Performance measurements
Performance measurements related to the PCI configuration are collected from
the NR cells.
Table 7.2.1.3.2-1. PCI related performance measurements
Performance measurements Description Note
* * *
PCI of candidate cells The measurement contains cumulative counter with
subcounters that is identified by the PCI value(s) of the candidate cells, and
is derived from _MeasResultListNR_ (see clause 6.3.2 in TS 38.331 [9]) where
it contains PCI in _PhysCellId_ , and RSRP/RSRQ in _MeasQuantityResults_ of
candidate cells. It is generated when the RSRP received from the candidate
cells exceeds certain thresholds.
# 8 SON procedures
## 8.1 Introduction
The procedures listed in clause 8 are some of all the possibilities, and are
not exhaustive.
## 8.2 Distributed SON management
### 8.2.1 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimisation)
Figure 8.2.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how D-SON management
function can manage the RACH optimization (D-SON) function. It is assumed that
the D-SON management function has consumed the performance assurance
management service to collect RACH optimisation related measurements.
Figure 8.2.1-1: RACH Optimization procedure
1\. The D-SON management function consumes the provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS 28.532 [3]) to
configure the targets for RACH optimization function.
1.a The provisioning MnS sets the targets for RACH optimization (D-SON)
function (NOTE).
2\. The D-SON management function consumes the provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the RACH optimization function for a
given NR cell **if it is not enabled**.
3.a The provisioning MnS enables the RACH optimization (D-SON) function
(NOTE).
3\. The RACH optimization (D-SON) function receives the RACH information
report from UE(s), and analyses them to determine the actions to optimize the
RACH performance if the performance does not meet the targets by updating the
RACH parameters.
4\. The D-SON management function collects the RACH related performance
measurements.
5\. The D-SON management function analyses the measurements to evaluate the
RACH performance,
6\. The D-SON management function consumes the provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the targets of the RACH optimization
function, when the RACH optimization performance does not meet the targets:
6.a The provisioning MnS updates the targets for RACH optimization function
(NOTE).
NOTE: The interface between provisioning MnS and RACH optimization is not
subject to standardization.
### 8.2.2 MRO (Mobility Robustness Optimisation)
Figure 8.2.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how D-SON management
function can manage the MRO function. It is assumed that the D-SON management
function has consumed the performance assurance MnS to create PM jobs to
collect handover related measurements.
Figure 8.2.2-1: MRO procedure
1\. The D-SON management function consumes the provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS 28.532 [3]) to
configure targets for the MRO function.
1.a The provisioning MnS sets the targets for MRO function (NOTE).
2\. The MRO management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to configure the ranges of
handover parameters.
2.a The MnS of provisioning sets the ranges for MRO function (NOTE).
3\. The MRO management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to configure the MRO control
parameters (e.g. Maximum deviation of Handover Trigger, Minimum time between
Handover Trigger changes).
3.a The MnS of provisioning sets the MRO control parameters for MRO function
(NOTE).
4\. The D-SON management function consumes the NF provisioning MnS with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the MRO function for a given NR cell
**if it is not enabled**.
4.a The provisioning MnS enables the MRO function (NOTE).
5\. The MRO function receives MRO information reports from UE(s), and analyses
them to determine the actions to optimize the MRO performance. If the
performance does not meet the targets, it updates the handover parameters.
6\. The D-SON management function collects MRO related performance
measurements.
7\. The D-SON management function analyses the measurements to evaluate the
MRO performance,
8\. The D-SON management function performs one of the following actions, when
the MRO performance does not meet the targets:
8.1. Consume the MnS of provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to
update the targets of the MRO function;
8.1.a The MnS of provisioning updates the targets for MRO function (NOTE).
8.2. Consume the MnS of provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to
update the ranges of the handover parameters;
8.2.a The MnS of provisioning updates the ranges of the handover parameters
(NOTE).
8.3. Consume the MnS of provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to
update the control parameters;
8.3.a The MnS of provisioning updates the control parameters (NOTE).
NOTE: The interface between provisioning MnS and MRO function is not subject
to standardization.
### 8.2.3 PCI configuration
#### 8.2.3.1 Initial PCI configuration
Figure 8.2.3.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how D-SON management
function can manage the PCI configuration (D-SON) function to assign the PCI
values to NR cells the first time.
Figure 8.2.3.1-1: Initial PCI configuration procedure
1\. The D-SON management function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to configure the PCI list for NR cell(s).
1.a The MnS of provisioning sets the PCI list at the PCI configuration (D-SON)
function (NOTE)
2\. The D-SON management function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the PCI configuration function for
NR cell(s) **if it is not enabled**.
2.a The MnS of provisioning enables the PCI configuration (D-SON) function
(NOTE).
3\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function selects PCI value(s) from the PCI
list.
4\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function reports the PCI value(s) being
assigned to the MnS of NF provisioning.
5\. The MnS of NF provisioning sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to D-SON management function to indicate the
PCI value(s) being assigned to NR cell(s).
NOTE: The interface between MnS of NF provisioning and PCI configuration
(D-SON) function is not subject to standardization.
#### 8.2.3.2 PCI re-configuration
Figure 8.2.3.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how D-SON management
function can re-configure the PCI list for NR cell(s) when PCI collision or
PCI confusion issues were detected.
Figure 8.2.3.2-1: PCI re-configuration procedure
1\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function detects and reports the PCI
collision or PCI confusion problems for NR cell(s) to MnS of fault supervision
(NOTE).
2\. The producer of fault supervision MnS sends a notification
_notifyNewAlarm_ to D-SON management function to report the PCI collision or
PCI confusion problems detected on NR cell(s).
3\. The D-SON management function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-configure the PCI list for NR cell(s).
3.a The MnS of NF provisioning re-configures the PCI list for NR cell(s)
(NOTE).
4\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function selects PCI value(s) from the
updated PCI list.
5\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function reports the PCI value(s) being
assigned to the MnS of NF provisioning.
6\. The MnS of NF provisioning sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to D-SON management function to indicate the
PCI value(s) being assigned to NR cell(s).
7\. The PCI configuration (D-SON) function notifies MnS of fault supervision
that the PCI collision or PCI confusion problems have been respoved (NOTE).
8\. The producer of fault supervision MnS sends a notification
_notifyClearedAlarm_ to D-SON management function to report the PCI collision
or PCI confusion problems being resolved.
NOTE: The interface between MnS of NF provisioning and PCI configuration
(D-SON) function is not subject to standardization.
## 8.3 Centralized SON
### 8.3.1 PCI configuration
#### 8.3.1.1 Initial PCI configuration
Figure 8.3.1.1-1 depicts a procedure that describes how C-SON can assign the
PCI values to NR cells the first time.
Figure 8.3.1.1-1: Initial PCI configuration procedure
1\. The C-SON determines the PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
2\. The C-SON consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_
operation to configure the PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
2.a The MnS of provisioning sets the PCI value(s) for NR cell(s) (NOTE)
3\. The producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to C-SON function to indicate the PCI value(s)
being assigned to NR cell(s).
NOTE: The interface between MnS of provisioning and PCI configuration (D-SON)
function is not subject to standardization.
#### 8.3.1.2 PCI re-configuration
Figure 8.3.1.2-1 depicts a procedure that describes how C-SON function can re-
configure the PCI list for NR cell(s) when PCI collision or PCI confusion
issues were detected. It is assumed that the C-SON function has consumed the
MnS of performance assurance to create PM jobs to collect PCI related
measurements.
Figure 8.3.1.2-1: PCI re-configuration procedure
1\. The C-SON function collects PCI related performance measurements that are
derived from _MeasResultListNR_ (see clause 6.3.2 in TS 38.331 [9]) from
producer of performance assurance MnS.
2\. The C-SON function analyses the NRM data and PCI related measurements to
detect the PCI collision or PCI confusion problems for NR cell(s).
3\. The C-SON function determines the new PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
4\. The C-SON function consumes the MnS of NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to re-configure the PCI values for NR cell(s).
> 4.a The MnS of NF provisioning set the PCI value(s) for NR cell(s).
5\. The producer of provisioning MnS sends a notification
_notifyMOIAttributeValueChange_ to C-SON function to indicate the PCI value(s)
being assigned to NR cell(s).
### 8.3.2 Procedures for establishment of a new RAN NE in network
#### 8.3.2.1 Procedures for RAN NE plug and connect to management system
The Figure 8.3.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure for plug and connect to
management system. The NE described in this procedure can be gNB in non-split
scenario and gNB-DU in split scenario.
Note 1: The NE within virtualization is not addressed.
{width="6.152777777777778in" height="3.2777777777777777in"}
Figure 8.3.2.1-1: Procedures for plug and connect to management system
1, If a VLAN ID is available, the NE uses it. Otherwise the NE uses the native
VLAN where PnP traffic is sent and received untagged.
2\. NE invokes the \"Initial IP Autoconfiguration\" procedure and acquires its
IP address through stateful or stateless IP Autoconfiguration. There may be
additional information provided to the NE.
Note 2: The detailed \"Initial IP Autoconfiguration\" procedure refers to
clause 5.2 of TS 32.508 [15].
3\. NE invokes the \"Certificate Enrolment\" procedure.
Note 3: The detailed \"Certificate Enrolment\" procedure refers to clause 5.3
of TS 32.508 [15].
4\. NE invokes the \"Establishing Secure Connection\" procedure and connects
to the OAM SeGW.
Note 4: The detailed \"Establishing Secure Connection\" procedure refers to
clause 5.4 of TS 32.508 [15].
5\. NE invokes the \"Establishing Connection to MnF\" procedure.
Note 5: The detailed \"Establishing Connection to MnF\" procedure refers to
clause 5.5 of TS 32.508 [15] and MnF act as the role of EM.
#### 8.3.2.2 Procedures for self-configuration management
The Figure 8.3.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure for start self-configuration
management.
{width="5.208333333333333in" height="5.104166666666667in"}
Figure 8.3.2.2-1: Procedures for self-configuration management
1\. MnS consumer of self-configuration management sends
createScManagementProfile request for NE(s) of a certain type to MnS producer
of self-configuration management. NE information, stop point information and
step information may be included in the request.
2\. MnS producer of self-configuration management creates ScManagementProfile
instance for NE(s) specified in the received request.
3\. MnS producer of self-configuration management sends the create
ScManagementProfile response to MnS producer of self-configuration management.
4\. For each NE (specified in the created ScManagementProfile) starting its
self-configuration process, MnS producer of self-configuration management
sends NotifyScProcessCreation notification to MnS consumer of self-
configuration management.
5\. When arrival at a stop point (e.g. stop point waiting for the network
configuration data) or step described in corresponding ScManagementProfile,
MnS producer of self-configuration management sends NotifyProcessStage
notification to MnS consumer of self-configuration management.
6\. If arrival at a stop point in step 5), MnS consumer of self-configuration
management sends ResumeScProcess request to MnS producer of self-configuration
management. If the self-configuration process is suspended at a stop point and
is waiting for the network configuration data, the request include network
configuration data or information indicating location of network configuration
data.
7\. When the self-configuration process is terminated, the MnS producer of
self-configuration management sends NotifyScProcessDeletion notification to
MnS consumer of self-configuration management.
###### ## Annex A (informative): PlantUML source code
# A.1 Procedures for establishment of a new RAN NE in network
## A.1.1 Procedure for plug and connect to management system
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
multi-vendor plug and connect to management system, as depicted by Figure
8.3.2.1-1:
\@startuml
title \" Plug and connect to management system\"
actor NE
participant \"IP autoconfiugration server\" as IP_Server
participant \"public DNS server\" as P_DNS_Server
participant \"CA/RA\" as CA_RA
participant SeGW
participant \"secure DNS server\" as S_DNS_Server
participant \"secure DHCP server\" as S_DHCP_Server
participant MnF
alt VLAN ID is available
NE->NE: 1a.use available VLAN Id
Else
NE->NE: 1b.use native VLAN Id
End
Ref over NE, IP_Server: 2. Initial IP Autoconfiguration
Ref over NE, IP_Server,CA_RA: 3. Certificate Enrolment
Ref over NE, IP_Server,CA_RA,SeGW: 4. Establishing Secure Connection
Ref over NE, IP_Server,CA_RA,SeGW,MnF: 5 Establishing Connection to MnF
skinparam sequenceActorBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam sequenceParticipantBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam noteBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
autonumber \"#\'.\'\"
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam shadowing false
\@enduml
## A.1.2 Procedure for self-configuration management
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for self-
configuration management, as depicted by Figure 8.3.2.2-1:
\@startuml
title \" Procedures for self-configuration management \"
actor \"MnS Consumer of \n self-configuration management\" as SC
participant \"MnS Producer of \n self-configuration management\" as SP
SC -> SP: 1. createScManagementProfile request
SP -> SP: 2. Create ScManagementProfile
SP -> SC: 3. createScManagementProfile response
loop [Corresponding NE start its self-configuration process]
opt
SP -> SC: 4. NotifyScProcessCreation
end
\|\|\|
loop stop point or step is arrived
SP -> SC: 5. NotifyScProcessStage
opt if the stop point is arrived
SC -> SP: 6. ResumeScProcess
end
end
\|\|\|
SP->SC: 7.NotifyScProcessDeletion
end
skinparam sequenceActorBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam sequenceParticipantBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
skinparam noteBackgroundColor #FFFFFF
autonumber \"#\'.\'\"
skinparam monochrome true
skinparam shadowing false
#