# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies concept, use cases, requirements and solutions
for the intent driven management for service or network management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
...
[x] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Intent:** A desire to reach a certain state for a specific service or
network management workflow.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Concepts and Background
Editor\'s note: this clause will contain concepts and overview information
relevant to the intent driven management.
## 4.1 Intent concept
### 4.1.1 Introduction
An intent is a desire to reach a certain state/position for a specific service
or network management workflow. The intent expression information may include
particular objective and possibly some related details. Intent can be
categorized based on different user types or different management scenario
types.
### 4.1.2 Intent categorizes based on user types
Based on roles related to 5G networks and network slicing management defined
in clause 4.8 in TS 28.530[X], different kinds of intents are applicable for
different kinds of standardized reference interfaces.
Figure 4.1.2-1: High-level model of different kind of intents expressed by
different roles
**\- Intent from Communication Service Customer (Intent-CSC)** : Intent from
Communication Service Customer enables Communication Service Customer (CSC) to
provide what CSC would like to do for the communication service without
knowing how to do the detailed management for communication service. For
example, Intent-CSC can be \'Enable a V2X communication service for a group of
vehicles in certain time\'.
**\- Intent from Communication Service Provider (Intent-CSP)** : Intent from
Communication Service Provider enables Communication Service Provider (CSP) to
express an intent about what CSP would like to do for network without knowing
how to do the detailed management for network. For example, Intent-CSP can be
\'Provide a network service supporting V2X communications for highway-417 to
support 500 vehicles simultaneously\'.
**\- Intent from Network Operator(Intent-NOP):** Intent from Network Operator
enables Network Operator (NOP) to provide what NOP would like to do for group
of network elements (i.e. subnetwork) management and control without knowing
how to do the detailed management for the network elements. For example,
Intent-NOP can be \'Provide a radio network service to satisfy the specified
coverage requirements and UE throughput requirement in certain area\'.
### 4.1.3 Intent categorizes based on management scenario types
Based on different the scenarios for network and service management, different
kinds of intents are applicable for different kinds of management scenario
types.
  * **Intent for network and service design/planning**
  * **Intent for network and service deployment**
  * **Intent for network and service maintenance**
  * **Intent for network and service optimization/assurance**
Editor's Note: the detailed intent categorizes for different kinds of
management scenario types need to be further discussed, for example, whether
the Intent for network and service design/planning and Intent for network and
service maintenance is needed.
## 4.2 Intent driven MnS
Introduction of service-based architecture for 5G, in combination with
functional model of business roles, exceeds the level of complexity for
managing network in different scenarios (including scenarios for
design/planning, deployment, maintenance and optimization) both in a single
and multivendor network. New/simpler ways of managing are needed.
An Intent driven MnS allows its consumer to express intents for managing the
network and services and obtain the feedback of intent evaluation result. The
Intent-driven MnS producer have the following capabilities:
  * Translate the received intent to executable actions as follows:
```{=html}
``` \- Performing service or network management tasks
  * Identifying, formulating and activating service or network management policies
```{=html}
``` \- Evaluate the result/information about the intent fulfilment (e.g. the
intent is satisfied or not).
The following figure 4.2-1 shows the model of Intent-driven MnS.
Figure 4.2-1: Intent-driven MnS
The MnS of various kinds are specified for deployment over many standardized
reference interfaces. So, the Intent-driven MnS could in principle, be
specified for deployment over the same set of standardized reference
interfaces, as a replacement of or as an addition to the deployed non-Intent
driven MnS.
## 4.3 Intent driven closed-loop
Intent can be used for management and control of closed-loop automation (e.g.
intent can be used as the goals for the closed-loop), which means the intent
can be translated to policies and management tasks by MnS producer to execute
the closed-loop automation. In the intent driven management approach, how MnS
producer using closed-loop automation mechanisms to satisfy the intent is the
implementation of the MnS producer and shall not be standardized. The closed-
loop automation of Intent driven MnS producer is shown in the figure 4.3-1.
Figure 4.3-1 Intent driven closed-loop
# 5 Specification Level Requirements
Editor\'s note: this clause will contain specific use case and requirements
for intent driven management.
## 5.1 Use cases
Editor\'s note: this clause will contain specific use case for intent driven
management. The use case can be categorized into some sub-clauses (e.g. one
sub-clause for deployment related use case, and one sub-clause for
optimization related use cases)
## 5.2 Requirements
Editor\'s note: this clause will contain specific requirements for intent
driven management.
# 6 Stage 2 definition for Intent Driven Management
Editor\'s note: this clause will specify the stage2 definition for Intent
driven management which may include the management operations, management
entities and management information
# 7 Stage 3 definition for Intent Driven Management
Editor\'s note: this clause will specify the solution set for Intent Driven
Management defined in clause 6.
#