# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document contains the architecture, requirements, use cases,
procedures and definitions of interfaces for policy management for 4G
networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] ETSI GR NFV-IFA 023 (V3.1.1): \"Network Function Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Report on Policy Management in MANO; Release
3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.312: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Integration
Reference Point (IRP) management: Information Service (IS)\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
Void.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
EM Element Management
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
NFVI Network Functions Virtualization Infrastructure
NFVO Network Functions Virtualization Orchestrator
NM Network Management
PAF Policy Administration Function
PF Policy Function
VIM Virtualized Infrastructure Manager
VNF Virtualized Network Function
VNFM VNF Manager
# 4 Overview
NFV policy management system may have policy conflict problem, which is a
newly created policy may be conflict with an existing policy.
There are two potential policy conflict detection approaches, one is policy
conflict detection in the Policy Function (PF), which makes the policy
execution decisions, and the other one is policy conflict detection in the
Policy Administration Function (PAF), which defines the network policy. There
are multiple scenarios for policy conflict. For example, if the events are the
same and the same condition are triggered (e.g. scaling policy on a VNF), but
two policies have different actions, the conflict should be detected and
resolved. It is not easy for one PF to resolve all of scenarios of the policy
conflict. Hence, it is reasonable to enable PAF to resolve policy conflict,
while the conflict detected by PAF or PF based on different specific
scenarios, and the present document try to resolve the problem.
# 5 Policy management architecture
In order to delegate the support of policy control for virtualized NFs such as
automatic scale in/out under certain condition , 3GPP management system would
use the ETSI NFV defined related policy features/services. Consequently, two
important logical functions are needed for the definition of the 3GPP policy
management architecture.
1) Policy Administration Function (PAF) provides the services as follows:
\- Allows the operator to define and administrate the network policy
2) Policy Function (PF) makes the decision for policy execution and provides
the services as follows:
\- Activating/deactivating the network policy
\- Event subscription/notification of the network policy execution
\- Providing relevant data and parameters during the process of policy
execution (e.g. execution time consuming)
The 3GPP global policy management system would affect the behavior of all 3GPP
defined nodes and would delegate the support of policy for virtualized NFs in
ETSI MANO systems [2]. For NFV related policy management, 3GPP mainly focus on
NM acting as PAF and EM acted as PF, and the interface between the NM and EM
can be updated to support policy related operations. Hence, 3GPP policy
management architecture under NFV scenario is as follows.
Figure 5-1: NFV policy management architecture in reference point presentation
NFV related policy interfaces between 3GPP management system and MANO such as
Os-Ma-nfvo and Ve-Vnfm-em have been defined by ETSI.
# 6 Business level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
**REQ-POM_PO-CON-1** 3GPP management system should be able to support the
capability about the network policy.
## 6.2 Actor roles
See detailed actors and roles for each use case in clause 6.4.
## 6.3 Telecommunication resources
See detailed telecommunication resources for each use case in clause 6.4.
## 6.4 High-level use cases
### 6.4.1 Deploy the network function
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | According to the network | | | | deployment policy, 3GPP | | | | system use the policy to | | | | deploy the corresponding | | | | network. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | | | create/delete/update | | | | /query/activate/deactivate | | | | the network deployment | | | | policy, EM execute the | | | | NM's policy operation | | | | request, and notifies NM | | | | policy conflict, if exist. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | (EM, NM) | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management system | | | | want to deploy a network | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The operator designs the | | | | network deployment | | | | requirement and need | | | | deploy the network based | | | | on the requirement. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | There is a new network | | | | policy about the network | | | | deployment. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The operator sets up the | | | | network deployment policy | | | | through NM. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | The NM activates the | | | | policy and notifies | | | | related EM. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | The EM follows the policy | | | | to design the network then | | | | the network is | | | | instantiated by the | | | | management system. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | The EM informs the NM that | | | | the policy has been | | | | executed. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The network is correctly | | | | configured and normally | | | | running | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-POM_PO-CON-1 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
# 7 Specification level requirements
## 7.1 Requirements
**REQ-POM-FUN-01**
The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to allow the IRPManager to create
the network policy.
**REQ-POM-FUN-02**
The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to allow the IRPManager to delete
the network policy.
**REQ-POM-FUN-03**
The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to allow the IRPManager to update
the network policy.
**REQ-POM-FUN-04**
The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to allow the IRPManager to query the
network policy.
**REQ-POM-FUN-05**
The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to allow the IRPManager to activate
the network policy.
**REQ-POM-FUN-06**
The IRPAgent shall provide the capability to allow the IRPManager to
deactivate the network policy.
**REQ-POM-FUN-07**
The IRPAgent should notify the IRPManager when there is a network policy
conflict.
## 7.2 Actor roles
See detailed actors and roles for each use case in clause 7.4.
## 7.3 Telecommunications resources
See detailed telecommunication resources for each use case in clause 7.4.
## 7.4 Use cases
### 7.4.1 Create a policy in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To create a policy such as | | | | deploying the SBC from IMS | | | | and P-GW from EPC in the | | | | same Data Centre. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | (NM, EM). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management systems | | | | are running normally, | | | | scenarios and policy | | | | requirements are clearly | | | | defined. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The systems is correctly | | | | configured and normally | | | | running. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | The IRPManager decides to | | | | create a policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The IPRManager makes a | | | | decision to create a | | | | network policy according | | | | to the network | | | | requirements, such as | | | | deploying the SBC. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | After the completion of | | | | the policy creation | | | | process, the IRPAgent | | | | informs the IRPManager on | | | | the result of the process. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The policy is created and | | | | stored in the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-POM-FUN -01 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 7.4.2 Delete a policy in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To delete a policy such as | | | | deploying the SBC from IMS | | | | and P-GW from EPC in the | | | | same Data Center. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | (NM, EM). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management systems | | | | are running normally, | | | | scenarios and policy | | | | requirements are clearly | | | | defined. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The systems is correctly | | | | configured and normally | | | | running. There is a | | | | network policy stored in | | | | the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | The IRPManager decides to | | | | delete a policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The IPRManager makes a | | | | decision to delete the | | | | existing policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | After the completion of | | | | the policy deletion | | | | process, the IRPAgent | | | | informs the IRPManager on | | | | the result of the process. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The policy is deleted in | | | | the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-POM-FUN -02 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 7.4.3 Update a policy in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To update an existing | | | | network policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | (NM, EM). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management systems | | | | are running normally, | | | | scenarios and policy | | | | requirements are clearly | | | | defined. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The systems is correctly | | | | configured and normally | | | | running. There is a | | | | network policy stored in | | | | the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | The IRPManager decides to | | | | update a policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The IPRManager makes a | | | | decision to update the | | | | existing policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | After the completion of | | | | the policy update process, | | | | the IRPAgent informs the | | | | IRPManager on the result | | | | of the process. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The policy is updated and | | | | stored in the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-POM-FUN -03 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 7.4.4 Query a policy in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To query an existing | | | | network policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | (NM, EM). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management systems | | | | are running normally, | | | | scenarios and policy | | | | requirements are clearly | | | | defined. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The systems is correctly | | | | configured and normally | | | | running. There is a | | | | network policy stored in | | | | the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | The IRPManager decides to | | | | query a policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The IPRManager makes a | | | | decision to query the | | | | existing policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | After the completion of | | | | the policy query process, | | | | the IRPAgent informs the | | | | IRPManager on the result | | | | of the process. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The policy information is | | | | returned to the | | | | IPRManager. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-POM-FUN -04 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 7.4.5 Activate a policy in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To activate an existing | | | | network policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | (NM, EM). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management systems | | | | are running normally, | | | | scenarios and policy | | | | requirements are clearly | | | | defined. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The systems is correctly | | | | configured and normally | | | | running. There is a | | | | network policy stored in | | | | the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | The IRPManager decides to | | | | active a policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The IPRManager makes a | | | | decision to active the | | | | existing policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | After the completion of | | | | the policy activation | | | | process, the IRPAgent | | | | informs the IRPManager on | | | | the result of the process. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The policy is activated in | | | | the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-POM-FUN -05 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 7.4.6 Deactivate a policy in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To query an existing | | | | network policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | (NM, EM). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management systems | | | | are running normally, | | | | scenarios and policy | | | | requirements are clearly | | | | defined. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The systems is correctly | | | | configured and normally | | | | running. There is an | | | | active network policy | | | | stored in the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | The IRPManager decides to | | | | deactive a policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The IPRManager makes a | | | | decision to deactive the | | | | existing policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | After the completion of | | | | the policy deactivation | | | | process, the IRPAgent | | | | informs the IRPManager on | | | | the result of the process. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The policy is deactivated | | | | in the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-POM-FUN -06 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 7.4.7 Reporting policy conflicts in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To query an existing | | | | network policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager as user | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | (NM, EM). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | 3GPP management systems | | | | are running normally, | | | | scenarios and policy | | | | requirements are clearly | | | | defined. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The systems is correctly | | | | configured and normally | | | | running. There is a | | | | network policy stored in | | | | the IRPAgent. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | The IRPManager decides to | | | | update a policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The IPRManager makes a | | | | decision to query the | | | | existing policy. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | After the completion of | | | | the policy conflicts | | | | notification process, the | | | | IRPAgent informs the | | | | IRPManager on the result | | | | of the process. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The policy conflicts | | | | notification is returned | | | | to the IRPManager. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-POM-FUN -07 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
# 8 Policy management procedures
## 8.1 General description for policy management procedures
There are two kinds of management procedures. The first kind includes those
operations that allow the NM to invoke policy management operations towards
the EM.
  * Policy Creation
  * Policy Deletion
  * Policy Update
  * Policy Query
  * Policy Activation
  * Policy Deactivation
The second kind includes the operation that the EM notifies NM policy
conflicts found in EM.
  * Policy Conflicts Notification.
## 8.2 Policy Creation
After the NM (IRP Manager) decides to create a policy (ies), it will send the
create request to the EM (IRP Agent).
Figure 8.2: policy creation message flow
## 8.3 Policy Deletion
After the NM (IRP Manager) decides to delete a policy (ies), it will send the
delete request to the EM (IRP Agent).
Figure 8.3: policy deletion message flow
## 8.4 Policy Update
After the NM (IRP Manager) decides to update a policy (ies), it will send the
update request to the EM (IRP Agent).
Figure 8.4: policy update message flow
## 8.5 Policy Query
After the NM (IRP Manager) decides to query a policy, it will send the query
request to the EM (IRP Agent). For the query request, the EM (IRP Agent) sends
back the response with the policy to the NM (IRP Manager).
Figure 8.5: policy query message flow
## 8.6 Policy Activation
After the NM (IRP Manager) decides to activate a policy (ies), it will send
the policy activation request to the EM (IRP Agent).
Figure 8.6: policy activation message flow
## 8.7 Policy Deactivation
After the NM (IRP Manager) decides to deactivate a policy (ies), it will send
the policy deactivation request to the EM (IRP Agent).
Figure 8.7: policy deactivation message flow
## 8.8 Policy Conflicts Notification
When the EM (IRP Agent) receives new or updated policy (ies) from NM (IRP
Manager), it will check whether the each received policy is conflicts with the
previous storage policy. If the conflict is detected, the EM (IRP Agent) will
notify the information to the NM (IRP Manager).
Figure 8.8: policy conflicts notification message flow
# 9 Information Object Classes
## 9.1 Information entities imported and local label
* * *
Label reference Local label TS 32.312 [3], information object class,
ManagedGenericIRP ManagedGenericIRP
* * *
## 9.2 Class diagram
### 9.2.1 Attributes and relationships
This clause introduces the set of information object classes (IOCs) that
encapsulate capabilities contained within the IRP. This clause provides the
overview of all support object classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these support object classes.
{width="3.7090277777777776in" height="3.3652777777777776in"}
Figure 9.2.1: Information Object Class UML Diagram
### 9.2.2 Inheritance
This IOC inherits from ManagedGenericIRP IOC specified in TS.32.312 [3].
{width="1.9166666666666667in" height="1.8229166666666667in"}
Figure 9.2.2: Information Object Class UML Diagram
## 9.3 Information object classes definition
### 9.3.1 Policy
#### 9.3.1.1 Definition
This IOC represents a network policy.
#### 9.3.1.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadble isWriteble isInvariant isNotifyable
policyId M T F T T policyPriority M T T F T policyStatus M T T F T policyType
M T T F T policyContent M T T F T
* * *
### 9.3.2 PolicyList
#### 9.3.2.1 Definition
PolicyList is the representation of the list of Policy.
#### 9.3.2.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadble isWriteble isInvariant isNotifyable
policyListId M T F T T policyIdList M T F T T
* * *
### 9.3.3 PolicyManagementIRP
#### 9.3.3.1 Definition
PolicyManagementIRP is the representation of the policy management
capabilities specified by the present document. This Support IOC inherits from
ManagedGenericIRP Support IOC specified in 3GPP TS 32.312 [x].
#### 9.3.3.2 Attribute
There is no additional attribute defined for this IOC besides those inherited.
#### 9.3.3.3 Notifications
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes policyConflictNotification M If there is network policy
conflict(s), then the IRPAgent may send this notification to the IPRmanager
* * *
## 9.4 Information relationship definitions
### 9.4.1 relation-PolicyManagementIRP-PolicyList (M)
#### 9.4.1.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between PolicyManagementIRP and PolicyList.
#### 9.4.1.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition thePolicyList It represents the PolicyList.
thePolicyManagementIRP It represents the PolicyManagementIRP.
* * *
#### 9.4.1.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition uniquePolicyListId The policyListIds playing the role of
thePolicyList are unique within a particular PolicyManagementIRP.
* * *
### 9.4.2 relation-PolicyList-Policy (M)
#### 9.4.2.1 Definition
This represents the relationship between PolicyList and Policy.
#### 9.4.2.2 Role
* * *
Name Definition thePolicy It represents the Policy. thePolicyList It
represents the PolicyList.
* * *
#### 9.4.2.3 Constraint
* * *
Name Definition uniquePolicyId The policyIds of all Policys, playing the role
of the Policy, are unique within a particular PolicyManagementIRP and
PolicyList.
* * *
## 9.5 Information attribute definitions
### 9.5.0 Introduction
This clause defines the semantics of the attributes used in SupportIOCs.
### 9.5.1 Definitions and legal values
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Definition | Legal Values | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | policyId | It identifies the | Any identifier. | | | Policy instance (and | Value type is | | | distinguishes it | string. | | | from all other | | | | existing and stopped | | | | Policy instances of | | | | the | | | | PolicyManagementIRP | | | | Agent). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | policyPriority | It specifies the | Its value should be | | | priority of Policy | one of the | | | | following: | | | | | | | | Low, | | | | | | | | Medium, | | | | | | | | High | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | policyStatus | It specifies the | Its value should be | | | status of Policy. If | one of the | | | a policy is | following: | | | activated, and then | | | | its status is | Activated, | | | active. If it is | | | | deactivated ,then | Deactivated | | | its status is | | | | deactivated | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | policyType | It identifies a name | Its value is network | | | of one policy type | operator specific. | | | | Value type is | | | | string. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | policyContent | It identifies the | Its value is network | | | content of a network | operator specific. | | | policy | Value type is | | | | string. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | policyListId | It identifies the | Any identifier. | | | singleton PolicyList | Value type is | | | of the | string. | | | PolicyManagementIRP | | | | Agent. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | policyIdList | It is an array list | Value type is array. | | | of Policy.policyId. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | policy | It specifies which | Its value is vendor | | ConflictNotification | policies conflict. | specific. Value type | | | | is string. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 10 Interface definition
## 10.1 Class diagram
{width="5.448611111111111in" height="2.8340277777777776in"}
Figure 10.1: Class Diagram
## 10.2 PolicyManagementIRPOperations_Interface (M)
### 10.2.1 Operation createPolicy (M)
#### 10.2.1.1 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment designer M
Policy.designer See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). name M
Policy.name See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyPriority M
Policy.policyPriority See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
policyStatus M Policy.policyStatus See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal
values). policyType M Policy.policyType See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and
legal values). policyContent M Policy.policyContent See clause 9.5.1
(definitions and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.1.2 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment designer M
Policy.designer See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). name M
Policy.name See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyId M
Policy.policyId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
policyPriority M Policy.policyPriority See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal
values). policyStatus M Policy.policyStatus See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and
legal values). policyType M Policy.policyType See clause 9.5.1 (definitions
and legal values). policyContent M Policy.policyContent See clause 9.5.1
(definitions and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.1.3 Results
In case of success, the corresponding policy information is created by the EM
(IRP Agent). In case of failure, appropriate error information is returned.
### 10.2.2 Operation deletePolicy (M)
#### 10.2.2.1 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment policyId M
Policy.policyId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.2.2 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment designer M
Policy.designer See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). name M
Policy.name See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyId M
Policy.policyId The policyId of the deleted policy. See clause 9.5.1
(definitions and legal values). policyPriority M Policy.policyPriority See
clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyStatus M
Policy.policyStatus See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
policyType M Policy.policyType See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal
values). policyContent M Policy.policyContent See clause 9.5.1 (definitions
and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.2.3 Results
In case of success, the policy information are deleted by the EM (IRP Agent),
and the corresponding deleted policy information is returned to the NM (IRP
Manager). In case of failure, appropriate error information is returned.
### 10.2.3 Operation updatePolicy (M)
#### 10.2.3.1 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment designer O
Policy.designer See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). name O
Policy.name See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyId M
Policy.policyId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).This
parameter's value is not allowed to be updated. policyPriority O
Policy.policyPriority See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). This
parameter's value is allowed to be updated. policyStatus M Policy.policyStatus
See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). This parameter's value is
allowed to be updated. policyType O Policy.policyType See clause 9.5.1
(definitions and legal values). This parameter's value is allowed to be
updated. policyContent O Policy.policyContent See clause 9.5.1 (definitions
and legal values). This parameter's value is allowed to be updated.
* * *
#### 10.2.2.2 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment designer M
Policy.designer See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). name M
Policy.name See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyId M
Policy.policyId The policyId of the deleted policy. See clause 9.5.1
(definitions and legal values). policyPriority M Policy.policyPriority See
clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyStatus M
Policy.policyStatus See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
policyType M Policy.policyType See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal
values). policyContent M Policy.policyContent See clause 9.5.1 (definitions
and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.2.3 Results
In case of success, the corresponding policy information is updated by the EM
(IRP Agent). In case of failure, appropriate error information is returned.
### 10.2.4 Operation queryPolicy (M)
#### 10.2.4.1 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment policyId M
Policy.policyId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.4.2 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment designer M
Policy.designer See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). name M
Policy.name See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyId M
Policy.policyId The policyId of the deleted policy. See clause 9.5.1
(definitions and legal values). policyPriority M Policy.policyPriority See
clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyStatus M
Policy.policyStatus See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
policyType M Policy.policyType See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal
values). policyContent M Policy.policyContent See clause 9.5.1 (definitions
and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.4.3 Results
In case of success, the corresponding policy information is returned by the EM
(IRP Agent). In case of failure, appropriate error information is returned.
### 10.2.5 Operation activatePolicy (M)
#### 10.2.5.1 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment policyId M
Policy.policyId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.3.5.2 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment designer M
Policy.designer See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). name M
Policy.name See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). PolicyId M
Policy.policyId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). Identifier of
the activated Policy. policyPriority M Policy.policyPriority See clause 9.5.1
(definitions and legal values). policyStatus M Policy.policyStatus See clause
9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyType M Policy.policyType See
clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyContent M
Policy.policyContent See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.3.5.3 Results
In case of success, the policy(ies) information are activated by the EM (IRP
Agent) , and the activated policy information is returned to the NM (IRP
Manager). In case of failure, appropriate error information is returned.
### 10.2.6 Operation deactivatePolicy (M)
#### 10.2.6.1 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment policyId M Policy.
policyId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.6.2 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment designer M
Policy.designer See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). name M
Policy.name See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). PolicyId M
Policy. policyId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). Identifier
of the activated Policy. policyPriority M Policy. policyPriority See clause
9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyStatus M Policy. policyStatus See
clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyType M Policy. policyType
See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). policyContent M Policy.
policyContent See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.6.3 Results
In case of success, the policy(ies) information are deactivated by the EM (IRP
Agent), and the deactivated policy information is returned to the NM (IRP
Manager). In case of failure, appropriate error information is returned.
### 10.2.7 Operation queryPolicyList (M)
#### 10.2.7.1 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment policyListId M
PolicyList.policyListId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
* * *
#### 10.2.7.2 Output parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment policyListId M
PolicyList.policyListId See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values).
policyIdList M PolicyList.policyIdList See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal
values).
* * *
#### 10.2.7.3 Results
In case of success, the EM (IRP Agent) returns the corresponding policy
information. In case of failure, appropriate error information is returned.
## 10.3 PolicyManagementIRPNotification_Interface (M)
### 10.3.1 policyConflictNotification
#### 10.3.1.1 Input parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Qualifier Matching Information Comment activatedPolicyList M
List of \ and their corresponding policy is
activated. See clause 9.5.1 (definitions and legal values). Identifier(s) of
the activated Policy.
* * *
#### 10.3.1.2 Triggering Event
##### 10.3.1.2.1 From-state
internalProblem
* * *
Assertion Name Definition internalProblem Because of a network policy
conflict's problem, PolicyManagementIRP Agent decides that it no longer can
maintain the policy in any policyStatus but \"deactivated\".
* * *
##### 10.3.1.2.2 To-state
policyConflictNotification
* * *
Assertion Name Definition policyConflictNotification There is network
policyconflict(s).
* * *
# 11 Solution Set (SS) definitions
The present document defines the following policy management Solution Set
Definitions:
\- Annex A provides the XML Definitions.
\- Annex B provides the SOAP Solution Set.
###### ## Annex A (normative): XML definitions
# A.1 General
This annex contains the XML definitions for the policy management Integration
Reference Point.
# A.2 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of policy management IRP is specified, this
clause specifies features that are specific to the Schema definitions.
The present document provides the main part of the XML file format definition
for the policy management IRP IS.
The other parts of this XML definition are NRM-specific parts. All NRM IRPs
that include SS-level XML definition are in the scope of the policy management
IRP.
# A.3 Mapping
## A.3.1 General mapping
An IOC maps to an XML element of the same name as the IOC\'s name in the
Information Model. An IOC attribute maps to a sub-element of the corresponding
IOC\'s XML element, and the name of this sub-element is the same as the
attribute\'s name in the Information Model.
## A.3.2 Information Object Class (IOC) mapping
The mapping is not present in the current version of the present document.
# A.4 Solution Set definitions
## A.4.1 XML definition structure
Clause A.4.2 provides a graphical representation of the XML elements.
Clause A.4.3 provides the schema fragment for policy management (policy
creation/deletion/update/query/activation/deactivation/conflicts notification)
XML files.
## A.4.2 Graphical Representation
The graphical representation is not present in the current version of the
present document.
## A.4.3 XML Schema "PolicyManagement.xsd"
\
\
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
###### ## Annex B (normative): SOAP Solution Set
# B.1 General
This annex contains the XML definitions for the policy management Integration
Reference Point.
# B.2 Architectural features
The overall architectural feature of the policy management IRP is specified in
the present document. This clause specifies features that are specific to the
SOAP Solution Set.
The present document uses \"document\" style in the WSDL description.
The present document uses \"literal\" encoding style in the WSDL description.
# B.3 Mapping
## B.3.1 Operation and notification mapping
Policy management IRP management: Clause 9 defines semantics of operation
visible across the Itf-N. Table B.3 indicates mapping of these operations to
their equivalents defined in this SS.
Table B.3: Mapping from IS Operation to SS Equivalents
* * *
IS Operation SS Operation Qualifier createPolicy createPolicy M deletePolicy
deletePolicy M updatePolicy updatePolicy M queryPolicy queryPolicy M
activatePolicy activatePolicy M deactivatePolicy deactivatePolicy M
queryPolicyList queryPolicyList M policyConflictNotification
policyConflictNotification M
* * *
## B.3.2 Operation parameter mapping
### B.3.2.0 General
The clause 10 defines semantics of parameters carried in operations. The
tables below show the mapping of these parameters, as per operation, to their
equivalents defined in this SS.
### B.3.2.1 Operation createPolicy
#### B.3.2.1.1 Input parameters
Table B.3.2.1.1: Mapping from IS createPolicy input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier designer designer M
name name M policyPriority policyPriority M policyStatus policyStatus M
policyType policyType M policyContent policyContent M
* * *
#### B.3.2.1.2 Output parameters
Table B.3.2.1.2: Mapping from IS createPolicy output parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier designer designer M
name name M policyId policyInfoId M policyPriority policyPriority M
policyStatus policyStatus M policyType policyType M policyContent
policyContent M
* * *
### B.3.2.2 Operation deletePolicy
#### B.3.2.2.1 Input parameters
Table B.3.2.2.1: Mapping from IS deletePolicy input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier policyId policyInfoId
M
* * *
#### B.3.2.2.2 Output parameters
Table B.3.2.2.2: Mapping from IS deletePolicy output parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier designer designer M
name name M policyId policyInfoId M policyPriority policyPriority M
policyStatus policyStatus M policyType policyType M policyContent
policyContent M
* * *
### B.3.2.3 Operation updatePolicy
#### B.3.2.3.1 Input parameters
Table B.3.2.3.1: Mapping from IS updatePolicy input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier designer designer O
name name O policyId policyInfoId M policyPriority policyPriority O
policyStatus policyStatus M policyType policyType O policyContent
policyContent O
* * *
#### B.3.2.3.2 Output parameters
Table B.3.2.3.2: Mapping from IS updatePolicy output parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier designer designer M
name name M policyId policyInfoId M policyPriority policyPriority M
policyStatus policyStatus M policyType policyType M policyContent
policyContent M
* * *
### B.3.2.4 Operation queryPolicy
#### B.3.2.4.1 Input parameters
Table B.3.2.4.1: Mapping from IS queryPolicy input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier policyId policyInfoId
M
* * *
#### B.3.2.4.2 Output parameters
Table B.3.2.4.2: Mapping from IS queryPolicy input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier designer designer M
name name M policyId policyInfoId M policyPriority policyPriority M
policyStatus policyStatus M policyType policyType M policyContent
policyContent M
* * *
### B.3.2.5 Operation activatePolicy
#### B.3.2.5.1 Input parameters
Table B.3.2.5.1: Mapping from IS activatePolicy input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier policyId policyInfoId
M
* * *
#### B.3.2.5.2 Output parameters
Table B.3.2.5.2: Mapping from IS startSession input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier designer designer M
name name M policyId policyInfoId M policyPriority policyPriority M
policyStatus policyStatus M policyType policyType M policyContent
policyContent M
* * *
### B.3.2.6 Operation deactivatePolicy
#### B.3.2.6.1 Input parameters
Table B.3.2.6.1: Mapping from IS deactivatePolicy input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier policyId policyInfoId
M
* * *
#### B.3.2.6.2 Output parameters
Table B.3.2.6.2: Mapping from IS deactivatePolicy input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier designer designer M
name name M policyId policyInfoId M policyPriority policyPriority M
policyStatus policyStatus M policyType policyType M policyContent
policyContent M
* * *
### B.3.2.7 Operation queryPolicyList
#### B.3.2.7.1 Input parameters
Table B.3.2.7.1: Mapping from IS listPolicys input parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier policyListId
policyListId M
* * *
#### B.3.2.7.2 Output parameters
Table B.3.2.7.2: Mapping from IS listPolicys output parameters to SS
equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier policyListId
policyListId M policyIdList policyIdList M
* * *
### B.3.2.8 Operation policyConflictNotification
#### B.3.2.8.1 Input parameters
Table B.3.2.8.1: Mapping from IS policyConflictNOtificaition output parameters
to SS equivalents
* * *
IS Operation parameter SS Operation parameter Qualifier activatedPolicyList
activatedPolicyList M
* * *
#### B.3.2.8.2 Output parameters
Void.
# B.4 Solution Set definitions
## B.4.1 WSDL definition structure
The present document defines the main part of what are supported by the policy
management IRP agent.
## B.4.2 Graphical Representation
The graphical representation is not present in the current version of the
present document.
## B.4.3 WSDL specification "PolicyManagementIRPSystem.wsdl"
\
\
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
> \
>
> \
>
> \
>
> \  > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ message=\"PolicyMangementIRPSystem:deactivePolicyResponse\"/\> > > \ > > \ > > \ > > \ message=\"PolicyMangementIRPSystem:queryPolicyListResponse\"/\> > > \ > > \ > > \ message=\"PolicyMangementIRPSystem:policyConflictNotificationRequest\"/\> > > \ > > \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ > \ > > \ binding=\"PolicyMangementIRPSystem: PolicyMangementIRPBinding\"\> > > \ location=\"http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/28\\_series/28.311\\#BulkCMIRP\"/\> > > \ > > \ binding=\"genericIRPSystem:GenericIRPBinding\"\> > > \ location=\"http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/specs/archive/28\\_series/28.311\\#GenericIRP\"/\> > > \ > > \ \ ######## Annex C (informative): Change history +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * | **T | * | ** | ** | **Su | **New | | ate** | *Meet | Doc** | *CR** | Rev** | Cat** | bject | vers | | | ing** | | | | | /Comm | ion** | | | | | | | | ent** | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | | Ske | 0.0.0 | | 18-09 | | | | | | leton | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.1.0 | | 18-10 | \\#121 | 86398 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | S5-1 | | | | impl | | | | | 86468 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | pCRs | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | SA5\ | | | | | | | | | #121: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 86398 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.311 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | Scope | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 86468 | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-16 | | | | | | | | | draft | | | | | | | | | TS | | | | | | | | | Ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.311 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.2.0 | | 18-11 | \\#122 | 87385 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | S5-1 | | | | impl | | | | | 87386 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | pCRs | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | SA5\ | | | | | | | | | #122: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 87385 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ar | | | | | | | | | chite | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 87386 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | Bus | | | | | | | | | iness | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.3.0 | | 19-06 | \\#125 | 94428 | | | | pdate | | | | Adhoc | | | | | to | | | | | S5-1 | | | | impl | | | | | 94429 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5-1 | | | | a | | | | | 94430 | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | pCRs | | | | | S5-1 | | | | in | | | | | 94431 | | | | SA5\ | | | | | | | | | #125A | | | | | S5-1 | | | | dhoc: | | | | | 94432 | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | S5-1 | | | | 94428 | | | | | 94433 | | | | P | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | S5-1 | | | | Manag | | | | | 94434 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | Proce | | | | | S5-1 | | | | dures | | | | | 94435 | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94429 | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | | | | | Cre | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94430 | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | | | | | Del | | | | | | | | | etion | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94431 | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94432 | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | | | | | Query | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94433 | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | | | | | Activ | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94434 | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | | | | | De | | | | | | | | | activ | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94435 | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | | | | | Conf | | | | | | | | | licts | | | | | | | | | No | | | | | | | | | tific | | | | | | | | | ation | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.4.0 | | 19-08 | \\#126 | 95179 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | S5-1 | | | | impl | | | | | 95843 | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5-1 | | | | a | | | | | 95845 | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | pCRs | | | | | S5-1 | | | | in | | | | | 95846 | | | | SA5\ | | | | | | | | | #126: | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95847 | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95179 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | abb | | | | | | | | | revia | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95843 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | ences | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95845 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rview | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95846 | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | write | | | | | | | | | bus | | | | | | | | | iness | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 95847 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | spe | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.5.0 | | 19-10 | \\#127 | 96658 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | impl | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | pCRs | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | SA5\ | | | | | | | | | #127: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 96658 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | Se | | | | | | | | | t(SS) | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.6.0 | | 19-11 | \\#128 | 97763 | | | | pdate | | | | | S5-1 | | | | to | | | | | 97764 | | | | impl | | | | | S5-1 | | | | ement | | | | | 97765 | | | | the | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | S5-1 | | | | greed | | | | | 97766 | | | | pCRs | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | SA5\ | | | | | | | | | #128: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 97763 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.311 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | O | | | | | | | | | bject | | | | | | | | | Cl | | | | | | | | | asses | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 97764 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.311 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | XML | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 97765 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.311 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | SOAP | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | Set | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 97766 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.311 | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | write | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rface | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | SP-1 | | | | Pres | 1.0.0 | | 19-12 | A\\#86 | 91185 | | | | ented | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nform | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | roval | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | S | | | | | C | 1 | | 19-12 | A\\#86 | | | | | hange | 6.0.0 | | | | | | | | co | |