# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
**TS 28.404: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Concepts,
use cases and requirements\";**
TS 28.405: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Control and
configuration\";
TS 28.406: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection; Information
definition and transport\";
One main motivation of mobile network evolution is to improve the user
experience, which is why the evaluation of the user experience at the UE side
is vital to network operators. This is especially true when the operators
provide high bit rate real-time services like streaming services (typically
video services), where even intermittent quality degradation is very annoying.
Many of these streaming services are a significant part of the commercial
traffic growth rate, therefore the focus is on the end users\' experience .
Quality of Experience (QoE) information collection provides detailed
information at call level on a number of UEs.
The capability to log information within a UE, and in particular the QoE of an
end user service, initiated by an operator, provides the operator with QoE
information. The collected information (specified in TS 26.247 [2]) cannot be
deduced from performance measurements in the mobile network.
The QoE information is information collected by the end user application in
the UE.
The QoE information is collected by the management system for analysis and/or
KPI calculations.
# 1 Scope
The present document addresses concepts, business level use cases and
requirements for the function Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement
collection in UMTS and LTE. The measurements that are collected are DASH [2]
and MTSI [3] measurements.
The function includes collecting QoE information from UEs frequenting a
specified area .
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 26.247: \" Transparent end-to-end Packet-switched Streaming
Service (PSS); Progressive Download and Dynamic Adaptive Streaming over HTTP
(3GP-DASH)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.307: \"Quality of Experience (QoE) measurement collection
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
QoE Quality of Experience
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 _Concepts_
A network request session is a session in the mobile network when the network
checks for UEs that have the capability to provide requested information.
An UE request session is a session in the network when the network has found
an UE that has the capability to provide the requested information and the
request is forwarded to the UE.
A recording session is a session in the UE when it initiates recording of the
requested end user service/end user service type and record the requested
information.
## 4.2 Background
The collection of QoE information for a specified end user service/end user
service type either from UEs in a specified area . The collected _information_
is transported to a collection centre, where it can be analysed and/or KPIs
can be calculated.
_A collection can be requested by an operator technician via the management
system to the traffic network. As the network do not have any knowledge which
UEs have the capability to record the requested data, therefore the UEs will
report whether they have this capability or not when a session set up. UEs
that has this capability that match the request from the management system
will be requested to start recording the requested information when the
request constraints are met. The UE will make the recorded data available for
management system._
# 5 Business Level Requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 Collecting QoE information from end user services for UTRAN and LTE
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-1:** The operator shall have a capability to request
collection of QoE information per end user service/end user service type for a
specified area. The request may include an address of a collection centre to
which the collected information shall be delivered.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-2:** The application providing the end user service
performance information should have the capability to provide this information
to a collection centre.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-3:** It should be possible to restrict the QoE information
collection to a subset of the sessions in a UE using an end user service/end
user service type.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-4:** Void.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-5:** The management system shall have a capability to request
collection of end user service performance information for a specific service
type provided by specific streaming sources. The request may include
information of streaming sources for which the information shall be collected.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-6:** The 3GPP network shall have a capability to forward an
indication to the management system that a recording session has been started.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-7:** The operator shall have a capability to stop the
collection of QoE information job.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-8:** Void.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-9:** Void.
**REQ-EUSPC-CON-10:** Void.
NOTE: The QoE _information_ to be collected are specified in ref. 3GPP TS
26.247 [2] and TS 3GPP TS 26.114 [3].
## 5.2 Actor roles
_See each use case in clause 5.4._
## **5.3 Telecommunication resources**
_See each use case in clause 5.4._
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### _5.4.1 Collecting QoE information from a specific end user service type_
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Allow the operator to obtain QoE information for an end user service type
based on a 5% of those sessions in a UE(s) in a specified area using a
specific end user service type, in a specified collection centre.
Actors and roles The operator which is the requester of the QoE information.
Telecom resources The management system, the mobile network and the UE.
Assumptions The application providing an end user service type is able to
provide QoE information about its end user service performance.
Pre-conditions Selected end users are using the specified end user service
type.
Begins when The management system receives a request from the operator.
Step 1 (M) The management system receives a request from the operator and
transfers it to the mobile network.
Step 2 (M) The mobile network receives the request, starts a network request
session and starts to check which connections fulfil the request.
Step3 (M) When a connection is found that fulfils the request, the mobile
network starts an UE request session and transfers the request to the UE.
Step 4 (M) When the requested end user service type is started in the UE, it
records the requested information for 5% of sessions of the requested service
type and sends the recorded information to the specified collection centre.
Ends when The network request session expires.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The collected information is present in the specified
collection centre.
Traceability **REQ-EUSPC-CON-1, REQ-EUSPC-CON-2 and REQ-EUSPC-CON-3**
NOTE Step 3 to 4 is repeated for all UEs that access the network in the
specified area during the network request session.
* * *
### 5.4.2 Void
### 5.4.3 Collecting QoE information from end user service type of specific
streaming sources
* * *
**_Use case stage_** **_Evolution/Specification_** **_\ >\ Related
use_**
_Goal_ _Allow the operator to obtain QoE information from end user service
type from specific_ streaming sources _._
_Actors and roles_ _The operator which is the requester of the QoE
information._
_Telecom resources_ _The management system, the mobile network and the UE._
_Assumptions_ _The application providing streaming video service is able to
provide QoE information about its end user performance._
_Pre-conditions_ _The selected end users are using the specified end user
service type from the specified_ streaming sources _._
_Begins when_ _The operator requests a QoE information collection for a
specific service type from specific_ streaming sources _._
_Step 1 (M)_ _When the management system receives a request from the operator,
it transfers the request to the mobile network._
_Step 2 (M)_ _When the mobile network receives the request it starts a network
request session and starts to check_ which connections fulfil the request _._
_Step3 (M)_ _When a connection is found, the mobile network starts a UE
request session and transfers the request to the UE._
_Step 4 (M)_ _When the specified service type is started in the UE, the UE
checks whether the_ streaming source _is consistent with any of the streaming
sources set by the request, and if yes, the UE collects relevant QoE
information and send to the network._
_Ends when_ _The network request session expires._
_Exceptions_
_Post-conditions_ _The collected information is present in the specified
collection center._
_Traceability_ **_REQ-EUSPC-CON-2, REQ-EUSPC-CON-3 and REQ-EUSPC-CON-5._**
* * *
### 5.4.4 Indication of QoE information collection
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Provide the OAM system with an | | | | indication that a recording | | | | session has started and | | | | subsequently allow the OAM | | | | system to modify the QoE | | | | measurement configuration e.g. | | | | the QoE configured area if the | | | | number of sessions are too | | | | small or too large. | | | | | | | | The indication may also be | | | | used to determine whether or | | | | not to terminate the QoE | | | | information collection if | | | | sufficient number of recording | | | | sessions have been started. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and roles | The operator which is the | | | | requester of the QoE | | | | information. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | The management system and the | | | | RAN node. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | Selected end users have been | | | | requested to provide QoE | | | | Information when the specified | | | | end user service type is used. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | The application layer sends AT | | | | command including streaming | | | | indication to access stratum. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | When the RAN node receives the | | | | streaming indication from the | | | | UE access stratum, the RAN | | | | node sends an indication to | | | | the triggering OAM system that | | | | a recording session has been | | | | started. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | The management system has | | | | received the indication that a | | | | recording session has been | | | | started. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The OAM system is able to | | | | decide if the ongoing QoE | | | | measurement collection needs | | | | modification and if sufficient | | | | data has been obtained for | | | | analysis. | | | | | | | | The OAM system can use the | | | | indications to trigger | | | | evaluation of collected data. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-EUSPC-CON-6** | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.5 Change collecting QoE information
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | | | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Use case stage | Ev | \>\ | | | olution/Specification | Related use | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Goal | Allow the operator to | | | | change an ongoing QoE | | | | information | | | | collection job. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Actors and roles | The operator which is | | | | the requester of | | | | changing the QoE | | | | information | | | | collection job. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Telecom resources | The management | | | | system, the mobile | | | | network and the UE. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Assumptions | - | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Pre-conditions | The QoE collection | | | | job is active. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Begins when | The operator has | | | | information that QoE | | | | information | | | | collection job needs | | | | to have more | | | | information as | | | | collected data will | | | | not be sufficient or | | | | that the collected | | | | information is | | | | enough. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | The management system | | | | receives a request | | | | from the operator to | | | | terminate the ongoing | | | | QoE information | | | | collection job. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | For all connections | | | | where the UE has been | | | | requested to start | | | | the QoE job, the | | | | mobile network | | | | transfer the | | | | termination request | | | | to the UE, which | | | | terminates the | | | | specified QoE | | | | collection | | | | information job. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | When all QoE | | | | collections are | | | | terminated in the UEs | | | | for the specified QoE | | | | information | | | | collection job, the | | | | mobile network finish | | | | to terminate the QoE | | | | information | | | | collection job. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 4 (O) | If collected | Collecting QoE | | | information will not | information from a | | | be sufficient, the | specific end user | | | operator initiates a | service type, or | | | new QoE information | | | | collection job. | Collecting QoE | | | | information from end | | | | user service type | | | | from a specific user. | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Ends when | The network request | | | | session is terminated | | | | (when sufficient | | | | amount of data is | | | | collected), or when | | | | the new network | | | | request is started | | | | (when the collected | | | | data will not be | | | | sufficient). | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Post-conditions | The network request | | | | session is terminated | | | | or the new network | | | | request is started. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Traceability | **REQ-EUSPC-CON-1 and | | | | REQ-EUSPC-CON-7** | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | | | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
### 5.4.6 Void
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
Specification level requirements for the management of QoE Measurement
Collection is specified in [4].
#