# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
**TS 28.510: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements.**
TS 28.511: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures.
TS 28.512: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2.
TS 28.513: Telecommunication management; Configuration Management (CM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3.
# 1 Scope
The present document (together with the relevant requirements described in
[1], [2], [3] and [4]) specifies the requirements applicable to Configuration
Management (CM) of virtualized network functions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
[5] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 (V2.1.1): \"Network Function Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[6] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 010 (V2.1.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Functional requirements specification\".
[7] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 (V2.1.1): \"Network Function Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.525: \"Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management
(LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.612: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Bulk CM Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4].
**VNF application specific parameters:** parameters for realizing the network
element function.
Note: VNF application specific parameters are defined by 3GPP. Examples can be
network element name, network element address, etc.
**VNF non-application specific parameters:** parameters for
instantiating/scaling/terminating a VNF instance.
Note: VNF non-application specific parameters are defined by ETSI NFV ISG and
are related to the VNF deployment on virtualized infrastructure. An example
can be VM parameters.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [4].
MO Managed Object
MOI Managed Object Instance
# 4 Background and concepts
## 4.1 Configuration management in the context of NFV
3GPP Configuration Management (CM) has system modification functions and
system monitoring functions (as described in [3]).
The decoupling of software and hardware in NFV gives rise to the need to model
the VNF application specific parameters (i.e. 3GPP service related) by 3GPP
whilst modelling the VNF non-application specific parameters (i.e. non-3GPP
service related) in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 [5].
For Configuration Management, NM and EM manage NEs and NRs and the related
configuration parameters (e.g. identification, port, neighbour relation) which
are modelled as the MO(s) and MO attributes. The MO attributes, which are
defined by 3GPP, typically are VNF application specific parameters.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-1** EM shall be able to perform necessary virtualized network
function configuration due to the VNF lifecycle management from VNFM:
\- Add the VNF as managed node after VNF instantiation.
\- Remove the VNF from managed nodes after VNF termination.
\- Configure the VNF after some VNF LCM operations (i.e. instantiation).
\- Re-configure the VNF after some VNF LCM operations (e.g. scaling,
update/upgrade, etc.).
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-2** 3GPP management system shall have a capability to create
MO(s) corresponding to a VNF instance.
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-3** 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
configure the MO(s) corresponding to a VNF instance.
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-4** Void
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-5** Void
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-6** Void
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-7** Void
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-8** 3GPP management system shall have a capability to delete
MOI(s) related to a VNF instance.
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-9** NM shall have a capability retrieving views of
virtualized NEs from various management systems (e.g. EM, NFVO).
**REQ-NFV_CM-CON-10** 3GPP management system shall have a capability to manage
bulk creation of MOIs representing NEs whose software components are designed
to run on NFVI.
## 5.2 Actor roles
See detailed actors and roles for each use case in clause 5.4.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
See detailed telecommunication resources for each use case in clause 5.4.
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 Create Managed Object for Network Element in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To create Managed Object | | | | (MO) for a new NE that | | | | includes virtualized | | | | network functions. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system | | | | (EM, NM) creates MO for | | | | NE.\ | | | | NFV MANO system | | | | instantiates VNF instance | | | | and configures VNF | | | | non-application specific | | | | parameters for VNF | | | | instance. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | NFV MANO system (NFVO, | | | | VNFM), 3GPP management | | | | system (EM, NM) | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | NFV MANO system has | | | | already instantiated a VNF | | | | instance using the related | | | | VNF Package. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | N/A | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Operator has decided to | | | | create MO for a new NE. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | adds the VNF instance as a | | | | NE MO. 3GPP management | | | | system can configure the | | | | VNF instance with | | | | application specific | | | | parameters during the | | | | creation process of NE MO. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The MO for a new NE is | | | | added into 3GPP management | | | | system and is ready for | | | | further configuration | | | | management (e.g. new or | | | | additional | | | | application-specific | | | | parameters configuration | | | | can happen). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_CM-CON-2, | | | | REQ-NFV_CM-CON-3 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 5.4.2 Delete MOI(s) for Network Element in the context of NFV
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | To delete MOI(s) for a NE | | | | that includes virtualized | | | | network function. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP management system | | | | (EM, NM) deletes MOI(s) | | | | for NE. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP management system | | | | (EM, NM). | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | The MOI(s) for the NE to | | | | be deleted has been | | | | created. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The NE services have been | | | | released. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Operator has decided to | | | | delete the MOI(s) for a | | | | NE. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | 3GPP management system | | | | deletes the MOI(s) for the | | | | subject NE. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception occurs. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The MOI(s) for the NE are | | | | deleted. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_CM-CON-8 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 5.4.3 Update the configuration parameters corresponding to the subject VNF
instance (application part) after a VNF instance is scaled
* * *
Use Case Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Update the configuration parameters corresponding to the subject VNF
instance (application part) after the VNF is scaled.
Actors and Roles 3GPP management system (EM, NM).
Telecom resources NFV MANO (NFVO, VNFM), 3GPP management system (EM, NM)
Assumptions
Pre-conditions
Begins when 3GPP management system is aware that the VNF instance has been
scaled and determines the configuration parameters need to be updated.
Step 1 (M) 3GPP management system updates the configuration parameters
corresponding to the subject VNF instance (application part).
Ends when Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The configuration parameters corresponding to the subject VNF
instance (application part) are updated.
Traceability REQ-NFV_CM-CON-3
* * *
### 5.4.4 Retrieve virtualized NE information by NM
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | NM updates its view of | | | | its managed virtualized | | | | NEs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | EM, NFVO. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | None | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | None | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines a need to | | | | update its view of its | | | | managed VNFs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM requests NFVO to | | | | provide information of | | | | VNFs (see clause 7.3.6 | | | | in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 | | | | [7]. | | | | | | | | NM requests EM to | | | | provide information of | | | | virtualized NEs. This | | | | information is VNF | | | | application-specific. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO responds with the | | | | information requested. | | | | NM updates its view of | | | | its managed virtualized | | | | NE, | | | | | | | | EM responds to NM with | | | | the information | | | | requested. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | NM has the information | | | | to update its view of | | | | its managed virtualized | | | | NEs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_CM-CON-9, | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Requirements for Itf-N
**REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-1** The IRPAgent shall support the capability allowing
IRPManager to manage the mobile networks that include virtualized network
functions.
**REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-2** The IRPAgent shall support the capability allowing
IRPManager to differentiate the virtualized and non-virtualized network
functions.
**REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-3** IRPAgent shall support the capability to allow
IRPManager to create the MOI(s) corresponding to a VNF instance (application
part) and configure the attribute(s) of the MOI(s).
**REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-4** IRPAgent shall support the capability to notify
IRPManager of the completion of the MOI(s) creation and configuration.
**REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-5** IRPAgent shall support the capability to allow
IRPManager to delete the MOI(s) corresponding to a VNF instance (application
part).
**REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-6** IRPAgent shall support the capability to allow
IRPManager to update the Managed Object instance(s) corresponding to a VNF
instance (application part).
**REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-7** IRPAgent shall support the capability to notify
IRPManager the change of the Managed Object instance(s) corresponding to a VNF
instance (application part).
**REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-8** IRPAgent shall support the capability to allow
IRPManager to set the MOI(s) to associate with a VNF instance (application
part) and configure the attribute(s) of the MOI(s).
**REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-9** IRPAgent shall support a capability allowing
IRPManager to request enabling/disabling the auto-scaling of the VNF
instance(s) corresponding to an NE.
### 6.1.2 Requirements for Os-Ma-nfvo
None.
### 6.1.3 Requirements for Ve-Vnfm-em
None.
### 6.1.4 Requirements for Ve-Vnfm-vnf
None.
## 6.2 Actor roles
See detailed actors and roles for each use case in clause 6.4.
## 6.3 Telecommunication resources
See detailed telecommunication resources for each use case in clause 6.4.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 MOI creation related use cases
#### 6.4.1.1 Introduction
The MO instance and VNF instance can exist independently. The 3GPP management
system maintains the unidirectional relationships (MOI points to VNF instance)
between MO instances and the corresponding VNF instances.
There are following potential scenarios to maintain the relationship between
MO instances and VNF instances.
> Scenario 1: The NM initiated MO instance creation operation (a new version
> of create MO operation) over Itf-N provides the available VNF instance
> identifier as an input parameter. The created MO instance representing vNE
> has the relationship with the selected VNF instance.
>
> Scenario 2: The NM initiated MO instance creation operation (a new version
> of create MO operation) over Itf-N has a parameter indicating whether a new
> VNF needs to be instantiated by EM. The presence of the indicator triggers
> the VNF instantiation request from EM to VNFM. The created MO instance
> representing vNE has the relationship with the new created VNF instance.
>
> Scenario 3: NM initiates MO instance creation operation using existing
> create MO operation over Itf-N. NM initiates the VNF instantiation operation
> via Os-Ma-nfvo. NM sets the relationship between MO instance representing
> vNE and VNF instance by SetMOAttribute operation (in Bulk or Basic CM IRP).
>
> Scenario 4: NM initiates the VNF instantiation operation via Os-Ma-nfvo.
> After the VNF instantiation is complete, the vNE starts execution and
> informs its presence to EM.
>
> EM would then create the MOI(s) representing the vNE. EM populates this
> newly created MOI with VNF identifier received from vNE. EM then notifies NM
> that the MOI(s) representing the newly installed vNE is created. NM can now
> exercise CM related operations on the said MOI from now on.
>
> Scenario 5: NM requests (conveyed via the Bulk CM IRP file) EM to create a
> set of MOI(s) representing a set of vNE.
>
> EM would initiate necessary VNF instantiation operations towards VNFM. After
> a VNF instantiation is complete, the vNE starts execution and informs its
> presence to EM.
>
> EM would then create the MOI(s) representing the vNE. EM populates this
> newly created MOI with VNF identifier received from vNE. EM then notifies NM
> that the MOI(s) representing the newly installed vNE is created. NM can now
> exercise CM related operations on the said MOI from now on.
Editor\'s note: given that there can be multiple number of NMs, VNFMs, EMs,
NFVOs in an operator network and that there are five scenarios (UCs)
documented to relate MOI(s) creation and VNF instance instantiation, there is
a need to analyse if NM (or EM) can correctly determine which scenario will be
selected.
#### 6.4.1.2 Create MOI(s) after a VNF is instantiated (Triggered by NM)
* * *
Use Case Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Create the MOI(s) corresponding to a VNF instance (application part) and
configure the attribute(s) of the MOI(s) after the VNF is instantiated.
Actors and Roles 3GPP NM.
Telecom resources 3GPP NM, 3GPP EM, NFVO
Assumptions
Pre-conditions The MOI(s) for the subject VNF instance have not been created.
Begins when NM receives the message indicating the subject VNF has been
instantiated from NFVO or EM.
Step 1 (M) NM sends a request to EM to create the MOI(s) corresponding to the
subject VNF instance (application part) and configure the attribute(s) of the
MOI(s).
Step 2 (M) EM creates the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance
(application part).
Step 3 (M) EM configures the attribute(s) of the created MOI(s).
Step 4 (M) EM notifies NM of the completion of the MOI(s) creation and
configuration.
Ends when Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The MOI(s) corresponding to a VNF instance (application part)
is/are created and configured.
Traceability REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-3, REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-4
* * *
#### 6.4.1.3 Create MOI(s) after a VNF is instantiated (Triggered by EM)
* * *
Use Case Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Create the MOI(s) corresponding to a VNF instance (application part) and
configure the attribute(s) of the MOI(s) after the VNF is instantiated.
Actors and Roles 3GPP EM.
Telecom resources 3GPP EM, VNFM
Assumptions
Pre-conditions The MOI(s) for the subject VNF instance have not been created.
Begins when EM receives the message indicating the VNF has been instantiated
from VNFM;
Step 1 (M) EM creates the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance
(application part).
Step 2 (M) EM configures the attribute(s) of the created MOI(s).
Step 3 (M) EM notifies NM of the completion of the MOI(s) creation and the VNF
configuration.
Ends when Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The MOI(s) corresponding to a VNF instance (application part)
is/are created and configured.
Traceability REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-4
* * *
#### 6.4.1.4 Create MOI(s) for a specified VNF instance (Triggered by NM)
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Create the MOI(s) | | | | corresponding to an existing | | | | VNF instance (application | | | | part) and configure the | | | | attribute(s) of the MOI(s) | | | | after the VNF is instantiated | | | | if needed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP NM, 3GPP EM, NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | The MOI(s) for the subject | | | | specified VNF instance have | | | | not been created. | | | | | | | | NM receives the message | | | | indicating the subject VNF has | | | | been instantiated. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | Operator decides to create | | | | MOI(s) for an existing VNF | | | | instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to EM to | | | | create the MOI(s) with the VNF | | | | instance identifier and | | | | configure the attribute(s) of | | | | the MOI(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | EM creates the MOI(s) and sets | | | | the relevant MOI(s) attributes | | | | with the VNF instance | | | | identifier. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (O) | EM may configure other | | | | attribute(s) of the created | | | | MOI(s) if needed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 4 (M) | EM notifies NM of the | | | | completion of the MOI(s) | | | | creation and configuration. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all steps identified | | | | above are completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The MOI(s) corresponding to an | | | | existing VNF instance | | | | (application part) is/are | | | | created and configured. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-4 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.5 Associate MOI(s) with a VNF instance (Triggered by NM)
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Associate MOI(s) with a VNF | | | | instance and configure the | | | | attribute(s) of the MOI(s) if | | | | needed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | 3GPP NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | 3GPP NM, 3GPP EM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | **NM has subscribed to the** | | | | attributeValueChange | | | | notification**.** | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | The corresponding VNF instance | | | | has been instantiated and the | | | | VNF instance identifier has | | | | been notified to NM. | | | | | | | | The MOI(s) has been created. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | Operator decides to associate | | | | MOI(s) with an existing VNF | | | | instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request with the | | | | VNF instance identifier to EM | | | | to associate MOI(s) with the | | | | VNF instance identified by the | | | | identifier. The other | | | | configuration parameters are | | | | also included in the request | | | | if needed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | EM sets the attributes of the | | | | created MOI(s) with the VNF | | | | instance Identifier. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | EM responds NM of the | | | | completion of the association | | | | of MOI(s) and VNF instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all steps identified | | | | above are completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The MOI(s) corresponding to | | | | the specified VNF instance | | | | is/are created. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-8 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.6 Bulk MOIs creation
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To deploy large number | | | | of network elements | | | | whose software | | | | components are designed | | | | to run on NFVI. | | | | | | | | (The term NE used in | | | | this UC refers to | | | | network elements whose | | | | software components are | | | | designed to run on | | | | NFVI.) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | EM, NFVO, network | | | | planned data. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Operator has the | | | | network planned data | | | | for NEs and is ready | | | | for their deployment. | | | | The planned data | | | | contains information | | | | about the | | | | to-be-deployed NEs. | | | | | | | | During the VNF | | | | instantiation process, | | | | the VNF: | | | | | | | | a) is given the | | | | managing EM IP address, | | | | or; | | | | | | | | b) is given the | | | | managing EM name and | | | | sufficient information | | | | to access a directory | | | | server that can resolve | | | | the EM name to IP | | | | address -- such that | | | | VNF can request the | | | | directory server to | | | | resolve the EM name to | | | | EM IP address, or; | | | | | | | | c) uses MvPnP (see | | | | requirements in clause | | | | 5.2 of [9]) to | | | | establish connection to | | | | its managing EM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | For each wanted NE, | | | | operator knows the | | | | number and the types of | | | | VNFs needed. | | | | | | | | EM would keep records | | | | of all incoming | | | | messages that bear VNF | | | | ID and the VNF address | | | | (see Step 6). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Operator decides to | | | | deploy the NEs of | | | | specified types. | | | | | | | | Operator constructs a | | | | "Bulk Configuration | | | | Data File" (File) [see | | | | clause 10 of [9]] | | | | that captures | | | | | | | | - the number of NEs | | | | (and types) wanted | | | | where one or more | | | | MOI(s) are | | | | representing | | | | software components | | | | designed to run on | | | | NFVI. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Operator instructs NM | | | | to deploy the planned | | | | NEs using information | | | | of the File. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NM, based on | | | | information in the File | | | | and the knowledge | | | | described in | | | | Pre-conditions, | | | | requests NFVO to | | | | instantiate all VNF(s) | | | | required for the | | | | deployment of all NEs | | | | wanted [Note 1.] | | | | | | | | NFVO, using VNFM/VIM, | | | | instantiates the VNFs | | | | requested for | | | | instantiation and | | | | responds to NM with the | | | | VNF IDs of the | | | | successfully | | | | instantiated VNFs | | | | [Note 1]. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NM updates the File by | | | | capturing: | | | | | | | | - the received VNF | | | | ID(s) in MOI's | | | | vnfIdList [Note | | | | 2] attribute. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NM transfers the File | | | | (see procedure in | | | | [9]) to EM to deploy | | | | the planned network in | | | | accordance to the File | | | | information. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | EM creates sets of MOIs | | | | (where one set | | | | corresponds to one NE) | | | | in its Management | | | | Information Base (MIB) | | | | in accordance to the | | | | File information. | | | | | | | | The MOIs' vnfIdList | | | | attributes has the | | | | corresponding VNF IDs | | | | as values. | | | | | | | | The NE attribute | | | | operation state is set | | | | to Disabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | When a VNF is | | | | instantiated, it knows | | | | its managing EM address | | | | (because of assumption | | | | a, b or c). VNF sends a | | | | message that bear its | | | | VNF ID and its VNF | | | | address, to its | | | | managing EM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 7 (M)** | EM examines its records | | | | (see Pre-condition) or | | | | on reception of message | | | | from VNF that bears the | | | | VNF ID and the VNF | | | | address, will try to | | | | identify if the MOI(s) | | | | whose vnfIdList has an | | | | vnfId that is same as | | | | the VNF ID received. | | | | When found, the EM | | | | considers that the VNF | | | | is running on NFVI. | | | | | | | | When all VNF | | | | instance(s) of a NE are | | | | running on NFVI, the | | | | operation state of the | | | | NE is changed to | | | | Enabled. | | | | | | | | EM notifies NM of the | | | | NE whose operation | | | | state is Enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | The above steps have | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | -- | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The network resource | | | | model instance tree, | | | | maintained by EM, | | | | corresponding to the | | | | information of the File | | | | is created and the | | | | state of all NE(s) are | | | | Enabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_CM-CON-10 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | | Note 1: NM may issue | | | | InstantiateNsRequest | | | | (clause 7.3.3. [8]) | | | | to NFVO or issue | | | | UpdateNsRequest to NFVO | | | | with input parameter | | | | upd | | | | ateType==instantiateVnf | | | | (clause 7.3.5 of | | | | [8]), based on his | | | | knowledge of NS | | | | instances in existence. | | | | | | | | Note 2: It is assumed | | | | that MOIs would have an | | | | attribute called | | | | vnfListId whose | | | | elements are identifier | | | | of VNF instance | | | | involved. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 6.4.2 Configure VNF instance with Managed Object attributes
+--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | **Use Case Stage** | **Evolution / |** \>**| | | Specification** | | | | | **Related use** | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Goal | Configure an existing VNF | | | | instance with Managed | | | | Object attributes. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Actors and Roles | IRPManager | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Telecom resources | | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Assumptions | | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Pre conditions | The MOI(s) for the NE have | | | | been created. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Begins when | Operator decides to | | | | configure Managed Object | | | | attributes for an existing | | | | VNF instance. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | IRPManager sends a request | | | | to IRPAgent to configure | | | | the VNF instance over | | | | Itf-N. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | IRPAgent configures the | | | | VNF instance with Managed | | | | Object attributes. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | **IRPAgent returns the | | | | result of the VNF instance | | | | configuration to | | | | IRPManager over Itf-N.** | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above are | | | | successfully completed or | | | | when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Post Conditions | The VNF instance has been | | | | configured with Managed | | | | Object attributes. | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-6 | | +--------------------+----------------------------+------------------+
### 6.4.3 Delete the MOI(s) corresponding to a VNF instance (application part)
* * *
Use Case Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Delete the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance (application
part).
Actors and Roles 3GPP NM
Telecom resources 3GPP NM, 3GPP EM
Assumptions
Pre-conditions The 3GPP services provided by the VNF instance where its
relevant MOI(s) are to be deleted have been released
Begins when The operator decides to delete the MOI(s) corresponding to a VNF
instance (application part).
Step 1 (M) NM sends a request to EM to delete the MOI(s) corresponding to the
subject VNF instance (application part).
Step 2 (M) EM deletes the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance
(application part).
Step 3 (M) EM notifies NM of the completion of the MOI(s) deletion.
Ends when Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance
(application part) are deleted.
Traceability REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-5.
* * *
### 6.4.4 Update the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance
(application part) after a VNF instance is scaled (Triggered by NM)
* * *
Use Case Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Update the attributes of the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF
instance (application part) after a VNF has been scaled.
Actors and Roles 3GPP NM
Telecom resources 3GPP NM, 3GPP EM
Assumptions
Pre-conditions The MOI(s) for the subject VNF instance have not been updated.
Begins when NM learns that the VNF instance has been scaled, and decides the
MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance (application part) need to be
updated. See use case in clause 6.4.3.4 in TS 28.525 [8]
Step 1 (M) NM sends a request to EM to update the MOI(s) corresponding to the
subject VNF instance (application part).
Step 2 (M) EM updates the attributes of the MOI(s) corresponding to the
subject VNF instance (application part).
Step 3 (M) EM sends the notifications to NM about the update of the MOI(s).
Ends when (*) Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance
(application part) are updated.
Traceability (*) REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-6, REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-7
* * *
### 6.4.5 Update the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance
(application part) after a VNF instance is scaled (Triggered by EM)
* * *
Use Case Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Update the attributes of the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF
instance (application part) after a VNF instance is scaled.
Actors and Roles 3GPP NM
Telecom resources 3GPP NM, 3GPP EM, VNFM
Assumptions
Pre-conditions The MOI(s) for the subject VNF instance have not been updated.
Begins when EM receives the message indicating the VNF has been scaled from
VNFM and decides the MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance
(application part) need to be updated.
Step 1 (M) EM updates the attributes of the MOI(s) corresponding to the
subject VNF instance (application part).
Step 2 (M) EM sends the notifications to NM about the update of the MOI(s).
Ends when (*) Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The MOI(s) corresponding to the subject VNF instance
(application part) are updated.
Traceability (*) REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-7
* * *
### 6.4.6 Void
### 6.4.7 Void
### 6.4.8 Void
### 6.4.9 Enable/disable the auto-scaling of the VNF instance(s) corresponding
to an NE
* * *
Use Case Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable/Disable the auto-scaling of the VNF instance(s) corresponding
to an NE.
**Actors and Roles** IRPManager
**Telecom resources** IRPAgent, VNFM
**Assumptions**
**Pre-conditions**
**Begins when** The operator decides to enable/disable the auto-scaling of the
VNF instance(s) corresponding to an NE.
**Step 1 (M)** IRPManager requests IRPAgent to change the value of the auto-
scaling attribute on VNF instance(s) corresponding to an NE.
**Step 2 (M)** EM requests VNFM to enable/disable the auto-scaling of the
subject VNF instance(s). Use case defined in clause 6.4.1.6 of [8].
**Step 3 (M)** IPRAgent notifies IPRManager of the completion result of
enabling/disabling the auto-scaling of the VNF instance(s) corresponding to an
NE.
**Ends when** Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The auto-scaling of the VNF instance(s) corresponding to
an NE is enabled/disabled.
**Traceability** REQ-NFV_CM_Itf-N-FUN-9
* * *
### 6.4.10 VNF instance information synchronization
* * *
Use Case Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Synchronize the VNF related information in a ManagedFunction instance
with the corresponding VNF information in MANO side.
**Actors and Roles** IRPAgent
**Telecom resources** IRPManager, VNFM
**Assumptions**
**Pre-conditions** EM has subscribed the VnfLifecycleChangeNotification and
VnfInfoAttributeValueChangeNotification (see clause 7.3.3 of [5]).
**Begins when** EM receives VnfLifecycleChangeNotification or
VnfInfoAttributeValueChangeNotification (see clause 7.3.3 of [5]) from VNFM.
**Step 1 (O)** EM performs QueryVNF operation (see clause 7.2.9 of [5]) and
obtains the current information of the corresponding VnfInfo object.
**Step 2 (O)** If the attribute values on EM do not match those of the current
VnfInfo, EM updates these values.
**Step 3 (O)** If the attribute values of MOI(s) exposed to IRPManager are
changed, IPRAgent notifies IPRManager about the attribute value changes.
**Ends when** Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The VNF related information in the ManagedFunction
instance is synchronized with the corresponding VNF information in MANO side.
**Traceability**
* * *
#