# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management, as identified below:
TS 28.515 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Requirements\".
**TS 28.516 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include
virtualized network functions; Procedures\".**
TS 28.517 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Stage 2\".
TS 28.518 \"Fault Management (FM) for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions; Stage 3\".
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Fault Management procedures for mobile
networks that include virtualized network functions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP) Information Service (IS)\".
[3] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 (V2.1.1): \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm Reference Point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.515: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Management concept,
architecture and requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized
network functions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [5] and the following apply. A term
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [5].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and in 3GPP TS 28.500 [5] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [5].
VM Virtual Machine
VNFC Virtualized Network Function Component
vNIC virtual Network Interface Card
vPORT virtual Port
# 4 Fault Management procedures
## 4.1 Introduction
The overview of alarm data flow procedures in context of NFV is showed as
Figure 4.1-1 3GPP view of FM data flows.
{width="5.854166666666667in" height="2.7736111111111112in"}
Figure 4.1-1: 3GPP view of alarm data flows for NE/VNF
The alarm data flow and the alarm mapping of VNF instance application alarm
and VNF instance related virtualized resource alarm are described as below:
\- Flow-1 VIM reports virtualized resources alarm data to VNFM (out of scope
of the present document).
\- Flow-2 VNFM sends VNF alarm data related to virtualized resources (mapped
to VNF instance, correlated or not-correlated) to EM.
\- Flow-3 VNF reports virtualization-specific alarm data to VNFM.
\- Flow-X Via 3GPP Type 1 interface VNF instance reports VNF instance
application alarm data and virtualization-specific alarm data to EM.
\- Flow-Z Via 3GPP Type 1 interface non-virtualized NEs report alarm data to
EM.
\- Flow-Y Via 3GPP Itf-N EM sends the following: VNF instance application
alarm data and virtualization-specific alarm data (received via Flow-X), VNF
alarm data related to virtualized resources (received via Flow-2),non-
virtualized NE alarm data (received via Flow-Z), and/or correlated VNF
instance alarm data.
EM may make the alarm correlation based on information contained in Flow-X,
Flow-Z and Flow-2, using the same VNF/VNFC instance identifier based on the
VNF instance alarm data related to virtualized resource and VNF instance
application alarm data. EM may report the correlated VNF instance alarm data
to NM.
NM may make the alarm correlation based on information contained in Flow-X,
Flow-Y, Flow-Z and Flow-2, using the same VNF/VNFC instance identifier based
on the VNF instance alarm data related to virtualized resource and VNF
instance application alarm data.
The procedures listed in clause 4, as some of all the possibilities, are not
exhaustive.
## 4.2 NE alarm correlation in the context of NFV
### 4.2.1 NE alarm correlation made by EM in the context of NFV
When a new failure occurs from the virtualized resource and it impacts the
corresponding NE application, EM can make the alarm correlation based on the
virtualized resource failure report sent from VNFM and VNF application alarms.
The figure 4.2.1-1 illustrates the procedure of EM makes NE alarms correlation
in a mobile network that includes virtualized network functions.
Figure 4.2.1-1: Procedure of NE alarm correlation made by EM in the context of
NFV
1) A new failure occurs from the virtualized resource and it impacts the
corresponding NE application.
2) VNFM received virtualized resource alarms as described in ETSI NFV ISG.
3) VNFM sends VNF instance alarms related to virtualized resource to EM. The
VNF and/or VNFC alarms related to virtualized resource include AlarmId,
affected VNF identifier, affected VNFC identifiers, and FaultDetails which
provides additional information about the virtualized resource fault, for
example the resource identifier which causes the fault (e.g. VM identifier,
vNIC identifier or vPORT identifier). The Alarm information element see clause
9.3.4 of [3].
4) NE/VNF sends VNF application alarms to EM through proprietary interface,
the corresponding VNF instance identifier and/or VNFC identifier should be
included.
Note: There is no sequence restriction on EM receives VNF instance alarms
related virtualized resource and EM receives VNF application alarms.
5) EM correlates the received VNF instance alarms related to virtualized
resource with the received VNF application alarms.
6) EM sends the correlated alarm information to NM over Itf-N. The alarm
information that carries correlated alarm information is specified in TS
32.111-2 [2].
### 4.2.2 NE alarm correlation made by NM in the context of NFV
When a new failure occurred from the virtualized resource and it impacts
corresponding NE application, NM can make the alarm correlation based on the
virtualized resource failure report sent from VNFM and VNF application alarms.
The figure 4.2.2-1 illustrates the procedure of NM makes NE alarms correlation
in a mobile network that includes virtualized network functions.
Figure 4.2.2-1: Procedure of NE alarm correlation made by NM in the context of
NFV
1) A new failure occurs from the virtualized resource and it impacts
corresponding NE application.
2) VNFM receives virtualized resource alarms as described in [3].
3) VNFM sends VNF instance alarms related to virtualized resource to EM. The
VNF and/or VNFC alarms related to virtualized resource include AlarmId,
affected VNF identifier, affected VNFC identifiers, and FaultDetails which
provides additional information about the virtualized resource fault, for
example the resource identifier which causes the fault (e.g. VM identifier,
vNIC identifier or vPORT identifier). The Alarm information element see clause
9.3.4 of [3].
4) EM sends VNF instance alarms related to virtualized resource to NM.
5) NE/VNF sends VNF application alarms to EM through proprietary interface,
the corresponding VNF instance identifier and/or VNFC identifier should be
included.
6) EM sends VNF application failure report of a NE to NM over Itf-N. The
information in the failure report sees alarm information in TS 32.111-2 [2].
Note: There is no sequence restriction on EM receives VNF instance alarms
related virtualized resource and NM receives VNF application failure report.
7) Based on the VNF instance alarms related to virtualized resource sent from
VNFM and VNF application failure report, NM makes the alarm correlation.
## 4.3 Virtualization-specific aspect failure detection and notification
### 4.3.1 Virtualization-specific aspect failure detection and notification by
VNFM
The figure 4.3.1-1 illustrates the procedure of notifying the EM about a
virtualization-specific failure of a virtualized network function when
virtualization-specific aspect failure detection and notification by VNFM.
{width="5.21875in" height="4.152083333333334in"}
Figure 4.3.1-1: Procedure of virtualization-specific aspect failure detection
and notification by VNFM
1) EM subscribes to VNF-related virtualization fault reports.
2) A new virtualization-specific failure occurs and is detected by VNF
virtualization-specific component.
3) VNF sends virtualization-specific fault notification to VNFM.
4) VNFM creates VNF virtualization-related fault report as described in ETSI
NFV ISG.
5) VNFM sends VNF instance alarms generated due to changes in the state of
virtualized resources used by the VNFs and their constituent VNFC instances to
EM. The VNF and/or VNFC alarms related to virtualized resources include
AlarmId, affected VNF identifier, affected VNFC identifiers, and FaultDetails
which provides additional information about the fault, for example the
resource identifier which causes the fault (e.g. VM identifier, vNIC
identifier or vPORT identifier). The Alarm information element see clause
9.3.4 of [3].
### 4.3.2 Virtualization-specific aspect failure detection and notification by
EM
The figure 4.3.2-1 illustrates the procedure of notifying the EM about a
virtualization-specific failure of a virtualized network function.
Figure 4.3.2-1: Procedure of virtualization-specific aspect failure detection
and notification by EM
1) A new virtualization-specific failure occurs and is detected by VNF
virtualization-specific component.
2) VNF sends virtualization-specific fault notification to EM through
proprietary interfaces, the corresponding VNF instance identifier and/or VNFC
identifier should be included.
## 4.4 VNF Healing with operation request to VNFM by EM through Ve-Vnfm-em
Figure 4.4-1: Procedure of VNF Healing through operation request to VNFM by EM
1) EM determines to initiate a healing procedure to recover the faulty
virtualization-specific aspects of the VNF.
2) EM sends to VNFM a _HealVnfRequest_ with input parameters vnfInstanceId,
vnfcInstanceId, cause, additionalParam, and healScript to heal the VNF
instance (see clause 7.2.10.2 of [3]).
3) VNFM sends to EM a _HealVnfResponse_ acknowledging the request with
parameter lifecycleOperationOccurrenceId providing the identifier of the VNF
lifecycle operation occurrence (see clause 7.2.10.3 of [3]).
4) VNFM sends to EM a _Notify_ (see clause 7.3.3 of [3]) carrying a
VnfLifecycleChangeNotification information element with attributes
vnfInstanceId, lifecycleOperationOccurrenceId, operation = \"HealVnf\", and
status = \"start\" to indicate the start of the VNF healing execution (see
clause 9.5.2.3 [3]).
5) VNFM executes the healing, see clause 7.2.10 of [3].
6) VNFM sends to EM a _Notify_ (see clause 7.3.3 [3]) carrying a
VnfLifecycleChangeNotification information element, with attributes
vnfInstanceId, lifecycleOperationOccurrenceId, operation = \"HealVnf\",
notificationType = \"result\" to indicate the end and the result of the VNF
healing execution. Depending on the result, additional parameters
affectedVnfc, affectedVirtualLink, and affectedVirtualStorage provide
information about the VNFC, VL and virtualised storage resources affected
during the lifecycle operation (see clauses 9.5.2.3 of [3]).
#