# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
**TS 28.525: Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management (LCM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements.**
TS 28.526: Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management (LCM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Procedures.
TS 28.527: Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management (LCM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 2.
TS 28.528: Telecommunication management; Life Cycle Management (LCM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Stage 3.
# 1 Scope
The present document (together with the relevant requirements described in
[2], [3] and [4]) specifies the requirements applicable to Lifecycle
Management (LCM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network
functions.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.500: \"Telecommunication management; Concept, architecture and
requirements for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[5] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 010 (V2.2.1) (2016-09): \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Functional Requirements Specification\".
[6] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 (V2.1.1) (2016-10): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Os-Ma-nfvo reference point - Interface
and Information Model Specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.520: \"Telecommunication management; Performance Management
(PM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[8] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 (V2.1.1) (2016-10): \"Network Function Virtualisation
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[9] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 011 (V2.1.1) (2016-10): \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; VNF Packaging Specification\".
[10] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 014 (V2.1.1) (2016-10) \"Network Functions Virtualisation
(NFV); Management and Orchestration; Network Service Templates
Specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.510: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM) for mobile networks that include virtualized network functions;
Requirements\".
[12] 3GPP TS 28.515: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management (FM) for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[13] 3GPP TS 32.501: \"Telecommunication management; Self-configuration of
network elements; Concepts and requirements\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 28.500 [2] and the following apply. A term defined
in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the same term,
if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [2].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 28.500 [2] and the following apply. An abbreviation
defined in the present document takes precedence over the definition of the
same abbreviation, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] or in 3GPP TS 28.500 [2].
# 4 Concepts and background
3GPP mobile network management standards incorporate the Life Cycle Management
(LCM) provided by the ETSI NFV defined NFVO and VNFM functional blocks,
facilitating the installation, dimensioning, layer 2 and 3 interconnection,
healing and recovery of 3GPP-defined network functions that are virtualized.
Some requirements specified in TS 28.500 [2], TS 28.510 [11], TS 28.515 [12],
TS 28.520 [7] and TS 28.525 specifications on telecommunication management for
mobile networks that include virtualized network functions, are related to or
using the LCM exposed by NFVO and VNFM functional blocks. The LCM operation
requests, responses and notifications can carry parameters. In the context of
the 3GPP mobile network management standards, the parameters used in the LCM
operation requests, responses and notifications are not the 3GPP-defined
network function parameters.
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-1** VNFM shall have a capability to handle subscription and
un-subscription to VNF lifecycle change notifications (see requirements
Vnfm.VnfLcm.001 in [5] and Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcn.001 in [8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-2** VNFM shall have the capability to process a request for
scaling a virtualized network function (see requirements Vnfm.VnfS.001,
Vnfm.VnfS.002, Vnfm.VnfS.003, Vnfm.VnfS.004 in [5] and Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcm.001
in [8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-3** VNFM shall have the capability to notify about lifecycle
changes of a virtualized network function (see requirements Vnfm.VnfLcm.001 in
[5], Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcn.002, Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcn.003 and Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcn.004 in
[8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-4** EM shall have a capability allowing NM to enable/disable
the auto-scaling of the corresponding VNF instance(s) for an NE.
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-5** VNFM shall provide a capability allowing EM to
enable/disable the auto-scaling of a specific VNF instance(s) (see requirement
Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfCm.001 in [8] and clause 7.1.12 in [9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-6** NFVO shall have the capability allowing NM to request
instantiation of a NS (see requirements Nfvo.NsI.001 in [5] and Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.001 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-7** NFVO shall have the capability allowing NM to request
termination of a NS (see requirements Nfvo.NsT.001 in [5] and Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.002 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-8** NFVO shall have the capability allowing NM to request
querying a NS (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.003 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-9** NFVO shall have the capability allowing NM to request
scaling of a NS (see requirements Nfvo.NsS.001, Nfvo.NsS.002 and Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.004 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-10** NFVO shall have the capability allowing NM to request
updating of a NS (see requirements Nfvo.NsU.001 and Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.005 in
[6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-11** NFVO shall have the capability allowing NM to request
healing of a NS (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.010 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-12** NFVO shall have the capability allowing NM to request
scaling of a virtualized network function as part of NS scaling (see
requirements Nfvo.NsS.003 in [5] and Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.014 in [6]).
Note 1: Disabling auto-scaling means VNFM is not allowed to start new auto-
scaling operation to scale the corresponding VNF instance(s).
Note 2: Enabling auto-scaling means VNFM is allowed to start new auto-scaling
operation to scale the corresponding VNF instance(s).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-13** NFVO shall provide a capability allowing NM to request
enabling/disabling the auto-scaling of specific VNF instance(s) as part of NS
updating (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.020 in [6] and clause 7.1.12 in
[9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-14** NM shall have the capability to synchronize with the
NFVO changes performed by 3GPP management system related to configuration and
information managed by NFV-MANO about NS and VNF instances.
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-15** VNF instance shall support the capability to use MvPnP
(see requirements in clause 5.2 of [13]) to establish connection to its
managing Element Manager without manual configuration.
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-16** The VNFM shall have a capability to allow EM to query
information held by the VNFM about a VNF instance.
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-17** The NFVO shall have a capability to allow NM to query
information about a VNF instance as part of NS querying (see requirement
Nfvo.VnfLcm.006 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 010 [5] and Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.015 in ETSI GS
NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-18** The NFVO shall have a capability to allow NM to request
modifying non-application configuration attributes of a VNF instance as part
of NS update (covered by requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.020 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA
013 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-19** The NFVO shall have a capability to allow NM to request
modifying non-application information about a VNF instance as part of NS
update (covered by requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.019 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[6]).
## 5.2 Actor roles
See detailed actors and roles for each use case in clause 5.4.
## 5.3 Telecommunications resources
See detailed telecommunication resources for each use case in clause 5.4.
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 Enabling/disabling the auto-scaling of the corresponding VNF
instance(s) for an NE
* * *
Use Case Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** Enable/Disable the auto-scaling of a VNF instance(s).
**Actors and Roles** NM requests the enabling/disabling the auto-scaling of
the corresponding VNF instance(s) for an NE.
**Telecom resources** EM, NM, VNFM
**Assumptions** The auto-scaling, which means automatic procedure controlled
and executed by the VNFM to scale the capacity of a VNF instance, is supported
by VNFM.
**Pre-conditions**
**Begins when** The operator decides to enable/disable the auto-scaling of the
corresponding VNF instance(s) for an NE.
**Step 1 (M)** NM requests EM to enable/disable the auto-scaling of the
corresponding VNF instance(s) for the subject NE.
**Step 2 (M)** EM requests VNFM to enable/disable the auto-scaling of the
specific VNF instance(s).
**Ends when** Ends when all steps identified above are completed or when an
exception occurs.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The auto-scaling of the corresponding VNF instance(s) for
an NE is enabled/disabled.
**Traceability** REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-4, REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-5
* * *
### 5.4.2 NS scaling using VNF LCM operation (that is a part of NS LCM
operation) based on PM data monitoring at NM level
+-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Use Case** | **Evo |** \>\ | | | lution/Specification**| Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Goal** | To execute VNF LCM | | | | operation as a part of | | | | NS LCM operation when | | | | the threshold crossing | | | | of VNF application PM | | | | data is detected. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM requests the VNF | | | | LCM operation as a | | | | part of NS LCM | | | | operation. NFVO | | | | executes the VNF LCM | | | | operation as a part of | | | | NS LCM operation based | | | | on the request from | | | | NM. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM, NFVO, VNF | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Assumptions** | NM is receiving VNF | | | | application specific | | | | performance | | | | measurements. | | | | | | | | The VNF is a part of a | | | | NS. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | NM monitors VNF | | | | application specific | | | | PM data. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Begins when** | NM detected threshold | | | | crossing on a VNF | | | | application | | | | performance | | | | measurement. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends the NFVO a NS | | | | scaling request | | | | including target VNF | | | | instance and type of | | | | scaling (e.g., | | | | expansion). | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM a | | | | notification about the | | | | start of the NS | | | | scaling execution. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The NFVO executes the | | | | procedure to scale the | | | | NS instance. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM a | | | | notification about the | | | | end of the NS scaling | | | | execution. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Exceptions** | | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Post-conditions** | Threshold crossing | | | | condition of VNF | | | | application is | | | | resolved as a result | | | | of NS scaling | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-12 | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+
### 5.4.3 Enabling/disabling the auto-scaling of the corresponding VNF
instance(s) through NFVO as part of NS LCM
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable/Disable the | | | | auto-scaling | | | | functionality of a VNF | | | | instance(s) as part of | | | | NS LCM operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM requests, as part of | | | | NS LCM, to | | | | enable/disable the | | | | auto-scaling of the | | | | corresponding VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM. | | | | | | | | NFVO. | | | | | | | | VNFM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The auto-scaling, which | | | | means automatic | | | | procedure controlled | | | | and executed by the | | | | VNFM to scale the | | | | capacity of a VNF | | | | instance, is supported. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The operator decides to | | | | enable/disable the | | | | auto-scaling of the | | | | certain VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM requests NFVO, as | | | | part of NS LCM, to | | | | enable/disable the | | | | auto-scaling of the | | | | corresponding VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO (together with | | | | VNFM) enables/disables | | | | the auto-scaling of the | | | | specific VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The auto-scaling of the | | | | corresponding VNF | | | | instance(s) is | | | | enabled/disabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-13 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.4 VNF application software update use cases
#### 5.4.4.1 Introduction
There are two possibilities with regards to the relation between VNF
application software and VNF Package:
a) the VNF application software is part, or
b) it is not a part of the VNF package.
The use cases in clause 5.4.4 introduce the different VNF application software
update cases.
#### 5.4.4.2 VNF application software update when application software is not
part of VNF Package
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Update the VNF | | | | application software | | | | when the application | | | | software is not part of | | | | the VNF Package. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM, EM and VNF | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | 1) The VNF application | | | | software is not part of | | | | the VNF package. | | | | | | | | 2) The VNF application | | | | software update does | | | | not require a change of | | | | the VNF\'s underlying | | | | virtualized resources | | | | or internal VNFC(s) | | | | topology/composition. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The new application | | | | software is available. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Operator decides to | | | | update the application | | | | software and instructs | | | | the NM to do so. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM requests EM to | | | | update the application | | | | software. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | EM updates the | | | | application software. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | EM notifies NM about | | | | the completion of the | | | | application software | | | | update. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The VNF application | | | | software is updated. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | FFS | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.4.3 VNF application software update when application software is part
of VNF Package
##### 5.4.4.3.1 VNF application software update when application software is
part of VNF Package and performing synchronization with NFV-MANO by NM
+-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Update the VNF instance | | | | application software | | | | (software) when the | | | | software is part of the | | | | VNF Package. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | EM | | | | | | | | NFV-MANO system | | | | | | | | VNF | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | 1) The software is | | | | part of the VNF | | | | package. | | | | | | | | 2) The software update | | | | does not require a | | | | change of the VNF\'s | | | | underlying virtualised | | | | resources or internal | | | | VNFC(s) | | | | topology/composition. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The new VNF package, | | | | with the updated | | | | software, is on boarded | | | | on NFV-MANO. | | | | | | | | See NOTE1. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Operator decides to | | | | update the software | | | | (with the new VNF | | | | package) and instructs | | | | the NM to do so. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM requests EM to | | | | update the software. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | EM acted to update the | | | | software. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | EM notifies NM about | | | | the completion of the | | | | software update. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NM confirms the | | | | normality of 3GPP | | | | service and requests | | | | NFVO to update the VNF | | | | instance information. | | | | The updated VNF | | | | instance information | | | | would capture | | | | information of the new | | | | VNF package. | | | | | | | | See NOTE2. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The software and the | | | | VNF instance | | | | information are | | | | updated. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-14 | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: It is assumed | | | | that the package | | | | integrity is verified | | | | as part of the | | | | on-boarding process. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 2: How NFVO | | | | updates the VNF | | | | instance information | | | | and whether there is a | | | | need for additional | | | | steps on NFV-MANO to | | | | avoid introducing any | | | | security threat or | | | | failure (e.g. run-time | | | | integrity check) is out | | | | of the scope of the | | | | present document. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.5 Providing initial configuration data in VNF instantiation use cases
#### 5.4.5.1 Introduction
There are several possibilities with regards to providing the initial
configuration data (e.g. IP address of the managing EM) to the VNF in
instantiation use cases. Some of the possibilities (those described in clauses
5.4.5.3.1 and 5.4.5.3.2) rely on functionalities provided by the VNFM while
others (described in clause 5.4.5.2) may be considered independent from the
ETSI NFV defined functional blocks.
#### 5.4.5.2 Managing EM IP address provided to instantiated VNF using MVPNP
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable connection of | | | | newly instantiated VNF | | | | to the managing Element | | | | Manager | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | VNF | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | IP networks: Non-Secure | | | | Operator Network, | | | | External Network, and | | | | its elements like DHCP | | | | server optionally DNS, | | | | CA/RA servers, Security | | | | Gateway(s) (each | | | | protecting one or more | | | | Secure Operator | | | | Networks); | | | | | | | | Secure Operator Network | | | | and its elements such | | | | as DHCP server, DNS | | | | server, Element | | | | Manager(s) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The vendor of 3GPP NE | | | | implemented as a VNF | | | | prefers to utilize the | | | | MVPnP standardized | | | | mechanisms for VNF | | | | connection to the | | | | Element Manager. | | | | | | | | There may be one or | | | | more IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Services like DHCP and | | | | Router Advertisements | | | | and zero or more DNS | | | | servers. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | IP connectivity exists | | | | between the involved | | | | telecom resources. | | | | | | | | The involved telecom | | | | resources are | | | | functional. | | | | | | | | The relevant | | | | information is stored | | | | and available: | | | | | | | | > \- Vendor Certificate | | | | > at the VNF | | | | > | | | | > \- Operator | | | | > Certificate at the | | | | > CA/RA (in case VNF | | | | > connects to operator | | | | > secure network via | | | | > SeGW) | | | | > | | | | > \- For the External | | | | > Network or Non-Secure | | | | > Operator Network (in | | | | > case VNF connects to | | | | > operator secure | | | | > network via SeGW): | | | | > | | | | > \- (Outer) IP | | | | > autoconfiguration | | | | > information at the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN of the | | | | > initial OAM SeGW at | | | | > the VNF\ | | | | > and/or\ | | | | > FQDN or IP address of | | | | > the initial OAM SeGW | | | | > at the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN of the CA/RA | | | | > servers at the VNF\ | | | | > and/or\ | | | | > FQDN or IP address of | | | | > the CA/RA servers at | | | | > the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service | | | | > | | | | > \- If FQDNs need to | | | | > be resolved, | | | | > corresponding IP | | | | > address(es) at the | | | | > DNS server(s) | | | | > | | | | > \- For the Secure | | | | > Operator Network: | | | | > | | | | > \- (Inner) IP | | | | > autoconfiguration | | | | > information at the IP | | | | > Autoconfiguration | | | | > Service or at the | | | | > initial OAM SeGW | | | | > | | | | > \- FQDN or IP address | | | | > of the initial EMS at | | | | > the VNF and/or DHCP | | | | > Server of the Secure | | | | > Operator Network. | | | | > | | | | > \- If FQDNs need to | | | | > be resolved, | | | | > corresponding IP | | | | > address(es) at the | | | | > DNS server(s) | | | | > | | | | > \- Configuration and | | | | > software for the VNF | | | | > at the EM(s) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | VNFM instantiates a new | | | | VNF instance | | | | implementing 3GPP NE | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | If a VLAN ID is | | | | available, the VNF uses | | | | it. Otherwise the VNF | | | | uses the native VLAN | | | | where PnP traffic is | | | | sent and received | | | | untagged | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The VNF acquires its IP | | | | address through | | | | stateful or stateless | | | | IP autoconfiguration. | | | | This may provide 0 or | | | | more DNS server | | | | addresses. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The VNF acquires the IP | | | | address of the CA/RA | | | | server. The FQDN of the | | | | CA/RA server may be | | | | pre-configured in the | | | | VNF or the FQDN or IP | | | | address of the CA/RA | | | | server may be provided | | | | by the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Service. FQDNs are | | | | resolved through the | | | | DNS if necessary. | | | | Information provided by | | | | the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Services shall | | | | supersede those | | | | pre-configured at the | | | | VNF. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | The VNF performs | | | | Certificate Enrolment. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | The VNF acquires the IP | | | | address of the OAM | | | | SeGW. The FQDN of the | | | | OAM SeGW may be | | | | pre-configured in the | | | | VNF or the FQDN or the | | | | IP address of the OAM | | | | SeGW may be provided by | | | | the IP | | | | Autoconfiguration | | | | Service. FQDNs are | | | | resolved through the | | | | DNS if necessary. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | The VNF establishes a | | | | secure connection | | | | (tunnel) to the | | | | Security Gateway given | | | | by Step 5. | | | | | | | | The VNF receives its | | | | (inner) IP | | | | autoconfiguration | | | | information (which may | | | | be the same as the | | | | outer IP address | | | | obtained in step2) and | | | | optionally the address | | | | of one or more DNS | | | | servers within the | | | | Secure Operator Network | | | | from the Configuration | | | | Parameters of IKEv2 | | | | during tunnel | | | | establishment. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 7 (M)** | The VNF acquires the IP | | | | address of the correct | | | | Element Manager by | | | | either, issuing a DHCP | | | | request including the | | | | VNF provider | | | | information, resolving | | | | FQDNs via DNS if | | | | necessary, or by having | | | | a pre-configured FQDN | | | | (including the VNF | | | | provider information) | | | | resolved via DNS. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 8 (M)** | The VNF establishes a | | | | connection to the | | | | provided EM and | | | | acquires its | | | | configuration and | | | | software if any. | | | | | | | | The configuration may | | | | contain an address to | | | | another EM that this | | | | specific node shall use | | | | as EM. | | | | | | | | The configuration may | | | | contain an address to | | | | another SeGW that | | | | should be used before | | | | connecting to the EM. | | | | | | | | The VNF may then | | | | | | | | - release the | | | | connection to the | | | | current EM and OAM SeGW | | | | and then restart | | | | (returning to step 1), | | | | | | | | - release the | | | | connection to the | | | | current EM and OAM SeGW | | | | and then return to step | | | | 6, | | | | | | | | - release the | | | | connection to the | | | | current EM and then | | | | repeat step 8, or | | | | | | | | - continue with step | | | | 9. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 9 (M)** | The VNF establishes | | | | necessary application | | | | (e.g. 3GPP signaling) | | | | layer connection(s) to | | | | the neighbor NEs using | | | | the transport (VLAN ID, | | | | IP addresses) and | | | | security parameters | | | | provided in step 8. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above | | | | are successfully | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | One or more secure | | | | connections exist | | | | between the VNF and the | | | | Element Manager. The | | | | 3GPP NE (VNF instance) | | | | is being managed by EM. | | | | | | | | Via the connection to | | | | the Element Manager the | | | | VNF instance can | | | | receive further | | | | instructions to become | | | | operational and carry | | | | user traffic, e.g. the | | | | administrativeState is | | | | set to "unlocked". | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-15 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 5.4.5.3 Managing EM IP address provided to instantiated VNF by VNFM
##### 5.4.5.3.1 Managing EM IP address provided to VNFM by EM as VNF
configuration data
+-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable connection of | | | | newly instantiated VNF | | | | to the managing EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | VNFM | | | | | | | | VNF | | | | | | | | Managing EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The vendor of 3GPP NE | | | | implemented as a VNF | | | | prefers to utilize the | | | | ETSI NFV standardized | | | | mechanisms for initial | | | | VNF configuration. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The pre-conditions | | | | applicable to VNF | | | | instantiation requested | | | | by EM have been | | | | satisfied. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Operator decides to | | | | instantiate new VNF | | | | implementing 3GPP NE | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | EM requests VNFM to | | | | create a new VNF | | | | identifier (according | | | | to [8] clause 7.2.2) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | VNFM creates a new | | | | VnfInfo object and | | | | returns the VNF | | | | instance identifier to | | | | the EM (according to | | | | [8] clause 7.2.2.4) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | EM provides the | | | | managing EM IP address | | | | to the VNFM as a | | | | parameter of modify VNF | | | | configuration operation | | | | (according to [8] | | | | clause 7.6.2) together | | | | with VNF instance | | | | identifier received in | | | | step 2 | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | VNFM updates the | | | | VnfInfo object with | | | | configuration data | | | | (managing EM IP | | | | address) received from | | | | EM and returns the | | | | operation result to EM | | | | (according to [8] | | | | clause 7.6.2.4) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | EM request VNFM to | | | | instantiate a new VNF | | | | and provides specific | | | | VNF instance identifier | | | | received in step 2 | | | | (according to [8] | | | | clause 7.2.3) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | VNFM initiates the VNF | | | | instantiation and | | | | returns the operation | | | | result to EM (according | | | | to [8] clause | | | | 7.2.3.4). The VNF | | | | instance is not | | | | associated to any NS, | | | | (see NOTE in clause | | | | 7.2.3.4 in [8]). | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 7 (M)** | VNFM provides the newly | | | | instantiated VNF with | | | | the managing EM IP | | | | address using set | | | | initial configuration | | | | operation (according to | | | | [8] clause 6.2.2, see | | | | note 1) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 8 (O)** | If EM is subscribed to | | | | the VNF LCM | | | | notifications | | | | (according to [8] | | | | clause 7.3.2), VNFM | | | | notifies EM about the | | | | progress of VNF | | | | instantiation | | | | (according to [8] | | | | clause 7.3.3) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 9 (M)** | Newly instantiated VNF | | | | connects to the | | | | managing EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Managing EM is able to | | | | manage the 3GPP NE (VNF | | | | instance) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP NE (VNF | | | | instance which is not | | | | associated to any NS) | | | | is being managed by EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: Step depends on | | | | the VNF behaviour that | | | | is outside of scope of | | | | 3GPP. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
##### 5.4.5.3.2 Managing EM IP address provided to VNFM by EM as VNF
instantiation parameter
+-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable connection of | | | | newly instantiated VNF | | | | to the managing EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | VNFM | | | | | | | | VNF | | | | | | | | Managing EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The vendor of 3GPP NE | | | | implemented as a VNF | | | | prefers to utilize the | | | | ETSI NFV standardized | | | | mechanisms for initial | | | | VNF configuration. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The pre-conditions | | | | applicable to VNF | | | | instantiation requested | | | | by EM have been | | | | satisfied. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Operator decides to | | | | instantiate new VNF | | | | implementing 3GPP NE | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | EM requests VNFM to | | | | create a new VNF | | | | identifier (according | | | | to [8] clause 7.2.2) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | VNFM creates a new | | | | VnfInfo object and | | | | returns the VNF | | | | instance identifier to | | | | the EM (according to | | | | [8] clause 7.2.2.4) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | EM request VNFM to | | | | instantiate a new VNF | | | | and provides specific | | | | VNF instance identifier | | | | received in step 2 and | | | | provides the managing | | | | EM IP address to the | | | | VNFM as additional | | | | parameter of | | | | instantiation | | | | (according to [8] | | | | clause 7.2.3) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | VNFM maps the managing | | | | EM IP address value | | | | received as additional | | | | parameter of | | | | instantiation to the | | | | VNF configuration data | | | | (see note 1). | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | VNFM updates the | | | | VnfInfo object with | | | | configuration data | | | | (managing EM IP | | | | address) received from | | | | EM, initiates the VNF | | | | instantiation and | | | | returns the operation | | | | result to EM (according | | | | to [8] clause | | | | 7.2.3.4) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | VNFM provides the newly | | | | instantiated VNF with | | | | the managing EM IP | | | | address using set | | | | initial configuration | | | | operation (according to | | | | [8] clause 6.2.2, see | | | | note 2) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 7 (O)** | If EM is subscribed to | | | | the VNF LCM | | | | notifications | | | | (according to [8] | | | | clause 7.3.2), VNFM | | | | notifies EM about the | | | | progress of VNF | | | | instantiation | | | | (according to [8] | | | | clause 7.3.3) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 8 (M)** | Newly instantiated VNF | | | | (but not associated to | | | | any NS, see NOTE in | | | | clause 7.2.3.4 in | | | | [8]) connects to the | | | | managing EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Managing EM is able to | | | | manage the 3GPP NE (VNF | | | | instance) | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The 3GPP NE (VNF | | | | instance which is not | | | | associated to any NS) | | | | is being managed by EM | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: The mechanism | | | | for mapping additional | | | | parameter of | | | | instantiation into VNF | | | | configuration data is | | | | out of scope of 3GPP. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 2: Step depends on | | | | the VNF behaviour that | | | | is outside of scope of | | | | 3GPP. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
# 6 Specification level requirements
## 6.1 Requirements
### 6.1.1 Requirements for Itf-N
None.
### 6.1.2 Requirements for Os-Ma-nfvo
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-1** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have the
capability allowing NM to send NS instantiation request based on on-boarded
NSD and parameterization specific for an NS (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.001 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-2** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have the
capability allowing NM to send NS instantiation request using existing VNF
instances (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.008 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-3** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have the
capability allowing NM to send VNF Package on-boarding request (see
requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.VnfPkgm.001 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-4** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have the
capability allowing NM to receive notification on the VNF Package on-boarding
(see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.VnfPkgm.006 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-5** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have the
capability allowing NFVO to send information about VNF instances that
constitute a NS (see requirements Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.003 and Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.015 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-6** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have the
capability allowing NM to send NS termination request (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.002 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-7** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have the
capability allowing NM to send NS query request (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.003 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-8** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have the
capability allowing NM to send NS scaling request (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.004 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-9** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have the
capability allowing NM to send NS updating request (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.005 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-10** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to send NS healing request (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.010 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-11** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to send NS scaling request with scaling of VNF
instances as part of NS scaling (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.014 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-12** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to enable VNF Package (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.VnfPkgm.003 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-13** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to disable VNF Package (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.VnfPkgm.002 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-14** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to send NSD on-boarding request (see requirement
Os-Ma-nfvo.Nsd.001 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-15** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to receive acknowledgement on the NSD on-boarding
(see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.Nsd.001 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-16** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to send a request with instantiating a VNF instance
as part of the update of a NS (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.012 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-17** The Os-Ma-nfv reference point shall have the
capability allowing NFVO to notify the addition, deletion or modification of
the VNF instance, as result of the NS lifecycle change (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcn.002 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-18** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to remove an existing VNF instance from a NS
instance as part of the update of a NS (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.013
[6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-19** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to subscribe/un-subscribe to NS instance lifecycle
change notifications (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcn.001 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-20** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to receive notifications regarding NS instance
lifecycle changes (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.003 and Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcn.001
[6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-21** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to update an NSD (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.Nsd.004 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-22** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to associate a different NSD version to an NS
instance as part of NS update (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.025 in [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-23** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to request the creation of a new VL instance
interconnecting specific external CPs of specific VNF instances belonging to
the same NS instance as part of the update of a NS.
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-24** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to request the addition of an existing VNF instance
as part of the update of a NS (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.013 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-25** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to request the creation of a new SAP instance
exposing specific external CP of a specific VNF instance belonging to the NS
instance as part of the update of a NS.
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-26** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to request the instantiation of a new NS instance
by adding existing VNF instances and new VL instances interconnecting specific
external CPs of specific VNF instances.
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-27** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to request the instantiation of a new NS instance
by adding existing NS instances and new VL instances interconnecting specific
SAPs of specific nested NS instances.
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-28** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to create a new version of already on-boarded PNFD
using Update PNFD operation (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.Nsd.010 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-29** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to request creation of a NS instance identifier,
and an associated instance of an NsInfo information element to enable further
NS instantiation (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.021 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-30** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to update the user defined data on PNFD using
Update PNFD operation (See requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.Nsd.010 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-31** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to delete one or more PNFDs (see requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.Nsd.011 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-32** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to query the NFVO on certain attributes of one or
more PNFDs (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.Nsd.012 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-33** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to subscribe to receive notifications sent by the
NFVO about changes of the NSD(s) (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.Nsd.013 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-34** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to receive notifications sent by the NFVO about
changes of the NSD(s) (see requirements Os-Ma-nfvo.Nsd.007, Os-Ma-nfvo.Nsd.008
[6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-35** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall have
the capability allowing NM to request deletion of a NS instance identifier
(See requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.022 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-36** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to retrieve information about a VNF instance as part
of NS querying (see requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.015 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-37** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to request modifying non-application configuration
attributes of a VNF instance as part of NS update (covered by requirement Os-
Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.020 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-38** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to request modifying non-application information
about a VNF instance as part of NS update (covered by requirement Os-Ma-
nfvo.NsLcm.019 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to request to add an existing VNF instance to a NS
with connectivity to other VNF instance or PNF as part of NS update.
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to request the addition of the external connectivity
to a PNF or VNF instance as part of NS update.
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to request the addition of virtual link to a NS
instance as part of NS update.
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to request to change of the external connectivity to
a PNF or VNF instance as part of NS update.
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to request the on-boarding of PNFD (covered by
requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.Nsd.009 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 [6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to request the addition of the VNFFG as part of NS
update (covered by requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.027 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[6]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x** The Os-Ma-nfvo reference point shall support
a capability allowing NM to request the update of the VNFFG as part of NS
update (covered by requirement Os-Ma-nfvo.NsLcm.027 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[6]).
### 6.1.3 Requirements for Ve-Vnfm-em
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-1** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing EM to send VNF instantiation request (see requirement
Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcm.002 in [8]).
NOTE: According to [8], the new VNF instance is instantiated but not
associated to any NS (see note in clause 7.2.3.4 in [8]). The note in clause
7.2.3.4 in [8] reads: \"In the present document, the operation result of the
VNF instantiation request by EM cannot be determined to have the same result
as VNF instantiation request as part of the NS LCM update operation performed
through the NFVO (see clauses 7.3.5 and 8.3.4.10 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013
[Error: Reference source not found]), in particular in what concerns re-using
the newly VNF instance at the NFVO level and associating it to a corresponding
NS.\"
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing VNFM to inform EM the result of VNF instantiation (see
requirement Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcn.001 in [8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-3** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing EM to request the scaling of a VNF instance indicating
the type of VNFC to scale and the number of scaling steps (see requirement Ve-
Vnfm-em.VnfLcm.001 and clause 7.2.7.2 in [8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-4** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing VNFM to notify about VNF instance lifecycle changes
indicating the type of lifecycle procedure, whether it is the start or the end
of the procedure, and the results of lifecycle procedure with indication of
errors if the procedure is not successful (see requirement Ve-Vnfm-
em.VnfLcn.002 in [8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-5** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing EM to subscribe/un-subscribe to VNF instance lifecycle
change notifications (see clause 7.5 in [8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-6** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing EM to send VNF termination request (see requirement Ve-
Vnfm-em.VnfLcm.003 in [8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-7** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing VNFM to inform EM the result of VNF termination (see
requirement Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcn.002 in [8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-8** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing EM to request VNFM to enable/disable the auto-scaling of
a specific VNF instance(s) (see requirement Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfCm.001 in [8] and
clause 7.1.12 in [9]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-9** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing EM to request VNFM to create the VNF identifier (see
requirement Ve-Vnfm-em.VnfLcm.001 in [8]).
**REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-10** The Ve-Vnfm-em reference point shall support
a capability allowing EM to retrieve from VNFM, information about a VNF
instance, including VNFC instances and the configured virtual resources
supporting the subject VNF instance.
### 6.1.4 Requirements for Ve-Vnfm-vnf
None.
## 6.2 Actor roles
See detailed actors and roles for each use case in clause 6.4.
## 6.3 Telecommunications resources
See detailed telecommunication resources for each use case in clause 6.4.
## 6.4 Use cases
### 6.4.1 VNF Instance use cases
#### 6.4.1.1 VNF identifier creation
+-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \> | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | EM requests to create a VNF | | | | identifier. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | EM | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | VNFM | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | N/A | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | EM decides to request to create | | | | a VNF identifier. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | EM sends a request to VNFM to | | | | create the VNF identifier (see | | | | clause 7.2.2 [8]) | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | VNFM returns vnfInstanceId to | | | | EM to indicate the creation of | | | | VNF identifier (see clause | | | | 7.2.2.3 [8]) | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when EM receives the** | | | | vnfInstanceId**.** | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Post-conditions | The VNF identifier is created. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-9 | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+
#### 6.4.1.2 VNF instantiation
##### 6.4.1.2.1 VNF instantiation initiated through Ve-Vnfm-em
+-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \> | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | Create a VNF instance based on | | | | the local needs of the EM (e.g. | | | | for VNF validation prior to | | | | deployments in production | | | | environment). | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | EM | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | VNFM | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The association of the new VNF | | | | instance to a NS instance | | | | enabling the VNF LCM granting | | | | operations and VR management is | | | | out of scope of 3GPP. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Pre-conditions | The VNF Package for the VNF | | | | instantiation is enabled and is | | | | available to the VNFM. | | | | | | | | EM is subscribed to the VNF LCM | | | | notifications (see clause 7.3.2 | | | | [8]). | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | EM decides to instantiate a new | | | | VNF instance. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | EM requests VNFM to create a | | | | new VNF instance Identifier | | | | (see clause 7.2.2 [8]) using | | | | the VNFD Id to identify the VNF | | | | Package to be used for | | | | instantiation. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | VNFM responds to EM with new | | | | VNF instance Identifier | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (M) | EM requests VNFM to instantiate | | | | the new VNF (see clause 7.2.3 | | | | [8]). | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 4 (M) | VNFM responds to EM with the | | | | operation result containing the | | | | lifecycle operation occurrence | | | | Id | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 5 (M) | **VNFM sends the VNF lifecycle | | | | change notification to EM | | | | indicating the start of VNF | | | | instantiation procedure** (see | | | | clause 7.3.3 [8])**.** | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 6 (M) | **VNFM sends the VNF lifecycle | | | | change notification to EM** | | | | indicating the success or | | | | failure of the VNF | | | | instantiation, when the **VNF | | | | instantiation procedure is | | | | completed** (see clause 7.3.3 | | | | [8]). | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when all mandatory steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed or when | | | | an exception occurs.** | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Post-conditions | A new VNF instance is | | | | instantiated but not associated | | | | to any NS (.see NOTE in clause | | | | 7.2.3.4 in [8]). | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-1, | | | | REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-2. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.2.2 VNF instantiation initiated through Os-Ma-nfvo
+-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \> | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to add a VNF instance | | | | to a NS via Os-Ma-nfvo | | | | reference point. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | N/A | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Pre-conditions | The VNF Package for the VNF | | | | instantiation is enabled. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | NM decides to instantiate a VNF | | | | instance that is part of an NS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to NFVO to | | | | instantiate a VNF instance as | | | | part of the update of a NS (see | | | | clause 7.3.3 in ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | 013 [6]) and the VNF | | | | parameters/values, including | | | | those captured in vendor | | | | specific name value pairs, | | | | carried by such request are | | | | only related to VNF | | | | virtualization aspects and are | | | | not VNF application specific.. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle | | | | Change** notification to NM | | | | indicating the addition of the | | | | VNF instance (see clause 5.3.3 | | | | [6]), when the **VNF | | | | instantiation procedure is | | | | completed**. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when NM receives the | | | | notification from NFVO | | | | indicating the VNF instance has | | | | been successfully | | | | instantiated.** | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Post-conditions | A new VNF instance is | | | | instantiated. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-16, | | | | REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-18 | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+
#### 6.4.1.3 VNF scaling
##### 6.4.1.3.1 VNF instance scaling through operation request to VNFM by EM
+-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To expand/contract a | | | | VNF instance by scaling | | | | the VNF instance | | | | through operation | | | | request to VNFM by EM, | | | | and notify about the | | | | execution of the VNF | | | | instance scaling | | | | through reference point | | | | Ve-Vnfm-em. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | EM detects whether a | | | | scaling execution is | | | | needed and requests the | | | | VNFM to execute the VNF | | | | scaling. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | EM. | | | | | | | | VNFM. | | | | | | | | VNF | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | EM is subscribed to VNF | | | | lifecycle change | | | | notifications from the | | | | VNFM. | | | | | | | | See note 1. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | The subject VNF | | | | instance is not being | | | | scaled at the moment. | | | | VNFM does not have any | | | | auto-scaling scripts or | | | | the policy for | | | | auto-scaling is not in | | | | used or active (see | | | | note 2). | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | EM detected the need | | | | (e.g., triggered by MO | | | | attribute value | | | | modification from NM) | | | | to scale and have | | | | determined the scaling | | | | action | | | | (expand/contract). | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | EM sends the VNFM a | | | | request to scale a VNF | | | | with an indication of | | | | the type of VNF | | | | Components to scale, | | | | and value of scaling. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | VNFM sends to EM a | | | | notification about the | | | | start of the VNF | | | | scaling execution. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | The VNFM executes the | | | | procedure to scale the | | | | VNF instance. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Step 4 (M) | VNFM sends to EM a | | | | notification about the | | | | end of the VNF scaling | | | | execution. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The VNF instance has | | | | been scaled | | | | ( | | | | expansion/contraction). | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV\ | | | | _LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-NFV | | | | _LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-4 | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | NOTE 1: In the case | | | | where VNF scaling is | | | | triggered by MOI | | | | attribute value | | | | changes, the IRPManager | | | | (Operator) is aware of | | | | the MO attributes whose | | | | value changes can | | | | trigger VNF scaling | | | | actions. How the | | | | IRPManager (Operator) | | | | knows the names of the | | | | MO attributes whose | | | | value change can | | | | trigger VNF scaling is | | | | out of scope of this | | | | specification (e.g. | | | | could be stated in NRM | | | | attribute definitions | | | | or in product | | | | documentation). | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Note 2: How 3GPP | | | | management system can | | | | determine if | | | | Pre-conditions are true | | | | is FFS. | | | +-------------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.4 VNF instance termination
##### 6.4.1.4.1 VNF instance termination initiated through Ve-Vnfm-em
+--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / | \> | | | Specification | | | | | Related use | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | Enable EM to terminate a | | | | VNF instance which is no | | | | longer needed for | | | | testing and integration | | | | purpose. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | EM | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | VNFM | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | The VNF instance being | | | | terminated does not | | | | participate in any NS | | | | (see note 1). | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Pre-conditions | The VNF instance to be | | | | terminated is no longer | | | | needed. The VNF instance | | | | has been instantiated | | | | (see NOTE in clause | | | | 7.2.3.4 in [8]) by the | | | | EM. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | EM decides to terminate | | | | a VNF instance. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | EM sends the request | | | | (see clause 5.2.1.1 | | | | [8]), to VNFM via | | | | Ve-Vnfm-em reference | | | | point to terminate the | | | | identified VNF instance. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | **VNFM sends the VNF | | | | lifecycle change | | | | notification to EM | | | | indicating the start of | | | | VNF termination | | | | procedure** (see clause | | | | 5.2.1.2 [8])**.** | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Step 3 (M) | **VNFM sends the VNF | | | | lifecycle change | | | | notification to EM** | | | | indicating the result | | | | (e.g. success or | | | | failure) of VNF | | | | termination, when the | | | | **VNF termination | | | | procedure is completed** | | | | (see clause 5.2.1.2 | | | | [8])**.** | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when all | | | | mandatory steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed | | | | or when an exception | | | | occurs.** | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Post-conditions | The VNF instance is | | | | terminated. | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV | | | | _LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-6, | | | | REQ-NF | | | | V_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-7 | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: Participation of | | | | the VNF instance in a NS | | | | is not known to the | | | | EM/VNFM and could only | | | | be determined by the | | | | NFVO (e.g. during | | | | granting operation). | | | | Potential negative | | | | impact to the NS | | | | instance can be | | | | prevented by the | | | | granting operation. | | | +--------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+
##### 6.4.1.4.2 Remove VNF instance from NS through Os-Ma-nfvo
+-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Use Case Stage | Evolution / Specification | \> | | | | | | | | Related use | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to delete a VNF | | | | instance from a NS via | | | | Os-Ma-nfvo reference point. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Assumptions | N/A | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Pre-conditions | The VNF instance to be | | | | terminated is no longer needed, | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Begins when | NM decides that VNF instance is | | | | no longer needed as part of the | | | | NS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to NFVO to | | | | remove a VNF instance from a NS | | | | instance (see clauses 5.3.2 | | | | [6]). | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO sends **the NS Lifecycle | | | | Change** notification to NM | | | | indicating the removal of the | | | | VNF instance (see clauses 5.3.3 | | | | [6]). | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Ends when | **Ends when the VNF instance is | | | | removed from NS.** | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Post-conditions | The VNF is removed from NS. | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+ | Traceability | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-17, | | | | REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-18 | | +-------------------+---------------------------------+--------------+
#### 6.4.1.5 Notifications about VNF lifecycle changes
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To monitor by EM the lifecycle | | | | changes of one or more VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | EM subscribes to and receives | | | | VNF lifecycle change | | | | notifications. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | EM. | | | | | | | | VNFM. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | VNFM is running. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | EM determines to monitor VNF | | | | lifecycle changes on one or | | | | more managed VNF instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | EM requests a subscription to | | | | VNFM to receive VNF lifecycle | | | | change notifications regarding | | | | one or more managed VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | VNFM creates a subscription | | | | and acknowledges the creation | | | | of the subscription to EM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | VNFM monitors the lifecycles | | | | of the identified managed VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 4 (M) | VNFM creates a VNF lifecycle | | | | change notification including | | | | information: identity the | | | | managed VNF instance, the type | | | | of lifecycle change including | | | | the beginning or the end of | | | | the procedure affecting the | | | | lifecycle changes. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 5 (M) | VNFM sends to EM the VNF | | | | lifecycle change | | | | notification(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | EM unsubscribes to VNF | | | | lifecycle change notification | | | | regarding the managed VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | EM has information about VNF | | | | lifecycle changes of the one | | | | or more managed VNF | | | | instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-4, | | | | REQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-5 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
Note: VNF lifecycle change notifications are supported by NFV-MANO system [5].
#### 6.4.1.6 Enabling/disabling the auto-scaling of a VNF instance
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Enable/Disable the | | | | auto-scaling of a VNF | | | | instance (e.g.needed | | | | for testing and | | | | integration purposes). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | EM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | VNFM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The auto-scaling is | | | | supported. | | | | | | | | In cases where NM is | | | | aware of the VNF | | | | instance (e.g. it was | | | | instantiated by NM | | | | request), it is | | | | expected that NM is | | | | made aware of the of | | | | auto-scaling | | | | enable/disable flag | | | | value change resulting | | | | from this Use Case. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | EM decides to | | | | enable/disable the | | | | auto-scaling of a VNF | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | EM requests VNFM to | | | | enable/disable the | | | | auto-scaling of a VNF | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | VNFM notifies EM of the | | | | completion result of | | | | enabling/disabling the | | | | auto-scaling of the | | | | subject VNF instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The auto-scaling of the | | | | VNF instance is | | | | enabled/disabled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV | | | | _LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-8 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.7 Retrieve VNF instance information from VNFM by EM
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To retrieve by EM from VNFM, | | | | information of a subject VNF | | | | instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | EM queries the VNF instance | | | | information. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | EM. | | | | | | | | VNFM. | | | | | | | | VNF. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | N/A | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | N/A | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | EM determines to retrieve | | | | certain information about the | | | | subject VNF instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | EM sends a request to VNFM | | | | over the Ve-Vnfm-em reference | | | | point querying certain | | | | information about the subject | | | | VNF instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | VNFM sends to EM over the | | | | Ve-Vnfm-em reference point the | | | | information requested about | | | | the subject VNF instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | Ends when all steps identified | | | | above are completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | EM has the information about | | | | the subject VNF instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-16, | | | | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_Ve-Vnfm-em-FUN-10 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.8 Retrieve VNF instance information by NM through NFVO as part of
the NS query
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To retrieve by NM | | | | through NFVO | | | | information about a | | | | subject VNF instance as | | | | part of the query of a | | | | NS. Such information | | | | about a subject VNF | | | | instance is maintained | | | | by NFV-MANO (see clause | | | | 9.4.2 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 008 [5]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM queries the | | | | information about a | | | | subject VNF instance | | | | which is part of NS | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM. | | | | | | | | NFVO. | | | | | | | | VNFM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The subject VNF | | | | instance is part of the | | | | NS instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines to | | | | retrieve certain | | | | information about the | | | | subject VNF instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | As part of query of a | | | | NS, NM sends a request | | | | to NFVO over the | | | | Os-Ma-nfvo reference | | | | point querying certain | | | | information about the | | | | subject VNF instance | | | | (see clause 7.3.6 in | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 | | | | [7]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM over | | | | the Os-Ma-nfvo | | | | reference point the | | | | information requested | | | | about the subject VNF | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | NM has the information | | | | about the subject VNF | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-17, | | | | REQ-NFV\ | | | | _LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-36 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.1.9 Modify non-application information and non-application
configuration attributes of a VNF instance by NM through NFVO as part of NS
update
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To request by NM the | | | | modification of | | | | non-application | | | | information and | | | | non-application | | | | configuration | | | | attribute(s) of a | | | | subject VNF instance. | | | | Such information about | | | | a subject VNF instance | | | | is managed by NFV-MANO | | | | (see clause 9.4.2 in | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 | | | | [5]), for which | | | | certain attributes are | | | | writable/modifiable | | | | (see clauses 7.2.11 and | | | | 7.4.2 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 008 [5]), | | | | e.g. VNF instance name, | | | | VNF external | | | | connectivity. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM requests modifying | | | | the non-application | | | | information and | | | | non-application | | | | configuration | | | | attributes of the VNF | | | | instance which is part | | | | of the NS instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NM. | | | | | | | | NFVO. | | | | | | | | VNFM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The subject VNF | | | | instance is part of the | | | | NS instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines to modify | | | | certain non-application | | | | information and/or | | | | non-application | | | | configuration | | | | attribute(s) managed by | | | | NFV-MANO about the | | | | subject VNF instance | | | | that is part of an | | | | identified NS instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request to | | | | NFVO over the | | | | Os-Ma-nfvo reference | | | | point to modify the | | | | needed non-application | | | | attribute(s) about the | | | | subject VNF instance as | | | | part of the NS update | | | | operation (see clause | | | | 7.3.5 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 013 [7]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO sends an | | | | acknowledgement of the | | | | NS update request to | | | | the NM. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM an NS | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | notification about the | | | | start of the NS update | | | | execution (see clause | | | | 7.4.3 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 013 [7]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NFVO executes the | | | | procedure to update the | | | | NS instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM **the | | | | NS Lifecycle Change** | | | | notification to | | | | indicate the completion | | | | of the modification of | | | | requested attributes of | | | | the VNF instance as | | | | part of NS update (see | | | | clause 7.4.3 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 013 [7]). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The non-application | | | | information and/or | | | | non-application | | | | configuration | | | | attribute(s) managed by | | | | NFV-MANO of the subject | | | | VNF instance has been | | | | modified. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-18, | | | | REQ-NFV_LCM-CON-19, | | | | REQ-NFV_ | | | | LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-37, | | | | REQ-NFV\ | | | | _LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-38 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
###
### 6.4.2 VNF Package use cases
#### 6.4.2.1 VNF Package on-boarding
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | VNF Package on-boarding | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM.NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | - The VNF Package is supplied | | | | by the NM | | | | | | | | - On-boarding is triggered by | | | | the NM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM is operational. | | | | | | | | The NM possesses a VNF Package | | | | which is not on-boarded yet | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM layer determines the need | | | | for on-boarding of the VNF | | | | Package | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to the NFVO | | | | on the VNF package on-boarding | | | | as specified in [6] | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the VNF Package | | | | and on-boarding proceeds | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO acknowledges to the NM | | | | successful package | | | | on-boarding. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The VNF Package is on-boarded. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-3 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.2.2 VNF Package enabling
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Enable a previously disabled VNF Package instance, allowing again its use
for instantiation of new VNF with this package.
Actors and Roles NM.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO.
Assumptions Enablement is triggered by the NM.
Pre-conditions A VNF Package is in the \"Disabled, Not in use\" or \"Disabled,
In use\" state.
Begins when NM determines the need for enabling of the VNF Package.
Step 1 (M) NM sends a request to the NFVO to enable the VNF package.
Step 2 (M) NFVO processes the request and enables the VNF Package.
Step 3 (M) NFVO acknowledges to the NM successful enablement of the VNF
package.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The VNF Package is enabled and available for use for
instantiation of new VNF(s) with this package.
Traceability
* * *
#### 6.4.2.3 VNF Package disabling
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal VNF Package disabling.
Actors and Roles NM.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO.
Assumptions Disabling is triggered by the NM.
Pre-conditions A VNF Package is on-boarded, available for use for
instantiation of new VNF instance(s) and is not marked as deletion pending
Begins when NM layer determines the need for disabling of the VNF Package.
Step 1 (M) NM sends a request to the NFVO to disable the VNF package
Step 2 (M) NFVO processes the request and disables the VNF Package.
Step 3 (M) NFVO acknowledges to the NM successful operation of disabling the
VNF package.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The VNF Package is on-boarded, disabled and cannot be used for
instantiation of new VNF instance(s) with this package.
Traceability
* * *
#### 6.4.2.4 VNF Package deleting
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal VNF Package deleting.
Actors and Roles NM.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO.
Assumptions Deletion is triggered by the NM.
Pre-conditions The VNF Package is in \"Disabled, Not in use\" state defined in
[6], clause D1.2
Begins when NM layer determines the need for deletion of the VNF Package.
Step 1 (M) NM sends a request to the NFVO to delete the VNF package as
specified in [6], clause 7.7.5.
Step 2 (M) NFVO processes the request and deletes the VNF Package.
Step 3 (M) NFVO indicates to the NM the result of the operation.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The VNF Package is deleted.
Traceability
* * *
#### 6.4.2.5 Delete VNF Package operation, when in use
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Delete VNF Package | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | NM has an active subscription | | | | at the NFVO for notifications | | | | on deletion of the VNF | | | | Package. | | | | | | | | Deletion of the VNF Package is | | | | triggered by the NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | A VNF Package is in "Disabled, | | | | In use" state as defined in | | | | [6], Annex D. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM layer determines the need | | | | for deletion of the VNF | | | | Package. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to the NFVO | | | | to delete the VNF package as | | | | specified in [6], clause | | | | 7.7.5. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | moves the VNF Package to the | | | | "Deletion Pending" state. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO responds to the NM with | | | | notification of the result of | | | | the Delete VNF Package | | | | operation indicating that the | | | | VNF Package is now marked as | | | | delete pending. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 4 (M) | After the last VNF terminated, | | | | the NFVO deletes the VNF | | | | Package and sends VNF Package | | | | change notification that | | | | indicates deletion of the VNF | | | | Package. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 5 (M) | NM receives the notification | | | | on deletion. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The VNF Package is deleted and | | | | no further operations with the | | | | package are possible. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.2.6 Abort VNF Package deletion operation
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Abort VNF Package deletion.
Actors and Roles NM.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO.
Assumptions Deletion of the VNF Package was earlier triggered by the NM when
the VNF Package was in use.
Pre-conditions A VNF Package is in \"Deletion Pending\" state defined in [6],
Annex D.
Begins when When the VNF Package is in use, the NM layer determines the need
for abort of the deletion of the VNF Package e.g. because of expected further
use of the package.
Step 1 (M) NM sends a request to the NFVO to abort deletion of the VNF package
as specified in [6], clause 7.7.12.
Step 2 (M) NFVO processes the request and moves the VNF Package to the
\"Disabled, In use\" state.
Step 3 (M) NFVO sends a response message to the NM.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The VNF Package deletion is aborted and the VNF Package is in
the \"Disabled, In use\" state.
Traceability
* * *
#### 6.4.2.7 VNF Package querying
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Obtain properties of the VNF Package.
Actors and Roles NM.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO.
Assumptions VNF Package querying is triggered by the NM.
Pre-conditions A VNF Package is on-boarded
Begins when NM layer determines the need for querying of the VNF Package.
Step 1 (M) NM layer sends a request to the NFVO to query the VNF package as
specified in [6], clause 7.7.6
Step 2 (M) NFVO processes the request.
Step 3 (M) NFVO acknowledges to the NM layer successful operation and returns
the result of the operation.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The NM layer possesses up-to-date information of the VNF
Package,
Traceability
* * *
#### 6.4.2.8 Fetch VNF Package operation
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal In case when the VNF Package has been on-boarded by another NM layer
entity, fetch a whole VNF Package.
Actors and Roles NM.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO.
Assumptions Fetch operation is triggered by the NM layer entity.
Pre-conditions
Begins when NM layer entity determines the need for fetching a whole VNF
Package.
Step 1 (M) NM sends a fetch request to the NFVO to obtain the whole VNF
Package using the VNFD identifier assigned by the VNF provider, as specified
in [6], clause 7.7.9 or the identifier of information held by the NVFO about
the VNF Package as specified in [6], clause 7.7.10.
Step 2 (M) NFVO sends to the NM the fetch response that contains information
requested by the NM.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The NM possesses the requested information.
Traceability
* * *
#### 6.4.2.9 Fetch On-boarded VNF Package Artefacts operation
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Fetch selected artefacts of the VNF Package.
Actors and Roles NM.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO.
Assumptions Fetch operation is triggered by the NM layer entity.
Pre-conditions The VNF Package is on-boarded.
Begins when NM layer entity determines the need for fetching selected
artefacts contained in the VNF package.
Step 1 (M) The NM queries the NFVO for the VNF Package Information Clause
6.4.2.7: Use case for VNF Package querying
Step 2 (M) The NFVO responds to the NM with the result of the query that
contains the VNF Package information Clause 6.4.2.7: Use case for VNF Package
querying
Step 3 (M) NM sends a fetch request to the NFVO to obtain the selected
artefacts contained in the VNF package as specified in [6], clause 7.7.11. The
artefacts are addressed using access information obtained in response to the
Query On-boarded VNF Package Information operation.
Step 4 (M) NFVO sends to the NM the fetch response that contains copy of the
artefacts requested by the NM.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The NM possesses the requested information.
Traceability
* * *
#### 6.4.2.10 Notify operation on VNF package management interface
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal NM to receive notifications related to changes of VNF Packages sent by
the NFVO.
Actors and Roles NFVO.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO.
Assumptions NM has an active subscription at the NFVO for certain
notifications related to changes of VNF Packages such as VNF Package on-
boarding and VNF Package Change notifications. The subscription includes a
filter for selecting the VNF Package(s) and related change notifications.
Pre-conditions
Begins when There is a change in the VNF Package that triggers a notification
matching the filter in the subscription, see [6], clause 7.7.8.
Step 1 (M) NFVO sends the notification on the change, to the NM.
Step 2 (M) The NM receives the notification.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The NM possesses information carried by the received
notification.
Traceability
* * *
#### 6.4.2.11 Subscribe operation at the VNF Package management interface
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal To subscribe with a filter for the notifications related to changes of
VNF Packages sent by the NFVO.
Actors and Roles NM.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO.
Assumptions Subscription is triggered by the NM layer.
Pre-conditions
Begins when NM layer determines the need to subscribe with a filter for the
notifications related to changes of VNF Packages sent by the NFVO.
Step 1 (M) NM sends to the NFVO request for subscription to certain
notifications related to changes of certain VNF Package(s) as specified in
[6], clause 7.7.7.
Step 2 (M) NFVO responds to the NM with the result of the operation indicating
if the subscription has been successful or not, and, in the case of success,
identification of the subscription realized.
Exceptions
Post-conditions In the case of successful subscription, the NM is registered
to receive notifications related to changes of VNF Packages sent by the NFVO
and matching the filter
Traceability
* * *
### 6.4.3 NS Instance use cases
#### 6.4.3.1 NS instantiation
##### 6.4.3.1.1 Instantiation of a new NS
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Use case stage | Ev | \>\ | | | olution/Specification | Related use | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Goal | To instantiate a NS | | | | with necessary input | | | | parameterization | | | | through operation | | | | request from NM on | | | | the Os-Ma-nfvo | | | | reference point in | | | | order to honour | | | | specific NS usage, | | | | e.g. geographical | | | | location, capacity, | | | | etc. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM requests the NS | | | | instantiation | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Telecom resources | NM. | | | | | | | | NFVO | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Assumptions | NS may contain VNFs, | | | | PNFs and nested NSs. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Pre-conditions | The VNF Package(s) of | Clause 6.4.2.1: Use | | | the VNF(s) to be | case for VNF Package | | | instantiated as part | on-boarding | | | of the NS are | | | | on-boarded. | Clause 6.4.4.1: Use | | | | case for Network | | | The NSD for the NS | Service Descriptor | | | instantiation is | (NSD) On-boarding. | | | on-boarded. | | | | | Clause 6.4.3.12: | | | A NS instance | Create NS Identifier | | | identifier and an | | | | associated instance | | | | of a NsInfo | | | | information element | | | | have been created. | | | | | | | | PNFDs for PNF | | | | constituents of NS | | | | have been on-boarded. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Begins when | NM determines (e.g., | | | | by operator request) | | | | that a new NS needs | | | | to be instantiated | | | | honouring certain | | | | usage and input | | | | requirements. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends to NFVO a | | | | request to | | | | instantiate the new | | | | NS indicating in the | | | | request information | | | | about the target NSD | | | | and additional | | | | parameterization for | | | | the specific NS to | | | | instantiate (see | | | | clause 7.3.3 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA013 [6]). | | | | | | | | In case the NS | | | | instantiation request | | | | required VNF(s) | | | | instantiation or | | | | configuration, the | | | | VNFs\' | | | | parameters/values, | | | | including those | | | | captured in vendor | | | | specific name value | | | | pairs, carried by | | | | such request are only | | | | related to VNF | | | | virtualization | | | | aspects and are not | | | | VNF application | | | | specific. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO sends to NM a | | | | notification about | | | | the start of the NS | | | | instantiation (see | | | | clause 7.4.3 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA 013 | | | | [6]). | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO executes with | | | | rest of NFV-MANO | | | | system the | | | | instantiation of the | | | | NS. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 4 (M) | NFVO sends to NM a | | | | notification about | | | | the results of the NS | | | | instantiation | | | | execution (see clause | | | | 7.4.3 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 013 [6]). | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Ends when | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Post-conditions | A new NS is | | | | instantiated. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_ | | | | LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-1 | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 6.4.3.1.2 Instantiation of a new NS with existing VNF instances and new
VL instances
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Use case stage | Ev | \>\ | | | olution/Specification | Related use | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Goal | Interconnect specific | | | | external CPs of | | | | specific VNF | | | | instances by adding | | | | them to a new NS. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Telecom resources | NFVO | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Assumptions | NM is subscribed for | | | | NS LCM notifications | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Pre-conditions | The VNF instances | Clause 6.4.3.12: | | | being interconnected | Create NS Identifier | | | already exist (have | | | | been instantiated) | | | | and do not belong to | | | | the same NS instance. | | | | | | | | A NS instance | | | | identifier and an | | | | associated instance | | | | of a NsInfo | | | | information element | | | | have been created. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Begins when | NM determines (e.g. | | | | by operator\'s | | | | request) the need for | | | | interconnecting the | | | | VNF instances that do | | | | not belong to the | | | | same NS. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to | | | | the NFVO to | | | | instantiate a new NS | | | | instance by adding | | | | existing VNF | | | | instances to it and | | | | creating new | | | | instances of VL | | | | connecting specific | | | | external CPs of | | | | specific VNF | | | | instances belonging | | | | to this NS instance. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO returns to the | | | | NM | | | | lifecycle | | | | OperationOccurrenceId | | | | and processes the | | | | request. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating start of | | | | the operation. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 4 (M) | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notifications | | | | indicating progress | | | | of the operation. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 5 (M) | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating result of | | | | the operation. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Ends when | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Post-conditions | The new NS instance | | | | has been created with | | | | identified VNF | | | | instances | | | | interconnected | | | | according to the | | | | operator\'s needs | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_L | | | | CM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-26 | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
##### 6.4.3.1.3 Instantiation of a new NS with existing NS instances and new
VL instances
+-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Use case stage | Ev | \>\ | | | olution/Specification | Related use | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Goal | Interconnect specific | | | | SAPs of specific NS | | | | instances by adding | | | | them to a new NS. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Telecom resources | NFVO | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Assumptions | NM is subscribed for | | | | NS LCM notifications | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Pre-conditions | The NS instances with | Clause 6.4.3.12: | | | SAPs being | Create NS Identifier | | | interconnected | | | | already exist (have | | | | been instantiated) | | | | and do not belong to | | | | the same NS instance. | | | | | | | | A NS instance | | | | identifier and an | | | | associated instance | | | | of a NsInfo | | | | information element | | | | have been created. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Begins when | NM determines (e.g. | | | | by operator\'s | | | | request) the need for | | | | interconnecting the | | | | NS instances that do | | | | not belong to the | | | | same NS. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to | | | | the NFVO to | | | | instantiate a new NS | | | | instance by adding | | | | existing NS instances | | | | to it and creating | | | | new instances of VL | | | | connecting specific | | | | SAPs of specific | | | | nested NS instances | | | | belonging to this NS | | | | instance. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO returns to the | | | | NM | | | | lifecycle | | | | OperationOccurrenceId | | | | and processes the | | | | request. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating start of | | | | the operation. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 4 (M) | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notifications | | | | indicating progress | | | | of the operation. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Step 5 (M) | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating result of | | | | the operation. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Ends when | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Post-conditions | The new NS instance | | | | has been created with | | | | identified nested NS | | | | instances | | | | interconnected | | | | according to the | | | | operator\'s needs | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_L | | | | CM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-27 | | +-------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
#### 6.4.3.2 NS instance termination
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to terminate a NS | | | | instance | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | NS termination is triggered by | | | | the NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NS instance(s) exist.. | | | | | | | | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM is operational | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines to terminate a | | | | NS instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to the NFVO | | | | to terminate a NS instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO terminates the NS | | | | instance and all those VNF | | | | instances associated only with | | | | the NS instance | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to the NM the | | | | result of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | In case of success, the NS | | | | instance has been terminated | | | | and all those VNF instances | | | | associated only with this NS | | | | instance have been terminated. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-6 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.3.3 NS instance querying
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to obtain | | | | information on one or more NS | | | | instance(s) | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | NS querying is triggered by | | | | the NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | One or more NS instance(s) | | | | exist. | | | | | | | | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM is operational | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines to query one or | | | | more NS instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to the NFVO | | | | to query one or more NS | | | | instance(s) with queryFilter | | | | specifying identifiers and | | | | attributeSelector providing a | | | | list of attribute names of NS. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO send to the NM the result | | | | of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NM possesses up-to-date | | | | information of the NS | | | | instance(s) | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-7 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.3.4 NS scaling using VNF scaling operation initiated through Os-Ma-
nfvo reference point
* * *
**Use case stage** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
Goal To scale a VNF instance by scaling the NS instance through operation
request to NFVO by NM, and notify about the execution of the NS instance
scaling through reference point Os-Ma-nfvo.
Actors and Roles NM detects whether a scaling execution is needed and requests
the NFVO to execute the NS scaling.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO
Assumptions
Pre-conditions The subject NS instance is not being scaled at the moment.
Begins when NM detected the need to scale and have determined the scaling
target VNF instance(s) and action (i.e. addition, expansion, contraction or
removal).
Step 1 (M) NM sends the NFVO a request to scale a NS with an indication of the
target VNF instance to scale, type of scaling and value of scaling as
necessary.
Step 2 (M) The NFVO sends to NM a notification about the start of the NS
scaling execution.
Step 3 (M) The NFVO executes the procedure to scale the NS instance.
Step 4 (M) NFVO sends to NM a notification about the end of the NS scaling
execution.
Ends when All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
Exceptions
Post-conditions The NS instance has been scaled.
Traceability REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-8, REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-11
* * *
#### 6.4.3.5 Updating an NS instance to correspond to a different NSD version
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | The network operator | | | | through 3GPP | | | | management system | | | | can decide the time | | | | when and has the | | | | capacity to update | | | | the NS instance to | | | | correspond to a | | | | different NSD | | | | version when such | | | | update | | | | synchronization has | | | | not automatically | | | | been performed by | | | | the NFVO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | NFVO | | | resources** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | The NM is subscribed | | | | to NS lifecycle | | | | change notifications | | | | from the NFVO. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The NS to update is | Clause 6.4.3.1.1: | | | instantiated. | Use case of NS | | | | instantiation | | | The new NSD version | | | | is available to the | | | | NM. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines to | | | | update the existing | | | | NS instance, e.g., | | | | due to changes in | | | | its VNF instances. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The NSD instance is | Clause 6.4.4.7: Use | | | updated with the new | case for updating | | | NSD version (see | NSD instance | | | clause 7.2.5 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA 013 | | | | [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The NS instance is | Clause 6.4.3.6: Use | | | associated to the | case for associating | | | newly on-boarded NSD | a new NSD version to | | | version. | an NS instance as | | | | part of NS update | | | Note: The automatic | | | | update | | | | synchronization by | | | | NFVO is set to false | | | | (see clause 8.3.4.19 | | | | in ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | 013 [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NM sends a request | | | | to NFVO to update | | | | the NS instance with | | | | the necessary update | | | | information, e.g., | | | | addition, removal or | | | | modification of | | | | existing VNF | | | | instances part of | | | | the NS instance (see | | | | clause 7.3.5 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA 013 | | | | [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NFVO acknowledges | | | | the NS instance | | | | update request | | | | providing | | | | information to | | | | identify the | | | | lifecycle operation | | | | occurrence (see | | | | clause 7.3.5 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV‑IFA 013 | | | | [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM a | | | | notification | | | | indicating the start | | | | of the NS update | | | | lifecycle changes. | | | | The notification | | | | identifies the NS | | | | instance affected | | | | for the lifecycle | | | | change, the | | | | lifecycle operation | | | | occurrence and the | | | | type of lifecycle | | | | operation (see | | | | clause 8.3.2.2 in | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA 013 | | | | [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 6 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM a | | | | notification | | | | indicating the end | | | | result of the NS | | | | update lifecycle | | | | changes. The | | | | notification | | | | identifies the NS | | | | instance affected | | | | for the lifecycle | | | | change, the | | | | lifecycle operation | | | | occurrence, the type | | | | of lifecycle | | | | operation and | | | | information about | | | | the entities part of | | | | the NS instance | | | | affected by the | | | | lifecycle change | | | | (see clause 8.3.2.2 | | | | in ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | 013 [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NS instance has | | | | been updated to | | | | correspond to the | | | | different NSD | | | | version. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV_LC | | | | M_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-9, | | | | REQ-NFV_LCM | | | | _Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-17, | | | | REQ-NFV_LC | | | | M_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-20 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.4.3.6 Associating a different NSD version to an NS instance as part of
NS update
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | The network operator | | | | through 3GPP | | | | management system | | | | has the capacity to | | | | associate an | | | | existing NS instance | | | | to a different NSD | | | | version as part of | | | | NS update, so that | | | | the NS instance | | | | lifecycle management | | | | and NS instance | | | | updates can be | | | | performed according | | | | to the different NSD | | | | version. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | NFVO | | | resources** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The different NSD | Clause 6.4.4.7: Use | | | version to associate | case for updating | | | the NS instance to | NSD instance. | | | is already | | | | on-boarded. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines to | | | | associate the | | | | different NSD | | | | version to the | | | | existing NS | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request | | | | to the NFVO as part | | | | of NS update to | | | | associate the | | | | different NSD | | | | version to the NS | | | | instance by | | | | providing the | | | | identifier of the | | | | on-boarded different | | | | version and | | | | indication of | | | | whether the NS | | | | instance will be | | | | automatically | | | | synchronized to the | | | | new NSD by the NFVO | | | | (see clause 8.3.4.15 | | | | in ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | 013 [6]). | | | | | | | | Note: The present | | | | use case does not | | | | elaborate in the | | | | additional steps | | | | that can occur when | | | | automatic | | | | synchronization is | | | | performed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO acknowledges to | | | | the NM the | | | | successful NS update | | | | operation (see | | | | clause 7.3.5 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA 013 | | | | [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NS instance is | | | | associated to the | | | | different NSD | | | | version. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ- | | | | NFV_LC | | | | M_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-22 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.4.3.7 Addition of a new VL to an existing NS instance
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Interconnect specific external CPs of specific VNF instances.
Actors and Roles NM
Telecom resources NFVO
Assumptions NM is subscribed for NS LCM notifications
Pre-conditions The VNF instances being interconnected already exist (have been
instantiated) and belong to the same NS instance.
Begins when NM determines (e.g. by operator\'s request) the need for
interconnecting the VNF instances.
Step 1 (M) NM sends a request to the NFVO to update the NS instance by
creating a new instance of VL with specific external CPs of specific VNF
instances belonging to this NS instance.
Step 2 (M) NFVO returns to the NM lifecycleOperationOccurrenceId and processes
the request.
Step 3 (M) NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating start of
the operation.
Step 4 (M) NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notifications indicating progress
of the operation.
Step 5 (M) NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating result of
the operation.
Ends when All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The identified VNF instances are interconnected according to
the operator\'s needs
Traceability REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-23
* * *
#### 6.4.3.8 Addition of an existing VNF instance to an existing NS instance
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Add an existing VNF instances | | | | to the existing NS instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | NM is subscribed for NS LCM | | | | notifications | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | The VNF instance being added | | | | already exist (has been | | | | instantiated) and does not | | | | belong to this NS instance. | | | | | | | | The VNFD (VNF type) of the VNF | | | | instance being added is | | | | already known to the NSD of | | | | the NS where the VNF instance | | | | is being added to. | | | | | | | | The DF of the VNF instance | | | | being added matches one of the | | | | VNF profiles in the NSD of the | | | | NS where the VNF instance is | | | | being added to. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines (e.g. by | | | | operator\'s request) the need | | | | for adding an existing VNF | | | | instance to an existing NS | | | | instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to the NFVO | | | | to update the NS instance by | | | | adding the existing instance | | | | of VNF and if needed, with VNF | | | | profile to be used for this | | | | VNF instance (see [6] | | | | clauses 7.3.5 and 8.3.4.3). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO returns to the NM | | | | lifecycleOperationOccurrenceId | | | | and processes the request. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle | | | | Change Notification indicating | | | | start of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 4 (M) | NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle | | | | Change Notifications | | | | indicating progress of the | | | | operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 5 (M) | NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle | | | | Change Notification indicating | | | | result of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | All the steps identified above | | | | are successfully completed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The identified VNF instances | | | | have been added to the NS | | | | instance according to the | | | | operator\'s needs | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-24 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.3.9 Addition of a new SAP to an existing NS instance
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal Add new Service Access Point exposing specific external CP of a specific
VNF instance.
Actors and Roles NM
Telecom resources NFVO
Assumptions NM is subscribed for NS LCM notifications
Pre-conditions The VNF instance who\'s external CP is being exposed as SAP
already exists (has been instantiated) and belongs to the same NS instance
where the new SAP is being added.
Begins when NM determines (e.g. by operator\'s request) the need for exposing
a specific VNF external CP as a new SAP.
Step 1 (M) NM sends a request to the NFVO to update the NS instance by
creating a new instance of SAP exposing specific external CP of a specific VNF
instance belonging to this NS instance.
Step 2 (M) NFVO returns to the NM lifecycleOperationOccurrenceId and processes
the request.
Step 3 (M) NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating start of
the operation.
Step 4 (M) NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notifications indicating progress
of the operation.
Step 5 (M) NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating result of
the operation.
Ends when All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The identified external CP of the identified VNF instance is
exposed as a new SAP according to the operator\'s needs
Traceability REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-25
* * *
#### 6.4.3.10 Notification regarding NS instance lifecycle changes
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to obtain the | | | | lifecycle change notifications | | | | on one or more NS instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM receives NS lifecycle | | | | change notifications. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM subscribed for the | | | | notifications related to NS | | | | lifecycle changes. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NFVO monitors the lifecycles | | | | of the identified NS instance | | | | and the NS lifecycle is | | | | changed | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NFVO creates NS lifecycle | | | | change notification including | | | | information: identity of the | | | | NS instance, the type of | | | | lifecycle change including the | | | | beginning or the end of the | | | | procedure affecting the | | | | lifecycle changes. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO sends to NM the NS | | | | lifecycle change | | | | notifications. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | NM unsubscribes to NS | | | | lifecycle change notification. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | NM has information about the | | | | lifecycle changes of the one | | | | or more managed NS | | | | instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-20 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.3.11 Subscription regarding NS instance lifecycle changes
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To subscribe by NM the | | | | lifecycle changes on one or | | | | more NS instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM subscribes NS instance | | | | lifecycle change | | | | notifications. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM is operational | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines to subscribe | | | | lifecycle changes on one or | | | | more NS instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM requests a subscription to | | | | NFVO to receive the lifecycle | | | | change notifications regarding | | | | one or more NS instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO creates a subscription | | | | and acknowledges the creation | | | | of the subscription to NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | All the steps identified above | | | | are successfully completed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | NM is subscribed to lifecycle | | | | changes of the one or more | | | | managed NS instance(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-19 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.3.12 Create NS Identifier
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | To create a NS instance | | | | identifier and associated | | | | instance of a NsInfo | | | | information element to enable | | | | further NS instantiation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM requests creation of the NS | | | | Identifier | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM. | | | | | | | | NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | The NSD is on-boarded. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines (e.g., by | | | | operator request) that a new | | | | NS instance identifier, and an | | | | associated instance of a | | | | NsInfo information element are | | | | needed to enable NS | | | | instantiation based on the | | | | NSD. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends to NFVO a Create NS | | | | Identifier request with | | | | reference to the NSD and | | | | additional information like NS | | | | name (see clause 7.3.2 in ETSI | | | | GS NFV-IFA013 [6]). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO creates the NS Identifier | | | | and the associated instance of | | | | NsInfo information element and | | | | sends the response to the NM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Ends when | All the steps identified above | | | | are successfully completed. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | One of the steps identified | | | | above fails. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | A new NS instance identifier | | | | and an associated instance of | | | | a NsInfo information element | | | | are created and can be used in | | | | further NS instantiation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-29 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.3.13 Delete NS instance identifier
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
Goal To delete the NS instance identifier and the associated instance of a
NsInfo information element after the NS instance termination.
Actors and Roles NM requests deletion of the NS instance identifier.
Telecom resources NM, NFVO
Assumptions
Pre-conditions NS instance is terminated.
Begins when NM determines (e.g., by operator request) that the NS instance
identifier and the associated instance of NsInfo information element of the
terminated NS instance are needed to be deleted.
Step 1 (M) NM sends to NFVO a Delete NS Identifier request (see clause 7.3.8
in ETSI GS NFV-IFA013 [6]).
Step 2 (M) NFVO deletes the NS Identifier and sends the response to the NM.
Ends when All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
Exceptions One of the steps identified above fails.
Post-conditions The NS instance identifier are deleted.
Traceability REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-35
* * *
#### 6.4.3.14 Addition of PNF to the NS instance
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Add an existing PNF to | | | | the existing NS | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NFVO | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | NM is subscribed to | | | | receive the NS LCM | | | | notifications. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The PNF being added | | | | already exist and does | | | | not belong to this NS | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | The PNFD of the PNF | | | | being added is already | | | | known to the NSD of the | | | | NS where the PNF is | | | | being added to. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines (e.g. by | | | | operator\'s request) | | | | the need for adding an | | | | existing PNF to an | | | | existing NS instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request to | | | | the NFVO to update the | | | | NS instance by adding | | | | the existing PNF (see | | | | [6] clauses 7.3.5). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO returns to the NM | | | | lifecyc | | | | leOperationOccurrenceId | | | | and processes the | | | | request | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification indicating | | | | start of the operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notifications | | | | indicating progress of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification indicating | | | | result of the | | | | operation. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The identified PNF has | | | | been added to the NS | | | | instance according to | | | | the operator\'s needs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV | | | | _LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.3.15 Add an existing VNF instance with connectivity
* * *
**Use Case** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
**Goal** Add an existing VNF instance to a NS with connectivity to other VNF
instance or PNF.
**Actors and Roles** NM
**Telecom resources** NFVO
**Assumptions** NM is subscribed to receive the NS LCM notifications.
**Pre-conditions** A VNF instance has been instantiated.
**Begins when** NM determines (e.g. by operator\'s request) to add an existing
VNF instance to a NS with connectivity to other VNF instance or PNF.
**Step 1 (M)** NM sends a request to the NFVO to add an existing VNF instance
to a NS (see clause 7.3.5 in [6]) with VNF instance identifier and
connectivity information for the external CP instances.
**Step 2 (M)** NFVO returns to the NM lifecycleOperationOccurrenceId and
processes the request
**Step 3 (M)** NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating start
of the operation.
**Step 4 (M)** NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notifications indicating
progress of the operation.
**Step 5 (M)** NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating
result of the operation.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The existing VNF instance has been added with connectivity
to other VND instance or PNF in the NS.
**Traceability** REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x
* * *
#### 6.4.3.16 Add external connectivity to a PNF or VNF instance
* * *
**Use Case** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
**Goal** Add external connectivity to a PNF or VNF instance.
**Actors and Roles** NM
**Telecom resources** NFVO
**Assumptions** NM is subscribed to receive the NS LCM notifications.
**Pre-conditions** A PNF or VNF instance has been added or instantiated in an
NS instance without the external connectivity, or a new external connectivity
is needed due to PNF or VNF upgrade.
**Begins when** NM determines (e.g. by operator\'s request) that it is
necessary to add the external connectivity to an existing PNF or VNF instance.
**Step 1 (M)** NM sends a request to the NFVO to update the NS instance (see
clause 7.3.5 in [6]) to add the external connectivity to an existing PNF or
VNF instance.
**Step 2 (M)** NFVO returns to the NM lifecycleOperationOccurrenceId and
processes the request
**Step 3 (M)** NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating start
of the operation.
**Step 4 (M)** NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notifications indicating
progress of the operation.
**Step 5 (M)** NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating
result of the operation.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The external connectivity has been added to the PNF or VNF
instance according to the operator\'s needs.
**Traceability** REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x
* * *
#### 6.4.3.17 Add a virtual link to a NS instance
+-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Use Case** | **Evo |** \>\ | | | lution/Specification**| Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Goal** | Add a virtual link to | | | | a NS instance. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NFVO | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Assumptions** | NM is subscribed to | | | | receive the NS LCM | | | | notifications. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The NS where the | | | | virtual link is to be | | | | added has been | | | | instantiated. | | | | | | | | The virtual link | | | | descriptor and virtual | | | | link profile for the | | | | virtual link to be | | | | added are available in | | | | the NSD either | | | | on-boarded previously | | | | or updated. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines (e.g. by | | | | operator\'s request) | | | | that it is necessary | | | | to add a virtual link | | | | to an existing NS | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request to | | | | the NFVO to update the | | | | NS instance (see | | | | clause 7.3.5 in [6]) | | | | to add a virtual link. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO returns to the NM | | | | lifecycl | | | | eOperationOccurrenceId | | | | and processes the | | | | request | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating start of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notifications | | | | indicating progress of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating result of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Post-conditions** | A virtual link has | | | | been added to the NS | | | | instance according to | | | | the operator\'s needs. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV\ | | | | _LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+
#### 6.4.3.18 Change external connectivity to a PNF or VNF instance
* * *
**Use Case** **Evolution/Specification** **\ >\ Related use**
**Goal** Change external connectivity to a PNF or VNF instance.
**Actors and Roles** NM
**Telecom resources** NFVO
**Assumptions** NM is subscribed to receive the NS LCM notifications.
**Pre-conditions** A PNF or VNF instance has been added or instantiated in an
NS instance.
**Begins when** NM determines (e.g. by operator\'s request) that it is
necessary to change the external connectivity to an existing PNF or VNF
instance.
**Step 1 (M)** NM sends a request to the NFVO to update the NS instance (see
clause 7.3.5 in [6]) to change the external connectivity to an existing PNF or
VNF instance.
**Step 2 (M)** NFVO returns to the NM lifecycleOperationOccurrenceId and
processes the request
**Step 3 (M)** NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating start
of the operation.
**Step 4 (M)** NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notifications indicating
progress of the operation.
**Step 5 (M)** NFVO sends to NM Lifecycle Change Notification indicating
result of the operation.
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The external connectivity has been changed to the PNF or
VNF instance according to the operator\'s needs.
**Traceability** REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x
* * *
#### 6.4.3.19 Add VNF forwarding graph to a NS instance
+-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Use Case** | **Evo |** \>\ | | | lution/Specification**| Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Goal** | Add VNF forwarding | | | | graph to a NS | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NFVO | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Assumptions** | NM is subscribed to | | | | receive the NS LCM | | | | notifications. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | An NS instance, | | | | containing the VNF | | | | instances and all | | | | necessary components | | | | (e.g. VLs, CPs, SAPs, | | | | ...) to form a VNFFG, | | | | has been instantiated, | | | | | | | | VNFFGD for the VNFFG | | | | to be added already | | | | exists. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines (e.g. by | | | | operator\'s request) | | | | that it is necessary | | | | to add a VNFFG to a NS | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request to | | | | the NFVO to update the | | | | NS instance (see | | | | clause 7.3.5 in [6]) | | | | by adding a VNFFG to a | | | | NS instance. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO returns to the NM | | | | lifecycl | | | | eOperationOccurrenceId | | | | and processes the | | | | request | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating start of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notifications | | | | indicating progress of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating result of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The VNFFG has been | | | | added to the NS | | | | instance according to | | | | the operator\'s needs. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV\ | | | | _LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+
#### 6.4.3.20 Update VNF forwarding graph in a NS instance
+-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Use Case** | **Evo |** \>\ | | | lution/Specification**| Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Goal** | Update VNF forwarding | | | | graph in a NS | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NFVO | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Assumptions** | NM is subscribed to | | | | receive the NS LCM | | | | notifications. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | An NS instance with | | | | VNFFG already exists, | | | | | | | | VNFFGD for the VNFFG | | | | to be updated already | | | | exists. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines (e.g. by | | | | operator\'s request) | | | | that it is necessary | | | | to update the VNFFG in | | | | a NS instance. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request to | | | | the NFVO to update the | | | | VNFFG (e.g. addition, | | | | deletion, and | | | | modification of NFP) | | | | in a NS instance via | | | | the NS update | | | | operation (see clause | | | | 7.3.5 in [6]). | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO returns to the NM | | | | lifecycle | | | | OperationOccurrenceId, | | | | and the idenfifier of | | | | new NFP if the update | | | | is to add a NFP to the | | | | existing VNFFG, and | | | | processes the request. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating start of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 4 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notifications | | | | indicating progress of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 5 (M)** | NFVO sends to NM | | | | Lifecycle Change | | | | Notification | | | | indicating result of | | | | the operation. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully | | | | completed. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The VNFFG has been | | | | updated to the NS | | | | instance according to | | | | the operator\'s needs. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-NFV\ | | | | _LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+
### 6.4.4 NS Descriptor use cases
#### 6.4.4.1 NS Descriptor (NSD) On-boarding
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | NSD On-boarding | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | NSD on-boarding is triggered | | | | by the NM layer | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM layer is operational. | | | | | | | | The NM layer possesses the NSD | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM layer determines the need | | | | for on-boarding of the NSD | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM layer sends a request to | | | | the NFVO on the NSD | | | | on-boarding as specified in | | | | [6], clause 7.2.2. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | on-boarding proceeds. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO acknowledges to the NM | | | | layer successful NSD | | | | on-boarding. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NSD is on-boarded. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | RE | | | | Q-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-14, | | | | R | | | | EQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-15 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.4.2 Enabling NS Descriptor instance
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | NS Descriptor instance | | | | enabling | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | NS Descriptor instance | | | | enabling is triggered by the | | | | NM layer | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM layer is operational. | | | | | | | | There is a NS Descriptor | | | | instance in one of the | | | | following states: "Disabled, | | | | In use" or "Disabled, Not in | | | | use" defined in [6], clause | | | | D2.2 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM layer determines the need | | | | for enabling the NS Descriptor | | | | instance | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM layer sends a request to | | | | the NFVO on enabling the NS | | | | Descriptor instance as | | | | specified in [6], clause | | | | 7.2.3. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | enables the NS Descriptor | | | | instance | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO acknowledges to the NM | | | | layer successful enablement of | | | | the NS Descriptor instance. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NS Descriptor instance is | | | | enabled. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.4.3 Disabling NS Descriptor instance
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | NS Descriptor instance | | | | disabling | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | NS Descriptor instance | | | | disabling is triggered by the | | | | NM layer | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM layer is operational. | | | | | | | | There is a NS Descriptor | | | | instance in one of the states | | | | "Enabled, In use" or "Enabled, | | | | Not in use" defined in [6], | | | | clause D2.2 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM layer determines the need | | | | for disabling the NS | | | | Descriptor instance | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM layer sends a request to | | | | the NFVO on disabling the NS | | | | Descriptor instance as | | | | specified in [6], clause | | | | 7.2.4. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | disables the NS Descriptor | | | | instance | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO acknowledges to the NM | | | | layer successful disabling of | | | | the NS Descriptor instance | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NS Descriptor instance is | | | | disabled | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.4.4 Query NSD operation
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to obtain | | | | information on one or more NS | | | | Descriptors (NSDs) | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | NSD querying is triggered by | | | | the NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | One or more NSDs are | | | | on-boarded. | | | | | | | | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM is operational | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines to query one or | | | | more NSD(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to the NFVO | | | | to query one or more NSD(s), | | | | with the filter defining the | | | | NSDs on which the query | | | | applies, and the attribute | | | | selector providing a list of | | | | attribute names of the NSD(s), | | | | according to [6], clause | | | | 7.2.7 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to the NM the | | | | result of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NM possesses the requested | | | | information on the NSD(s) | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.4.5 Delete NS Descriptor operation, when in use
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Delete one or more NS | | | | Descriptor(s) that are in use. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | Deletion of the NS Descriptor | | | | (NSD) is triggered by the NM | | | | layer | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM layer is operational. | | | | | | | | There are one or several | | | | NSD(s) in the state "Disabled, | | | | In use" defined in [6], | | | | clause D2.2 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM layer determines the need | | | | for deletion of the NSDs | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM layer sends a request to | | | | the NFVO on deletion of the | | | | NSDs as specified in [6], | | | | clause 7.2.6. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | transfers the NSDs into the | | | | Deletion Pending state. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO responds to the NM layer | | | | with the result of the | | | | operation including indication | | | | that the NSDs are marked as | | | | delete pending. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 4 (M) | After the last NS associated | | | | with certain NSD is | | | | terminated, the NFVO deletes | | | | the NSD. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NSDs are deleted | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.4.6 Delete NS Descriptor operation, when not in use
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Delete one or more NS | | | | Descriptor(s), a single | | | | version of an NSD or all | | | | versions. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | Deletion of the NS Descriptor | | | | (NSD) is triggered by the NM | | | | layer | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM layer is operational. | | | | | | | | There is a group of NSD(s) to | | | | be deleted that are all in the | | | | state "Disabled, Not in use" | | | | as defined in [6], clause | | | | D2.2 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM layer determines the need | | | | for deletion of the group of | | | | the NSD(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM layer sends a request to | | | | the NFVO on deletion of the | | | | NSD(s) as specified in [6], | | | | clause 7.2.6. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | deletes the NSD(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO responds to the NM layer | | | | with the result of the | | | | operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NSD(s) are deleted | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.4.7 Updating NSD instance
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | The network operator | | | | through 3GPP | | | | management system | | | | has the capacity to | | | | update an on-boarded | | | | NSD instance on the | | | | NFVO. An NSD update | | | | creates a new NSD | | | | version and the | | | | previous on-boarded | | | | versions of the NSD | | | | are not modified | | | | (see clause 7.2.5.1 | | | | in ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | 013 [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | NM. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | NFVO | | | resources** | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The NSD to update | Clause 6.4.4.1: Use | | | has been on-boarded. | case for NS | | | | Descriptor (NSD) | | | | On-boarding | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | NM determines to | | | | update the existing | | | | on-boarded NSD. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NM sends a request | | | | to the NFVO to | | | | update the NSD by | | | | providing the | | | | identifier of the | | | | existing on-boarded | | | | version of the NSD | | | | to update, the new | | | | NSD version, and | | | | optionally | | | | additional user | | | | defined data (see | | | | clause 7.2.5 in | | | | ETSI\ | | | | GS NFV-IFA 013 | | | | [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NFVO acknowledges to | | | | the NM the | | | | successful NSD | | | | update providing the | | | | identifier of the | | | | newly on-boarded NSD | | | | version (see clause | | | | 7.2.5 in ETSI GS | | | | NFV-IFA 013 [6]). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all steps | | | | identified above are | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above | | | | fails. | | | | | | | | The NSD to update is | | | | in deletion pending | | | | state. | | | | | | | | The new NSD version | | | | does not correspond | | | | to be a different | | | | version of the | | | | existing on-boarded | | | | NSD to update. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The newly NSD | | | | version is | | | | on-boarded. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ- | | | | NFV_LC | | | | M_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-21 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.4.4.8 Updating NSD user defined data
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Update the user defined data | | | | in the NS Descriptor | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | NS Descriptor update is | | | | triggered by the NM layer | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM layer is operational. | | | | | | | | There is an onboarded NS | | | | Descriptor (NSD). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM layer determines the need | | | | for update of the user defined | | | | data in the NSD. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM layer sends a request to | | | | the NFVO on update of the user | | | | defined data in the NSD as | | | | specified in [6], clause | | | | 7.2.5. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | updates the NSD resulting in | | | | update of the user defined | | | | data of the NSD. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends response message to | | | | the NM layer, indicating | | | | successful NSD update. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NSD is updated. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.4.9 Subscribe to NSD change notifications
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable the NM to subscribe | | | | with a filter for the | | | | notifications related to | | | | changes of one or several | | | | NSDs, sent by the NFVO | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is operational. | | | | | | | | NM is operational. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines a need in | | | | subscription to notifications | | | | on changes of certain NSD(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a request to the | | | | NFVO, according to [6], | | | | clause 7.2.12. | | | | | | | | The request contains the input | | | | filter for selecting the | | | | NSD(s) and the related change | | | | notifications to subscribe to. | | | | This filter can contain | | | | information about specific | | | | types of changes to subscribe | | | | to, or attributes of the | | | | NsdInfo. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | registers the NM to receive | | | | notifications about changes of | | | | NSD(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to the NM the | | | | result of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NM is registered to | | | | receive notifications about | | | | changes of the NSD(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ- | | | | NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-33 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.4.10 Notify operation on management changes in NSDs
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable the NM to receive | | | | notifications related to NSD | | | | management changes, sent by | | | | the NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is operational. | | | | | | | | NM is operational. | | | | | | | | The NM is subscribed to | | | | notifications related to | | | | management changes of NSD | | | | instances matching the filter | | | | defined at the time of the | | | | subscription. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NFVO monitors the NSD | | | | instances matching the filter | | | | and detects the management | | | | change in one of the NSD | | | | instances. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NFVO sends to the NM the | | | | notification according to | | | | [6], clause 7.2.13. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The NM received the | | | | notification. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ- | | | | NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-34 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
### 6.4.5 PNFD Use Cases
#### 6.4.5.1 Introduction
PNFD lifecycle operations are considered exclusively in the context of
definitions of the PNF connection points where the PNF may connect to a VL and
PNF connection points exposure as service access points, see clause 6.6 [10],
particularly the Table 6.6.2.2-1: Attributes of the Pnfd information element.
#### 6.4.5.2 On-board PNFD operation
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to perform On-board | | | | PNFD operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | PNFD on-boarding is triggered | | | | by the NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is running. | | | | | | | | NM is operational. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines a need in | | | | on-boarding a PNFD to make it | | | | available for use by NS | | | | Descriptors (NSDs). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a PNFD on-board | | | | request to the NFVO, according | | | | to [6], clause 7.2.8. The | | | | request contains the PNFD to | | | | be on-boarded. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | on-boards the PNFD. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to the NM the | | | | result of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The PNFD is on-boarded and | | | | available for use by NS | | | | Descriptors. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ-NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-x | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.5.3 Create a new version of already on-boarded PNFD
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to create a new | | | | version of already on-boarded | | | | PNFD using Update PNFD | | | | operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is operational. | | | | | | | | NM is operational. | | | | | | | | The old version of the PNFD is | | | | on-boarded. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines a need in | | | | creation of a new version of | | | | already on-boarded PNFD using | | | | Update PNFD operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a Update PNFD request | | | | to the NFVO, according to | | | | [6], clause 7.2.9. The | | | | request contains the PNFD to | | | | be created as a new version of | | | | the existing PNFD. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | creates a new version of the | | | | PNFD | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to the NM the | | | | result of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The new version of the PNFD is | | | | created and available for use | | | | by NS Descriptors. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ- | | | | NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-28 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.5.4 Update of the user defined data on PNFD
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to update the user | | | | defined data on PNFD using | | | | Update PNFD. operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is operational. | | | | | | | | NM is operational. | | | | | | | | PNFD is on-boarded. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines a need in | | | | updating the user defined data | | | | on PNFD using Update PNFD | | | | operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a Update PNFD request | | | | to the NFVO, according to | | | | [6], clause 7.2.9. The | | | | request contains the user | | | | defined data to be updated and | | | | does not contain new PNFD to | | | | be created. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | updates the user defined data | | | | on the PNFD. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to the NM the | | | | result of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The user defined data on the | | | | PNFD is updated. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ- | | | | NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-30 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.5.5 Delete PNFD operation
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to delete the PNFDs. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is operational. | | | | | | | | NM is operational. | | | | | | | | The PNFD(s) are on-boarded and | | | | not in use in any of the NSs | | | | that are in the active or | | | | NOT_INSTANTIATED state. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines a need in | | | | deletion of the PNFD(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a Delete PNFD request | | | | to the NFVO, according to | | | | [6], clause 7.2.10. The | | | | request contains | | | | | | | | - identification of the | | | | on-boarded instance(s) of the | | | | PNFD(s) to be deleted. | | | | | | | | - indication if the delete | | | | operation is to be applied on | | | | all versions of these PNFD | | | | instances. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | deletes the PNFD(s) as | | | | requested. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to the NM the | | | | result of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The PNFD(s) are deleted as | | | | requested. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ- | | | | NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-31 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#### 6.4.5.6 Query PNFD operation
+-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Goal | Enable NM to query the NFVO | | | | concerning details of one or | | | | more PNFDs. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Actors and Roles | NM. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Telecom resources | NM, NFVO. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Assumptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Pre-conditions | NFVO is operational. | | | | | | | | NM is operational. | | | | | | | | The PNFD(s) are on-boarded. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Begins when | NM determines a need in | | | | querying of the PNFD(s). | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 1 (M) | NM sends a Query PNFD request | | | | to the NFVO, according to | | | | [6], clause 7.2.11. The | | | | request contains | | | | | | | | - Filter conditions to select | | | | the PNFDs on which the query | | | | applies, based on attributes | | | | of the PNFDs | | | | | | | | - A list of attribute names | | | | of the PNFD. If present, only | | | | these attributes are returned | | | | for the instances of PNFD | | | | matching the filter. If | | | | absent, the complete PNFD | | | | instances are returned. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 2 (M) | NFVO processes the request and | | | | provides the requested | | | | information. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Step 3 (M) | NFVO sends to the NM the | | | | result of the operation. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Exceptions | | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Post-conditions | The information on the PNFDs | | | | provided to the NM as | | | | requested. | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+ | Traceability | REQ- | | | | NFV_LCM_Os-Ma-nfvo-FUN-32 | | +-------------------+--------------------------------+---------------+
#