# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
The present document describes closed control loop assurance solution enabling
a service provider or an operator to continuously deliver the requested level
of communication service quality to the customer and is part of a TS-family
covering the 3rd Generation Partnership Project Technical Specification Group
Services and System Aspects Management and orchestration of networks, as
identified below:
**TS 28.535: Management Services for Communication Service Assurance;
Requirements**
TS 28.536: Management Services for Communication Service Assurance; Stage 2
and stage 3
The solution described builds upon the management services specifications as
identified below:
TS 28.530: Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and requirements
TS 28.533: Management and orchestration; Architecture framework
TS 28.532: Management and orchestration; Generic management services
TS 28.540: Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM);
Stage 1
TS 28.541: Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model (NRM);
Stage 2 and stage 3
TS 28.531: Management and orchestration; Provisioning
TS 28.545: Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)
TS 28.550: Management and orchestration; Performance assurance
TS 28.552: Management and orchestration; 5G performance measurements
TS 28.554: Management and orchestration; 5G End to end Key Performance
Indicators (KPI)
# 1 Scope
The present document describes, concepts and background, and specifies use
cases and requirements for closed control loop communication service assurance
solution that adjusts and optimizes the services provided by NG-RAN and 5GC.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[5] ETSI GS ZSM 002 (V1.1.1) (2019-08): \"Zero-touch network and Service
Management (ZSM); Reference Architecture\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.003: \" Numbering, addressing and identification\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in TR 21.905 [1] and
the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**communication services** : subset of 3GPP defined services. Examples of 3GPP
services (e.g. 5G LAN, URLLC) can be found in TS 22.261 [2].
**service level specification** : specification of the minimum acceptable
standard of service.
**SLA requirements** : service and network requirements derived from SLAs.
NOTE: A provider can add additional requirements not directly derived from
SLA\'s, associated to provider internal [business] goals.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CN Core Network
CS Communication Service
CSA Communication Service Assurance
CSC Communication Service Customer
CSP Communication Service Provider
eMBB enhanced Mobile BroadBand
KPI Key Performance Indicator
MDAS Management Data Analytics Service
MnS Management Service
NF Network Function
NSI NetworkSlice Instance
NSSI NetworkSlice Subnet Instance
NSP NetworkSlice Provider
NWDAF Network Data Analytics Function
QoE Quality of Experience
SD Slice Differentiator
SLA Service Level agreement
SLS Service Level Specification
S-NSSAI Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information
SST Slice/ServiceType
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 Management control loops
### 4.2.1 Overview
For communication service assurance one can identify two interactions of
management control loops:
1) Between the CSC and the CSP: In this case, the CSC provides the
requirements for an assured communication service to the CSP, the CSP provides
the corresponding communication service, the CSP also provides feedback to the
CSC. The CSP adjusts the resources used by a communication service or the CSC
adjusts the SLS continuously to achieve the assured requirements.
2) Between the CSP and the NSP: the communication service provided by CSP
requires the network capabilities. For example, the CSP requires a certain
network latency. The NSP management system adjusts the network or CSP adjusts
the latency requirement continuously to satisfy the latency requirement.
Figure 4.2.1.1: Communication service closed control loop assurance
Figure 4.2.1.1 gives a high level description of interaction process involved
in the management closed control loop.
Generally, the management control loop for CSA consists of the steps
Monitoring, Analysis, Decision and Execution. The adjustment of the resources
used for the communication service is completed by the continuous iteration of
the steps in a management control loop. As described in clause 4.2.4.2, the
management closed control loop for the resources used for the communication
service is deployed in the preparation phase and takes effect during the
preparation phase and operation phase.
Figure 4.2.1.2 shows the overall process of communication service assurance
using a management control loop.
{width="5.57886811023622in" height="1.5861089238845145in"}
Figure 4.2.1.2: Management Control Loop
### 4.2.2 Control loops
A **control loop** is a building block for management of networks and
services. The basic principle of any control loop is to adjust the value of a
measured or observed variable (expressed as for example an attribute) to equal
the value of a desired goal (expressed as for example an attribute). The
producer of the measurements or observations, the control service, and the
controlled entity are all required to create a control loop.
For the control loop to act on input in the context of the set goal, the
control loop provided through following four steps that continuously consume
and produce information from each other in a loop in the following sequence
monitor, analyse, decide and execute.
A control loop can be an open control loop in which case a human operator or
other management entity intervenes inside the loop A control loop can be
closed and operates without human operator or other management entity
involvement inside the loop other than possibly the initial configuration of
the measurement producer and configuration of control loop.
### 4.2.3 Open control loops
In an open control loop, the human operator intervenes in one or more of the
process steps inside the loop, see Figure 4.2.3.1. The human operator is in
control of the steps in the control loop, including decisions taken in the
loop. The management system collects, analyses and presents the data to the
operator, but the operator decides which action to take. In this case, the
completion time for control loop is dependent on availability and reaction
time of a human operator or other management entity.
{width="3.53125in" height="2.6770833333333335in"}
Figure 4.2.3.1: Open control loop entities
### 4.2.4 Closed control loops
#### 4.2.4.1 Description
In a closed control loop, there is no direct involvement of a human operator
or other management entity in the control loop, the control loop is fully
automated. As shown in Figure 4.2.4.1 the human operator or management entity
is not directly controlling the details inside the process steps but provides
control outside the loop. For example, configuring goals for the control loop
to make autonomous decisions within the boundaries of the set goal. Once the
control loop is configured with the goal, the controlled entity is adjusted
according to the set goals.
In a closed control loop the input to the control loop provided by human
operator or other management entity may include the goal or policies. The
output of the closed control loop may include closed control loop status to a
human operator or other management entity.
Typically, the goal is set within certain parameter boundaries, the closed
control loop can automatically adjust the output based on the input within the
parameter boundaries. Once a control loop cannot automatically adjust, the
human operator or other management entity needs to be informed. The human
operator or other management entity may decide to change the management of
closed control loop so that it becomes an open control loop, where decisions
are made by the human operator or other management entity and not by the
closed control loop.
{width="3.875in" height="2.5729166666666665in"}
Figure 4.2.4.1: Closed control loop entities
#### 4.2.4.2 Lifecycle phases
Communication service assurance is enabled by closed control loops which have
their own lifecycle. The lifecycle phases for closed control loops are
preparation, commissioning, operation and decommissioning.
\- **Preparation phase:**
Providing a closed control loop starts with preparation, which includes
control loop design, collection of relevant goal information from an SLS and
preparing the required network configuration for measurement collection. The
result of the preparation phase is a closed control loop design.
\- **Commissioning phase:**
Once a closed control loop is prepared, one instance of the closed control
loop design is instantiated by configuring the measurement collection and the
goals in the network. During this phase the closed control loop may be
deployed to allow the network to converge to a state where the communication
service assurance is stable and within the boundaries of the SLS. The
instantiation activity results in a closed control loop that is ready for
operation.
\- **Operation phase:**
After the commissioning phase, the closed control loop is operational. The
activation includes actions that make a closed control loop run to pursuit its
goal(s). It may include subscription to relevant management services._In the
operation phase the closed control loop is first activated. The monitor
activity typically includes the real-time or periodic calculation of KPIs that
are relevant to the closed control loop and comparison with the goal(s)
assigned to the given closed control loop. This activity may result in further
actions that involve the other activities in the operation phase, e.g.
evaluate and update & upgrade, in order to change the closed control loop
settings and improve its performance. The evaluate activity also includes the
evaluation of results of Execution step of closed control loops by e.g.
investigating differences between the current traffic data and the data taken
before the execution. The criteria of this evaluation can be done by specific
values such as SLS. The update & upgrade activity includes actions that change
the settings of the closed control loop instance to change its behaviour and
improve its performance to pursue the assigned goal(s). The update may include
changes in the parameters of the management functions that constitute the
closed control loop (e.g. changing data sources, KPIs being calculated,
models, policies, etc.). The upgrade may include changes in the software
version of the management functions._ These activities can be executed
dynamically while the closed control loop is regularly operating and executing
actions, or they can be executed upon a request received from an authorized
consumer. The deactivation activity includes actions that make the closed
control loop stop to run.
\- **Decommissioning phase:**
When the closed control loop is no longer needed, after being deactivated the
closed control loop is decommissioned and after that the lifecycle of the
closed control loop is completed.
Figure 4.2.4.2.1 highlights the lifecycle phase sequence involved in the
closed control loop assurance.
#### 4.2.4.2 Lifecycle phases
Communication service assurance is enabled by closed control loops which have
their own lifecycle. The lifecycle phases for closed control loops are
preparation, commissioning, operation and decommissioning.
\- **Preparation phase:**
Providing a closed control loop starts with preparation, which includes
control loop design, collection of relevant goal information from an SLS and
preparing the required network configuration for measurement collection. The
result of the preparation phase is a closed control loop design.
\- **Commissioning phase:**
Once a closed control loop is prepared, one instance of the closed control
loop design is instantiated by configuring the measurement collection and the
goals in the network. During this phase the closed control loop may be
deployed to allow the network to converge to a state where the communication
service assurance is stable and within the boundaries of the SLS. The
instantiation activity results in a closed control loop that is ready for
operation.
\- **Operation phase:**
After the commissioning phase, the closed control loop is operational. The
activation includes actions that make a closed control loop run to pursuit its
goal(s). It may include subscription to relevant management services._In the
operation phase the closed control loop is first activated. The monitor
activity typically includes the real-time or periodic calculation of KPIs that
are relevant to the closed control loop and comparison with the goal(s)
assigned to the given closed control loop. This activity may result in further
actions that involve the other activities in the operation phase, e.g.
evaluate and update & upgrade, in order to change the closed control loop
settings and improve its performance. The evaluate activity also includes the
evaluation of results of Execution step of closed control loops by e.g.
investigating differences between the current traffic data and the data taken
before the execution. The criteria of this evaluation can be done by specific
values such as SLS. The update & upgrade activity includes actions that change
the settings of the closed control loop instance to change its behaviour and
improve its performance to pursue the assigned goal(s). The update may include
changes in the parameters of the management functions that constitute the
closed control loop (e.g. changing data sources, KPIs being calculated,
models, policies, etc.). The upgrade may include changes in the software
version of the management functions._ These activities can be executed
dynamically while the closed control loop is regularly operating and executing
actions, or they can be executed upon a request received from an authorized
consumer. The deactivation activity includes actions that make the closed
control loop stop to run.
\- **Decommissioning phase:**
When the closed control loop is no longer needed, after being deactivated the
closed control loop is decommissioned and after that the lifecycle of the
closed control loop is completed.
Figure 4.2.4.2.1 highlights the lifecycle phase sequence involved in the
closed control loop assurance.
Figure 4.2.4.2.1: Lifecycle phases of a closed control loop
## 4.3 Communication service assurance service
Communication service assurance relies on a set of management services that
together provide the CSP with the capability to assure the communication
service as per agreement (for example an SLS) with a CSC (e.g. enterprise).
The overall solution and information flows between management services and the
closed control loop steps [5] are shown in Figure 4.3.1.
Figure 4.3.1: Overview of closed control loop information flows
In Figure 4.3.1 the controlled entity represents the resources used by a
communication service and the assurance of this communication service is
provided by the closed control loop between the different management services
provided by the management system.
The input to the closed control loop is the data concerning the resources used
by the communication service and corrresponding service KPIs which is
monitored by the closed control loop and step \"Monitor\", analyzed by the
closed control loop step "Analyze", a decision on potential solution by the
closed control loop step \"Decide\" which may be a possible action for the
closed control loop step \"Execute\", The role of the decision support
services is to provide variable degrees of automated decision making and human
oversight support. The following two examples demonstrate how a closed control
loop can be used:
\- when a service experience degradation is detected (for example due to
resource shortage or faults in the network), the resources used by a
communication service may be adjusted automatically to improve the service
experience
\- the data associated with the communication service is monitored by the
management services for data collection, this management service provides
information to an assurance root cause analysis management service (example of
an analytics service) and based on that information the assurance root cause
analysis takes place, followed by proposing activities, mitigation or
suggestions to solve the problem. The proposed activities, for example
mitigation or problem-solving suggestion(s) are executed through provisioning
services to bring the behaviour of the communication service within the
requested boundaries of the metrics (SLS goals) that are controlled by the
closed control loop.
The management services available for the closed control loop steps for
\"Monitor\", \"Analyze\" and \"Decide\" are based on file transfer described
in TS 28.550 [3], or data streaming described in TS 28.550 [3] and
notifications described in TS 28.545 [6].
The information provided from the \"Monitor\" step to the \"Analyze\" step
includes performance measurements (see TS 28.552 [7]), KPI's (see TS 28.554
[8]), performance threshold monitoring events and fault supervision events
(see TS 28.532 [9]).
The insights provided from the \"Analyze\" step to the \"Decide\" step
includes analytics outcomes that are not specified in the present document.
The decision support services provided from the \"Decide\" step to the
\"Execute\" step are not specified in the present document.
# 5 Business level use cases and requirements
## 5.1 Use cases
### 5.1.1 Communication service assurance
The CSP needs to meet the CSC expectations on automation as well as internal
goals on CAPEX and OPEX efficiency.
The CSP has access to capabilities, procedures and tools that can address both
CAPEX and OPEX in the provisioning and management of communication services to
their customers (CSC). The CSC expects the CSP to offer a variety of
communication services including business critical communication services that
allow the CSC (e.g. Enterprise) to run their applications in a predictable
manner [2]. Hence automation of the onboarding of the CSC application, which
will use communication services provided by the CSP, on a 5GS, is a
requirement to meet the following needs:
\- reduce the complexity for a CSC application to be on-boarded on a 5GS,
\- improve the network performance over time, based on predicting
communication service behaviour;
\- assure the target goals for a CSC, and
\- reduce the cost ownership through automation.
During the operation of the communication service the CSP provides assurance
of service quality requirements and CSP meets the CSC expectations on
automation as well as internal goals on CAPEX and OPEX efficiency.
**REQ-CSA_NSA-FUN-01** The 3GPP management system shall have capabilities to
receive communication service requirements from its authorized consumers.
**REQ-CSA_NSA-FUN-02** The 3GPP management system shall have capabilities to
monitor, and report to its authorized consumers the degree of fulfilment of
committed communication service requirements of authorized consumers.
**REQ-CSA_NSA-FUN-03** The 3GPP management system shall have capabilities to
take actions to adjust the 5GS in order to meet the communication service
requirements of authorized consumers.
**REQ-CSA_NSA-FUN-04** The 3GPP management system shall have capabilities to
act to fulfil the service quality requirements of authorized consumers.
### 5.1.2 Communication service assurance for shared resources
In this scenario, it is assumed that the SLA\'s for the two communication
services will allow them to share resources, for example RAN resources.
The management systems CS-Assurance service receives the request from Order
Care and using a MDAS CS preparation assistance service, explores and
evaluates communication service realisation and impact on other communication
services, if any.
Once the Order Care has committed to an SLA with a CSC, the management system
activates the communication service.
As the communication service operates, a management service for communication
service assurance, CSA, continuously monitors the SLA fulfilment using MDAS,
PM assurance services [3] including and core network NWDAF QoE analytics
service, if available.
Based on goals for SLA fulfilment, or other KPIs, the CSA service may initiate
an action when SLA goals are not met, be that over- or under fulfilment. The
CSA service may use an MDAS to assist in selecting proper action and how to
best execute the action.
The CSA service triggers the action by using provisioning service [4] towards
RAN, transport and core network and monitors the effect of the change.
REQ-CSIA_CON-01: The 3GPP management system shall have the capability
providing a management service for assisting in assessing (evaluating) a
target SLA for a requested communication service.
REQ-CSIA_CON-02: The 3GPP management system shall have the capability
providing a management service for assisting in asserting an agreed SLA for a
requested communication service.
### 5.1.3 Void
### 5.1.4 Void
# 6 Specification level use cases and requirements
## 6.1 Use cases
### 6.1.1 Communication service quality assurance and optimization
_The goal of the use case is to enable communication service_ quality
assurance and _optimization for the_ set of services provided by the network
to certain group (category) of UEs. For example, the set can include the
communication services provided via certain NSI(s) or to IoT devices in
certain area.
The group of NG-RAN and 5GC nodes (deployed and active), which are essential
for the set of E2E services, provide provisioning and PM management services.
It is also assumed that the providers of the related NSI / NSSI provisioning
and PM management services are deployed and active.
The management system is consuming the afore mentioned management services
either directly or through proxy nodes that re-expose the management services;
the management system is aware of the performance requirements imposed on the
set of communication services.
The management system is collecting the service experience information and
monitoring the key performance indicators, KPIs, related to the targeted
services. Analytics hosted by the MDAF may be utilized for processing of the
network data to derive and analyse the KPIs. If the service quality assurance
and optimization function detects performance degradation the 3GPP management
system may continuously modify the configuration parameters in the
corresponding NG-RAN and 5GC nodes and NSI(s)/NSSI(s), to satisfy the SLA
requirement. In case that changes of communication service SLS are needed,
those changes may result as input to the 3GPP management system.
If the network performance does not recover or improve, the management system
may further adjust the network configuration or roll back to the previous
configuration. At all times the management systemcontinues to collect the
network data and to monitor the performance indicators.
### 6.1.2 NWDAF assisted communication service SLS Assurance
The goal of this use case is to assure the SLSs (Service Level Specifications)
for a particular communication service is crucial for the 5G network
management. The negotiated SLS for a particular communication service should
be assured in an autonomous way.
3GPP management system can be leveraged to enable autonomous SLS assurance for
a deployed communication service. 3GPP management system can collect QoE data,
related to network slice and applications, from NWDAF. Since the data
collected will relate to network slice and a single NSI may be serving
multiple communication services, the corresponding QoE data for the target
communication service needs to be ascertained. Once the QoE data for a
communication service is known, the SLS breach can also be ascertained. If the
SLS is breached, the root cause analysis is performed to find the cause for
SLS breach. Depending on the location of cause (at RAN or at, 5GC), remedial
actions will be initiated to mitigate the SLS breach and network optimization
is done so that the negotiated SLS can be assured.
The QoE analytical data from NWDAF is per Application for an NSI. It is
crucial to derive which communication service is associated to the QoE data
from the data received from NWDAF in order to ascertain the SLS breach.
### 6.1.3 5G Core assisted SLS communication service Assurance
The goal of this use case is to describe 5G Core management to assure
compliance to SLSs (Service Level Specifications) for a communication service
in 3GPP management system.
3GPP management system receives the SLS requirements that required by CSP or
NOP. 3GPP management system is capable to translate e2e SLS goal and set the
5GC goal(s) of SLS related to 5GC and activate a closed control loop for
service assurance goal(s). To fulfill the SLS requirements, 3GPP management
system is capable to configure the management resource and 5GC network
functions (e.g. AMF, SMF, NWDAF) to monitor measurements and fault alarms that
are relevant to the SLS. Since, for example, a network slice for eMBB can
provide multiple communications services, one or multiple closed control loops
for service assurance goals are set, and the network resource and performance
measurements which are relevant to the SLS.
During the process of service assurance of 5GC, the 5GC domain MDAS provider
can be used to provide analysis of 5GC related network resource, virtual
resources and performance assurance related to SLS in 5GC. The 5GC domain
analysis report may be provided to 3GPP management system as part of the
analysis result(s) of 5GC SLS.
Together with the report from NWDAF, performance measurements and fault alarms
related to 5GC NFs are also available for analysis of any potential service
degradation.
### 6.1.4 Communication service SLS assurance control
The goal of this use case is to enable the MnS consumer to control the
communication service SLS assurance closed control loop(s) (e.g. specify the
SLS to be assured, enable/disable the SLS assurance, specify the assurance
time for certain SLS) and obtain the SLS fulfilment information provided by
MnS producer. It is assumed that the MnS producer maintains SLS assurance
closed control loops for multiple SLSs. The detailed SLSs for network slice
assurance are captured in ServiceProfile (e.g. latency, Throughput) associated
to network slice and the detailed SLS for network slice subnet assurance are
captured in SliceProfile (e.g. latency, Throughput) associated to network
slice subnet.
When an MnS producer receives an SLS assurance closed control loops(s)
creation request with SLS assurance requirements for certain managed Entity
(i.e. network slice, network slice subnet) from an MnS consumer, the SLS
assurance requirements may include information of which SLS should be assured
(e.g. latency should be assured), the SLS assurance granularity (e.g. per UE,
per Network Slice, per S-NSSAI), SLS assurance condition (e.g. SLS assurance
duration time, SLS assurance fulfilment requirements (e.g. the ratio of the
SLS assurance time during the whole service usage time) ), the MnS producer
create SLS closed control loop managed object instance contained by the
specified managed Entity (i.e. NetworkSlice, NetworkSliceSubnet) and
configures the received SLS assurance requirements in the created SLS closed
control loop managed object instances. The MnS producer performs the network
and/or service management to satisfy the SLS assurance requirements by
adjusting the network (e.g. adjust the network topology, configure RRM policy)
to satisfy the required SLS assurance requirements.
During the SLS assurance closed control loop operation phase, the MnS consumer
may request MnS producer to enable/disable the corresponding SLS assurance or
update the SLS assurance requirements if needed, then MnS producer update
corresponding the SLS assurance closed control loop managed object instance to
ensure the MnS producer perform the SLS assurance closed control loop based on
the new request.
During the SLS assurance closed control loop operation phase, the MnS producer
may report the SLS assurance closed control loop progress information and
fulfilment information (e.g. SLS assurance requirements is satisfied or not)
to the MnS consumer.
## 6.2 Requirements
**REQ-CSA-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
take actions for a set of communication services serving certain group of UEs
based on the target SLS.
**REQ-CSA-CON-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
collect service experience information.
**REQ-CSA-CON-03** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
analyse the performance information related to the set of communication
services serving certain group of UEs.
**REQ-CSA-CON-04** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
modify the configuration parameters related to the set of communication
services serving certain group of UEs.
**REQ-CSA-CON-05** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
collect NSI related data from one or more 5GC NF(s).
NOTE 1: An example for NSI related data may be QoE data.
**REQ-CSA-CON-06** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
derive which communication service is associated to the QoE data from the
collected NSI related QoE data.
NOTE 1a: A communication service in the 3GPP management system is identified
by an S-NSSAI (the Slice/ServiceType, SST in the S-NSSAI identifies a
communication service which can be detailed using the SliceDifferentiattor,
SD), see TS 23.003 [10].
**REQ-CSA-CON-07** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
ascertain SLS breach.
**REQ-CSA-CON-08** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
perform the root cause analysis (e.g., identifying the underlying reason) for
an SLS breach.
**REQ-CSA-CON-09** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
take corrective actions to assure the target goal.
**REQ-CSA-CON-10** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
translate network slice requirements to cross domain network slice subnet SLS
goal and single domain network slice subnet SLS goal.
**REQ-CSA-CON-11** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
collect single domain SLS analysis as input to cross domain SLS analysis.
**REQ-CSA-CON-12** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
allow its authorized consumer to control the SLS assurance (e.g. specify the
SLS to be assured, enable/disable, specify the assurance time and update the
SLS assurance requirements).
**REQ-CSA-CON-13** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
allow its authorized consumer to obtain the SLS assurance fulfilment status
information.
NOTE 2: The management system refers to the producer of management service for
SLS assurance.
**REQ-LCM-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability of
lifecycle management of a closed control loop.
#