# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Network slicing is a key feature for 5G. Network slicing is a paradigm where
logical networks/partitions are created, with appropriate isolation, resources
and optimized topology to serve a purpose or service category (e.g. use
case/traffic category, or for MNO internal reasons) or customers (logical
system created \"on demand\").
# 1 Scope
**The present document specifies the concepts, use cases and requirements for
management of network slicing in mobile networks. The 3GPP management system
directly manages only the parts of the network that consist of network
functions specified in 3GPP (e.g. 5G RAN, 5G CN and IMS). For the network
functions specified by other SDOs, the management impact of network slicing is
addressed as required. For example, regarding the Transport Network (TN) part
supporting connectivity within and between CN and RAN parts, 3GPP management
system may provide link requirements (e.g. topology, QOS parameters) to the TN
management system.**
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261 \"Service requirements for next generation new services and
markets\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \" System Architecture for the 5G system\".
[4] 3GPP TS 38.401 \"NG-RAN; Architecture description\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration ; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**network slice:** a logical network that provides specific network
capabilities and network characteristics, supporting various service
properties for network slice customers.
NOTE 1: NetworkSlice Information Object Class (IOC) (refer to TS 28.541 [6])
is used to model network slice.
NOTE 2: Represent network slice defined in TS 23.501 [3] with added service
properties.
**NetworkSlice instance:** A Managed Object Instance (MOI) of NetworkSlice
IOC.
NOTE 3: NetworkSlice instance represents service view of a network slice which
exposes the root NetworkSliceSubnet instance .
**network slice subnet:** a representation of a set of network functions and
the associated resources (e.g. compute, storage and networking resources)
supporting network slice.
NOTE 4: NetworkSliceSubnet IOC (refer to TS 28.541 [x]) is used to model
network slice subnet which may include core network functions and/or RAN
network functions and/or other network slice subnets. The network slice
instance defined in TS 23.501 [3] can be reflected via the NetworkSliceSubnet
IOC and the allocated resources.
**NetworkSliceSubnet instance:** A Managed Object Instance (MOI) of
NetworkSliceSubnet IOC.
**Service Level Specification (SLS) :** a set of service level requirements
associated with a Service Level Agreement (SLA) to be satisfied by a network
slice.
Note: Void
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CSC Communication Service Customer
CSMF Communication Service Management Function
CSP Communication Service Provider
DN Data Network
MNO Mobile Network Operator
NOP Network Operator
NSaaS Network Slice as a Service
NSaasC Network Slice as a Service Customer
NSaaSP Network Slice as a Service Provider
NSMF Network Slice Management Function
NSC Network Slice Customer
NSSMF Network Slice Subnet Management Function
NSP Network Slice Provider
SLA Service Level Agreement
SLS Service Level Specification
TN Transport Network
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 General concepts
### 4.1.1 Management of 5G networks and network slicing
5G system consists of 5G Access Network (AN), 5G Core Network and UE, see TS
23.501 [3].
5G system is expected to be able to provide optimized support for a variety of
different communication services, different traffic loads, and different end
user communities, see clause 4 of TS 22.261 [2]. For example, the
communication services using network slicing may include:
\- V2X services
The 5G system aims to enhance its capability to meet KPIs that emerging V2X
applications require. For these advanced applications, the requirements, such
as data rate, reliability, latency, communication range and speed, are made
more stringent, see clause 4 of TS 22.261 [2].
\- 5G seamless eMBB service with FMC
As one of the key technologies to enable network slicing, fixed mobile
convergence (FMC) which includes wireless-to-the-everything (WTTx) and fibre-
to-the-everything (FTTx), is expected to provide native support for network
slicing. For optimization and resource efficiency, the 5G system will select
the most appropriate 3GPP or non-3GPP access technology for a communication
service, potentially allowing multiple access technologies to be used
simultaneously for one or more services active on a UE, see clause 6.3 of TS
22.261 [2].
\- massive IoT connections
Support for massive Internet of Things (mIoT) brings many new requirements in
addition to MBB enhancements, see clause 4 of TS 22.261 [2]. Communication
services with massive IoT connections such as smart households, smart grid,
smart agriculture and smart meter will require the support of a large number
and high density IoT devices to be efficient and cost effective, see TS 23.501
[3]. Operators can use one or more network slices to provide these
communication services, which require similar network characteristics, to
different vertical industries.
The next generation 3GPP management system is expected to support the
management of 3GPP 5G system and 3GPP legacy systems.
**3GPP management system directly manages** 3GPP managed network components
**(e.g. 5G RAN, 5G CN). For** non-3GPP domains (e.g. DCN, TN)**, 3GPP
management system needs to coordinate with the corresponding management
systems of the non-3GPP domains.**
### 4.1.2 Types of communication services
Communication services offered by Communication Service Providers (CSPs) to
Communication Service Customers (CSCs) are of various categories, among which:
\- Business to consumer (B2C) services, e.g. mobile web browsing, 5G voice,
Rich Communication Services, etc.
\- Business to business (B2B) services, e.g. Internet access, LAN
interconnection, etc.
\- Business to household (B2H) services, e.g. Internet access, MBMS, VOIP,
VPN, etc.
\- Business to business to everything (B2B2X) services: e.g. services offered
to other CSPs (e.g. international roaming, RAN sharing, etc.) offering
themselves communication services to their own customers. B2B2X service type
includes B2B2 applied recursively, i.e. B2B2B, B2B2B2B, etc.
NOTE: How to derive different network slice related requirements from
different categories of communication services is not in the scope of the
present document.
A communication service offered by CSPs can include a bundle of specific B2C,
B2B, B2H or B2B2X type of services. Taking as an example the B2C type of
services, a bundle could include: data (for mobile web browsing), voice
(through 5G voice), and messaging (via Rich Communication Services). In this
case, each one of the individual B2C may be fulfilled by different PDU
connectivity services provided via corresponding PDU sessions.
### 4.1.3 Communication services using network slices
As an example, a variety of communication services provided by multiple
network slice(s) are illustrated in the figure 4.1.3.1. Figure 4.1.3.1 is only
for illustrative purposes to highlight the combination and relationship of
communication services to network slices without depicting any UE. An actual
network slice deployment offering communication services to UEs will need to
comply with the 5G system architecture defined in TS 23.501 [3] and TS 38.401
[4].
Figure 4.1.3.1: A variety of communication services provided by multiple
network slices
Figure 4.1.3.1 illustrates the relationship between communication services,
network slices, and network slice subnets:
\- network slice subnet AN-1 and network slice subnet AN-2 each contain
distinct sets of AN NFs. network slice subnet CN-1, network slice subnet CN-2
and network slice subnet CN-3 each contain distinct sets of CN NFs. The TN
supporting connectivity facilitates the communication between CN and AN NFs.
network slice subnet A combines network slice subnet AN-1 with network slice
subnet CN-1 and corresponding TN connectivity. network slice subnet B combines
network slice subnet AN-2 and network slice subnet CN-2 and corresponding TN
connectivity. network slice subnet C combines network slice subnet AN-2 with
network slice subnet CN-3 and corresponding TN connectivity. The network slice
subnet AN-2 is shared between network slice subnet B and network slice subnet
C, while network slice subnet AN-1 is dedicated to network slice subnet A.
\- NOP offers network slice subnet A as a network slice A, in this
relationship network slice A represents network slice subnet A with associated
Service Level Specification (SLS). NOP also offers network slice subnet B as
network slice B and network slice subnet C as network slice C. The SLS of
network slice A satisfies the service requirements of communication service 1
and communication service 2. The SLS of network slice B satisfies the service
requirements of communication service 2. The SLS of network slice C satisfies
the service requirements of communication service 3.
\- The communication service 1 is supported by network slice A. The
communication service 2 may be supported by either network slice A or network
slice B. The communication service 3 is supported by network slice C.
### 4.1.4 Communication services requirements
_eMBB service type aims at supporting high data rates and high traffic
densities as outlined in TS 22.261 [2], Table 7.1-1 \"Performance requirements
for high data rate and traffic density scenarios\". URLLC service type aims at
supporting the requirements in TS 22.261 [2], Table 7.2.2-1 \"Performance
requirements for low-latency and high-reliability services.\" related to high
reliability and low latency scenarios. mIoT service type aims at supporting a
large number and high density of IoT devices efficiently and cost effectively,
see TS 23.501 [3]._
_Depending on the service type (eMBB, URLLC, mIoT), different service types
may include different network slice related requirements, for example:_
\- Area traffic capacity requirement
\- Charging requirement
\- Coverage area requirement
\- Degree of isolation requirement
\- End-to-end latency requirement
\- Mobility requirement
\- Overall user density requirement
\- Priority requirement
\- Service availability requirement
\- Service reliability requirement
\- UE speed requirement
### 4.1.5 NetworkSlice instance Lifecycle and relationship to service
instances
An NetworkSlice instance may support multiple service instances if it
satisfies their service level requirements or has been modified to support
these requirements. When a service instance is to be supported, it may trigger
an operation phase of the NetworkSlice instance lifecycle for activation or
modification(s) of an existing NetworkSlice instance, or it may trigger a
commissioning phase of the NetworkSlice instance lifecycle for creation of a
new NetworkSlice instance. When a service instance no longer needs to be
supported by an NetworkSlice instance, it may trigger an operation phase of
the NetworkSlice instance lifecycle for de-activation or modification(s) of an
existing NetworkSlice instance, or it may trigger a decommissioning phase of
the NetworkSlice instance lifecycle for termination of an existing
NetworkSlice instance.
### 4.1.6 Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS)
Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS) can be offered by a CSP to its CSC in the
form of a service. This service allows CSC to use the network slice as the end
user or optionally allows CSC to manage the network slice as manager via
management interface exposed by the CSP. In turn, these CSC can play the role
of CSP and offer their own services (e.g. communication services) on top of
the network slice obtained from the CSP. For example, a network slice customer
can also play the role of NOP and could build their own network containing the
network slice obtained from the CSP as a \"building block\". In this model,
both CSP offering NSaaS and CSC consuming NSaaS have the knowledge of the
existence of network slices. Depending on service offering, CSP offering NSaaS
may impose limits on the NSaaS management capabilities exposure to the CSC,
and the CSC can manage the network slice according to NSaaS management
capabilities exposed and agreed upon limited level of management by the CSP.
The NSaaS offered by the CSP could be characterized by certain properties
(capabilities to satisfy service level requirements), e.g.
\- radio access technology,
\- bandwidth,
\- end-to-end latency,
\- reliability,
\- guaranteed / non-guaranteed QoS,
\- security level, etc.
Figure 4.1.6.1 illustrates some examples on how network slices can be utilized
to deliver communication services, including network slice as a Service. For
simplicity this figure omits the details of how NFs are being managed and does
not show their groupings into network slice subnet:
a) A Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS) is provided to CSC-A by CSP-A. Unlike
the communication service delivered to end customers, in NSaaS, the offered
service is the actual network slice.
b) CSC-A can use the network slice obtained from CSP-A to support own
Communication Services or may add additional network functions to the obtained
NSaaS and offer the resulting combination as a new network slice to CSP-B. In
this case, CSC-A plays the role of NOP-B and builds his own network. The
network slice obtained by CSC-A from CSP-A becomes a \"building block\" or a
network slice subnet of CSC-A in its role of NOP-B. The NOP-B (a.k.a. CSC-A)
combines this network slice subnet with other network slice subnets and offers
the new network slice subnet as network slice to CSP-B.
c) CSP-B can use the network slice obtained from CSC-A / NOP-B to deliver
communication services to its end customers (as CSC-B).
Figure 4.1.6.1: Examples of Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS) being utilized
to deliver communication services to end customers
NOTE: In Figure 4.1.6.1, NS represents network slice, CS represents
communication service
### 4.1.7 Network slices as NOP internals
In the \"network slices as NOP internals\" model, network slices are not part
of the NOP service offering and hence are not visible to its customers.
However, the NOP, to provide support to communication services, may decide to
deploy network slices, e.g. for internal network optimization purposes. This
model allows CSC to use the network as the end user or optionally allows CSC
to monitor the service status (assurance of the SLA associated with the
internally offered network slice).
The CSP should be able to provide the service status information (e.g. service
performance, fault information, traffic data, etc) to CSC via the management
exposure interface.
Figure 4.1.7.1 illustrates an example on how network slices can be utilized to
deliver communication services:
a) A network slice is used as NOP internal, and CSP delivers communication
services to end customers (CSC).
b) The CSC should be able to monitor the network and service status
information (e.g. service performance, fault information, traffic data, etc.)
provided by CSP.
Figure 4.1.7.1: Examples of network slice as NOP internals
NOTE: In Figure 4.1.7.1, NS represents network slice, CS represents
communication service
### 4.1.8 Network slice delivery concepts
Network slices are provided in different compositions to the customer which
may include access to different management capabilities and network slice
provisioning procedures for the customer.
For example, a network slice may be delivered
a) to meet customer\'s communication service requirements without any exposure
of internal network slice structures (applicable to both individual
subscribers and NSaaS); or
b) to meet the network slice requirements, with some exposure of the internal
network slice structures (e.g. NFs, topology, etc.) and with some network
monitoring capability as enabled by the provider; or
c) to meet the network slice requirements with some exposure of the internal
network slice structures (e.g. NFs) with some management capabilities as
enabled by the provider.
### 4.1.9 Tenant information concept
The purpose of tenant information concept is to support multiple tenant
environment in 5G network management. The 3GPP management system may use
tenant information for the following:
\- Associating communication services with the tenant.
\- Controlling access of the tenant in relation to management capabilities.
## 4.2 Principles
## 4.2.1 General Principles
The 5G network management framework is built upon the following principles:
a. Support management of 5G networks with or without network slicing features.
b. Support management across multiple operator\'s scenario.
c. Support interaction with non-3GPP management system.
d. Support service-based management.
## 4.2.2 Principles of network slicing management framework
The 5G network slicing management framework is built upon the following
principles:
1\. Standardized management service interfaces of the network slicing
management services.
2\. Standardized management service interfaces of network function management
services.
3\. Multi-vendor interaction utilizing the standardized management service
interfaces of the network slicing management services, as well as the
standardized management service interfaces of the network function related
management functions.
4\. A simple network slicing set of management functions to simplify the
management of network function(s) from the slicing management point-of-view.
5\. Network slicing management services are capable to support various Network
Operator deployment options to support diverse use cases, and a set of generic
management services applicable to all kinds of network functions.
Figure 4.2.2.1 illustrates the basic principle of standardized management
services for network slicing management related capabilities.
Figure 4.2.2.1: Standardized network slicing management services and network
function management services
## 4.3 Management aspects of network slicing
### 4.3.1 Introduction
This clause describes management aspects of network slicing, which can be
described by the four phases shown in Figure 4.3.1.1, the phases are:
\- Preparation
\- Commissioning
\- Operation
\- Decommissioning
{width="7.2444444444444445in" height="1.5895833333333333in"}
Figure 4.3.1.1: Management aspects of network slicing
Each phase, described in subsequent clauses, defines high level tasks and
should include appropriate verification of the output of each task.
### 4.3.2 Preparation
In the preparation phase the NetworkSlice instance does not exist. The
preparation phase includes network slice design, network slice capacity
planning, on-boarding and evaluation of the network functions, preparing the
network environment and other necessary preparations required to be done
before the creation of an NetworkSlice instance.
### 4.3.3 Commissioning
NetworkSlice instance provisioning in the commissioning phase includes
creation of the NetworkSlice instance. During NetworkSlice instance creation
all needed resources are allocated and configured to satisfy the network slice
requirements. The creation of an NetworkSlice instance can include creation
and/or modification of the NetworkSlice instance constituents.
### 4.3.4 Operation
The Operation phase includes the activation, supervision, performance
reporting (e.g. for KPI monitoring), resource capacity planning, modification,
and de-activation of an NetworkSlice instance.
Activation makes the NetworkSlice instance ready to support communication
services.
Resource capacity planning includes any actions that calculates resource usage
based on an NetworkSlice instance provisioning, and performance monitoring and
generates modification polices as a result of the calculation.
NOTE: Automation of resource capacity planning is out of scope of the present
document.
NetworkSlice instance modification could be including e.g. capacity or
topology changes. The modification can include creation or modification of
NetworkSlice instance constituents. NetworkSlice instance modification can be
triggered by receiving new network slice requirements or as the result of
supervision/reporting
The deactivation includes actions that make the NetworkSlice instance inactive
and stops the communication services.
Network slice provisioning actions in the operation phase involves activation,
modification and de-activation of an NetworkSlice instance.
### 4.3.5 Decommissioning
NetworkSlice instance provisioning in the decommissioning phase includes
decommissioning of non-shared constituents if required and removing the
NetworkSlice instance specific configuration from the shared constituents.
After the decommissioning phase, the NetworkSlice instance is terminated and
does not exist anymore.
## 4.4 Managed network slice concepts
### 4.4.1 General
From a management point of view a network slice is complete in the sense that
it includes all the network function instances, with their supporting
resources, to provide service for certain business purpose (e.g. to support a
certain set of communication services, provide PNI-NPNs, etc. in NSaaS model)
or operational efficiencies purpose (e.g. to optimize operator internal O&M
procedures in network slice as NOP internals model). In other words, the
network slice is complete because it completely satisfies the associated SLS.
The following concepts are related to network slicing management:
a. Services which are supported by network slices (services whose service
level requirements are satisfied by the SLS associated with the network
slices).
b. Network slice subnet instances and networks composed of PNF, VNF or both
and offered as network slices.
c. Network function (PNFs, VNFs) grouped into network slice subnets.
d. Resources which support the network (e.g. virtualized resource, non-
virtualized resource)
The management aspects of the network slice are represented by management of
the CN part, and AN part which are directly managed by the 3GPP management
system, and management of non-3GPP part which is not directly managed by the
3GPP management system. The non-3GPP part includes TN parts. The 3GPP
management system provides the network slice requirements to the corresponding
management systems of those non-3GPP parts, e.g. the TN part supports
connectivity within and between CN and AN parts. For the TN part, the 3GPP
management system provides the TN topology requirements and individual TN
links\' QoS attributes requirements to the TN management system.
The 3GPP management system maintains the network topology and the related QOS
requirements.
{width="4.65625in" height="1.96875in"}
Figure 4.4.1.1: Example of a network slice
## 4.5 Network slice subnet concepts
The network slice subnet represents a group of network functions (including
their corresponding resources) that form part or complete constituents of a
network slice. The grouping of the network functions allows the management of
each group of network functions to be conducted independently of the network
slice.
The network slice subnet concepts include the following aspects:
\- A network slice subnet constituent may include network function(s) and
other constituent network slice subnet(s).
\- A network slice subnet may be shared by two or more network slices, this is
called a shared constituent of network slice. This sharing may be direct or
indirect. The direct sharing implies that the network slice subnet is offered
as network slice multiple times. The indirect sharing implies that the network
slice subnet is either a constituent of a network slice subnet shared by two
or more network slices, or is shared by two or more network slice subnet(s)
which are in turn offered as different network slices.
\- A network slice subnet may be shared by two or more network slice
subnet(s), this is also called a shared constituent of network slice subnet.
The sharing may be direct or indirect. The direct sharing implies that network
slice subnet is a constituent of two or more network slice subnets. The
indirect sharing implies that network slice subnet is a constituent of a
shared network slice subnet.
\- A network slice subnet that is dedicated to one network slice and is not
shared as a constituent by two or more network slice subnet(s) is called a
non-shared network slice subnet.
\- A network slice subnet may contain instances of CN network functions only,
or instances of AN network functions only, or any combination thereof.
\- A network slice subnet may additionally have information representing a set
of links with capacities to provide connection between network functions. This
information is also known as TN requirements of the network slice subnet.
\- The resources used, and whose management aspects are represented by a
network slice subnet comprise physical and logical resources. In case of
virtualization, virtualized resources may be used.
## 4.6 Slice profile and service profile concepts
### 4.6.1 Slice profile
The network slice subnet has an associated set of requirements (e.g. those
derived from service level requirements) that are applicable to the network
slice subnet constituents, such set is called slice profile. TN requirements
(e.g. set of QoS attributes for the links interconnecting network slice subnet
constituent network functions) is an example of requirements that may be
included in the slice profile. The slice profile may be common (applicable to
all network slice subnet constituents, regardless of their types) or specific
(applicable to only AN network function or only to CN network function network
slice subnet constituents).
### 4.6.2 Service profile
Depending on industry requirements and operator's requirements, different
service profiles may be used to represent SLS associated with network slices.
The following are examples for service profiles:
\- A service profile is used to capture a set of requirements for the new
network slice such as (eMBB, MIoT, URLLC).
\- A service profile is used to capture a set of specific industry
requirements for creation of network slice such as V2X, smart grid, Remote
Healthcare.
## 4.7 Coordination with management systems of non-3GPP parts
When providing an end to end communication service, the network may use
non-3GPP parts (e.g. Data centre network (DCN), Transport network (TN)) in
addition to the network components defined in 3GPP. Therefore, in order to
ensure the performance of a communication service according to the business
requirements, the 3GPP management system has to coordinate with the management
systems of the non-3GPP parts (e.g., MANO system) when preparing a network
slice for this service. This coordination may include obtaining capabilities
of the non-3GPP parts and providing the slice specific requirements and other
requirements on the non-3GPP parts. Figure 4.7.1 illustrates an example for
the coordination with management of TN part (e.g., directly or via MANO
system).
The 3GPP management system identifies the requirements on involved network
domains, such as RAN, CN and non-3GPP parts of a slice by deriving them from
the customer requirements to the services supported by the network slice. The
derived requirements are sent to the corresponding management systems. The
coordination may also include related management data exchange between those
management systems and the 3GPP management system.
Figure 4.7.1: Example of coordination between 3GPP and TN management systems
## 4.8 Roles related to 5G networks and network slicing management
In the context of next generation networks, responsibilities regarding
operations have to be clearly defined and assigned to roles. The roles related
to 5G networks and network slicing management include:
\- Communication Service Customer (CSC): Uses communication services.
\- Communication Service Provider (CSP): Provides communication services.
Designs, builds and operates its communication services. The CSP provided
communication service can be built with or without network slice.
\- Network Operator (NOP): Designs, builds and operates networks and provides
related services, including network services and network slices.
\- Network Equipment Provider (NEP): Supplies network equipment to network.
For sake of simplicity, VNF Supplier is considered here as a type of Network
Equipment Provider. This can be provided also in the form of one or more
appropriate VNF(s).
\- Virtualization Infrastructure Service Provider (VISP): Provides virtualized
infrastructure services. Designs, builds and operates its virtualization
infrastructure(s). Virtualization Infrastructure Service Providers may also
offer their virtualized infrastructure services to other types of customers
including to Communication Service Providers directly, i.e. without going
through the Network Operator.
\- Data Centre Service Provider (DCSP): Provides data centre services.
Designs, builds and operates its data centres.
\- NFVI Supplier: Supplies network function virtualization infrastructure to
its customers.
\- Hardware Supplier: Supplies hardware.
Depending on actual scenarios:
\- each role can be played by one or more organizations simultaneously;
\- an organization can play one or several roles simultaneously (for example,
a company can play CSP and NOP roles simultaneously).
{width="5.997916666666667in" height="3.4902777777777776in"}
Figure 4.8.1: High-level model of roles
In case of Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS) (cf. clause 4.1.6), the
Communication Service Provider (CSP) role can be refined into NSaaS Provider
(NSaaSP) role -- or, in short, Network Slice Provider (NSP) - and the
Communication Service Customer (CSC) role can be refined into NSaaS Customer
(NSaaSC) role -- or, in short, Network Slice Customer (NSC). A NSC can, in
turn, offer its own communication services to its own customers, being thus
CSP at the same time. A tenant might take the role of a NSC.
4.9 Void
# 5 Business level requirements
## 5.1 Requirements
### 5.1.1 General requirements
**REQ-5GNS-CON-01** The network slicing management architecture shall allow
any deployment options within the Network Operator\'s domain.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-02** The set of network slicing management functions shall be
generic to all kinds of network function and network function provider.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-05** The network slicing management architecture shall provide
capabilities to manage the total view of all created slice instances.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-06** The network slicing management architecture should provide
management capabilities that are dedicated to each network slice. The
management dedicated to a network slice shall work independently from the
management dedicated to another network slice.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-07** The network slicing management architecture shall allow
managing multiple network slices simultaneously or independently along with
their lifecycle.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-08** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
determine to use network with or without slicing based on network related
requirements.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-09** The 3GPP management system shall, when given the capacity
increase or decrease of a network slice, be able to calculate the capacity
increase or decrease of a RAN slice subnet, CN slice subnet and derive
corresponding requirements for the TN part that support the network slice.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-10** The 3GPP management system shall be able to modify the
capacity of a RAN slice subnet to a given value.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-11** The 3GPP management system shall be able to modify the
capacity of a CN slice subnet to a given value.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-12** The 3GPP management system shall be able to communicate
the TN requirements corresponding to the network slice capacity change.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-13** The 3GPP management system shall be able to provide
management data analytics to authorized consumers.
**REQ-5GNS-CON-14** The 3GPP management system shall be able to collect and
analyse relevant management data.
**REQ-MnSD-FUN-15** The MnS producer shall have the capability allowing its
authorized consumer to obtain information about MnS capabilites.
### 5.1.2 Network slicing management
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
create a new or use an existing NetworkSlice instance according to the
communication service requirements.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
translate the communication service requirements to network slice related
requirements.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-** 03 The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
create a new or use an existing NetworkSlice instance according to the network
slice related requirements
NOTE: The network slice related requirements include requirements such as:
area traffic capacity, charging, coverage area, degree of isolation, end-to-
end latency, mobility, overall user density, priority, service availability,
service reliability, UE speed.
**REQ-3GPPMS -CON-04** The 3GPP management system shall be able to create a
NetworkSlice instance.
**REQ-3GPPMS -CON-05** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
monitor the network slice related data and provide the agreed data to an
authorized consumer.
**REQ-3GPPMS -CON-06** The 3GPP management system shall be able to create a
NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-07** The 3GPP management system shall be able to evaluate the
feasibility of providing a new NetworkSlice instance which does not impact
with the existing NetworkSlice instance(s).
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-07a** The 3GPP management system should have the capability
of allocating the resources of NetworkSlice instances according to the
priority.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-08** The 3GPP management system should have the capability of
re-allocating the resources of NetworkSlice instances according to the
priority.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-09** The 3GPP management system shall be able to manage the
NetworkSlice instance lifecycle.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-10** The 3GPP management system shall be able to provide link
requirements related to the network slice (e.g. topology, QOS parameters) to
the appropriate management system that handles the TN part related to the
slice (e.g. via NFV MANO).
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-11** The 3GPP management system shall be able to report
performance measurement data of a NetworkSlice instance to the NOP.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-12** The 3GPP management system shall be able to report
performance measurement data of a NetworkSliceSubnet instance to the NOP.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-13** The 3GPP management system shall be able to report fault
management data of a NetworkSlice instance.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-14** The 3GPP management system shall be able to report fault
management data of a NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
_**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-15** The 3GPP management system shall be able to activate a
NetworkSlice instance._
_**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-16** The 3GPP management system shall be able to de-activate
a NetworkSlice instance._
_**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-17** The 3GPP management system shall be able to modify a
NetworkSlice instance._
_**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-18** The 3GPP management system shall be able to terminate a
NetworkSlice instance._
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-19** The 3GPP management system shall be able to activate a
NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-20** The 3GPP management system shall be able to modify a
NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-21** The 3GPP management system shall be able to de-activate
a NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-22** The 3GPP management system shall be able to terminate a
NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-23** The 3GPP management system shall support slice capacity
management.
**REQ-3GPPMS -CON-24** The 3GPP management system shall support inter-slice
orchestration (e.g., orchestrated provisioning of multiple slices and
resolving issues on quality, fault, and anomaly, among multiple slices).
**REQ-3GPPMS -CON-25** The 3GPP management system shall support collection and
analysis of the status and events of the NetworkSlice instance resources for
the purpose of fault management.
**REQ-3GPPMS -CON-26** The 3GPP management system shall support collection and
analysis of the status and events of the NetworkSlice instance resources for
the purpose of performance management.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-27** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability of
exposing network slice management data for Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS)
to the authorized consumer.
**REQ-3GPPMS -CON-28** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
differentiate communication services provided by a single NetworkSlice
instance when the NetworkSlice instance is used to support multiple
communication services.
**REQ-3GPPMS -CON-29** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
perform network slice related operations (e.g., performance monitoring)
considering requirements for each communication service when the network slice
is used to support multiple communication services.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-30** The 3GPP management system shall be able to expose the
network slice management services such as performance management, fault
supervision and provisioning management to the authorized consumer based on
the mutual agreement between consumer and operator.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-31** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
expose, based on the mutual agreement between consumer and operator, the
network slice assurance services to the authorized consumers.
**REQ-3GPPMS-CON-32** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
expose, based on the mutual agreement between consumer and operator, the
network slice control and configuration services to the authorized consumers
and to resolve potential conflicts
### 5.1.3 CM requirements
**REQ-3GPPCM-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall have a capability to
configure NF instances.
## 5.2 Actor roles
Consumers of a network management service. A consumer can be a Network
Operator (NOP) or Communication Service Provider (CSP).
## 5.3 Telecommunication resources
The Telecommunication resources include network management functions and/or
the managed network functions/resources.
## 5.4 High-level use cases
### 5.4.1 Network slicing supporting communication services
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | A communication service | | | | provider (CSP) uses the | | | | network slicing service | | | | provided by operator to | | | | offer communication | | | | services to end users. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A CSP request a NOP to | | | | provide a network slice | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | 3GPP management system | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The CSP and the | | | | operator negotiate and | | | | sign the communication | | | | service requirements | | | | contract a.k.a. Service | | | | Level Agreement (SLA). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The CSP declares | | | | communication | | | | service(s) requirements | | | | to the operator. These | | | | requirements are called | | | | Service Level | | | | Specification (SLS). | | | | The operator triggers | | | | the NetworkSlice | | | | instance preparation | | | | phase which includes | | | | the on-boarding and | | | | verification of network | | | | function products, | | | | feasibility check, | | | | preparing the necessary | | | | network environment, | | | | which are used to | | | | support the lifecycle | | | | of NetworkSlice | | | | instances and any other | | | | preparations that are | | | | needed in the network. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | Based on the SLS (e.g. | | | | coverage area, number | | | | and distribution of | | | | users, traffic demand, | | | | mobility, latency, | | | | etc.) , the operator | | | | prepares the | | | | corresponding | | | | NetworkSlice instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | After the NetworkSlice | | | | instance preparation | | | | phase, the operator | | | | triggers the deployment | | | | of an NetworkSlice | | | | instance.\ | | | | 1) If the CSP plans to | | | | operate services across | | | | multiple operators\' | | | | administrative domains, | | | | this may require | | | | cross-country | | | | operations. The | | | | operator management | | | | system will perform | | | | cross-domain | | | | collaboration with the | | | | management systems from | | | | other administrative | | | | domains for | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | | | deployment.\ | | | | 2) If customization of | | | | TN is required, the | | | | operator management | | | | system and TN | | | | management system will | | | | first cooperate on | | | | network planning of | | | | TN.\ | | | | 3) The operator | | | | management system | | | | performs overall | | | | mapping and | | | | coordination among | | | | different technical | | | | domains in order to | | | | provide the end-to-end | | | | services via the | | | | NetworkSlice instance. | | | | If CSP uses the NSaaS | | | | provided by operator to | | | | offer multiple | | | | communication services | | | | to end users, related | | | | operations (e.g., | | | | performance monitoring) | | | | are performed | | | | considering | | | | requirements for each | | | | communication service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (O)** | If requested, the | | | | operator provides | | | | management data of the | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | | | to the authorized CSP | | | | according to the | | | | communication service | | | | requirements. | | | | | | | | Examples of management | | | | data that could be | | | | provided to CSP include | | | | service availability | | | | and reliability, UE | | | | traffic information, | | | | etc. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | The operator maintains | | | | the NetworkSlice | | | | instance during the | | | | lifecycle of the | | | | NetworkSlice instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NetworkSlice | | | | instance(s) is provided | | | | by the operator to the | | | | CSP to support one or | | | | more communication | | | | services. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-01, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-02, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-03, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-04, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-05, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-07, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-08, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-09, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-10, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS -CON-28, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS -CON-29 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.2 Provisioning of a network slice instance
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Use case stage | Evo | \>\ | | | lution/Specification | Related use | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Goal** | To perform | | | | operations of the | | | | provisioning of a | | | | NetworkSlice | | | | instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A Network Operator | | | | (NOP) plays the role | | | | of a Network Slice | | | | Provider. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Telecom | 3GPP management | | | resources** | system | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Assumptions** | None | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | Preparation for the | | | | NetworkSlice | | | | instance is done. | | | | | | | | For creation, | | | | NetworkSlice | | | | instance is not | | | | existing. | | | | | | | | For activation, | | | | modification, | | | | de-activation, or | | | | termination, the | | | | NetworkSlice | | | | instance is | | | | existing. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Begins when** | The 3GPP management | | | | system has received | | | | a request from the | | | | Network Operator. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The 3GPP management | | | | system assesses the | | | | feasibility of | | | | executing the | | | | request, e.g., | | | | checks the inventory | | | | and the required | | | | NetworkSlice | | | | instance | | | | constituents, and | | | | reserves available | | | | resources. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The 3GPP management | 5.4.3 Provisioning | | | system performs the | of a | | | LCM operations | NetworkSliceSubnet | | | required according | instance | | | to the request | | | | (create, activate, | | | | modify, de-activate, | | | | or terminate) on one | | | | or more | | | | NetworkSliceSubnet | | | | instance(s). For | | | | shared | | | | Ne | | | | tworkSliceSubnet(s), | | | | the 3GPP management | | | | system performs | | | | required actions. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The 3GPP management | | | | system replies to | | | | the Network Operator | | | | that the requested | | | | operation is | | | | completed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Ends when** | All the mandatory | | | | steps have passed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Exceptions** | In case the | | | | feasibility check | | | | fails, the use case | | | | fails and the 3GPP | | | | management system | | | | rejects the request | | | | with the reason | | | | included in the | | | | reply. | | | | | | | | In case any of the | | | | LCM operations fail, | | | | the use case fails | | | | and the 3GPP | | | | management system | | | | replies to the | | | | Network Operator | | | | that the requested | | | | operation is failed | | | | with the reason | | | | included in the | | | | reply. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Post-conditions** | A NetworkSlice | | | | instance has been | | | | provisioned. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **Traceability** | _REQ-3GPPMS-CON-04,_ | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-15, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-16, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-17, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-18. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 5.4.3 Provisioning of a NetworkSliceSubnet instance
+-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Use case stage** | **Evo |** \>\ | | | lution/Specification**| Related use** | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Goal** | To perform operations | | | | of the provisioning of | | | | a NetworkSliceSubnet | | | | instance. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A Network Operator | | | | (NOP) plays the role | | | | of a Network Slice | | | | Provider (NSP) | | | | responsible for the | | | | network slice subnet. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Telecom resources** | 3GPP management system | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Assumptions** | None | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | Preparation for the | | | | NetworkSliceSubnet | | | | instance is completed. | | | | | | | | For the creation use | | | | case an | | | | NetworkSliceSubnet | | | | instance does not | | | | exist. | | | | | | | | For activation, | | | | modification, | | | | de-activation or | | | | termination use cases, | | | | the NetworkSliceSubnet | | | | instance exists. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Begins when** | The 3GPP management | | | | system has received a | | | | request from the | | | | Network Operator. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The 3GPP management | | | | system assesses the | | | | feasibility of | | | | executing the request, | | | | e.g., checks the | | | | inventory and the | | | | required | | | | NetworkSliceSubnet | | | | instance constituents, | | | | and reserves available | | | | resources. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The 3GPP management | | | | system performs the | | | | LCM operations | | | | required according to | | | | the request (activate, | | | | modify, de-activate, | | | | or terminate) on one | | | | or more | | | | NetworkSliceSubnet | | | | instance(s) | | | | constituents. In case | | | | the required LCM | | | | operation is create a | | | | new NetworkSliceSubnet | | | | instance constituent | | | | is created. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The 3GPP management | | | | system replies to the | | | | Network Operator that | | | | the requested | | | | operation is | | | | completed. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Ends when** | All the mandatory | | | | steps have passed. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Exceptions** | In case the | | | | feasibility check | | | | fail, the use case | | | | fails and the 3GPP | | | | management system | | | | rejects the request | | | | with the reason | | | | included in the reply. | | | | | | | | In case any of the LCM | | | | operations fail, the | | | | use case fails and the | | | | 3GPP management system | | | | replies to the Network | | | | Operator that the | | | | requested operation | | | | has failed with the | | | | reason included in the | | | | reply. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Post-conditions** | A NetworkSliceSubnet | | | | instance has been | | | | provisioned. | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-06, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-19, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-20, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-21, | | | | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-22 | | +-----------------------+------------------------+-----------------+
### 5.4.4 Performance management of a NetworkSlice instance
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To report performance measurement data of a NetworkSlice iInstance to
the NOP.
**Actors and Roles** A Network Operator (NOP) plays the role of a Network
Slice Provider (NSP)
**Telecom resources** 3GPP management system
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** An NetworkSlice instance has been activated.
**Begins when** The NOP requests performance measurement and monitoring on the
NetworkSlice instance.
**Step 1 (M)** For each NetworkSliceSubnet instance associated with the
NetworkSlice instance the 3GPP management system fetches NetworkSliceSubnet
instance-level performance measurement data. Performance management of a
NetworkSliceSubnet instance
**Step 2 (M)** The 3GPP management system generates the network slice-level
performance measurement data and sends the network slice-level performance
measurement data to the NOP.
**Ends when** The performance measurement and monitoring ends as scheduled or
when requested by the NOP.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The NOP receives the network slice-level performance
measurement data from the 3GPP management system.
**Traceability** REQ-3GPPMS-CON-11
* * *
NOTE: Steps 1 and 2 may be executed on demand, or repeatedly according to a
schedule.
### 5.4.5 Performance management of a NetworkSliceSubnet instance
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To report performance measurement data of a NetworkSliceSubnet
instance to the NOP.
**Actors and Roles** A Network Operator (NOP) plays the role of a Network
Slice Provider responsible for the network slice subnet.
**Telecom resources** 3GPP management system
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** An NetworkSliceSubnet instance has been activated.
**Begins when** The NOP requests performance measurement and monitoring on the
NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
**Step 1 (M)** For each component of the NetworkSliceSubnet instance the 3GPP
management system fetches performance measurement data on the components of
the NetworkSliceSubnet instance.
**Step 2 (M)** The 3GPP management system generates the network slice subnet-
level performance measurement data and sends the network slice subnet-level
performance measurement data to the NOP.
**Ends when** The performance measurement and monitoring ends as scheduled or
when requested by the NOP.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The NOP receives the network slice subnet-level
performance measurement data from the 3GPP management system.
**Traceability** REQ-3GPPMS-CON-12
* * *
NOTE: Steps 1 and 2 may be executed on demand, or repeatedly according to a
schedule.
### 5.4.6 Report fault management data of a NetworkSlice instance
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To report fault management data of a NetworkSlice instance to the
NOP.
**Actors and Roles** Network Operator (NOP)
**Telecom resources** 3GPP management system
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** An NetworkSlice instance is created.
**Begins when** The 3GPP management system detects a fault on the NetworkSlice
instance that needs NOP intervention.
**Step 1 (M)** The 3GPP management system generates fault management data of
the NetworkSlice instance and reports the fault management data to the NOP.
**Step 2 (M)** When the fault is recovered, the 3GPP management system updates
the fault management data of the NetworkSlice instance to the NOP.
**Ends when** The NOP has the fault management data of NetworkSlice instance.
**Exceptions** In case any of the mandatory steps fail, the use case fails.
**Post-conditions** N/A
**Traceability** REQ-3GPPMS-CON-13
* * *
### 5.4.7 Report fault management data of a NetworkSliceSubnet instance
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To report fault management data of a NetworkSliceSubnet instance to
the NOP.
**Actors and Roles** Network Operator (NOP)
**Telecom resources** 3GPP management system
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** An NetworkSliceSubnet instance is created.
**Begins when** The 3GPP management system detects a fault on the
NetworkSliceSubnet instance that needs operator intervention.
**Step 1 (M)** The 3GPP management system generates fault management data of
the NetworkSliceSubnet instance and reports to the NOP.
**Step 2 (M)** When the fault is recovered, the 3GPP management system updates
the fault management data of the NetworkSliceSubnet instance to the NOP.
**Ends when** The NOP has the fault management data of NetworkSliceSubnet
instance.
**Exceptions** In case any of the mandatory steps fail, the use case fails.
**Post-conditions** N/A
**Traceability** REQ-3GPPMS-CON-14
* * *
### 5.4.8 Multiple operator support for network slicing
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use Case | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | Create a communication | | | | service spanning | | | | multiple NetworkSlice | | | | instance hosted across | | | | multiple operators | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Communication service | | | | provider (CSP) | | | | | | | | Network Operator (NOP) | | | | A, Network Operator | | | | (NOP) B | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | 3GPP management system | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | The business level | | | | agreement(s) between | | | | CSP and NOPs to support | | | | the management system | | | | interaction is done | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | None | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | Communication service | | | | provider receives a | | | | request to deploy a 5G | | | | Communication service | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The CSP requests NOP A | | | | to create the | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | | | and NOP B to create | | | | another NetworkSlice | | | | instance to support the | | | | communication service | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NOP A and NOP B\'s 3GPP | | | | management system | | | | evaluates if they can | | | | support the respective | | | | NetworkSlice instances, | | | | and, if they can, the | | | | 3GPP management systems | | | | create the | | | | corresponding | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | | | and respond positively | | | | to the CSP | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | The communication | | | | services provider | | | | instantiates the | | | | service over the | | | | multiple NetworkSlice | | | | instances | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above | | | | are successfully | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | A communication service | | | | across multiple | | | | operators is created | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-01, | | | | **REQ-3GPPMS-CON-02** | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.9 Manage network slice with agreed performance
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To manage network slice | | | | with agreed performance | | | | to CSP | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A Communication Service | | | | Provider (CSP) requests | | | | the Network Operator | | | | (NOP) to provide a | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | 3GPP management system | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The NOP has the | | | | capability to manage | | | | network slices. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | A set of service | | | | requirements (e.g. | | | | business scenario, | | | | isolation, throughput, | | | | latency, coverage, | | | | etc.) have been | | | | provided by the CSP. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NOP creates a | | | | customized NetworkSlice | | | | instance with | | | | performance that meet | | | | CSP\'s requirements. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | NOP make use of 3GPP | | | | management system to | | | | monitor the | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | | | performance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | When NOP detects that | | | | the monitored | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | | | performance does not | | | | meet the agreed | | | | performance | | | | requirement, the NOP | | | | requests the 3GPP | | | | management system to | | | | executes some actions | | | | (e.g. scale in/out, | | | | modification, etc.), so | | | | that the NetworkSlice | | | | instance performance | | | | requirements are | | | | fulfilled. | | | | | | | | NOTE: The step 2 and 3 | | | | are executed | | | | continuously until the | | | | \"ends when\". | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | The NetworkSlice | | | | instance is terminated. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NetworkSlice | | | | instance performance | | | | requirements requested | | | | by CSP are fulfilled. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.10 Communication services using network with or without slicing
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | A communication service | | | | provider (CSP) uses the | | | | 5G network and network | | | | slicing service | | | | provided by operator to | | | | offer communication | | | | services to end users. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Communication Service | | | | Provider (CSP) requests | | | | the Network Operator | | | | (NOP) to support its | | | | network requirements | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | 3GPP management system | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | CSP derives the network | | | | related requirements | | | | (e.g. isolation, | | | | latency, coverage) from | | | | the communication | | | | service related | | | | requirements. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | CSP provides the | | | | network related | | | | requirements to the | | | | NOP. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | NOP decides to use | | | | network with or without | | | | slicing based on the | | | | network related | | | | requirements received | | | | and/or pre-configured | | | | network planning or | | | | optimization policies. | | | | For example, If CSP | | | | requires an isolated | | | | network, NOP may decide | | | | to use a network slice. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | In case of using | | | | network with slicing, | | | | NOP create a | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | | | or reuse an existing | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | | | to satisfy the network | | | | related requirements. | | | | | | | | Otherwise, NOP deploys | | | | a new network without | | | | slicing or utilize the | | | | existing network | | | | without slicing to | | | | satisfy the network | | | | related requirements. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | NOP notifies CSP that | | | | the network is ready. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | Ends when all mandatory | | | | steps identified above | | | | are successfully | | | | completed or when an | | | | exception occurs. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | Network with or without | | | | slicing can be utilized | | | | to provide | | | | communication service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-5GNS-CON-08 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.11 Exposure of network slice management data for Network Slice as a
Service (NSaaS) case
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To expose network slice | | | | management data to a | | | | Communication Service | | | | Provider (CSP) | | | | consuming Network Slice | | | | as a Service (NSaaS) | | | | based on mutual | | | | agreement. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | A Communication Service | | | | Provider (CSP) provides | | | | limited management data | | | | to a Communication | | | | Service Customer (CSC) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | 3GPP management system | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | Network slice | | | | management data of | | | | network slice can be | | | | exposed to the CSP | | | | consuming NSaaS | | | | according to the | | | | pre-defined agreements. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | 1. NSaaS level | | | | exposure has been | | | | agreed upon and the CSP | | | | offering the NSaaS is | | | | aware of it. | | | | | | | | 2. An NetworkSlice | | | | instance used for NSaaS | | | | is created. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The CSP consuming NSaaS | | | | wants to get the | | | | management data of the | | | | NetworkSlice instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The CSP consuming NSaaS | | | | sends requests to the | | | | 3GPP management system | | | | for the exposure | | | | management data of | | | | NetworkSlice instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | The 3GPP management | | | | system provides the CSP | | | | consuming NSaaS of | | | | exposed management data | | | | for the NSaaS scenario. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | The network slice | | | | management data is | | | | provided. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The CSP consuming NSaaS | | | | is aware of the | | | | management data of the | | | | NetworkSlice instance. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-3GPPMS-CON-27 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.12 Exposure of network slice management capability
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To expose limited network slice management capability to a
Communication Service Customer (CSC) consuming Network Slice as a Service
(NSaaS) based on mutual agreement.
**Actors and Roles** A Communication Service Provider (CSP) provides limited
management capability to a Communication Service Customer (CSC)
**Telecom resources** 3GPP management system
**Assumptions** Network slice management capability of 3GPP management system
can be partially exposed to the CSC consuming NSaaS according to the pre-
defined agreements.
**Pre-conditions** Level of management exposure has been agreed upon and the
CSP offering the NSaaS service is aware of it.
**Begins when** The CSC consuming NSaaS wants to get certain management
capability to manage the NetworkSlice instance, e.g., PM, FM, CM, based on the
mutual agreement between CSC and CSP.
**Step 1 (M)** The CSC consuming NSaaS sends requests to the 3GPP management
system for the exposure of management capability of NetworkSlice instance.
**Step 2 (M)** The 3GPP management system provides the CSC consuming NSaaS
with the requested capability via appropriate methods, e.g., exposing network
slice management service to the CSC.
**Ends when** The network slice management capability is provided.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The limited network slice management capability has been
exposed to the CSC consuming NSaaS.
**Traceability** REQ-3GPPMS -CON-30, REQ-3GPPMS -CON-31, REQ-3GPPMS -CON-32
* * *
### 5.4.13 To modify the network slice instance due to changed demand
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To modify a NetworkSlice instance due to changed demand
**Actors and Roles** A Network Operator (NOP) plays the role of a Network
Slice Provider (NSP).
**Telecom resources** 3GPP management system
**Assumptions** None
**Pre-conditions** A network slice is activated
**Begins when** The NOP has received a request to modify the capacity of a
NetworkSlice instance. For example, in case there is an increased demand in
call capacity in specific geographical area, the request indicates the needed
capacity increase amount in that specific geographical area
**Step 1 (M)** The NOP initiates the 3GPP management system to process the
request
**Step 2 (M)** The 3GPP management system analyses the request and identifies
that one or more supporting network slice subnets need to be modified with X1
amount, X2 amount, X3 amount etc.
**Step 3 (M)** 3GPP system derives new TN requirements
**Step 4 (M)** The 3GPP management system initiates modification of the
capacity of the identified supporting slice subnets with X1 amount, X2 amount,
X3 amount etc
**Step 5 (M)** 3GPP system communicates new TN requirements
**Ends when** All capacity modification activities (of step 3) have been
completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The NetworkSlice instance capacity is modified according
to demand.
**Traceability** _REQ-3GPPMS-CON-17,_ REQ-3GPPMS-CON-20, REQ-5GNS-CON-9,
REQ-5GNS-CON-10, REQ-5GNS-CON-11, REQ-5GNS-CON-12
* * *
### 5.4.14 Management data analytics for 5G networks
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To provide management | | | | data analytics services | | | | to authorized customers | | | | (e.g., re-configuring | | | | for more efficient | | | | operation and | | | | maintenance) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | Network Operator (NOP) | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | NetworkSlice instance | | | | | | | | 3GPP management system | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The 3GPP management | | | | system has the | | | | capability to collect | | | | the related network | | | | data for analysis. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The 3GPP management | | | | system receives network | | | | data analytics request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1 (M)** | The 3GPP management | | | | system checks if the | | | | existing management | | | | data is sufficient to | | | | generate the network | | | | data analytics | | | | information.3GPP | | | | management system may | | | | trigger to obtain more | | | | network data for | | | | analytics purpose, such | | | | as new measurement | | | | jobs, subscriptions to | | | | alarm notifications. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2 (M)** | For management data | | | | analytics purposes, | | | | 3GPP management system | | | | may request services | | | | (e.g., management data | | | | analytics, PM, FM) from | | | | the related | | | | NetworkSlice instance | | | | constituents. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 3 (M)** | 3GPP management system | | | | sends the analytics | | | | results to the NOP. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | NOP has the required | | | | network data analytics | | | | information. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The NOP receives | | | | network data analytics | | | | information from the | | | | 3GPP management system, | | | | the information could | | | | be utilized for | | | | optimizing the network. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-5GNS | | | | -CON-13,REQ-5GNS-CON-14 | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
### 5.4.15 Capacity management of network slice instances and network slice
subnet instances
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To support capacity management of NetworkSlice instances and
NetworkSliceSubnet instances.
**Actors and Roles** A Network Operator (NOP) plays the role of a Network
Slice Provider responsible for the network slice capacity management.
**Telecom resources** 3GPP management system
**Assumptions** N/A
**Pre-conditions** The capacity optimization objectives have been set by the
NOP
**Begins when** The NOP requests capacity management process of the
NetworkSlice instances and NetworkSliceSubnet instances when the pre-set
resource optimization objectives need to be satisfied.
**Step 1 (M)** The 3GPP management system obtains information needed for the
optimization process such as network slice provisioning requirements, existing
active or non-active NetworkSlice instance and/or NetworkSliceSubnet instance
resource information, and performance measurement data by requesting the
feasibility check operation. Feasibility check
**Step 2 (M)** The 3GPP management system performs resource optimization
process based on the information obtained in Step 1. The goal of the process
is to find an optimal resource capacity availability against the target
objective.
**Step 3 (M)** The 3GPP management system proceeds with network slice
(NetworkSlice instance and/or NetworkSliceSubnet instance) provisioning or
modification processes until it meets the resource capacity optimization
objective.
**Step 4 (M)** The 3GPP management system updates capacity availability
information after provisioning or modification processes.
**Ends when** The capacity management ends as it meets the optimization
objective.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The NOP receives the updated capacity management
information from the 3GPP management system.
**Traceability** REQ-3GPPMS-CON-23
* * *
# 6 High level features
## 6.1 General
The present clause describes the high level features of the 5G management
system and network slicing.
## 6.2 Self-Organizing Networks (SON) for 5G networks
In order to reduce the operating expenses associated with the management of
increasing number of nodes from more than one vendor the feature of the Self-
Organizing Network (SON) was introduced. Automation of some network planning,
configuration and optimisation processes via the use of SON functions can help
the network operator to reduce operating expenses by reducing manual
involvement in such tasks. Based on the location of the SON algorithm, SON is
categorized into four different solutions: Cross Domain-Centralized SON,
Domain-Centralized SON, Distributed SON and Hybrid SON.
## 6.3 Management data analytics for 5G networks
The 5G networks have capability to support a variety of communication
services, such as IoT and eMBB. The increasing flexibility of the networks to
support services with diverse requirements may present operational and
management challenges. 5G networks management system can therefore benefit
from management data analytics for improving networks performance and
efficiency to accommodate and support the diversity of services and
requirements. The management data analytics utilize the collection of network
data (including e.g. service, slicing and/or network functions related data)
to perform analytics in order to assist and complement management services for
an optimum network performance and service assurance.
## 6.4 Closed loop SLS Assurance
Closed loop SLS Assurance relies on a set of management services in a control
loop which consists of the steps of Monitoring, Analysis, Decision and
Excution to assure the communication service. The adjustment of the resources
used for the communication service is completed by the continuous iteration of
the steps in the control loop with SLS assurance. Closed loop SLS assurance
can be deployed at domain level or cross domain level.
## 6.5 Energy Efficiency(EE) for 5G networks
Operators are aiming at decreasing power consumption in 5G networks to lower
their operational expense with energy saving management solutions. With the
foreseen deployment of more NR base stations, e.g., small base stations with
massive MIMO in high-band, energy saving becomes even more urgent and
challenging. Management of 5G networks contributes to energy saving by
reducing energy consumption of 5G networks, while maintaining coverage,
capacity and quality of service.
#