# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
> The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
> normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
>
> The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
> \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
> they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
> external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
> style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
> document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
> The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
> elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
> used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as substitutes
for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies use cases, requirements and procedures for
management capabilities of 5G networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MnS Management Service
# 4 Heartbeat
## 4.1 Overview
The communication between Management Service (MnS) producers and MnS consumers
shall be monitored, and communication link breaks between them shall be
discovered by MnS consumers as early as possible. The behaviour of the MnS
consumers, after detection of communication failure, is outside the scope of
the present document.
## 4.2 Specification level requirements
### 4.2.1 Use cases
#### 4.2.1.1 Configuring heartbeat notification periodicity
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To configure the | | | | periodicity at which | | | | the management service | | | | producer shall emit | | | | heartbeat notifications | | | | to its authorized | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of the management | | | | service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The management service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | The periodicity | | | | requested by the | | | | management service | | | | consumer has a valid | | | | value. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to the | | | | management service | | | | producer to set the | | | | periodicity at which it | | | | shall emit heartbeat | | | | notifications. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1** | The management service | | | | producer receives the | | | | request and sets its | | | | internal countdown | | | | timer to a value (which | | | | can be zero) equal to | | | | the periodicity | | | | requested by the | | | | management service | | | | consumer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 2** | The management service | | | | producer sends a | | | | heartbeat notification | | | | to all authorized | | | | management service | | | | consumer(s), provided | | | | they previously | | | | subscribed to heartbeat | | | | notifications. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The notification | | | | periodicity has been | | | | configured according to | | | | the management service | | | | consumer request. | | | | | | | | A heartbeat | | | | notification is sent | | | | out to all authorized | | | | management service | | | | consumer(s). | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-2. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 4.2.1.2 Requesting immediate heartbeat notification
+-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | Use case stage | Evolution/Specification | \>\ | | | | Related use | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Goal** | To trigger the emission | | | | of an immediate | | | | heartbeat notification | | | | by the management | | | | service producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Actors and Roles** | An authorized consumer | | | | of the management | | | | service. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Telecom resources** | The management service | | | | producer. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Assumptions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Pre-conditions** | N/A | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Begins when** | The soliciting | | | | management service | | | | consumer sends a | | | | request to the | | | | management service | | | | producer to emit | | | | immediately a heartbeat | | | | notification. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Step 1** | The management service | | | | producer receives the | | | | request and sends | | | | immediately a heartbeat | | | | notification to all | | | | authorized management | | | | service consumer(s) who | | | | had previously | | | | subscribed to heartbeat | | | | notifications. | | | | | | | | The management service | | | | producer count down | | | | timer is not impacted. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Ends when** | All the steps | | | | identified above are | | | | successfully completed. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Exceptions** | One of the steps | | | | identified above fails. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Post-conditions** | The immediate heartbeat | | | | notification has been | | | | emitted according to | | | | the soliciting | | | | management service | | | | consumer request. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+ | **Traceability** | REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-3, | | | | REQ-HB-NOTIF-FUN-2. | | +-----------------------+-------------------------+---------------+
#### 4.2.1.3 Emitting periodic heartbeat notifications
* * *
Use case stage Evolution/Specification \>\ Related use
**Goal** To send periodic heartbeat notifications at the periodicity requested
by the management service consumer.
**Actors and Roles** An authorized producer of the management service.
**Telecom resources** The management service consumer.
**Assumptions** The heartbeat notification periodicity has been configured
according to the management service consumer request. Configuring heartbeat
notification periodicity
**Pre-conditions** N/A
**Begins when** The internal countdown timer managed by the management service
producer has reached the value 0.
**Step 1** The management service producer sends a heartbeat notification to
all authorized management service consumer(s), provided they previously
subscribed to heartbeat notifications..
**Step 2** The management service producer resets its internal countdown timer
to the value of the heartbeat notification periodicity. Configuring heartbeat
notification periodicity
**Ends when** All the steps identified above are successfully completed.
**Exceptions** One of the steps identified above fails.
**Post-conditions** The periodic heartbeat notification has been emitted to
all authorized management service consumer(s) at the requested periodicity.
**Traceability** REQ-HB-NOTIF-FUN-1.
* * *
### 4.2.2 Requirements
#### 4.2.2.1 Requirements for controlling heartbeat
REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-1: The management service provider shall have the capability
to allow its authorized consumer to read the heartbeat period.
REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-2: The management service provider shall have the capability
to allow its authorized consumer to set the heartbeat period.
REQ-HB-CTRL-FUN-3: The management service provider shall have the capability
to allow its authorized consumer to request the emission of an immediate
heartbeat notification.
#### 4.2.2.2 Requirements for notifying heartbeat
REQ-HB-NOTIF-FUN-1: The management service provider shall have the capability
to send periodic heartbeat notifications to its authorized consumer at the
frequency specified by the management service consumer.
REQ-HB-NOTIF-FUN-2: The management service provider shall have the capability
to send immediate heartbeat notifications to its authorized consumer, upon
request from the management service consumer.
## 4.3 Procedures for heartbeat
### 4.3.1 Procedure for configuring heartbeat notification periodicity
Figure 4.3.1-1 illustrates the procedure for configuring the periodicity of
heartbeat notifications using operations and notifications of the provisioning
MnS (see clause 11.1.1 of [2]).
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="2.8361111111111112in"}
Figure 4.3.1-1: Procedure for configuring heartbeat notification periodicity
### 4.3.2 Procedure for requesting immediate heartbeat notification
Figure 4.3.2-1 illustrates the procedure for requesting immediate heartbeat
notification using operations and notifications of the provisioning MnS (see
clause 11.1.1 of [2]).
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.6166666666666667in"}
Figure 4.3.2-1: Procedure for requesting immediate heartbeat notification
### 4.3.3 Procedure for notifying periodic heartbeat notifications
Figure 4.3.3-1 illustrates the procedure for notifying periodic heartbeat
notifications using operations and notifications of the provisioning MnS (see
clause 11.1.1 of [2]).
{width="4.219444444444444in" height="3.7715277777777776in"}
Figure 4.3.3-1: Procedure for notifying periodic heartbeat notifications
###### ## Annex A (informative): Heartbeat PlantUML source code
# A.1 Procedure for configuring heartbeat notification periodicity
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
configuring heartbeat notification periodicity, as depicted by Figure 4.3.1-1:
\@startuml
title \"Configuring heartbeat notification periodicity\"
actor \"MnS Consumer\" as CONS
participant \"MnS Provider\" as PROV
CONS -> PROV: modifyMOIAttributes (\'heartbeatNtfPeriod\',
newHeartbeatPeriodValue)
rnote over PROV
Internal Countdown Timer := newHeartbeatPeriodValue
endrnote
PROV -> CONS: notifyHeartbeat notification
note left
Provided he previously
subscribed to heartbeat
notifications
end note
rnote over PROV
Start countdown immediately
endrnote
\@enduml
# A.2 Procedure for requesting immediate heartbeat notification
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
requesting immediate heartbeat notification, as depicted by Figure 4.3.2-1:
\@startuml
title \"Requesting immediate heartbeat notification\"
actor \"MnS Consumer\" as CONS
participant \"MnS Provider\" as PROV
collections \"Other MnS Consumers\" as OTHER
CONS -> PROV: modifyMOIAttributes (\'triggerHeartbeatNtf\', TRUE)
rnote over PROV
Send immediate heartbeat notification
to all MnS Consumers who previously
subscribed to heartbeat notifications
endrnote
PROV -> CONS: notifyHeartbeat notification
PROV -> OTHER: notifyHeartbeat notification
rnote over PROV
triggerHeartbeatNtf:= FALSE
endrnote
\@enduml
# A.3 Procedure for notifying periodic heartbeat notifications
The following PlantUML source code is used to describe the procedure for
notifying periodic heartbeat notifications, as depicted by Figure 4.3.3-1:
\@startuml
title \"Notifying periodic heartbeat notifications\"
actor \"MnS Provider\" as PROV
collections \"MnS Consumers\" as CONS
rnote over PROV
Send heartbeat notification to all
MnS Consumers who previously
subscribed to heartbeat notifications
endrnote
PROV -> CONS: notifyHeartbeat notification
rnote over PROV
Reinitialize its internal countdown
timer to the value of heartbeatNtfPeriod
endrnote
rnote over PROV
Start countdown
endrnote
\@enduml
#