# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.621 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements;
**28.622 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Information Service (IS) ;**
**28.623 Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point
(IRP); Solution Set (SS) definitions.**
The interface Itf-N, defined in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], is built up by a number of
Integration Reference Points (IRPs) and a related Name Convention, which
realise the functional capabilities over this interface. The basic structure
of the IRPs is defined in 3GPP TS 32.150 [4].
The present document is part of a set that has been developed for converged
management solutions.
The present document is part of a set that is used for **management and
orchestration of 5G networks and network slicing.**
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Generic network resource information that
can be communicated between an MnS producer and MnS consumer for
telecommunication network management purposes, including management of
converged networks and networks that include virtualized network functions.
This document specifies the semantics of information object class attributes
and relations visible across the reference point in a protocol and technology
neutral way. It does not define their syntax and encoding.
This document supports the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) concept
described in [8] in that the relevant Information Object Class (IOC)s defined
in this specification are directly or indirectly inherited from those
specified in the Umbrella Information Model (UIM) of [9].
Note that the present document is applicable to deployment scenarios using the
Service Based Management Architecture (SBMA) as defined in TS 28.533 [32].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.302: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Notification Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service
(IS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and Definitions\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Technical Specification Group Core Network and
Terminals; Numbering, addressing and identification\"
[6] Void
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.710 (1991): \"Common Management Information Service
Definition for CCITT Applications\".
[8] TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\"
[9] TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model (UIM)\"
[10] TS 32.156: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC)
Model Repertoire\"
[11] Void
[12] Void
[13] 3GPP TS 32.300: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Name convention for Managed Objects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[15] ETSI GS NFV 003 V1.1.1: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Terminology for Main Concepts in NFV\".
[16] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 v2.1.1: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Ve-Vnfm reference point - Interface and
Information Model Specification\".
[17] ETSI GS NFV-IFA 015 v2.1.2: \"Network Functions Virtualisation (NFV);
Management and Orchestration; Report on NFV Information Model\".
[18] ETSI ES 202 336-12 V1.1.1: \"Environmental Engineering (EE); Monitoring
and control interface for infrastructure equipment (power, cooling and
building environment systems used in telecommunication networks); Part 12: ICT
equipment power, energy and environmental parameters monitoring information
model\".
[19] ITU-T Recommendation X.731: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: State management function\".
[20] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[21] 3GPP TS 28.625: \"State Management Data Definition Integration Reference
Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[22] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System\".
[23] 3GPP TS 23.502: \"Procedures for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[24] IETF RFC 791: \"Internet Protocol\".
[25] IETF RFC 2373: \"IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture\".
[26] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[27] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[28] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[29] 3GPP TS 32.421: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace concepts and requirements\".
[30] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and equipment
trace; Trace control and configuration management\".
[31] ITU-T Recommendation X.733 (02/92): \"Information technology - Open
Systems Interconnection - Systems Management: Alarm reporting function\".
[32] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[33] 3GPP TS 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[34] 3GPP TS 38.413: \"NG-RAN; NG Application Protocol (NGAP)\".
[35] 3GPP TS 38.104: \"NR; Base Station (BS) radio transmission and
reception\".
[36] 3GPP TS 38.321: \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".
[37] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[38] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
[39] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[40] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
[41] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[42] 3GPP TS 38.304: \"NR; User Equipment (UE) procedures in Idle mode and RRC
Inactive state\".
[43] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection for
Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
[44] 3GPP TS 28.705: \"Telecommunication management; IP Multimedia Subsystem
(IMS) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)\".
[45] 3GPP TS 28.702: \"Telecommunication management; Core Network (CN) Network
Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
[46] 3GPP TS 28.652: \"Telecommunication management; Universal Terrestrial
Radio Access Network (UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[47] 3GPP TS 28.708: \"Telecommunication management; Evolved Packet Core (EPC)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[48] 3GPP TS 28.541: \" Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource
Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply. For terms and definitions not found here, please refer to 3GPP TS
32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.150 [4] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [14].
**Association** : In general, it is used to model relationships between
Managed Objects. Associations can be implemented in several ways, such as:
1) name bindings,
2) reference attributes, and
3) association objects.
This IRP stipulates that name containment associations shall be expressed
through name bindings, but it does not stipulate the implementation for other
types of associations as a general rule. These are specified as separate
entities in the object models (UML diagrams). Currently however, all (non-
containment) associations are modelled by means of reference attributes of the
participating MOs.
**Information Object Class (IOC): An IOC represents the management aspect of a
network resource.** It describes the information that can be passed/used in
management interfaces. **Their representations are technology agnostic
software objects.** IOC has attributes that represents the various properties
of the class of objects. See the term \"attribute\" defined in [10].
Furthermore, IOC can support operations providing network management services
invocable on demand for that class of objects. An IOC may support
notifications that report event occurrences relevant for that class of
objects. It is modelled using the stereotype \"Class\" in the UML meta-model.
See TS 32.156 [10] for additional information on IOC.
**Managed Object (MO)** : A MO is an instance of a Managed Object Class (MOC)
representing the management aspects of a network resource. Its representation
is a technology specific software object. It is sometimes called MO instance
(MOI). The MOC is a class of such technology specific software objects. An MOC
is the same as an IOC except that the former is defined in technology specific
terms and the latter is defined in technology agnostic terms. MOCs are
used/defined in SS level specifications. IOCs are used/defined in IS level
specifications.
**Management Information Base (MIB)** : A MIB is an instance of an NRM and has
some values on the defined attributes and associations specific for that
instance. In the context of the present document, an MIB consists of:
1) a Name space (describing the MO containment hierarchy in the MIB through
Distinguished Names),
2) a number of Managed Objects with their attributes and
3) a number of Associations between these MOs. Also note that TMN (ITU-T
Recommendation X.710 [7]) defines a concept of a Management Information Tree
(also known as a Naming Tree) that corresponds to the name space (containment
hierarchy) portion of this MIB definition. Figure 3.1 depicts the
relationships between a Name space and a number of participating MOs (the
shown association is of a non-containment type)
Figure 3.1: Relationships between a Name space and a number of participating
MOs
**Name space** : A name space is a collection of names. The IRP name
convention (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13]) restricts the name space to a
hierarchical containment structure, including its simplest form - the one-
level, flat name space.\ All Managed Objects in a MIB are included in the
corresponding name space and the MIB/name space shall only support a strict
hierarchical containment structure (with one root object). A Managed Object
that contains another is said to be the superior (parent); the contained
Managed Object is referred to as the subordinate (child). The parent of all
MOs in a single name space is called a Local Root. The ultimate parent of all
MOs of all managed systems is called the Global Root.
**Network resource:** discrete entity represented by an Information Object
Class (IOC) for the purpose of network and service management.
NOTE: A network resource may represent intelligence, information, hardware and
software of a telecommunication network.
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : A collection of IOCs, inclusive of their
associations, attributes and operations, representing a set of network
resources under management.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [26] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [26].
DN Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
IOC Information Object Class
MO Managed Object
MOC Managed Object Class
MOI Managed Object Instance
NFVI Network Functions Virtualisation Infrastructure (NFVI): Defined in ETSI
GS NFV 003 [15].
RDN Relative Distinguished Name (see 3GPP TS 32.300 [13])
SS Solution Set
VNF Virtualised Network Function
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.532 [27], notification,
notifyMOICreation notifyMOICreation 3GPP TS 28.532 [27], notification,
notifyMOIDeletion notifyMOIDeletion 3GPP TS 28.532 [27], notification,
notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges 3GPP TS 28.532
[27], notification, notifyMOIChanges notifyMOIChanges 3GPP TS 28.532 [27],
notification, notifyNewAlarm notifyNewAlarm 3GPP TS 28.532 [27], notification,
notifyClearedAlarm notifyClearedAlarm 3GPP TS 28.532 [27], notification,
notifyChangedAlarm notifyChangedAlarm 3GPP TS 28.532 [27], notification,
notifyChangedAlarmGeneral notifyChangedAlarmGeneral 3GPP TS 28.532 [27],
notification, notifyCorrelatedNotificationChanged
notifyCorrelatedNotificationChanged 3GPP TS 28.532 [27], notification,
notifyAckStateChanged notifyAckStateChanged 3GPP TS 28.532 [27], notification,
notifyComments notifyComments 3GPP TS 28.532 [27], notification,
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmlist notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList 3GPP TS 28.532
[27], notification, notifyAlarmlistRebuilt notifyAlarmListRebuilt 3GPP TS
28.532 [27], notification, notifyFileReady notifyFileReady 3GPP TS 28.532
[27], notification, notifyFilePreparationError notifyFilePreparationError 3GPP
TS 28.532 [27], SupportIOC, AlarmInformation AlarmRecord 3GPP TS 28.620 [9],
IOC, _Domain__ _Domain__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _ManagedElement__
_ManagedElement__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _Function__ _Function__ 3GPP TS
28.620 [9], IOC, _ManagementSystem__ _ManagementSystem__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9],
IOC, _TopologicalLink__ _TopologicalLink__ 3GPP TS 28.620 [9], IOC, _Top__
_Top__
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagrams
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant for this IRP. This clause provides the overview of the
relationships of relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes.
The following figure shows the containment/naming hierarchy and the
associations of the classes defined in the present document. See Annex A of a
class diagram that combines this figure with Figure 1 of [2], the class
diagram of UIM.
NOTE 1: ManagedElement may be contained either
> \- in a SubNetwork (since _SubNetwork_ inherits from _Domain_ _ and
> _ManagedElement_ inherits from _ManagedElement_ _ and _Domain_ _ name-
> contained _ManagedElement__ as observed in the figure of Annex A) or
>
> \- in a MeContext instance as observed by the above figure or in the figure
> of Annex A.
This either-or relation cannot be shown by using an {xor} constraint in the
above figure.
ManagedElement may also have no parent instance at all.
NOTE 2: Void
NOTE 3: If the configuration contains several instances of SubNetwork, exactly
one SubNetwork instance shall directly or indirectly contain all the other
SubNetwork instances.
NOTE 4: The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of
SubNetwork is referred to as \"the root SubNetwork instance\".
NOTE 5: ManagementNode shall be contained in the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 6: If contained in a SubNetwork instance, MnsAgent shall be contained in
the root SubNetwork instance.
NOTE 7: Void
NOTE 8: Void
Figure 4.2.1-1: NRM fragment
Each Managed Object is identified with a Distinguished Name (DN) according to
3GPP TS 32.300 [13] that expresses its containment hierarchy. As an example,
the DN of a ManagedElement instance could have a format like:
SubNetwork=Sweden,MeContext=MEC-Gbg-1,ManagedElement=RNC-Gbg-1.
NOTE 8: Void
NOTE 9: Void
Figure 4.2.1-2: Vendor specific data container NRM fragment
{width="3.6875in" height="1.71875in"}
Figure 4.2.1-3: PM control NRM fragment
{width="3.6875in" height="1.71875in"}
Figure 4.2.1-4: Threshold monitoring control NRM fragment
{width="6.0in" height="1.5729166666666667in"}
Figure 4.2.1-5: Notification subscription and heartbeat notification control
NRM fragment
{width="3.7083333333333335in" height="2.4583333333333335in"}
Figure 4.2.1-6: FM control NRM fragment
Figure 4.2.1-7: Trace control NRM fragment
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships.
Figure 4.2.2-1: NRM fragment
{width="1.4375in" height="1.3958333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.2-2: PM control NRM fragment
{width="1.4375in" height="1.3958333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.2-3: Threshold monitoring control NRM fragment
{width="3.0416666666666665in" height="1.3958333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.2-4: Notification subscription and heartbeat notification control
NRM fragment
{width="1.4375in" height="1.3958333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.2-5: FM control NRM fragment
{width="1.40625in" height="1.2916666666666667in"}
Figure 4.2.2-6: Trace control NRM fragment
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 Any
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This class represents the classes (e.g. IOC) that are not defined in this
specification but are or will be defined in other IRP specification(s).
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
None
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.1.4 Notifications
_This class does not support any notification._
### 4.3.2 Void
### 4.3.2a MnsAgent
#### 4.3.2a.1 Definition
The MnsAgent represents the MnS producers, incl. the supporting hardware and
software, available for a certain management scope that is related to the
object name-containing the MnS Agent.
The MnSAgent can be name-contained under an IOC as follows (only one of the
options shall be used):
1) ManagementNode;
2) SubNetwork, if the SubNetwork does not contain a ManagementNode;
3) ManagedElement, ifit is the root element .
In case the MnsAgent is name-contained under a ManagementNode, the management
scope is the complete management scope of the ManagementNode or a subset
thereof.
In case the MnsAgent is name-contained under a SubNetwork, the management
scope is the complete SubNetwork or a subset thereof.
In case the MnsAgent is name-contained under a ManagedElement, the management
scope is the complete ManagedElement or a subset thereof.
The MnsAgent shall be used only in deployments using the Service Based
Management Architecture (SBMA) as defined in TS 28.533 [32].
#### 4.3.2a.2 Attributes
The MnSAgent IOC includes the attributes inherited from Top_ IOC (defined in
TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8)
and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
systemDN M T F F T
#### 4.3.2a.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.2a.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.3 ManagedElement
#### 4.3.3.1 Definition
This IOC represents telecommunications equipment or TMN entities within the
telecommunications network providing support and/or service to the
subscriber.\ A ManagedElement IOC is used to represent a Network Element
defined in TS 32.101[1] including virtualization or non-virtualization
scenario. ManagementElement instance is used for communicating with a manager
(directly or indirectly) over one or more management interfaces for the
purpose of being monitored and/or controlled. ManagedElement may or may not
additionally perform element management functionality. A ManagedElement
contains equipment that may or may not be geographically distributed.
A telecommunication equipment has software and hardware components. The
ManagedElement IOC described above represents the following two cases:
\- In the case when the software component is designed to run on dedicated
hardware component, the ManagedElement IOC description includes both software
and hardware component.
\- In the case when the software is designed to run on ETSI NFV defined NFVI
[15], the ManagedElement IOC description would exclude the NFVI component
supporting the above mentioned subject software.
A ManagedElement may be contained in either a SubNetwork or in a MeContext
instance. A ManagedElement may also exist stand-alone with no parent at all.
The relation of ManagedElement IOC and ManagedFunction IOC can be described as
following:
\- A ManagedElement instance may have 1..1 containment relationship to a
ManagedFunction instance. In this case, the ManagedElement IOC may be used to
represent a NE with single ManagedFunction functionality. For example, a
ManagedElement is used to represent the 3GPP defined RNC node.
\- A ManagedElement instances may have 1..N containment relationship to
multiple ManagedFunction IOC instances. In this case, the ManagedElement IOC
may be used to represent a NE with combined ManagedFunction functionality (as
indicated by the managedElementType attribute and the contained instances of
different ManagedFunction IOCs). For example, a ManagedElement is used to
represent the combined functionality of 3GPP defined gNBCUCPFunction,
gNBCUUPFunction and gNBDUFunction.
NOTE: For some specific functional IOCs a 1..N containment relationship is
permitted. The specific functional entities are identified in the NRMs that
define subclasses of ManagedFunction.
#### 4.3.3.2 Attributes
The ManagedElement IOC includes the attributes inherited from ManagedElement_
IOC (defined in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from TopX IOC (defined in
clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
vendorName M T F F T userDefinedState M T T F T swVersion M T F F T
priorityLabel O T T F T supportedPerfMetricGroups O T F F T
#### 4.3.3.3 Attribute constraints
Attribute constrains for dnPrefix: The attribute dnPrefix shall be supported
if an instance of ManagedElement is the local root instance of the MIB.
Otherwise the attribute shall be absent or carry no information.
#### 4.3.3.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC. In
addition, the following set of notifications is also valid.
Name S Notes
* * *
notifyFileReady M -- notifyFilePreparationError M --
notifyDownloadNESwStatusChanged M -- notifyInstallNESwStatusChanged O --
notifyActivateNESwStatusChanged M --
### 4.3.4 _ManagedFunction_
#### 4.3.4.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. It provides attribute(s) that are
common to functional IOCs. Note that a ManagedElement may contain several
managed functions, a managed function may contain other managed functions as
specified for the specific subclass.. The ManagedFunction may be extended in
the future if more common characteristics to functional objects are
identified.
This IOC can represent a telecommunication function either realized by
software running on dedicated hardware or realized by software running on
NFVI. Each ManagedFunction instance communicates with a manager (directly or
indirectly) over one or more management interfaces exposed via its containing
ME instance.
#### 4.3.4.2 Attributes
The ManagedFunction IOC includes the attributes inherited from Function_ IOC
(defined in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from TopX IOC (defined in
clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
vnfParametersList CM T T F T peeParametersList CM T T F T priorityLabel O T T
F T supportedPerfMetricGroups O T F F T
#### 4.3.4.3 Attribute constraints
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +===================+=================================================+ | vnfParametersList | Condition: The ManagedFunction instance is | | | realized by one or more VNF instance(s). | | Support Qualifier | Otherwise this attribute shall be absent. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | peeParametersList | Condition: The control and monitoring of PEE | | | parameters is supported by the ManagedFunction | | Support Qualifier | or sub-class instance. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
#### 4.3.4.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.
### 4.3.5 ManagementNode
#### 4.3.5.1 Definition
This IOC represents a telecommunications management system (EM) within the TMN
that contains functionality for managing a number of ManagedElements (MEs).
The management system communicates with the MEs directly or indirectly over
one or more interfaces for the purpose of monitoring and/or controlling these
MEs.
This class has similar characteristics as the ManagedElement. The main
difference between these two classes is that the ManagementNode has a special
association to the managed elements that it is responsible for managing.
#### 4.3.5.2 Attributes
The ManagementNode IOC includes the attributes inherited from
ManagementSystem_ IOC (defined in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from
TopX IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
vendorName M T F F T userDefinedState M T T F T locationName M T F F T
swVersion M T F F T
#### 4.3.5.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.5.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC. In
addition, the following set of notifications is also valid.
Name S Notes
* * *
notifyFileReady M -- notifyFilePreparationError M --
### 4.3.6 MeContext
#### 4.3.6.1 Definition
This IOC is introduced for naming purposes. It may support creation of unique
DNs in scenarios when some MEs have the same RDNs due to the fact that they
have been manufacturer pre-configured.\ If some MEs have the same RDNs (for
the above mentioned reason) and they are contained in the same SubNetwork
instance, some measure shall be taken in order to assure the global uniqueness
of DNs for all IOC instances under those MEs. One way could be to set
different dnPrefix for those NEs, but that would require either that:
a) all LDNs or DNs are locally modified using the new dnPrefix for the upper
portion of the DNs, or
b) a mapping (translation) of the old LDNs or DNs to the new DNs every time
they are used externally, e.g. in alarm notifications.
As both the two alternatives above may involve unacceptable drawbacks (as the
old RDNs for the MEs then would have to be changed or mapped to new values),
using MeContext offers a new alternative to resolve the DN creation. Using
MeContext as part of the naming tree (and thus the DN) means that the
dnPrefix, including a unique MeContext for each ME, may be directly
concatenated with the LDNs, without any need to change or map the existing ME
RDNs to new values.
MeContext have 0..N instances. It may exist even if no SubNetwork exists.
Every instance of MeContext contains exactly one ManagedElement during steady-
state operations.
#### 4.3.6.2 Attributes
The MeContext IOC includes the attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in
clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
dnPrefix CM T F F T
#### 4.3.6.3 Attribute constraints
+-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +===================+=================================================+ | dnPrefix | Condition: The instance of MeContext is the | | | local root instance of the MIB. Otherwise the | | Support Qualifier | attribute shall be absent or carry no | | | information. | +-------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
#### 4.3.6.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.7 SubNetwork
#### 4.3.7.1 Definition
This IOC represents a set of managed entities. There may be zero or more
instances of a SubNetwork. It shall be present if either a ManagementNode or
multiple ManagedElements are present (i.e. ManagementNode and multiple
ManagedElement instances shall have SubNetwork as parent).
The SubNetwork instance not contained in any other instance of SubNetwork is
referred to as the \"root\" SubNetwork instance.
#### 4.3.7.2 Attributes
The SubNetwork IOC includes the attributes inherited from Domain_ IOC (defined
in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from TopX IOC (defined in clause
4.3.8) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
setOfMcc CM T F F T priorityLabel O T T F T supportedPerfMetricGroups O T F F
T
#### 4.3.7.3 Attribute constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +==================================+==================================+ | dnPrefix (inherited from | Condition: The instance of | | _Domain__) | SubNetwork is the local root | | | instance of the MIB. Otherwise | | Support Qualifier | the attribute shall be absent or | | | carry no information. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | setOfMcc | Condition: There is more than | | | one value in setOfMcc of the | | Support Qualifier | SubNetwork ; otherwise the | | | support is optional. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.7.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions
### 4.3.8 _TopX_
#### 4.3.8.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. All information object classes
defined in all TS that claim to be conformant to 32.102 [2] shall inherit from
TopX.
#### 4.3.8.2 Attributes
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
objectClass M T T T T objectInstance M T T T T
#### 4.3.8.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.8.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.
### 4.3.9 VsDataContainer
#### 4.3.9.1 Definition
The VsDataContainer is a container for vendor specific data. The
VsDataContainer is contained by Top and hence optionally name-contained by ech
IOC.
#### 4.3.9.2 Attributes
The VsDataContainer IOC includes the attributes inherited from Top IOC
(defined in clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
vsDataType M T F F O vsData M T O F O vsDataFormatVersion M T F F O
#### 4.3.9.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.9.4 Notifications
Support for notification on the change of attribute value is vendor-specific.
### 4.3.10 _Link_
#### 4.3.10.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. This IOC represents a
communication link or reference point between two network entities. The Link
IOC does not indicate whether the represented communication link or reference
point is a physical or logical entity.
For the subclasses of Link, the following rules apply:
1) The subclass names shall have the form "Link_\_\", where \ is a
string that represents the IOC at one end of the association related to the
particular Link subclass, and \ is a string that represents the IOC at the
other end of the association. For the order of the two strings, \ shall
come alphabetically before \.
2) In case \ and \ are YyyFunction IOCs (inheriting from ManagedFunction
and on first level below ManagedElement), the \ and \ strings shall have
the same form as the legal values of the managedElementType attribute (see
clause 4.5.1), e.g. "Auc". Otherwise \ and \ shall be the full IOC
names.
Thus, two valid examples of Link subclass names would be: **Link_As_Cscf** and
**Link_Mrfc_Mrfp.**
#### 4.3.10.2 Attributes
The Link IOC includes the attributes inherited from TopologicalLink_ (defined
in TS 28.620 [9]), attributes inherited from TopX IOC (defined in clause
4.3.8) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
userLabel M T T F T linkType O T F F T protocolVersion O T F F T
#### 4.3.10.3 Attribute constraints
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +==================================+==================================+ | aEnd and zEnd (inherited from | Condition: The property | | _TopologicalLink_ _) | multiplicity is 1. | | | | | Support Qualifier | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.10.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions
### 4.3.11 _EP_RP_
#### 4.3.11.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. This IOC represents an end point
of a link used across a reference point between two network entities.
For naming the subclasses of **EP_RP** , the following rules shall apply:
\- The name of the subclassed IOC shall have the form "EP_\", where \
is a string that represents the name of the reference point.
Thus, two valid examples of EP_RP subclassed IOC names would be: EP_S1 and
EP_X2.
#### 4.3.11.2 Attributes
The EP_RP IOC includes the attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in
clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
farEndEntity O T F F T userLabel O T T F T supportedPerfMetricGroups O T F F T
#### 4.3.11.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.11.4 Notifications
_This class does not support any notification._
### 4.3.12 Void
### 4.3.13 Void
### 4.3.14 Void
### 4.3.15 Void
### 4.3.16 ThresholdMonitor
#### 4.3.16.1 Definition
This IOC represents a threshold monitor for performance metrics. It can be
name-contained by SubNetwork, ManagedElement, or _ManagedFunction_. A
threshold monitor checks for threshold crossings of performance metric values
related to specified managed objects and generates a notification when that
happens.
The ThresholdMonitor is used only when NRM based threshold monitoring is
supported.
To activate threshold monitoring, a MnS consumer needs to create a
ThresholdMonitor instance on the MnS producer. For ultimate deactivation of
threshold monitoring, the MnS consumer should delete the monitor to free up
resources on the MnS producer.
For temporary suspension of threshold monitoring, the MnS consumer can
manipulate the value of the administrative state attribute. The MnS producer
may disable threshold monitoring as well, for example in overload situations.
This situation is indicated by the MnS producer with setting the operational
state attribute to disabled. When monitoring is resumed the operational state
is set again to enabled.
All object instances below and including the instance name-containing the
ThresholdMonitor (base object instance) are scoped for performance
metricthreshold monitoring. Performance metrics are monitored only on those
object instances whose object class matches the object class associated to the
performance metrics to be monitored.
The optional attributes objectInstances and rootObjectInstances allow to
restrict the scope. When the attribute objectInstances is present, only the
object instances identified by this attribute are scoped. When the attribute
rootObjectInstances is present, then the subtrees whose root objects are
identified by this attribute are scoped. Both attributes may be present at the
same time meaning the total scope is equal to the sum of both scopes. Object
instances may be scoped by both the objectInstances and rootObjectInstances
attributes. This shall not be considered as an error by the MnS producer.
Multiple thresholds can be defined for multiple performance metric sets in a
single monitor using thresholdInfoList. The attribute monitorGranularityPeriod
defines the granularity period to be applied. The value is a multiple of a
supported granularity period for the measurements being monitored.
A threshold is defined using the attributes thresholdValue, thresholdDirection
and hysteresis.
When hysteresis is absent or carries no information, a threshold is triggered
when the thresholdValue is reached or crossed. When hysteresis is present, two
threshold values are specified for the threshold as follows: A high threshold
value equal to the threshold value plus the hysteresis value, and a low
threshold value equal to the threshold value minus the hysteresis value. When
the monitored performance metric increases, the threshold is triggered when
the high threshold value is reached or crossed. When the monitored performance
metric decreases, the threshold is triggered when the low threshold value is
reached or crossed. The hysteresis ensures that the performance metric value
can oscillate around a comparison value without triggering each time the
threshold when the threshold value is crossed.Using the thresholdDirection
attribute a threshold can be configured in such a manner that it is triggered
only when the monitored performance metric is going up or down upon reaching
or crossing the threshold.
A ThresholdMonitor creation request shall be rejected, if the performance
metrics requested to be monitored, the requested granularity period, or the
requested combination thereof is not supported by the MnS producer. A creation
request may fail, when the performance metrics requested to be monitored are
not produced by a PerfMetricJob.
Creation and deletion of ThresholdMonitor instances by MnS consumers is
optional; when not supported, ThresholdMonitor instances may be created and
deleted by the system or be pre-installed.
A threshold crossing event detected by a \"ThresholdMonitor\" shall trigger a
\"notifyThresholdCrossing\" notification. To subscribe to
\"notifyThresholdCrossing\" notifications the MnS consumer shall specify one
or more \"ThresholdMonitor\" instances in the subscription. All threshold
crossings detected by the specified \"ThresholdMonitor\" instances are sent as
\"notifyThresholdCrossing\" to subscribed MnS consumers (unless filtered out
by the \"notificationFilter\" attribute of \"NtfSubscriptionControl).
#### 4.3.16.2 Attributes
The \"ThresholdMonitor\" IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC
(defined in clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes:
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
administrativeState M T T F T operationalState M T F F T thresholdInfoList M T
T F T monitorGranularityPeriod M T T F T objectInstances O T T F F
rootObjectInstances O T T F F
#### 4.3.16.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.16.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC.
### 4.3.17 ManagedNFService
#### 4.3.17.1 Definition
A ManagedNFService represents a Network Function (NF) service as defined in
clause 7 of 3GPP TS 23.501[22].
#### 4.3.17.2 Attributes
The ManagedNFService IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined
in clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
administrativeState M T T F T operationalState M T F T T userLabel O T T F T
nFServiceType M T F T F sAP M T T F T operations M T T F T usageState M T F T
T registrationState CM T F F T
#### 4.3.17.3 Attribute constraints
> Attribute constraint for registrationState: The attribute registrationState
> should be supported by instance of a ManagedNFService if the service is
> designed for being publicshed and discovered by other NFs, and need to be
> registered to a repository function. E.g. Authentication service provided by
> AUSF should include this attribute. NF management services provided by NRF
> don't include this attribute.
#### 4.3.17.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions
### 4.3.18 Operation \>
#### 4.3.18.1 Definition
This data type represents an Operation. An Operation is comprised of a name,
an allowedNFType and an operationSemantics (See TS 23.502 [23]).
#### 4.3.18.2 Attributes
**Attribute Name** **S** **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable**
* * *
name M T F T F allowedNFTypes M T T F T operationSemantics M T F T T
#### 4.3.18.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.18.4 Notifications
The subclause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.19 SAP \>
#### 4.3.19.1 Definition
This data type represents the access point of a managed NF service which is
comprised of a host and a port.
#### 4.3.19.2 Attributes
**Attribute Name** **S** **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable**
* * *
host M T T F T port M T T F T
#### 4.3.19.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.19.4 Notifications
The subclause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.20 ManagedEntity \>
#### 4.3.20.1 Definition
This \> represents one or multiple IOCs. The IOCs the
\> represents are defined where the \> is used.
#### 4.3.20.2 Attributes
See respective IOCs.
#### 4.3.20.3 Attribute constraints
See respective IOCs.
#### 4.3.20.4 Notifications
See respective IOCs.
### 4.3.21 HeartbeatControl
#### 4.3.21.1 Definition
MnS consumers (i.e. notification recipients) use heartbeat notifications to
monitor the communication channels between them and MnS producers configured
to emit notifications.
A HeartbeatControl instance allows controlling the emission of heartbeat
notifications by MnS producers. The recipients of heartbeat notifications are
specified by the notificationRecipientAddress attribute of the
NtfSubscriptionControl instance name containing the HeartbeatControl instance.
Note that the MnS consumer managing the HeartbeatControl instance and the MnS
consumer receiving the heartbeat notifications may not be the same.
As a pre-condition for the emission of heartbeat notifications, a
HeartbeatControl instance needs to be created. Creation of an instance with an
initial non-zero value of the heartbeatNtfPeriod attribute triggers an
immediate heartbeat notification emission. Creation of an instance with an
initial zero value of the heartbeatPeriod attribute does not trigger an
emission of a heartbeat notification. Deletion of an instance does not trigger
an emission of a heartbeat notification.
Once the instance is created, heartbeat notifications are emitted with a
periodicity defined by the value of the heartbeatNtfPeriod attribute. No
heartbeat notifications are emitted if the value is equal to zero. Setting a
zero value to a non zero value, or a non zero value to a different non zero
value, triggers an immediate heartbeat notification, that is the base for the
new heartbeat period. Setting a non zero value to a zero value stops emitting
heartbeats immediately; no final heartbeat notification is sent.
The attribute triggerHeartbeatNtf allows MnS consumers to trigger the emission
of an immediate additional heartbeat notification. The emission of heartbeat
notifications according to the heartbeat period is not impacted by this
additional notification.
Creation and deletion of HeartbeatControl instances by MnS Consumers is
optional; when not supported, the HeartbeatControl instances may be created
and deleted by the system or be pre-installed.
The emission of heartbeat notifications is fully controlled by
HeartbeatControl instances. Subscription for heartbeat notifications is not
supported by NtfSubscriptionControl.
#### 4.3.21.2 Attributes
The HeartbeatControl IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined
in clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
heartbeatNtfPeriod M T T F T triggerHeartbeatNtf M F T F F
#### 4.3.21.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.21.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC. In
addition, the following set of notifications is also valid.
Name S Notes
* * *
notifyHeartbeat M --
### 4.3.22 NtfSubscriptionControl
#### 4.3.22.1 Definition
NtfSubscriptionControl represents a notification subscription of a
notification recipient. It can be name-contained by SubNetwork or
ManagedElement.
The scope attribute is used to select managed object instances included in the
subscription. The base object instance of the scope (see clause 4.3.23) is the
object instance name-containing the NtfSubscriptionControl instance. When the
scope attribute is absent, all objects below and including the base object are
scoped. The notifications related to the selected managed object instances are
candidates to be sent to the address specified by the
notificationRecipientAddress attribute.
The notificationType attribute and notificationFilter attribute allow MnS
consumers to control which candidate notifications are sent to the
notificationRecipientAddress.
If the notificationType attribute is present, its value identifies the
notification types that are candidates to be sent to the
notificationRecipientAddress. If the notificationType attribute is absent,
notifications of all types are candidates to be sent to
notificationRecipientAddress.
If supported, the notificationFilter attribute defines a filter that is
applied to the set of candidate notifications. The filter is applicable to all
parameters of a notification. Only candidate notifications that pass the
filter criteria are sent to the notificationRecipientAddress. If the
notificationFilter attribute is absent, all candidate notificatios are sent to
the notificationRecipientAddress.
To receive notifications, a MnS consumer has to create a
NtfSubscriptionControl instance on the MnS producer. A MnS consumer can create
a subscription for another MnS consumer since it is not required the
notificationRecipientAddress be his own address.
When a MnS consumer does not wish to receive notifications any more the MnS
consumer shall delete the corresponding NtfSubscriptionControl instance.
When a subscription is created and the notification scope inludes the created
subscription object and the subscribed notification types include
notifications reporting object creation (notifyMOICreation or
notifyMOIChanges), the first notification sent related to the new subscription
shall report the creation of the NtfSubscriptionControl instance. Likewise,
when a subscription is deleted and the notification scope inludes the deleted
subscription object and the subscribed notification types include
notifications reporting object deletion (notifyMOIDeletion or
notifyMOIChanges), the last notification sent related to the subscription
shall report the deletion of the NtfSubscriptionControl instance.
Creation and deletion of NtfSubscriptionControl instances by MnS consumers is
optional; when not supported, the NtfSubscriptionControl instances may be
created and deleted by the system or be pre-installed.
#### 4.3.22.2 Attributes
The NtfSubscriptionControl IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC
(defined in clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
notificationRecipientAddress M T T F T notificationTypes O T T F T scope O T T
F T notificationFilter O T T F T
#### 4.3.22.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.22.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.23 Scope \>
#### 4.3.23.1 Definition
This \> defines a scope for selecting managed object instances
below and including a base managed object instance. The scope is specified
with the scope type and a scope level attributes. The specification of the
base object instance is not part of this \> and needs to be
specified by other means.
#### 4.3.23.2 Attributes
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
scopeType M T T F T scopeLevel O T T F T
#### 4.3.23.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.23.4 Notifications
The subclause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.24 Void
### 4.3.25 Void
### 4.3.26 AlarmList
#### 4.3.26.1 Definition
The AlarmList represents the capability to store and manage alarm records. It
can be name-contained by SubNetwork and ManagedElement. The management scope
of an AlarmList is defined by all descendant objects of the base managed
object, which is the object name-containing the AlarmList, and the base object
itself.
AlarmList instances are created by the system or are pre-installed. They
cannot be created nor deleted by MnS consumers.
An instance of SubNetwork or ManagedElement has at most one name-contained
instance of AlarmList.
When the alarm list is locked or disabled, the existing alarm records are not
updated or deleted, and new alarm records are not added to the alarm list.
#### 4.3.26.2 Attributes
The AlarmList IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in
clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes:
**Attribute Name** **S** **isReadable** **isWritable** **isInvariant**
**isNotifyable**
* * *
**administrativeState** O T T F T **operationalState** M T F F T
numOfAlarmRecords M T F F F lastModification M T F F F alarmRecords M T T F F
#### 4.3.26.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.26.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions or additions.
### 4.3.27 AlarmRecord \>
#### 4.3.27.1 Definition
An AlarmRecord contains alarm information of an alarmed object instance. A new
record is created in the alarm list when an alarmed object instance generates
an alarm and no alarm record exists with the same values for objectInstance,
alarmType, probableCause and specificProblem. When a new record is created the
MnS producer creates an alarmId, that unambiguously identifies an alarm record
in the AlarmList.
Alarm records are maintained only for active alarms. Inactive alarms are
automatically deleted by the MnS producer from the AlarmList. Active alarms
are alarms whose
a) perceivedSeverity is not \"CLEARED\", or whose
b) perceivedSeverity is \"CLEARED\" and its ackState is not \"ACKNOWLEDED\".
#### 4.3.27.2 Attributes
The attributes are defined in clause 11.2.2.1.5.1 of TS 28.532 [27]. Many of
them are based on definitions in ITU-T X.733 [31].
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **A |** S**|** isRe | **isWr |** isInv | **isNoti | | ttribute | | adable** | itable**| ariant** | fyable**| | name** | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | alarmId | M | T | F | T | F | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | object | M | T | F | T | F | | Instance | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | notifi | M | T | F | T | F | | cationId | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | alarmRa | M | T | F | F | F (note | | isedTime | | | | | 5) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | alarmCha | O | T | F | F | F (note | | ngedTime | | | | | 6) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | alarmCle | M | T | F | F | F (note | | aredTime | | | | | 7) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a | M | T | F | T | F | | larmType | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | proba | M | T | F | T | F | | bleCause | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | specifi | O | T | F | T | F | | cProblem | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | p | M | T | T (note | F | F(note | | erceived | | | 4) | | 6) | | Severity | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | backed | O | T | F | F | F | | UpStatus | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | back | O | T | F | F | F | | UpObject | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | trendIn | O | T | F | F | F | | dication | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | thres | O | T | F | F | F | | holdInfo | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | state | O | T | F | F | F | | ChangeDe | | | | | | | finition | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | mon | O | T | F | F | F | | itoredAt | | | | | | | tributes | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | propo | O | T | F | F | F | | sedRepai | | | | | | | rActions | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | additi | O | T | F | F | F | | onalText | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | addit | O (see | T | F | F | F | | ionalInf | note 3) | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ro | O | T | F | F | F | | otCauseI | | | | | | | ndicator | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ackTime | M | T | F | F | F | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a | M | T | T (see | F | F | | ckUserId | | | note 8) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ack | O | T | T (see | F | F | | SystemId | | | note 8) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ackState | M | T | T (see | F | F | | | | | note 8) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | cle | O (see | T | T | F | F | | arUserId | note 1) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | clear | O (see | T | T | F | F | | SystemId | note 1) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | ser | O (see | T | F | F | F | | viceUser | note 2) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | service | O (see | T | F | F | F | | Provider | note 2) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | secur | O (see | T | F | F | F | | ityAlarm | note 2) | | | | | | Detector | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 1: | | | | | | | > These | | | | | | | > at | | | | | | | tributes | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | > qu | | | | | | | alifiers | | | | | | | > are | | | | | | | > ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | > only | | | | | | | > if | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | producer | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | supports | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | > to set | | | | | | | > p | | | | | | | erceived | | | | | | | Severity | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | CLEARED. | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 2: | | | | | | | > These | | | | | | | > at | | | | | | | tributes | | | | | | | > are | | | | | | | > s | | | | | | | upported | | | | | | | > if the | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | producer | | | | | | | > emits | | | | | | | > notify | | | | | | | NewAlarm | | | | | | | > that | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | carries | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | > alarm | | | | | | | > info | | | | | | | rmation. | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 3: | | | | | | | > This | | | | | | | > a | | | | | | | ttribute | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | > s | | | | | | | upported | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | > carry | | | | | | | > vendor | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | specific | | | | | | | > info | | | | | | | rmation. | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 4: | | | | | | | > This | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | Writable | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | property | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | > True | | | | | | | > only | | | | | | | > if | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | producer | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | supports | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | > to set | | | | | | | > p | | | | | | | erceived | | | | | | | Severity | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | CLEARED | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 5: | | | | | | | > Emit | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | notifyN | | | | | | | ewAlarm. | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 6: | | | | | | | > Emit | | | | | | | > no | | | | | | | tifyChan | | | | | | | gedAlarm | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 7: | | | | | | | > Emit | | | | | | | > no | | | | | | | tifyClea | | | | | | | redAlarm | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 8: | | | | | | | > This | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | Writable | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | property | | | | | | | > is | | | | | | | > True | | | | | | | > only | | | | | | | > if | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | producer | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | supports | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | consumer | | | | | | | > to | | | | | | | > ack | | | | | | | nowledge | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | alarms. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 4.3.27.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.27.4 Notifications
See subclause 4.5.1.
### 4.3.28 Void
### 4.3.29 _Top_
#### 4.3.29.1 Definition
This IOC is provided for sub-classing only. All information object classes
defined in all TS that claim to be conformant to 32.102 [2] and support the
Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) concept shall inherit from Top.
#### 4.3.29.2 Attributes
This IOC includes attributes inherited from TopX IOC (defined in clause 4.3.8)
and the attributes inherited from Top_ IOC (defined in TS 28.620 [9]).
#### 4.3.29.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.29.4 Notifications
There is no notification defined.
### 4.3.30 TraceJob
#### 4.3.30.1 Definition
A TraceJob instance represents the Trace Control and Configuration parameters
of a particular Trace Job (see TS 32.421 [29] and TS 32.422 [30] for details).
It can be name-contained by SubNetwork, ManagedElement, ManagedFunction.
To activate Trace Jobs, a MnS consumer has to create TraceJob object instances
on the MnS producer. A MnS consumer can activate a Trace Job for another MnS
consumer since it is not required the value of traceCollectionEntityIpAddress
or traceReportingConsumerUri to be his own.
For the details of Trace Job activation see clauses 4.1.1.1.2 and 4.1.2.1.2 of
TS 32.422 [30].
When a MnS consumer wishes to deactivate a Trace Job, the MnS consumer shall
delete the corresponding TraceJob instance. For details of management Trace
Job deactivation see clauses 4.1.3.8 to 4.1.3.11 and 4.1.4.10 to 4.1.4.13 of
TS 32.422 [30].
The attribute traceReference specifies a globally unique ID and identifies a
Trace session. One Trace Session may be activated to multiple Network
Elements. The traceReference is populated by the consumer that makes the
request for a Trace Session, TS 32.422 [30].
The attribute traceReportingFormat defines the method for reporting the
produced measurements. The selectable options are file-based or stream-based
reporting. In case of file-based reporting the attribute
traceCollectionEntityIPAddress is used to specify the IP address to which the
trace records shall be transferred, while in case of stream-based reporting
the attribute traceReportingConsumerUri specifies the streaming target.
The mandatory attribute traceTarget determines the target object of the
TraceJob. Dependent on the network element to which the Trace Session is
activated different types of the target object are possible. The attribute
plmnTarget defines the PLMN for which sessions shall be selected in the Trace
Session in case of management based activation when several PLMNs are
supported in the RAN.
The attribute jobType specifies the kind of data to collect. Dependent on the
selected type various parameters shall be available. The attributes jobType,
traceReference, traceRecordingSessionReference,
traceCollectionEntityIPAddress, traceTarget and traceReportingFormat are
mandatory for all job types. If streaming reporting is selected for
traceReportingFormat, traceReportingConsumerUri shall be present additionally.
The attribute pLMNTarget shall be present if trace activation method is
management based.
For the different job types the attributes are differentiated as follows:
\- In case of TRACE_ONLY additionally the following attributes shall be
available: listOfNeTypes, traceDepth, and triggeringEvents.
> For this case the optional attribute listOfInterfaces allows to specify the
> interfaces to be recorded.
\- In case of IMMEDIATE_MDT_ONLY additionally the following attributes shall
be available:
\- anonymizationOfMDTData,
\- listOfMeasurements,
\- collectionPeriodRRMUMTS (conditional for M4 and M5 in UMTS),
> \- measurementPeriodUMTS (conditional for M6 and M7 in UMTS),
>
> \- collectionPeriodRRMLTE (conditional for M3 in LTE),
>
> \- measurementPeriodLTE (conditional for M4 and M5 in LTE),
>
> \- collectionPeriodM6LTE (conditional for M6 in LTE),
>
> \- collectionPeriodM7LTE (conditional for M7 in LTE),
>
> \- collectionPeriodRRMNR (conditional for M4 and M5 in NR),
>
> \- collectionPeriodM6NR (conditional for M6 in NR),
>
> \- collectionPeriodM7NR (conditional for M7 in NR),
>
> \- reportInterval (conditional for M1 in LTE or NR and M1/M2 in UMTS),
>
> \- reportAmount (conditional for M1 in LTE or NR and M1/M2 in UMTS),
>
> \- reportingTrigger (conditional for M1 in LTE or NR and M1/M2 in UMTS),
>
> \- eventThreshold (conditional for A2 event reporting or A2 event triggered
> periodic reporting),
>
> \- measurementQuantity (conditional for 1F event reporting).
>
> For this case the optional attribute areaScope allows to specify the area in
> terms of cells or Tracking Area/Routing Area/Location area where the MDT
> data collection shall take place and the optional attributes
> positioningMethod, sensorInformation allow to specify the positioning
> methods to use or the sensor information to include.
\- In case of IMMEDIATE_MDT_AND_TRACE both additional attributes of TRACE_ONLY
and IMMEDIATE_MDT_ONLY shall apply.
\- In case of LOGGED_MDT_ONLY additionally the following attributes shall be
available: anonymizationOfMDTData, traceCollectionEntityId, loggingInterval,
loggingDuration, reportType, eventListForEventTriggeredMeasurements.
> For this case the optional attribute areaScope allows to specify the area in
> terms of cells or Tracking Area/Routing Area/Location area where the MDT
> data collection shall take place, the optional attribute plmnList allows to
> specify the PLMNs where measurement collection, status indication and log
> reporting is allowed, the optional attribute areaConfigurationForNeighCell
> allows to specify the area for which UE is requested to perform measurements
> logging for neighbour cells which have list of frequencies and the optional
> attribute sensorInformation allows to specify the sensor information to
> include.
\- In case of RLF_REPORT_ONLY and RCEF_REPORT_ONLY the optional attribute
areaScope allows to specify the eNB or list of eNBs or gNB or list of gNBs
where the reports should be collected.
\- In case of LOGGED_MBSFN_MDT additionally the following attributes shall be
available: anonymizationOfMDTData, loggingInterval, loggingDuration,
mBSFNAreaList.
Reporting of measurements and messages can be periodical, event triggered or
event triggered periodic depending on the selected job type.
\- For trace the reporting is event based, where the triggering event is
configured with attribute triggeringEvents. For each triggering event the
first and last message (start/stop triggering event) to record are specified.
\- For immediate MDT, the reporting is dependent on the configured
measurements:
\- For measurement M1 in LTE or NR, it is possible to select between
periodical, event triggered, event triggered periodic reporting or reporting
according to all configured RRM event triggers. For M1 and M2 measurement in
UMTS, it is possible to select between periodical, event triggered reporting
or reporting according to all configured RRM event triggers. Parameter
reportingTrigger determines which of the reporting methods is selected and in
case of event triggered or event-triggered periodic, which is the decisive
event type. For periodical reporting, parameters reportInterval and
reportAmount determine the interval between two successive reports and the
number of reports. This means the periodical reporting terminates after
reportAmount reports have been sent as long as reportAmount is configured with
a value different from infinity. For event-triggered periodic reporting, these
two parameters apply in addition to parameter eventThreshold which determines
the threshold of the event. In this case up to reportAmount reports are sent
with a periodicity of reportInterval after the entering condition is
fulfilled. The reporting is stopped, if the leaving condition is fulfulled and
is restarted if the configured event reoccurs. For event based reporting,
there is only one report sent after the event occurs. The parameters to
configure are reportingTrigger and eventThreshold. In case of UMTS and 1f
event reporting, additionally parameter measurementQuantity is necessary in
order to determine for which measurement(s) the event threshold is applicable.
\- For measurement M2 in LTE or NR, reporting is according to RRM
configuration, see TS 38.321 [36], TS 36.321 [37] and TS 38.331 [38], TS
36.331 [39]. For measurement M4 in UMTS, reporting is either according to RRM
configuration, see TS 25.321 [40] and TS 25.331 [41] or periodic or event
triggered periodic using parameter collectionPeriodRRMUMTS and
eventThresholdUphUMTS.
\- For measurement M3 in UMTS, the reporting is done upon availability, see TS
37.320 [43].
\- For measurements M4, M5, M6 and M7 in NR, for measurements M3, M4, M5, M6
and M7 in LTE and for measurements M5, M6 and M7 in UMTS periodical reporting
is applied. The configurable parameter is the interval between two
measurements (collectionPeriodRRMNR, collectionPeriodM6NR,
collectionPeriodM7NR, collectionPeriodRRMLTE, measurementPeriodLTE,
collectionPeriodM6LTE, collectionPeriodM7LTE, collectionPeriodRRMUMTS,
measurementPeriodUMTS). If no collection period is configured for M5 in UMTS,
all available measurements are logged according to RRM configuration.
\- For logged MDT in UMTS and LTE, the reporting is periodical. Parameter
loggingInterval determines the interval between the reports and parameter
loggingDuration determines how long the configuration is valid meaning after
this duration has passed no further reports are sent. In NR, the reporting can
be periodical or event based, determined by parameter reportType. For
periodical reporting the same parameters as in LTE and UMTS apply. For event
based reporting, parameter eventListForEventTriggeredMeasurement configures
the event type, namely 'out of coverage' or 'L1 event'. In case 'L1 event' is
selected as event type, the logging is performed according to parameter
loggingInterval at regular intervals only when the conditions indicated by
eventThreshold L1, hysteresis L1, timeToTrigger L1 (defining the thresholds,
hysteresis and time to trigger) are met and if UE is 'camped normally' state
(TS 38.331 [38], TS 38.304 [42]). In case 'out of coverage' is selected as
event type, the logging is performed according to parameter loggingInterval at
regular intervals only when the UE is in 'any cell selection' state.
Furthermore, logging is performed immediately upon transition from the 'any
cell selection' state to the 'camped normally' state ( TS 38.331 [38], TS
38.304 [42]).
Creation and deletion of TraceJob instances by MnS consumers is optional; when
not supported, the TraceJob instances may be created and deleted by the system
or be pre-installed.
#### 4.3.30.2 Attributes
The TraceJob IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in clause
4.3.29) and the following attributes:
Attribute Name S isReadable isWritable isInvariant isNotifyable
* * *
jobType M T T F T listOfInterfaces CO T T F T listOfNeTypes CM T T F T
PLMNTarget CM T T F T traceReportingConsumerUri CM T T F T
traceCollectionEntityIPAddress CM T T F T traceDepth CM T T F T traceReference
M T T F T traceReportingFormat M T T F T traceTarget M T T F T
triggeringEvents CM T T F T anonymizationOfMDTData CM T T F T
areaConfigurationForNeighCell CO T T F T areaScope CO T T F T
collectionPeriodRRMLTE CM T T F T collectionPeriodM6LTE CM T T F T
collectionPeriodM7LTE CM T T F T collectionPeriodRRMUMTS CM T T F T
collectionPeriodRRMNR CM T T F T collectionPeriodM6NR CM T T F T
collectionPeriodM7NR CM T T F T eventListForEventTriggeredMeasurement CM T T F
T eventThreshold CM T T F T listOfMeasurements CM T T F T loggingDuration CM T
T F T loggingInterval CM T T F T eventThresholdL1 CM T T F T hysteresisL1 CM T
T F T timeToTriggerL1 CM T T F T mBSFNAreaList CM T T F T measurementPeriodLTE
CM T T F T measurementPeriodUMTS CM T T F T measurementQuantity CM T T F T
eventThresholdUphUMTS CO T T F T plmnList CO T T F T positioningMethod CO T T
F T reportAmount CM T T F T reportingTrigger CM T T F T reportInterval CM T T
F T reportType CM T T F T sensorInformation CO T T F T traceCollectionEntityId
CM T T F T
#### 4.3.30.3 Attribute constraints
Name Definition
* * *
listOfInterfaces (support qualifier) This attribute shall be present when
jobType includes Trace. listOfNeTypes (support qualifier) This attribute shall
be present only for Trace with Signalling Based Activation PLMNTarget (support
qualifier) This attribute shall be present for management based activation
when several PLMNs are supported in the RAN. traceReportingConsumerUri
(support qualifier) This attribute shall be present if streaming trace data
reporting is supported and traceReportingFormat set to \"streaming\".
traceCollectionEntityIPAddress (support qualifier) This attribute shall be
present if file based trace data reporting is supported and
traceReportingFormat set to \"file based\" or when jobType is set to Logged
MDT or Logged MBSFN MDT. traceDepth (support qualifier) This attribute shall
be present when jobType includes Trace. triggeringEvents (support qualifier)
This attribute shall be present when jobType includes Trace.
anonymizationOfMDTData (support qualifier) This attribute shall be present
only if MDT is supported and the areaScope attribute is present. This
attribute is only applicable for management based activation.
areaConfigurationForNeighCell (support qualifier) This attribute shall be
present only if NR MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to Logged
MDT. areaScope (support qualifier) This attribute shall be present if MDT is
supported. collectionPeriodRRMLTE (support qualifier) This attribute shall be
present only if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to Immediate
MDT or combine Trace and Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements attribute
has any of M2, M3 measurement set in case of LTE. collectionPeriodRRMUMTS
(support qualifier) This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported
and the jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace and
Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements attribute has any of M3, M4, M5
measurement set in case of UMTS. eventListForEventTriggeredMeasurement
(support qualifier) This attribute shall be present only if NR MDT is
supported and the jobType attribute is set to Logged MDT. eventThreshold
(support qualifier) This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported
and the jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace and
Immediate MDT and the reportingTrigger attribute is configured for
A2EventReporting in LTE and NR or 1f/1IEventReporting in UMTS.
listOfMeasurements (support qualifier) This attribute shall be present only if
MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine
Trace and Immediate MDT. loggingDuration (support qualifier) This attribute
shall be present only if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to
Logged MDT or Logged MBSFN MDT. loggingInterval (support qualifier) This
attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute
is set to Logged MDT or Logged MBSFN MDT. eventThresholdL1 (support qualifier)
This attribute shall be present only if NR MDT is supported and the jobType
attribute is set to Logged MDT. hysteresisL1 (support qualifier) This
attribute shall be present only if NR MDT is supported and the jobType
attribute is set to Logged MDT. timeToTriggerL1 (support qualifier) This
attribute shall be present only if NR MDT is supported and the jobType
attribute is set to Logged MDT. mBSFNAreaList (support qualifier) This
attribute shall be present only if Logged MBSFN MDT is supported and the
jobType attribute is set to Logged MBSFN MDT. This is applicable only for
eUTRAN. measurementPeriodLTE (support qualifier) This attribute shall be
present only if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to Immediate
MDT or combine Trace and Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements attribute
for LTE has either M4 or M5 measurement set. collectionPeriodM6LTE (support
qualifier) This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and the
jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace and Immediate MDT
and the listOfMeasurements attribute for LTE has M6 measurement set.
collectionPeriodM7LTE (support qualifier) This attribute shall be present only
if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or
combine Trace and Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements attribute for LTE
has M7 measurement set. measurementPeriodUMTS (support qualifier) This
attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute
is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace and Immediate MDT and the
listOfMeasurements attribute for UMTS has M6 or M7 measurements set.
collectionPeriodRRMNR (support qualifier) This attribute shall be present only
if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or
combine Trace and Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements attribute has any
of M4, M5 measurement set in case of NR. collectionPeriodM6NR (support
qualifier) This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and the
jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace and Immediate MDT
and the listOfMeasurements attribute has M6 measurement set in case of NR.
collectionPeriodM7NR (support qualifier) This attribute shall be present only
if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or
combine Trace and Immediate MDT and the listOfMeasurements attribute has any
of M7 measurement set in case of NR. measurementQuantity (support qualifier)
This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and the jobType
attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combined Trace and Immediate MDT and the
reportingTrigger parameter is set to event 1F. eventThresholdUphUMTS (support
qualifier) This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and the
jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combined Trace and Immediate MDT
and the listOfMeasurements attribute has M4 measurement set in case of UMTS.
plmnList (support qualifier) This attribute shall be present only if MDT is
supported, several PLMNs are supported in the RAN and the jobType attribute is
set to Logged MDT. positioningMethod (support qualifier) This attribute shall
be present only if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to
Immediate MDT or combine Trace and Immediate MDT. reportAmount (support
qualifier) This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and the
jobType attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace and Immediate MDT
and the reportingTrigger attribute is configured for periodic measurements or
event triggered periodic measurements. reportingTrigger (support qualifier)
This attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and the jobType
attribute is set to Immediate MDT or combine Trace and Immediate MDT and the
listOfMeasurements attribute is configured for M1 (for UMTS, LTE and NR) or M2
(only for UMTS). reportInterval (support qualifier) This attribute shall be
present only if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to Immediate
MDT or combine Trace and Immediate MDT, the listOfMeasurements attribute is
configured for M1 (for UMTS, LTE and NR) or M2 (only for UMTS) and the
reportingTrigger is configured for periodic measurements or event triggered
periodic measurements. reportType (support qualifier) This attribute shall be
present only if NR MDT is supported and the jobType attribute is set to Logged
MDT. sensorInformation (support qualifier) This attribute shall be present
only if NR MDT is supported. traceCollectionEntityId (support qualifier) This
attribute shall be present only if MDT is supported and the jobType attribute
is set to Logged MDT.
#### 4.3.30.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC, without
exceptions.
### 4.3.31 PerfMetricJob
#### 4.3.31.1 Definition
This IOC represents a performance metric production job. It can be name-
contained by SubNetwork, ManagedElement, or _ManagedFunction_.
To activate the production of the specified performance metrics, a MnS
consumer needs to create a PerfMetricJob instance on the MnS producer. For
ultimate deactivation of metric production, the MnS consumer should delete the
job to free up resources on the MnS producer.
For temporary suspension of metric production, the MnS consumer can manipulate
the value of the administrative state attribute. The MnS producer may disable
metric production as well, for example in overload situations. This situation
is indicated by the MnS producer with setting the operational state attribute
to disabled. When production is resumed the operational state is set back to
enabled.
The jobId attribute can be used to associate metrics from multiple
PerfMetricJob instances. The jobId can be included when reporting performance
metrics to allow a MnS consumer to associate received metrics for the same
purpose. For example, it is possible to configure the same jobId value for
multiple PerfMetricJob instances required to produce the measurements for a
specific KPI.
The attribute performanceMetrics defines the performance metrics to be
produced and the attribute granularityPeriod defines the granularity period to
be applied.
All object instances below and including the instance name-containing the
PerfMetricJob (base object instance) are scoped for performance metric
production. Performance metrics are produced only on those object instances
whose object class matches the object class associated to the performance
metrics to be produced.
The optional attributes objectInstances and rootObjectInstances allow to
restrict the scope. When the attribute objectInstances is present, only the
object instances identified by this attribute are scoped. When the attribute
rootObjectInstances is present, then the subtrees whose root objects are
identified by this attribute are scoped. Both attributes may be present at the
same time meaning the total scope is equal to the sum of both scopes. Object
instances may be scoped by both the objectInstances and rootObjectInstances
attributes. This shall not be considered as an error by the MnS producer.
When the performance metric requires performance metric production on multiple
managed objects, which is for example the case for KPIs, the MnS consumer
needs to ensure all required objects are scoped. Otherwise a PerfMetricJob
creation request shall fail.
The attribute reportingCtrl specifies the method and associated control
parameters for reporting the produced measurements to MnS consumers. Three
methods are available: file-based reporting with selection of the file
location by the MnS producer, file-based reporting with selection of the file
location by the MnS consumer and stream-based reporting.
For file-based reporting, all performance metrics that are produced related to
a \"PerfMetricJob\" instance for a reporting period shall be stored in a
single reporting file.
When the administrative state is set to \"UNLOCKED\" after the creation of a
\"PerfMetricJob\" the first granularity period shall start. When the
administrative state is set to \"LOCKED\" or the operational state to
\"DISABLED\", the ongoing reporting period shall be aborted, for streaming the
ongoing granularity period. When the administrative state is set back to
\"UNLOCKED\" or the operational state to \"ENABLED\" a new reporting period
period shall start, in case of streaming a new granularity period.
Changes of all other configurable attributes shall take effect only at the
beginning of the next reporting period, for streaming at the beginning of the
next granularity period.
When the \"PerfMetricJob\" is deleted, the ongoing reporting period shall be
aborted, for streaming the ongoing granularity period.
A PerfMetricJob creation request shall be rejected, if the requested
performance metrics, the requested granularity period, the requested repoting
method, or the requested combination thereof is not supported by the MnS
producer.
Creation and deletion of PerfMetricJob instances by MnS consumers is optional;
when not supported, PerfMetricJob instances may be created and deleted by the
system or be pre-installed.
#### 4.3.31.2 Attributes
The PerfMetricJob IOC includes attributes inherited from Top IOC (defined in
clause 4.3.29) and the following attributes:
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
administrativeState M T T F T operationalState M T F F T jobId M T T T T
performanceMetrics M T T F T granularityPeriod M T T F T objectInstances O T T
F T rootObjectInstances O T T F T reportingCtrl M T T F T
* * *
#### 4.3.31.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.31.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in clause 4.5 are valid for this IOC. In
addition, the following set of notifications is also valid.
Name S Notes
* * *
notifyFileReady M -- notifyFilePreparationError M --
### 4.3.32 SupportedPerfMetricGroup \>
#### 4.3.32.1 Definition
This \> captures a group of supported performance metrics, and
associated (production and monitoring) granularity periods and reporting
methods that are supported for the specified performance metric group.
#### 4.3.32.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
performanceMetrics M T F F T granularityPeriods M T F F T reportingMethods M T
F F T reportingPeriods M T F F T
* * *
#### 4.3.32.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.32.4 Notifications
_Not applicable._
### 4.3.33 ReportingCtrl \>
#### 4.3.33.1 Definition
This \> defines the method for reporting collected performance
metrics to MnS consumers as well as the parameters for configuring the
reporting function. It is a choice between the control parameter required for
the reporting methods, whose presence selects the reporting method as follows:
When only the fileReportingPeriod attribute is present, the MnS producer shall
store files on the MnS producer at a location selected by the MnS producer
and, on condition that an appropriate subscription is in place, inform the MnS
consumer about the availability of new files and the file location using the
notifyFileReady notification. In case the preparation of a file fails,
\"notifyFilePreparationError\" shall be sent instead.
When only the fileReportingPeriod and fileLocation attributes are present, the
MnS producer shall store the files on a MnS consumer, that can be any entity
such as a file server, at the location specified by fileLocation. No
notification is emitted by the MnS producer.
When only the streamTarget attribute is present, the MnS producer shall stream
the data to the location specified by streamTarget.
For the file-based reporting methods the fileReportingPeriod attribute
specifies the time window during which collected measurements are stored into
the same file before the file is closed and a new file is opened.
#### 4.3.33.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable CHOICE_1.1
fileReportingPeriod CM T T F T CHOICE_2.1 fileReportingPeriod CM T T F T
CHOICE_2.2 fileLocation CM T T F T CHOICE_3.1 streamTarget CM T T F T
* * *
#### 4.3.33.3 Attribute constraints
+---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | Name | Definition | +=================================+===================================+ | CHOICE_1.1 fileReportingPeriod | This attribute shall be | | | supported, when the MnS producer | | | supports file based reporting and | | | storing files on the MnS | | | producer. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | CHOICE_2.1 fileReportingPeriod | These attributes shall be | | | supported, when MnS producer | | CHOICE_2.2 fileLocation | supports file based reporting and | | | storing files on a MnS consumer. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+ | CHOICE_3.1 streamTarget | This attribute shall be | | | supported, when the MnS producer | | | supports stream-based reporting. | +---------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.33.4 Notifications
The subclause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.34 ThresholdInfo \>
#### 4.3.34.1 Definition
This data type defines a single threshold level.
#### 4.3.34.2 Attributes
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
performanceMetrics M T T F T thresholdDirection M T T F T thresholdValue M T T
F T hysteresis O T T F T
#### 4.3.34.3 Attribute constraints
None
#### 4.3.34.4 Notifications
The subclause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.35 TraceReference \>
#### 4.3.35.1 Definition
This \> defines a globally unique identifier, which uniquely
identifies the Trace Session that is created by the TraceJob. It is composed
of the MCC, MNC (resulting in PLMN identifier) and the trace identifier.
#### 4.3.35.2 Attributes
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
mcc M T T T N/A mnc M T T T N/A traceId M T T T N/A
#### 4.3.35.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.35.4 Notifications
The clause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.36 AreaConfig \>
#### 4.3.36.1 Definition
This \> defines the area for which measurement logging should be
performed. It is described by a list of cells and a list of frequencies.
#### 4.3.36.2 Attributes
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
freqInfo M T T F T pciList M T T F T
#### 4.3.36.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.36.4 Notifications
The clause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.37 FreqInfo \>
#### 4.3.37.1 Definition
This \> defines the RF reference frequency and the frequency
operating bands used in a cell for a given direction (UL or DL) in FDD or for
both UL and DL directions in TDD.
#### 4.3.37.2 Attributes
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
arfcn M T T F T freqBands M T T F T
#### 4.3.37.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.37.4 Notifications
The clause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.38 AreaScope \>
#### 4.3.38.1 Definition
This \> defines the area scope of MDT.
The Area Scope parameter in LTE and NR is either:
\- list of Cells, identified by E-UTRAN-CGI or NG-RAN CGI. Maximum 32 CGI can
be defined.
\- list of Tracking Area, identified by TAC. Maximum of 8 TAC can be defined.
\- list of Tracking Area Identity, identified by TAC with associated plmn-
Identity perTAC-List containing the PLMN identity for each TAC. Maximum of 8
TAI can be defined.
#### 4.3.38.2 Attributes
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
choice  
> eutraCellIdList O T T F T > nrCellIdList O T T F T > tacList O T T F T >
> taiList O T T F T
#### 4.3.38.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.38.4 Notifications
The clause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.39 Tai \>
#### 4.3.39.1 Definition
This \> defines a Tracking Area Identity (TAI) as specified in
clause 28.6 of TS 23.003 [5], clause 8.2 of TS 38.300 [33] and clause 9.3.3.11
of TS 38.413 [34]. It is composed of the PLMN identifier (PLMN-Id, which is
composed of the MCC and MNC) and the Tracking Area Code (TAC).
#### 4.3.39.2 Attributes
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
mcc M T T T N/A mnc M T T T N/A tac M T T T N/A
#### 4.3.39.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.39.4 Notifications
The clause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
### 4.3.40 MbsfnArea \>
#### 4.3.40.1 Definition
This \> defines a MBSFN area. It is composed of the MBSFN Area
identifier and the carrier frequency (EARFCN).
#### 4.3.40.2 Attributes
Attribute name S isReadable isWritable **isInvariant** isNotifyable
* * *
mbsfnAreaId M T T F T earfcn M T T F T
#### 4.3.40.3 Attribute constraints
None.
#### 4.3.40.4 Notifications
The clause 4.5 of the \> using this \> as one of its
attributes, shall be applicable.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table defines the properties of attributes specified in the
present document.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +======================+======================+======================+ | heartbeatNtfPeriod | Periodicity of the | type: Integer | | | heartbeat | | | | notification | multiplicity: 1 | | | emission. The value | | | | of zero has the | isOrdered: N/A | | | special meaning of | | | | stopping the | isUnique: N/A | | | heartbeat | | | | notification | defaultValue: 0 | | | emission. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | Unit is in seconds. | | | | | | | | AllowedValues: | | | | non-negative | | | | integers | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | triggerHeartbeatNtf | Setting this | type: ENUM | | | attribute to TRUE | | | | triggers an | multiplicity: 1 | | | immediate additional | | | | heartbeat | isOrdered: N/A | | | notification | | | | emission. Setting | isUnique: N/A | | | the value to FALSE | | | | has no observable | defaultValue: FALSE | | | result. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | The periodicity of | | | | notifyHeartbeat | | | | emission is not | | | | changed. | | | | | | | | AllowedValues: TRUE, | | | | FALSE | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | notifica | Address of the | type: String | | tionRecipientAddress | notification | | | | recipient. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | notificationTypes | Notification types | type: ENUM | | | of notifications | | | | that are candidates | multiplicity: * | | | for being forwarding | | | | to the notification | isOrdered: False | | | recipient. If this | | | | attribute is absent, | isUnique: True | | | notifications of all | | | | types are candidates | defaultValue: None | | | for being forwarding | | | | to the notification | isNullable: False | | | recipient. | | | | | | | | If the | | | | notificationFilter | | | | attribute is absent, | | | | all candidate | | | | notifications are | | | | forwarded to the | | | | notification | | | | recipient, otherwise | | | | the candidate | | | | notifications are | | | | discriminated by the | | | | filter specified by | | | | the | | | | notificationFilter | | | | attribute. | | | | | | | | Below is a list of | | | | notificationType | | | | values that are | | | | defined in 3GPP | | | | specifications. If | | | | the notificationType | | | | itself is supported | | | | by the system, it | | | | shall be supported | | | | in the | | | | NtfSubscriptionContr | | | | ol.notificationTypes | | | | attribute as well. | | | | Other | | | | notificationTypes | | | | defined by SDOs or | | | | enterprises may also | | | | be supported. | | | | | | | | AllowedValues: | | | | | | | | - notifyMOICreation | | | | | | | | - notifyMOIDeletion | | | | | | | | - | | | | notifyMOIA | | | | ttributeValueChanges | | | | | | | | - notifyMOIChanges | | | | | | | | - notifyEvent | | | | | | | | - notifyNewAlarm | | | | | | | | - | | | | notifyChangedAlarm | | | | | | | | - | | | | n | | | | otifyAckStateChanged | | | | | | | | - notifyComments | | | | | | | | - | | | | notifyCorrelate | | | | dNotificationChanged | | | | | | | | - | | | | notif | | | | yChangedAlarmGeneral | | | | | | | | - | | | | notifyClearedAlarm | | | | | | | | - | | | | no | | | | tifyAlarmListRebuilt | | | | | | | | - | | | | notifyPote | | | | ntialFaultyAlarmList | | | | | | | | - notifyFileReady | | | | | | | | - | | | | notify | | | | FilePreparationError | | | | | | | | - | | | | not | | | | ifyThresholdCrossing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | notificationFilter | Filter to be applied | type: String | | | to candidate | | | | notifications | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | identified by the | | | | notificationTypes | isOrdered: N/A | | | attribute. Only | | | | notifications that | isUnique: N/A | | | pass the filter | | | | criteria are | defaultValue: None | | | forwarded to the | | | | notification | isNullable: False | | | recipient. All other | | | | notifications are | | | | discarded. | | | | | | | | The filter can be | | | | applied to any field | | | | of a notification. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | scope | Scopes the managed | type: Scope | | | object instances | | | | included in the | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | notification | | | | subscription. If | isOrdered: N/A | | | this attribute is | | | | absent, all objects | isUnique: N/A | | | below and including | | | | the base object are | defaultValue: None | | | scoped. | | | | | isNullable: False | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | scopeType | If the optional | type: ENUM | | | scopeLevel attribute | | | | is not supported or | multiplicity: 1 | | | absent, allowed | | | | values of scopeType | isOrdered: N/A | | | are BASE_ONLY and | | | | BASE_ALL. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | The value BASE_ONLY | defaultValue: None | | | indicates only the | | | | base object is | isNullable: False | | | selected. | | | | | | | | The value BASE_ALL | | | | indicates the base | | | | object and all of | | | | its subordinate | | | | objects (incl. the | | | | leaf objects) are | | | | selected. | | | | | | | | If the scopeLevel | | | | attribute is | | | | supported and | | | | present, allowed | | | | values of scopeType | | | | are BASE_NTH_LEVEL | | | | and BASE_SUBTREE. | | | | | | | | The value | | | | BASE_NTH_LEVEL | | | | indicates all | | | | objects on the | | | | level, which is | | | | specified by the | | | | scopeLevel | | | | attribute, below the | | | | base object are | | | | selected. The base | | | | object is at | | | | scopeLevel zero. | | | | | | | | The value | | | | BASE_SUBTREE | | | | indicates the base | | | | object and all | | | | subordinate objects | | | | down to and | | | | including the | | | | objects on the | | | | level, which is | | | | specified by the | | | | scopeLevel | | | | attribute, are | | | | selected. The base | | | | object is at | | | | scopeLevel zero. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | scopeLevel | See definition of | type: Integer | | | scopeType attribute. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | farEndEntity | The value of this | type: DN | | | attribute shall be | | | | the Distinguished | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | Name of the far end | | | | network entity to | isOrdered: N/A | | | which the reference | | | | point is related. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | As an example, with | defaultValue: None | | | EP_Iucs, if the | | | | instance of EP_Iucs | isNullable: False | | | is contained by one | | | | RncFunction | | | | instance, the | | | | farEndEntity is the | | | | Distinguished Name | | | | of the | | | | MscServerFunction | | | | instance to which | | | | this Iucs reference | | | | point is related. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | linkType | This attribute | type: String | | | defines the type of | | | | the link. | multiplicity: 0..* | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isOrdered: False | | | Signalling, Bearer, | | | | OAM&P, Other or | isUnique: True | | | multiple | | | | combinations of this | defaultValue: None | | | type. | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | locationName | The physical | type: String | | | location of this | | | | entity (e.g. an | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | address). | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | moni | Granularity period | type: Integer | | torGranularityPeriod | used to monitor | | | | measurements for | multiplicity: 1 | | | threshold crossings. | | | | The period is | isOrdered: N/A | | | defined in seconds. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | See Note 5 | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: a | | | | multiple of a | isNullable: False | | | supported GP of the | | | | associated | | | | measurements | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportingPeriods | Reporting periods | type: Integer | | | supported for the | | | | associated | multiplicity: * | | | measurement types. | | | | The period is | isOrdered: False | | | defined in seconds. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | allowedValues: | | | | Integer with a | defaultValue: None | | | minimum value of 1 | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | thresholdInfoList | List of threshold | type: ThresholdInfo | | | infos. | | | | | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | thresholdValue | Value against which | type: Union | | | the monitored | | | | performance metric | multiplicity: 1 | | | is compared at a | | | | threshold level in | isOrdered: NA | | | case the hysteresis | | | | is zero. | isUnique: NA | | | | | | | allowedValues: float | defaultValue: None | | | or integer | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hysteresis | Hysteresis of a | type: Union | | | threshold. If this | | | | attribute is present | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | the monitored | | | | performance metric | isOrdered: NA | | | is not compared | | | | against the | isUnique: NA | | | threshold value as | | | | specified by the | defaultValue: None | | | thresholdValue | | | | attribute but | isNullable: False | | | against a high and | | | | low threshold value | | | | given by | | | | | | | | highThresholdValue- | | | | = thresholdValue + | | | | hysteresis | | | | | | | | lowThresholdValue = | | | | thresholdValue - | | | | hysteresis | | | | | | | | When going up, the | | | | threshold is | | | | triggered when the | | | | performance metric | | | | reaches or crosses | | | | the high threshold | | | | value. When going | | | | down, the threshold | | | | is triggered when | | | | the performance | | | | metric reaches or | | | | crosses the low | | | | threshold value. | | | | | | | | A hysteresis may be | | | | present only when | | | | the monitored | | | | performance metric | | | | is not of type | | | | counter that can go | | | | up only. If present | | | | for a performance | | | | metric of type | | | | counter, it shall be | | | | ignored. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | non-negative float | | | | or integer | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | thresholdDirection | Direction of a | type: ENUM | | | threshold indicating | | | | the direction for | multiplicity: 1 | | | which a threshold | | | | crossing triggers a | isOrdered: N/A | | | threshold. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | When the threshold | | | | direction is | defaultValue: None | | | configured to | | | | \"UP\", the | isNullable: False | | | associated treshold | | | | is triggered only | | | | when the performance | | | | metric value is | | | | going up upon | | | | reaching or crossing | | | | the threshold value. | | | | The treshold is not | | | | triggered, when the | | | | performance metric | | | | is going down upon | | | | reaching or crossing | | | | the threshold value. | | | | | | | | Vice versa, when the | | | | threshold direction | | | | is configured to | | | | \"DOWN\", the | | | | associated treshold | | | | is triggered only | | | | when the performance | | | | metric is going down | | | | upon reaching or | | | | crossing the | | | | threshold value. The | | | | treshold is not | | | | triggered, when the | | | | performance metric | | | | is going up upon | | | | reaching or crossing | | | | the threshold value. | | | | | | | | When the threshold | | | | direction is set to | | | | \"UP_AND_DOWN\" | | | | the treshold is | | | | active in both | | | | direcions. | | | | | | | | In case a threshold | | | | with hysteresis is | | | | configured, the | | | | threshold direction | | | | attribute shall be | | | | set to | | | | \"UP_AND_DOWN\". | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | | | | | - UP | | | | | | | | - DOWN | | | | | | | | - UP_AND_DOWN | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectClass | Class of a managed | type: String | | | object instance. | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectInstance | Managed object | type: String | | | instance identified | | | | by its DN. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | objectInstances | List of managed | type: Dn | | | object instances. | | | | Each object instance | multiplicity: * | | | is identified by its | | | | DN. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | peeParametersList | This attribute | type: String | | | contains the | | | | parameter list for | multiplicity: 0..* | | | the control and | | | | monitoring of power, | isOrdered: False | | | energy and | | | | environmental | isUnique: True | | | parameters of | | | | ManagedFunction | defaultValue: None | | | instance(s). This | | | | list contains the | isNullable: False | | | following | | | | parameters: | | | | | | | | - | | | | siteIdentification | | | | | | | | - siteLatitude | | | | (optional) | | | | | | | | - siteLongitude | | | | (optional) | | | | | | | | - siteDescription | | | | | | | | - equipmentType | | | | | | | | - environmentType | | | | | | | | - powerInterface | | | | | | | | siteIdentification: | | | | The identification | | | | of the site where | | | | the ManagedFunction | | | | resides. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | siteLatitude: The | | | | latitude of the site | | | | where the | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | instance resides, | | | | based on World | | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to the | | | | northern hemisphere. | | | | This attribute is | | | | optional in case of | | | | BTSFunction and | | | | RNCFunction | | | | instance(s). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | -90.0000 to +90.0000 | | | | | | | | siteLongitude: The | | | | longitude of the | | | | site where the | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | instance resides, | | | | based on World | | | | Geodetic System | | | | (1984 version) | | | | global reference | | | | frame (WGS 84). | | | | Positive values | | | | correspond to | | | | degrees east of 0 | | | | degrees longitude. | | | | This attribute is | | | | optional in case of | | | | BTSFunction and | | | | RNCFunction | | | | instance(s). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | -180.0000 to | | | | +180.0000 | | | | | | | | siteDescription: An | | | | operator defined | | | | description of the | | | | site where the | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | instance resides. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | **equipmentType:** | | | | The type of | | | | equipment where the | | | | managedFunction | | | | instance resides. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | clause 4.4.1 of ETSI | | | | ES 202 336-12 | | | | [18]. | | | | | | | | environmentType: The | | | | type of environment | | | | where the | | | | managedFunction | | | | instance resides. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | clause 4.4.1 of ETSI | | | | ES 202 336-12 | | | | [18]. | | | | | | | | powerInterface: The | | | | type of power. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: see | | | | clause 4.4.1 of ETSI | | | | ES 202 336-12 | | | | [18]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | priorityLabel | This is a label that | type: Integer | | | consumer would | | | | assign a value on a | multiplicity: 1 | | | concrete instance of | | | | the managed object. | isOrdered: N/A | | | The management | | | | system takes the | isUnique: N/A | | | value of this | | | | attribute into | defaultValue: None | | | account. The effect | | | | of this attribute | isNullable: False | | | value to the subject | | | | managed entity is | | | | not standardized | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | protocolVersion | Versions(s) and | type: String | | | additional | | | | descriptive | multiplicity: * | | | information for the | | | | protocol(s) used for | isOrdered: False | | | the associated | | | | communication link. | isUnique: True | | | Syntax and semantic | | | | is not specified. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | setOfMcc | Set of Mobile | type: Integer | | | Country Code (MCC). | | | | The MCC uniquely | multiplicity: 1..* | | | identifies the | | | | country of domicile | isOrdered: False | | | of the mobile | | | | subscriber. MCC is | isUnique: True | | | part of the IMSI (TS | | | | 23.003 [5]) | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | This list contains | isNullable: False | | | all the MCC values | | | | in subordinate | | | | object instances to | | | | this SubNetwork | | | | instance. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | | | | clause 2.3 of TS | | | | 23.003 [5] for MCC | | | | allocation | | | | principles. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | swVersion | The software version | type: String | | | of the | | | | ManagementNode or | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | ManagedElement (this | | | | is used for | isOrdered: N/A | | | determining which | | | | version of the | isUnique: N/A | | | vendor specific | | | | information is valid | defaultValue: None | | | for the | | | | ManagementNode or | isNullable: False | | | ManagedElement). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | systemDN | Distinguished Name | type: DN | | | (DN) of a MnSAgent. | | | | | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userDefinedState | An operator defined | type: String | | | state for operator | | | | specific usage. | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | userLabel | A user-friendly (and | type: String | | | user assignable) | | | | name of this object. | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vendorName | The name of the | type: String | | | vendor. | | | | | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vnfParametersList | This attribute | type: String | | | contains the | | | | parameter set of the | multiplicity: * | | | VNF instance(s) | | | | corresponding to an | isOrdered: False | | | NE. Each entry in | | | | the list contains: | isUnique: True | | | | | | | - vnfInstanceId | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | - vnfdId (optional) | isNullable: False | | | | | | | - flavourId | | | | (optional) | | | | | | | | - autoScalable | | | | (optional) | | | | | | | | vnfInstanceId: VNF | | | | instance identifier | | | | (vnfInstanceId**, | | | | see section 9.4.2 of | | | | [16] and section | | | | B2.4.2.1.2.3 of | | | | [17]).** | | | | | | | | **See Note 1.** | | | | | | | | vnfdId: Identifier | | | | of the VNFD on which | | | | the VNF instance is | | | | based, see section | | | | 9.4.2 of [16]. | | | | This attribute is | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | **Note: the value of | | | | this attribute is | | | | identical to that of | | | | the same attribute | | | | in clause 9.4.2 of** | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 | | | | **[16].** | | | | | | | | flavourId: | | | | Identifier of the | | | | VNF Deployment | | | | Flavour applied to | | | | this VNF instance, | | | | see section 9.4.3 of | | | | [16]. This | | | | attribute is | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | Note: the value of | | | | this attribute is | | | | identical to that of | | | | the same attribute | | | | in clause 9.4.3 of | | | | ETSI GS NFV-IFA 008 | | | | [16]. | | | | | | | | autoScalable: | | | | Indicator of whether | | | | the auto-scaling of | | | | this VNF instance is | | | | enabled or disabled. | | | | The type is Boolean. | | | | | | | | This attribute is | | | | optional. | | | | | | | | See Note2. | | | | | | | | **The presence of | | | | this attribute | | | | indicates that the** | | | | ManagedFunction | | | | **represented by the | | | | MOI is a virtualized | | | | function.** | | | | | | | | **See Note 3.** | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | | | | **A string length of | | | | zero for | | | | vnfInstanceId means | | | | the VNF instance(s) | | | | corresponding to the | | | | MOI does not exist | | | | (e.g. has not been | | | | instantiated yet, | | | | has already been | | | | terminated).** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsData | Vendor specific | type: -- | | | attributes of the | | | | type vsDataType. The | multiplicity: -- | | | attribute | | | | definitions | isOrdered: -- | | | including | | | | constraints (value | isUnique: -- | | | ranges, data types, | | | | etc.) are specified | defaultValue: -- | | | in a vendor specific | | | | data format file. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: -- | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsDataFormatVersion | Name of the data | type: String | | | format file, | | | | including version. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | vsDataType | Type of vendor | type: String | | | specific data | | | | contained by this | multiplicity: 1 | | | instance, e.g. | | | | relation specific | isOrdered: N/A | | | algorithm | | | | parameters, cell | isUnique: N/A | | | specific parameters | | | | for power control or | defaultValue: None | | | re-selection or a | | | | timer. The type | isNullable: False | | | itself is also | | | | vendor specific. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | suppo | A set of performance | type: | | rtedPerfMetricGroups | metric groups. When | Supp | | | this attribute is | ortedPerfMetricGroup | | | contained in a | | | | managed object it | multiplicity: * | | | may define | | | | performance metrics | isOrdered: False | | | for this object and | | | | all descendant | isUnique: True | | | objects. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | performanceMetrics | List of performance | type: String | | | metrics. | | | | | multiplicity: * | | | Performance metrics | | | | include measurements | isOrdered: False | | | defined in TS 28.552 | | | | [20] and KPIs | isUnique: True | | | defined in TS 28.554 | | | | [28]. Performance | defaultValue: None | | | metrics can also be | | | | specified by other | isNullable: False | | | SDOs, or be vendor | | | | specific. | | | | Performance metrics | | | | are identified with | | | | their names. | | | | | | | | For measurements | | | | defined in TS 28.552 | | | | [20] the name is | | | | constructed as | | | | follows: | | | | | | | | - | | | | \"family.measurem | | | | entName.subcounter\" | | | | for measurement | | | | types with | | | | subcounters | | | | | | | | - | | | | \"fami | | | | ly.measurementName\" | | | | for measurement | | | | types without | | | | subcounters | | | | | | | | - \"family\" for | | | | measurement families | | | | | | | | For KPIs defined in | | | | TS 28.554 [28] the | | | | name is defined in | | | | the KPI definitions | | | | template as the | | | | component designated | | | | with e). | | | | | | | | A name can also | | | | identify a vendor | | | | specific performance | | | | metric or a group of | | | | vendor specific | | | | performance metrics. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | rootObjectInstances | List of object | type: Dn | | | instances. Each | | | | object instance is | multiplicity: * | | | identified by its DN | | | | and designates the | isOrdered: False | | | root of a subtree | | | | that contains the | isUnique: True | | | root object and all | | | | descendant objects. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportingMethods | List of reporting | type: ENUM | | | methods for | | | | performance metrics | multiplicity: * | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | - | isUnique: True | | | \"FILE_BASED_LOC_ | | | | SET_BY_PRODUCER\", | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | - | isNullable: False | | | \"FILE_BASED_LOC_ | | | | SET_BY_CONSUMER\", | | | | | | | | - \"STREAM_BASED\" | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nFServiceType | The parameter | type: ENUM | | | defines the type of | | | | the managed NF | multiplicity: 1 | | | service instance | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | allowedValues: See | | | | clause 7.2 of TS | isUnique: N/A | | | 23.501[22] | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operations | This parameter | type: Operation | | | defines set of | | | | operations supported | multiplicity: 1..* | | | by the managed NF | | | | service instance. | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | isUnique: True | | | TS 23.502[23] for | | | | supporting | defaultValue: None | | | operations | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Operation.name | This parameter | type: String | | | defines the name of | | | | the operation of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | managed NF service | | | | instance. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | allowedNFTypes | This parameter | type: ENUM | | | identifies the type | | | | of network functions | multiplicity: 1..* | | | allowed to access | | | | the operation of the | isOrdered: False | | | managed NF service | | | | instance. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: See | defaultValue: None | | | TS 23.501[22] for | | | | NF types | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | operationSemantics | This paramerter | type: ENUM | | | identifies the | | | | semantics type of | multiplicity: 1 | | | the operation. See | | | | TS 23.502[23] | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isUnique: N/A | | | "Request/Response", | | | | "Subscribe/Notify". | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sAP | This parameter | type: SAP | | | specifies the | | | | service access point | multiplicity: 1 | | | of the managed NF | | | | service instance. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | host | This parameter | type: String | | | specifies the host | | | | address of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | managed NF service | | | | instance. It can be | isOrdered: N/A | | | FQDN (See TS 23.003 | | | | [5]) or an IPv4 | isUnique: N/A | | | address (See RFC 791 | | | | [24]) or an IPv6 | defaultValue: None | | | address (See | | | | RFC 2373 [25]). | isNullable: False | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | port | This parameter | type: Integer | | | specifies the | | | | transport port of | multiplicity: 1 | | | the managed NF | | | | service instance. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: 1 - | isUnique: N/A | | | 65535 | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | usageState | Usage state of a | type: ENUM | | | managed object | | | | instance. It | multiplicity: 1 | | | describes whether | | | | the resource is | isOrdered: N/A | | | actively in use at a | | | | specific instant, | isUnique: N/A | | | and if so, whether | | | | or not it has spare | defaultValue: None | | | capacity for | | | | additional users at | isNullable: False | | | that instant. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"IDLE\", | | | | \"ACTIVE\", | | | | \"BUSY\". | | | | | | | | The meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | | | | in 3GPP TS 28.625 | | | | [21] and ITU-T | | | | X.731 [19]. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | registrationState | This parameter | type: ENUM | | | defines the | | | | registration status | multiplicity: 1 | | | of the managed NF | | | | service instance. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isUnique: N/A | | | \"Registered\", | | | | \"Deregistered\". | defaultValue: | | | | Deregistered | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobId | Identifier of a | type: String | | | PerfMetricJob job. | | | | | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | granularityPeriod | Granularity period | type: Integer | | | used to produce | | | | measurements. The | multiplicity: 1 | | | period is defined in | | | | seconds. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | See Note 4. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: | defaultValue: None | | | Integer with a | | | | minimum value of 1 | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | granularityPeriods | Granularity periods | type: Integer | | | supported for the | | | | production of | multiplicity: * | | | associated | | | | measurement types. | isOrdered: False | | | The period is | | | | defined in seconds. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | allowedValues: | defaultValue: None | | | Integer with a | | | | minimum value of 1 | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportingCtrl | Selecting the | type: ReportingCtrl | | | reporting method and | | | | defining associated | multiplicity: 1 | | | control parameters. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fileReportingPeriod | For the file-based | type: Integer | | | reporting method | | | | this is the time | multiplicity: 1 | | | window during which | | | | collected | isOrdered: N/A | | | measurements are | | | | stored into the same | isUnique: N/A | | | file before the file | | | | is closed and a new | defaultValue: None | | | file is opened. The | | | | period is defined in | isNullable: False | | | minutes. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | Multiples of | | | | granularityPeriod | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | fileLocation | File location | type: String | | | | | | | allowedValues: Not | multiplicity: 1 | | | applicable. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | streamTarget | The stream target | type: String | | | for the stream-based | | | | reporting method. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **a | Administrative state | type: ENUM | | dministrativeState** | of a managed object | | | | instance. The | multiplicity: 1 | | | administrative state | | | | describes the | isOrdered: N/A | | | permission to use or | | | | prohibition against | isUnique: N/A | | | using the object | | | | instance. The | defaultValue: LOCKED | | | adminstrative state | | | | is set by the MnS | isNullable: False | | | consumer. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | LOCKED, UNLOCKED. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **operationalState** | Operational state of | type: ENUM | | | manged object | | | | instance. The | multiplicity: 1 | | | operational state | | | | describes if an | isOrdered: N/A | | | object instance is | | | | operable | isUnique: N/A | | | (\"ENABLED\") or | | | | inoperable | defaultValue: | | | (\"DISABLED\"). This | DISABLED | | | state is set by the | | | | object instance or | isNullable: False | | | the MnS producer and | | | | is hence READ-ONLY. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | ENABLED, DISABLED. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | alarmRecords | List of alarm | type: AlarmRecord | | | records | | | | | multiplicity: * | | | allowedValues: N/A | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | numOfAlarmRecords | Number of alarm | type: integer | | | records in the | | | | AlarmList. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: 0 to | isOrdered: N/A | | | x where x is vendor | | | | specific. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | lastModification | Time an alarm record | type: DateTime | | | was modified the | | | | last time | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | jobType | It specifies the MDT | type: ENUM | | | mode and it | | | | specifies also | multiplicity: 1 | | | whether the TraceJob | | | | represents only MDT, | isOrdered: N/A | | | Logged MBSFN MDT, | | | | Trace or a combined | isUnique: N/A | | | Trace and MDT job. | | | | The attribute is | defaultValue: | | | applicable for | TRACE_ONLY | | | Trace, MDT, RCEF and | | | | RLF reporting. | isNullable: False | | | | | | | See the clause 5.9a | | | | of TS 32.422 [30] | | | | for additional | | | | details on the | | | | allowed values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | listOfInterfaces | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | interfaces that need | | | | to be traced.The | multiplicity: 1..* | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | isOrdered: False | | | Trace. In case this | | | | attribute is not | isUnique: True | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | See the clause 5.5 | isNullable: True | | | of TS 32.422 [30] | | | | for additional | | | | details on the | | | | allowed values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | listOfNeTypes | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | network element | | | | types where the | multiplicity: 1..* | | | trace should be | | | | activated. The | isOrdered: False | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | isUnique: True | | | Trace with | | | | Signalling Based | defaultValue: None | | | Trace activation. In | | | | case this attribute | isNullable: True | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause 5.4 | | | | of TS 32.422 [30] | | | | for additional | | | | details on the | | | | allowed values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PLMNTarget | It specifies which | type: PlmnId | | | PLMN that the | | | | subscriber of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | session to be | | | | recorded uses as | isOrdered: N/A | | | selected PLMN. PLMN | | | | Target might differ | isUnique: N/A | | | from the PLMN | | | | specified in the | defaultValue: None | | | Trace Reference. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | See the clause 5.9b | | | | of 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | trace | It specifies the | type: String | | ReportingConsumerUri | Uniform Resource | | | | Identifier (URI) of | multiplicity: 1 | | | the Streaming Trace | | | | data reporting MnS | isOrdered: N/A | | | consumer (a.k.a. | | | | streaming target). | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | See the clause 5.9 c | defaultValue: None | | | of TS 32.422 [30] | | | | for additional | isNullable: True | | | details on the | | | | allowed values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceColle | It specifies the | type: IpAddress | | ctionEntityIPAddress | address of the Trace | | | | Collection Entity | multiplicity: 1 | | | when the attribute | | | | traceReportingFormat | isOrdered: N/A | | | is configured for | | | | the file-based | isUnique: N/A | | | reporting. The | | | | attribute is | defaultValue: None | | | applicable for both | | | | Trace and MDT. | isNullable: True | | | | | | | See the clause 5.9 | | | | of TS 32.422 [30] | | | | for additional | | | | details on the | | | | allowed values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceDepth | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | trace depth. The | | | | attribute is | multiplicity: 1 | | | applicable only for | | | | Trace. In case this | isOrdered: N/A | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | isUnique: N/A | | | null semantic. | | | | | defaultValue: | | | See the clause 5.3 | MAXIMUM | | | of 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | isNullable: True | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceReference | A globally unique | type: TraceReference | | | identifier, which | | | | uniquely identifies | multiplicity: 1 | | | the Trace Session | | | | that is created by | isOrdered: N/A | | | the TraceJob. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | In case of shared | | | | network, it is the | defaultValue: None | | | MCC and | | | | | isNullable: False | | | MNC of the | | | | Participating | | | | Operator that | | | | request the trace | | | | session that shall | | | | be provided. | | | | | | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable for both | | | | Trace and MDT. | | | | | | | | See the clause 5.6 | | | | of 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceRecor | An identifier, which | type: String | | dingSessionReference | identifies the Trace | | | | Recording Session. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | The attribute is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applicable for both | | | | Trace and MDT. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | See the clause 5.7 | defaultValue: None | | | of 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | isNullable: False | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceReportingFormat | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | trace reporting | | | | format - streaming | multiplicity: 1 | | | trace reporting or | | | | file-based trace | isOrdered: N/A | | | reporting. | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | AllowedValues: | | | | FILE-BASED, | defaultValue: | | | STREAMING | FILE-BASED | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceTarget | It specifies the | type: String | | | target object of the | | | | Trace and MDT. The | multiplicity: 1 | | | attribute is | | | | applicable for both | isOrdered: N/A | | | Trace and MDT. This | | | | attribute includes | isUnique: N/A | | | the ID type of the | | | | target as an | defaultValue: None | | | enumeration and the | | | | ID value(s). | isNullable: True | | | | | | | The traceTarget | | | | shall be | | | | \"PUBLIC_ID\" in | | | | case of a Management | | | | Based Activation is | | | | done to an | | | | SCSCFFunction | | | | (Serving Call | | | | Session Control | | | | Function) or | | | | PCSCFFunction (Proxy | | | | Call Session Control | | | | Function) (TS | | | | 28.705[44]). The | | | | traceTarget shall be | | | | \"UTRAN_CELL\" only | | | | in case of the UTRAN | | | | cell traffic trace | | | | function. | | | | | | | | The traceTarget | | | | shall be | | | | \"E-UTRAN_CELL\" | | | | only in case of | | | | E-UTRAN cell traffic | | | | trace function. | | | | | | | | The traceTarget | | | | shall be | | | | \"NG-RAN_CELL\" | | | | only in case of NR | | | | cell traffic trace | | | | function. | | | | | | | | The traceTarget | | | | shall be either | | | | \"IMSI\", \"IMEI\" | | | | or \"IMEISV\" if the | | | | Trace Session is | | | | activated to any of | | | | the following | | | | ManagedEntity(ies): | | | | | | | | - HSSFunction (Home | | | | Subscriber Server) | | | | (TS 28.705 [44]) | | | | | | | | - MscServerFunction | | | | (Mobile Switching | | | | Centre Server) (TS | | | | 28.702 [45]) | | | | | | | | - SgsnFunction | | | | (Serving GPRS | | | | Support Node) (TS | | | | 28.702[45]) | | | | | | | | - GgsnFunction | | | | (Gateway GPRS | | | | Support Node) (TS | | | | 28.702[45]) | | | | | | | | - BmscFunction | | | | (Broadcast Multicast | | | | Service Centre) (TS | | | | 28.702[45]) | | | | | | | | - RncFunction | | | | (Radio Network | | | | Controller) (TS | | | | 28.652[46]) | | | | | | | | - MmeFunction | | | | (Mobility Management | | | | Entity) (TS | | | | 28.708[47]) | | | | | | | | - ServingGWFunction | | | | (Serving Gateway) | | | | (TS 28.708[47]) | | | | | | | | - PGWFunction (PDN | | | | Gateway) (TS | | | | 28.708[47]). | | | | | | | | The traceTarget | | | | shall be either | | | | "SUPI" or "IMEISV" | | | | if the Trace Session | | | | is activated to any | | | | of the following | | | | ManagedEntity(ies) | | | | (TS 28.541[48]): | | | | | | | | - AFFunction | | | | | | | | - AMFFunction | | | | | | | | - AUSFunction | | | | | | | | - NEFFunction | | | | | | | | - NRFFunction | | | | | | | | - NSSFFunction | | | | | | | | - PCFFunction | | | | | | | | - SMFFunction | | | | | | | | - UPFFunction | | | | | | | | - UDMFunction | | | | | | | | In case of | | | | signalling based | | | | MDT, the traceTarget | | | | attribute shall be | | | | able to carry | | | | \"PUBLIC_ID\", | | | | \"IMSI\", \"IMEI\", | | | | \"IMEISV)\" or | | | | \"SUPI\". | | | | | | | | In case of | | | | management based | | | | Immediate MDT, the | | | | traceTarget | | | | attribute shall be | | | | null value. | | | | | | | | In case of | | | | management based | | | | Logged MDT, the | | | | traceTarget | | | | attribute shall | | | | carry an \"eNB\" or | | | | a \"gNB\" or an | | | | \"RNC\". The Logged | | | | MDT should be | | | | initiated on the | | | | specified | | | | eNB/gNB/RNC in | | | | traceTarget. | | | | | | | | In case of RLF | | | | reporting, or RCEF | | | | reporting, the | | | | traceTarget | | | | attribute shall be | | | | null value. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | triggeringEvents | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | triggering event | | | | parameter of the | multiplicity: 1 | | | trace session. The | | | | attribute is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applicable only for | | | | Trace. In case this | isUnique: N/A | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | defaultValue: None | | | null semantic. | | | | | isNullable: True | | | See the clause 5.1 | | | | of 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | an | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | onymizationOfMDTData | level of | | | | anonymization for | multiplicity: 1 | | | management based | | | | MDT. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | See the clause | isUnique: N/A | | | 5.10.12 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | defaultValue: | | | additional details | NO_IDENTITY | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | areaConfi | It specifies the | type: AreaConfig | | gurationForNeighCell | area for which UE is | | | | requested to perform | multiplicity: 1..* | | | measurement logging | | | | for neighbour cells | isOrdered: False | | | which have list of | | | | frequencies. If it | isUnique: True | | | is not configured, | | | | the UE shall perform | defaultValue: No | | | measurement logging | | | | for all the | isNullable: True | | | neighbour cells. | | | | | | | | Applicable only to | | | | NR Logged MDT. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.26 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | areaScope | It specifies MDT | type: AreaScope | | | area scope when | | | | activates an MDT | multiplicity: 1..* | | | job. | | | | | isOrdered: False | | | For RLF and RCEF | | | | reporting it | isUnique: True | | | specifies the | | | | eNB/gNB or list of | defaultValue: None | | | eNBs/gNBs where the | | | | RLF or RCEF reports | isNullable: True | | | should be collected. | | | | | | | | List of | | | | cells/TA/LA/RA for | | | | signalling based MDT | | | | or management based | | | | Logged MDT. | | | | | | | | List of cells for | | | | management based | | | | Immediate MDT. | | | | | | | | Cell, TA, LA, RA are | | | | mutually exclusive. | | | | | | | | One or list of | | | | eNBs/gNBs for RLF | | | | and RCEF reporting | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.2 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | co | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | llectionPeriodRRMLTE | collection period | | | | for collecting RRM | multiplicity: 1 | | | configured | | | | measurement samples | isOrdered: N/A | | | for M3 in LTE. The | | | | attribute is | isUnique: N/A | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT. In | defaultValue: None | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | isNullable: True | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.20 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | col | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | lectionPeriodRRMUMTS | collection period | | | | for collecting RRM | multiplicity: 1 | | | configured | | | | measurement samples | isOrdered: N/A | | | for M3, M4, M5 in | | | | UMTS. The attribute | isUnique: N/A | | | is applicable only | | | | for Immediate MDT. | defaultValue: None | | | In case this | | | | attribute is not | isNullable: True | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.21 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eventListForEvent | It specifies event | type: ENUM | | TriggeredMeasurement | types for event | | | | triggered | multiplicity: 1 | | | measurement in the | | | | case of logged NR | isOrdered: N/A | | | MDT. Each trace | | | | session may | isUnique: N/A | | | configure at most | | | | one event. The UE | defaultValue: None | | | shall perform | | | | logging of | isNullable: True | | | measurements only | | | | upon certain | | | | condition being | | | | fulfilled: | | | | | | | | - Out of coverage. | | | | | | | | - A2 event. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.28 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eventThreshold | It specifies the | type: Integer | | | threshold which | | | | should trigger | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | the reporting in | isOrdered: N/A | | | case A2 event | | | | reporting in LTE and | isUnique: N/A | | | NR or 1F/1l event in | | | | UMTS. The attribute | defaultValue: None | | | is applicable only | | | | for Immediate MDT | isNullable: True | | | and when | | | | reportingTrigger is | | | | configured for A2 | | | | event in LTE and NR | | | | or 1F event or 1l | | | | event in UMTS. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clauses | | | | 5.10.7 and 5.10.7a | | | | of 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | listOfMeasurements | It specifies the UE | type: ENUM | | | measurements that | | | | shall be collected | multiplicity: 1 | | | in an Immediate MDT | | | | job. The attribute | isOrdered: N/A | | | is applicable only | | | | for Immediate MDT. | isUnique: N/A | | | In case this | | | | attribute is not | defaultValue: None | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | isNullable: True | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.3 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | loggingDuration | It specifies how | type: ENUM | | | long the MDT | | | | configuration is | multiplicity: 1 | | | valid at the UE in | | | | case of Logged MDT. | isOrdered: N/A | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable only for | isUnique: N/A | | | Logged MDT and | | | | Logged MBSFN MDT. In | defaultValue: None | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | isNullable: True | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.9 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | loggingInterval | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | periodicty for | | | | Logged MDT. The | multiplicity: 1 | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | isOrdered: N/A | | | Logged MDT and | | | | Logged MBSFN MDT. In | isUnique: N/A | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | defaultValue: None | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | isNullable: True | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.8 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eventThresholdL1 | It specifies the | type: Integer | | | threshold which | | | | should trigger | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | the reporting in | isOrdered: N/A | | | case of event based | | | | reporting of logged | isUnique: N/A | | | NR MDT. The | | | | attribute is | defaultValue: None | | | applicable only for | | | | Logged MDT and when | isNullable: True | | | reportType is | | | | configured for event | | | | triggered reporting | | | | and when | | | | eventListForEvent | | | | TriggeredMeasurement | | | | is configured for L1 | | | | event. In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.36 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | hysteresisL1 | It specifies the | type: Integer | | | hysteresis used | | | | within the entry and | multiplicity: 1 | | | leave condition of | | | | the L1 event based | isOrdered: N/A | | | reporting of logged | | | | NR MDT. The | isUnique: N/A | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | defaultValue: None | | | Logged MDT, when | | | | reportType is | isNullable: True | | | configured for event | | | | triggered reporting | | | | and when | | | | eventListForEvent | | | | TriggeredMeasurement | | | | is configured for L1 | | | | event. In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.37 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | timeToTriggerL1 | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | threshold which | | | | should trigger | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | the reporting in | isOrdered: N/A | | | case of event based | | | | reporting of logged | isUnique: N/A | | | NR MDT. The | | | | attribute is | defaultValue: None | | | applicable only for | | | | Logged MDT, when | isNullable: True | | | reportType is | | | | configured for event | | | | triggered reporting | | | | and when | | | | eventListForEvent | | | | TriggeredMeasurement | | | | is configured for L1 | | | | event. In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clauses | | | | 5.10.38 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mBSNFnAreaList | The MBSFN Area | type: MbsfnArea | | | consists of a MBSFN | | | | Area ID and Carrier | multiplicity: 1..8 | | | Frequency (EARFCN). | | | | The target MBSFN | isOrdered: False | | | area List can have | | | | up to 8 entries. | isUnique: True | | | This parameter is | | | | applicable only if | defaultValue: None | | | the job type is | | | | Logged MBSFN MDT. | isNullable: True | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.25 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measurementPeriodLTE | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | collection period | | | | for the Data Volume | multiplicity: 1 | | | (M4) and Scheduled | | | | IP throughput | isOrdered: N/A | | | measurements (M5) | | | | for LTE MDT taken by | isUnique: N/A | | | the eNB. The | | | | attribute is | defaultValue: None | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT. In | isNullable: True | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.23 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | c | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | ollectionPeriodM6LTE | collection period | | | | for the Packet Delay | multiplicity: 1 | | | measurement (M6) for | | | | MDT taken by the | isOrdered: N/A | | | eNB. The attribute | | | | is applicable only | isUnique: N/A | | | for Immediate MDT. | | | | In case this | defaultValue: None | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | isNullable: True | | | null semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.32 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | c | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | ollectionPeriodM7LTE | collection period | | | | for the Packet Loss | multiplicity: 1 | | | Rate measurement | | | | (M7) for LTE MDT | isOrdered: N/A | | | taken by the eNB. | | | | The attribute is | isUnique: N/A | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT. In | defaultValue: None | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | isNullable: True | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.33 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | m | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | easurementPeriodUMTS | collection period | | | | for the Data Volume | multiplicity: 1 | | | (M6) and Throughput | | | | measurements (M7) | isOrdered: N/A | | | for UMTS MDT taken | | | | by RNC. The | isUnique: N/A | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | defaultValue: None | | | Immediate MDT. In | | | | case this attribute | isNullable: True | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.22 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | c | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | ollectionPeriodRRMNR | collection period | | | | for collecting RRM | multiplicity: 1 | | | configured | | | | measurement samples | isOrdered: N/A | | | for M4, M5 in NR. | | | | The attribute is | isUnique: N/A | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT. In | defaultValue: None | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | isNullable: True | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.30 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | collectionPeriodM6NR | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | collection period | | | | for the Packet Delay | multiplicity: 1 | | | measurement (M6) for | | | | NR MDT taken by the | isOrdered: N/A | | | gNB. The attribute | | | | is applicable only | isUnique: N/A | | | for Immediate MDT. | | | | In case this | defaultValue: None | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | isNullable: True | | | null semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.34 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | collectionPeriodM7NR | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | collection period | | | | for the Packet Loss | multiplicity: 1 | | | Rate measurement | | | | (M7) for NR MDT | isOrdered: N/A | | | taken by the gNB. | | | | The attribute is | isUnique: N/A | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT. In | defaultValue: None | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | isNullable: True | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.35 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | e | It specifies the | type: Integer | | ventThresholdUphUMTS | threshold which | | | | should trigger | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | the reporting in | isOrdered: N/A | | | case of | | | | event-triggered | isUnique: N/A | | | periodic reporting | | | | for M4 (UE power | defaultValue: None | | | headroom | | | | measurement) in | isNullable: True | | | UMTS. In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.39 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | measurementQuantity | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | measurements that | | | | are collected in an | multiplicity: 1 | | | MDT job for a UMTS | | | | MDT configured for | isOrdered: N/A | | | event triggered | | | | reporting. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | See the clause | defaultValue: None | | | 5.10.15 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | isNullable: True | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | plmnList | It indicates the | type: PlmnId | | | PLMNs where | | | | measurement | multiplicity: 1..16 | | | collection, status | | | | indication and log | isOrdered: False | | | reporting are | | | | allowed. | isUnique: True | | | | | | | See the clause | defaultValue: None | | | 5.10.24 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | isNullable: True | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | positioningMethod | It specifies what | type: Integer | | | positioning method | | | | should be used in | multiplicity: 1 | | | the MDT job. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.19 of TS 32.422 | isUnique: N/A | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | defaultValue: None | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportAmount | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | number of | | | | measurement reports | multiplicity: 1 | | | that shall be taken | | | | for periodic | isOrdered: N/A | | | reporting while the | | | | UE is in connected. | isUnique: N/A | | | The attribute is | | | | applicable only for | defaultValue: None | | | Immediate MDT and | | | | when | isNullable: True | | | reportingTrigger is | | | | configured for | | | | periodical | | | | measurements. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.6 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportingTrigger | It specifies whether | type: ENUM | | | periodic or event | | | | based measurements | multiplicity: 1 | | | should be collected. | | | | The attribute is | isOrdered: N/A | | | applicable only for | | | | Immediate MDT and | isUnique: N/A | | | when the | | | | listOfMeasurements | defaultValue: None | | | is configured for M1 | | | | (for UMTS, LTE and | isNullable: True | | | NR) or M2 (only for | | | | UMTS). In case this | | | | attribute is not | | | | used, it carries a | | | | null semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.4 of TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportInterval | It specifies the | type: ENUM | | | interval between the | | | | periodical | multiplicity: 1 | | | measurements that | | | | shall be taken when | isOrdered: N/A | | | the UE is in | | | | connected mode. The | isUnique: N/A | | | attribute is | | | | applicable only for | defaultValue: None | | | Immediate MDT and | | | | when | isNullable: True | | | reportingTrigger is | | | | configured for | | | | periodical | | | | measurements. In | | | | case this attribute | | | | is not used, it | | | | carries a null | | | | semantic. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.5 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | reportType | It specifies report | type: ENUM | | | type for logged NR | | | | MDT as: | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | - periodical. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | - event triggered. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | See the clause | defaultValue: None | | | 5.10.27 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | isNullable: True | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | sensorInformation | It specifies which | type: ENUM | | | sensor information | | | | shall be included in | multiplicity: 1..* | | | logged NR MDT and | | | | immediate NR MDT | isOrdered: False | | | measurement if they | | | | are available. The | isUnique: True | | | following sensor | | | | measurement can be | defaultValue: None | | | included or excluded | | | | for the UE: | isNullable: True | | | | | | | - Barometric | | | | pressure. | | | | | | | | - UE speed. | | | | | | | | - UE orientation. | | | | | | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.29 of 3GPP TS | | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tra | It specifies the TCE | type: Integer | | ceCollectionEntityId | Id which is sent to | | | | the UE in Logged | multiplicity: 1 | | | MDT. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | See the clause | | | | 5.10.11 of 3GPP TS | isUnique: N/A | | | 32.422 [30] for | | | | additional details | defaultValue: None | | | on the allowed | | | | values. | isNullable: True | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mcc | Mobile Country Code | type: Mcc | | | | | | | allowedValues: As | multiplicity: 1 | | | defined by the data | | | | type | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mnc | Mobile Network | type: Mnc | | | | | | | allowedValues: As | multiplicity: 1 | | | defined by the data | | | | type | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | traceId | An identifier, which | type: String | | | identifies the Trace | | | | (together with MCC | multiplicity: 1 | | | and MNC). This is a | | | | 3 byte Octet String. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | See the clause 5.6 | isUnique: N/A | | | of 3GPP TS 32.422 | | | | [30] for | defaultValue: None | | | additional details | | | | on the allowed | isNullable: False | | | values. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | freqInfo | It specifies the | type: FreqInfo | | | carrier frequency | | | | and bands used in a | multiplicity: 1 | | | cell. | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | arfcn | RF Reference | type: Integer | | | Frequency as defined | | | | in TS 38.104 [35], | multiplicity: 1 | | | clause 5.4.2.1. The | | | | frequency provided | isOrdered: N/A | | | identifies the | | | | absolute frequency | isUnique: N/A | | | position of the | | | | reference resource | defaultValue: None | | | block (Common RB 0) | | | | of the carrier. Its | isNullable: False | | | lowest subcarrier is | | | | also known as Point | | | | A. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: 0, 1, | | | | ...,3279165 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | freqBands | List of NR frequency | type: Integer | | | operating bands. | | | | Primary NR Operating | multiplicity: 1..* | | | Band as defined in | | | | TS 38.104 [35], | isOrdered: False | | | clause 5.4.2.3. | | | | | isUnique: True | | | The value 1 | | | | corresponds to n1, | defaultValue: Nonee | | | value 2 corresponds | | | | to NR operating band | isNullable: False | | | n2, etc. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: 1, 2, | | | | ...,1024 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | pciList | List of neighbour | type: Integer | | | cells subject for | | | | MDT scope. | multiplicity: 1..32 | | | | | | | allowedValues: 0, 1, | isOrdered: False | | | ...,1007 | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tac | Tracking Area Code | type: Tac | | | | | | | allowedValues: As | multiplicity: 1 | | | defined by the data | | | | type | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eutraCellIdList | List of E-UTRAN | type: EutraCellId | | | cells identified by | | | | E-UTRAN-CGI | multiplicity: 1..32 | | | | | | | allowedValues: As | isOrdered: False | | | defined by the data | | | | type | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | nrCellIdList | List of NR cells | type: NrCellId | | | identified by NG-RAN | | | | CGI | multiplicity: 1..32 | | | | | | | allowedValues: As | isOrdered: False | | | defined by the data | | | | type | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | tacList | Tracking Area Code | type: Tac | | | list | | | | | multiplicity: 1..8 | | | allowedValues: As | | | | defined by the data | isOrdered: False | | | type | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | taiList | Tracking Area | type: Tai | | | Identity list | | | | | multiplicity: 1..8 | | | allowedValues: As | | | | defined by the data | isOrdered: False | | | type | | | | | isUnique: True | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | mbsfnAreaId | MBSFN Area | type: Integer | | | Identifier | | | | | multiplicity: 1 | | | AllowedValues: 1, 2, | | | | ... | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | earfcn | Carrier Frequency | type: Integer | | | | | | | AllowedValues: 1, 2, | multiplicity: 1 | | | ... | | | | | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | dnPrefix | It carries the DN | type: DN | | | Prefix information | | | | or no information. | multiplicity: 0..1 | | | See Annex C of | | | | 32.300 [13] for | isOrdered: N/A | | | one usage of this | | | | attribute. | isUnique: N/A | | | | | | | allowedValues: N/A | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | | isNullable: False | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > NOTE 1: The value | | | | > of this attribute | | | | > is identical to | | | | > that of the same | | | | > attribute in | | | | > clause 9.4.2 of | | | | > ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | > 008 [16]. | | | | > | | | | > NOTE 2: The value | | | | > of this attribute | | | | > is identical to | | | | > that of the | | | | > attribute | | | | > isAutoscaleEnabled | | | | > included in | | | | > vnf | | | | ConfigurableProperty | | | | > in clause 9.4.2 of | | | | > ETSI GS NFV-IFA | | | | > 008 [16]. | | | | > | | | | > NOTE 3: The | | | | > presence of the | | | | > attribute | | | | > vnfParametersList, | | | | > whose | | | | > vnfInstanceId with | | | | > a string length of | | | | > zero, in createMO | | | | > operation can | | | | > trigger the | | | | > instantiation of | | | | > the related | | | | > VNF/VNFC | | | | > instances. | | | | > | | | | > NOTE 4: The GP | | | | > defines the | | | | > measurement data | | | | > production rate. | | | | > The supported | | | | > rates are | | | | > dependent on the | | | | > capacity of the | | | | > producer involved | | | | > (e.g. the | | | | > processing power | | | | > of the producer, | | | | > the complexity of | | | | > the measurement | | | | > type involved etc) | | | | > and therefore, it | | | | > cannot be | | | | > standardized for | | | | > all producers | | | | > involved. The | | | | > supported GPs | | | | > reflects the | | | | > agreement between | | | | > producer and the | | | | > consumer involved. | | | | > | | | | > NOTE 5: The | | | | > monitoring | | | | > granularity period | | | | > defines the | | | | > measurements | | | | > monitoring period. | | | | > The supported | | | | > monitoring periods | | | | > are dependent on | | | | > the capacity of | | | | > the producer | | | | > involved (e.g. the | | | | > processing power | | | | > of the producer, | | | | > the complexity of | | | | > the measurement | | | | > type involved etc) | | | | > and therefore, it | | | | > cannot be | | | | > standardized for | | | | > all producers | | | | > involved. The | | | | > supported | | | | > monitoring GPs | | | | > reflect the | | | | > agreement between | | | | > producer and the | | | | > consumer involved. | | | | > | | | | > NOTE 6: The | | | | > supported | | | | > threshold levels | | | | > are dependent on | | | | > the capacity of | | | | > the producer | | | | > involved (e.g. the | | | | > processing power | | | | > of the producer, | | | | > number of | | | | > measurements being | | | | > measured by the | | | | > producer at the | | | | > time, the | | | | > complexity of the | | | | > measurement type | | | | > involved etc) and | | | | > therefore, it | | | | > cannot be | | | | > standardized for | | | | > all producers | | | | > involved. The | | | | > supported levels | | | | > can only reflect | | | | > the negotiated | | | | > agreement between | | | | > producer and the | | | | > consumer involved. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 4.4.2 Constraints
None
## 4.5 Common notifications
### 4.5.1 Alarm notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [27], that a MnS
consumer can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [3], captures the DN of an instance of
an IOC defined in the present document.
Name S Notes
* * *
notifyNewAlarm M  
notifyClearedAlarm M  
notifyChangedAlarm O  
notifyChangedAlarmGeneral O  
notifyCorrelatedNotificationChanged O  
notifyAckStateChanged O  
notifyComments O  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList O  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt M
### 4.5.2 Configuration notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [27], that a MnS
consumer can receive. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [3], captures the DN of an instance of
an IOC defined in the present document.
Name S Notes
* * *
notifyMOIObjectCreation O  
notifyMOIObjectDeletion O  
notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges O  
notifyMOIChanges O  
notifyEvent O
### 4.5.3 Threshold Crossing notifications
This clause presents a list of notifications, defined in [27], that a MnS
Producer can send. The notification header attribute
objectClass/objectInstance, defined in [3], captures the DN of an instance of
an IOC defined in the present document.
Name S Notes
* * *
notifyThresholdCrossing CM Mandatory if NRM based threshold monitoring is
supported.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Alternate class diagram
This class diagram combines the Figure 4.2.1-1 of this document with Figure 1
of [9], the class diagram of UIM.
Figure A-1: Alternate class diagram
#