# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
28.624 State Management Data Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements;
**28.625 State Management Data Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS) ;**
**28.626 State Management Data Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions.**
This specification is part of a set that has been developed for converged
management solutions.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the State Management Data Definition IRP
Information Service that can be communicated between an IRPAgent and an
IRPManager for telecommunication network management purposes, including
management of converged networks.
The present document specifies the semantics and behaviour of information
object class attributes and relations visible across the reference point in a
protocol and technology neutral way. It does not define their syntax and
encoding.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] Void
[4] Void
[5] Void
[6] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.731: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: State management function\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.733: \"Information technology - Open Systems
Interconnection - Systems Management: Alarm reporting function\".
[9] Void
[10] Void
[11] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[11], 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2], 3GPP TS 32.600 [6] and the
following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905
[11], 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [6].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[11], and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [11].
CM Configuration Management
IOC Information Object Class
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Information entities imported and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label
* * *
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
There is no relationship.
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
There are no inheritance relationships.
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 StateManagementEntity
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
StateManagementEntity is an Archetype, that may represent any IOC defined in
the Network Resource Models, e.g. Generic Network Resource Model, Core Network
Resource Model, UTRAN Network Resource Model or GERAN Network Resource Model.
The attributes defined for this Archetype can be imported and used in any IOC
of the Network Resource Models, where such attributes are needed. These
attributes shall be used in the same way as defined in the ITU‑T
Recommendation X.731 [7] and ITU‑T Recommendation X.733 [8], unless otherwise
stated. That document gives also examples of state diagrams, defining possible
state transitions when one or more of the state attributes defined here are
used in a class.
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
The following attributes are defined for this Archetype.
* * *
Attribute Name operationalState usageState administrativeState alarmStatus
proceduralStatus availabilityStatus controlStatus standbyStatus unknownStatus
* * *
#### 4.3.1.3 Attribute constraints
None.
## 4.4 Attribute definitions
### 4.4.1 Attribute properties
The following table gives the definition and legal values for each attribute.
+---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | Attribute Name | Documentation and | Properties | | | Allowed Values | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | operationalState | It indicates the | type: String | | | operational state of | | | | the object instance. | multiplicity: 1 | | | \"It describes whether | | | | or not the resource is | isOrdered: N/A | | | physically installed | | | | and working.\" [7] | isUnique: N/A | | | This attribute is | | | | READ-ONLY. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | The meaning of these | isNullable: False | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | "Enabled", "Disabled" | | | | . | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | usageState | It indicates the usage | type: String | | | state of the object | | | | instance. \"It | multiplicity: 1 | | | describes whether or | | | | not the resource is | isOrdered: N/A | | | actively in use at a | | | | specific instant, and | isUnique: N/A | | | if so, whether or not | | | | it has spare capacity | defaultValue: None | | | for additional users | | | | at that instant.\" | isNullable: False | | | [7] This attribute | | | | is READ-ONLY. | | | | | | | | The meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"Idle\", \"Active\", | | | | \"Busy\". | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | administrativeState | It indicates the | type: String | | | administrative state | | | | of the object | multiplicity: 1 | | | instance. \"It | | | | describes the | isOrdered: N/A | | | permission to use or | | | | prohibition against | isUnique: N/A | | | using the resource, | | | | imposed through the | defaultValue: None | | | management services.\" | | | | [7] | isNullable: False | | | | | | | The meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"Locked\", \"Shutting | | | | down\", \"Unlocked\". | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | alarmStatus | It indicates the alarm | type: String | | | status of the object | | | | instance. This is | multiplicity: 1 | | | mapped to the | | | | perceived severity of | isOrdered: N/A | | | the most severe active | | | | alarm associated to | isUnique: N/A | | | the object instance. | | | | | defaultValue: None | | | The meaning of these | | | | values is as defined | isNullable: False | | | for the attribute | | | | perceived severity in | | | | ITU‑T Recommendation | | | | X.733 [8]. | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"Cleared\", | | | | \"Indeterminate\", | | | | \"Warning\", | | | | \"Minor\", \"Major\", | | | | \"Critical\". | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | proceduralStatus | It indicates the | type: String | | | procedural status of | | | | the object instance. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | The meaning of these | isOrdered: False | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | isUnique: True | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isNullable: True | | | \"Initialisation | | | | required\", \"Not | | | | initialised\", | | | | \"Initialising\", | | | | \"Reporting\", | | | | \"Terminating\". | | | | | | | | The meaning of NULL | | | | value is the same as | | | | \"empty set\" defined | | | | in ITU‑T | | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]: \"If the value | | | | of this attribute is | | | | an empty set the | | | | managed object is | | | | ready, for example, | | | | the initialization is | | | | complete". | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | availabilityStatus | It indicates the | type: String | | | availability status of | | | | the object instance. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | The meaning of these | isOrdered: False | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | isUnique: True | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: \"In | isNullable: True | | | test\", \"Failed\", | | | | \"Power off\", \"Off | | | | line\", \"Off duty\", | | | | \"Dependency\", | | | | \"Degraded\", \"Not | | | | installed\", \"Log | | | | full\". | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | controlStatus | It indicates the | type: String | | | control status of the | | | | object instance. | multiplicity: 1..* | | | | | | | The meaning of these | isOrdered: False | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | isUnique: True | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: | isNullable: True | | | \"Subject to test\", | | | | \"Part of services | | | | locked\", \"Reserved | | | | for test\", | | | | \"Suspended\". | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | standbyStatus | It indicates the | type: String | | | standby status of the | | | | object instance. | multiplicity: 1 | | | | | | | The meaning of these | isOrdered: N/A | | | values is as defined | | | | in ITU‑T | isUnique: N/A | | | Recommendation X.731 | | | | [7]. | defaultValue: None | | | | | | | allowedValues: \"Hot | isNullable: False | | | standby\", \"Cold | | | | standby\", \"Providing | | | | service\". | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+ | unknownStatus | It indicates whether | type: String | | | the state of the | | | | resource represented | multiplicity: 1 | | | by the managed object | | | | is unknown. | isOrdered: N/A | | | | | | | \"True\" (state is | isUnique: N/A | | | unknown, the values of | | | | the state attributes | defaultValue: None | | | may not reflect the | | | | actual state of the | isNullable: False | | | resource); | | | | | | | | \"False\" (state is | | | | known, the values of | | | | the state attributes | | | | reflect the actual | | | | state of the | | | | resource). | | | | | | | | allowedValues: | | | | \"True\", \"False\". | | +---------------------+------------------------+---------------------+
#