# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
**28.624: State Management Data Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Requirements**
28.625: State Management Data Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)
**28.626 State Management Data Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Solution Set (SS) definitions**
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in 3GPP
TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [3], the requirements for
the present IRP: State Management Data Definition.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.625: \"Telecommunication management; State Management Data
Definition Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.702: \"Telecommunication management; Core Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.652: \"Telecommunication management; UTRAN Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.655: \"Telecommunication management; GERAN Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS) \".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.731: \"Information technology, Open Systems
Interconnection, Systems Management: State management function\".
[9] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
[11] 3GPP TS.28.622: \"Generic Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration
Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[12] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [12], 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] 3GPP, TS 32.600
[3] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[12] and 3GPP TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Information Object Class (IOC):** See definition in TS 28.622 [11].
**Network Resource Model (NRM)** : See definition in TS 28.622 [11].
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [12] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [12].
CM Configuration Management
# 4 Requirements for the State Management IRP
## 4.1 Introduction to requirements
The management state of a managed object represents the instantaneous
condition of availability and operability of the associated resource from the
point of view of management. Different classes of managed object have a
variety of state attributes that express and control aspects of the operation
of their associated resource that are peculiar to each class. However, the
management state is expected to be common to a large number of resources and
for this reason is to be standardized; it expresses key aspects of their
usability at any given time. Its purpose is to control the general
availability of a resource and to make visible information about that general
availability.
State Management Data Definition IRP is defined to specify and to standardise
the generic attributes for modelling and managing the resources of 3G networks
at the Itf‑N. There are a variety of managed objects and the related network
resources. It is the task of designers of specific managed object classes to
model the state conditions of the associated network resources using the
generic attributes provided in the State Management Data Definition IRP.
Different managed objects and the network resources they model may require
different subsets of the attributes defined in the State Management Data
Definition IRP. Examples of network resource models can be found in 3GPP TS
28.625 [4], 3GPP TS 28.702 [5], 3GPP TS 28.652 [6] and 3GPP TS 28.655 [7].
## 4.2 Requirements
The following requirements apply for the State Management IRP:
A. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
B. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
C. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
A) Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
purposes, including management of converged networks.
B) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [9] and its
information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [10].
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements apply:
1\. The State Management Data Definition IRP IS shall specify state
attributes, modelling operability, usage and administration related to 3G
network resources.
\- operability: whether or not the resource is physically installed and
working, if applicable.
\- usage: whether or not the resource is actively in use at a specific
instant, and if so, whether or not it has spare capacity for additional users
at that instant. A resource is said to be \"in use\" when it has received one
or more requests for service that it has not yet completed or otherwise
discharged, or when some part of its capacity has been allocated, and not yet
reclaimed, as a result of a previous service request.
\- administration: permission to use or prohibition against using the
resource, imposed through the management services.
> The semantics and the value ranges of these state attributes shall be based
> on ITU-T Recommendation X.731 [8] while extensions and omissions may be
> made.
2\. The State Management Data Definition IRP IS shall specify status
attributes, modelling more detailed information about other aspects of the
state of the corresponding 3G network resources that may affect their
operability and usage. The status attributes also contain more detailed
information about the administrative constraints on its operation that are
controlled by a manager. The semantics and the value ranges of these status
attributes shall be based on ITU‑T Recommendation X.731 [8] while extensions
and omissions may be made.
#