# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
**Ready for Converged Management**
> This specification is part of a set that has been developed for converged
> management solutions.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Telecommunication management; as identified below:
32.690: Inventory Management (IM): Requirements
**28.631:** **Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements**
28**.** 632**:** Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model (NRM)
Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)
28.633: Inventory Management (IM) Network Resource Model Integration Reference
Point (IRP), Solution Set (SS) definitions
Inventory Management (IM), in general, provides the operator with the ability
to assure correct and effective operation of the 3G network as it evolves. IM
actions have the objective to monitor the actual configuration on the Network
Elements (NEs) and Network Resources (NRs), and they may be initiated by the
operator or by functions in the Operations Systems (OSs) or NEs. The final
goal of IM is the establishment of an accurate and timely model of the actual
inventory in the NEs or NRs.
IM actions may be requested to reflect changes initiated by Configuration
Management (CM) actions or to make sure that the inventory model is in synch
with the actual inventory. IM actions are initiated either as single actions
on single NEs of the 3G network or as part of a complex procedure involving
actions on many resources/objects in one or several NEs.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines, in addition to the requirements defined in 3GPP
TS 32.101 [1], 3GPP TS 32.102 [2] and 3GPP TS 32.600 [3], the requirements for
the present IRP: Inventory Management (IM )Network Resource Model (NRM) IRP.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.600: \"Telecommunication management; Configuration Management
(CM); Concept and high-level requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 32.107: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.620: \"Telecommunication management; Fixed Mobile Convergence
(FMC) Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) Umbrella Information Model
(UIM)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**data:** See 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
**IRP:** See 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
**Network Resource Model (NRM):** See 3GPP TS 28.622 [4].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
EPS Evolved Packet System
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
SON Self-Organized Network
# 4 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
A) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [1].
B) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [2].
C) IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.600 [3].
The NRM defined by this IRP:
> D) Shall support communications for telecommunication network management
> purposes, including management of converged networks.
>
> E) Is a member of the Federated Network Information Model (FNIM) [5] and its
> information is derived from FNIM Umbrella Information Model (UIM) [6]
In addition to the above, the following more specific requirements apply:
> **REQ-IM_NRM-CON-001:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall provide inventory
> data over Itf-N of network entities in the 3G network.
>
> **REQ-IM_NRM-CON-002:** The NRM defined by this IRP shall provide inventory
> data over Itf-N of network entities in the EPS network including those
> installed by SON functionality.
#