# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication management; as identified below:
TS 28.680: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
management; Concepts and requirements
TS 28.681: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements
**TS 28.682: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)**
TS 28.683: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document is part of an Integration Reference Point (IRP) named
Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN) Management Network Resource Model (NRM)
IRP, through which an IRPAgent can communicate management information to one
or several IRPManagers concerning WLAN management. The WLAN management NRM IRP
comprises a set of specifications defining Requirements, a protocol neutral
Information Service and one or more Solution Set(s).
The present document specifies the protocol neutral WLAN management NRM IRP:
Information Service (IS).
The present document also contains stage 2 descriptions for those
functionalities for the **WLAN Management.**
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRMs) Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service\" (IS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.111-2: \"Telecommunication management; Fault Management; Part
2: Alarm Integration Reference Point (IRP): Information Service (IS)\".
[4] IEEE 802.11™-2012: \"IEEE Standard for Information technology--
Telecommunications and information exchange between systems Local and
metropolitan area networks--Specific requirements Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium
Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.632: \"Telecommunication management; Inventory Management (IM)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[8] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 32.101 [6], 3GPP TS 32.102 [7], and 3GPP TS 32.150
[8] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AP Access Point
IOC Information Object Class
IRP Integration Reference Point
NRM Network Resource Model
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
UML Unified Modelling Language
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
# 4 Model
## 4.1 Imported information entities and local labels
* * *
Label reference Local label 3GPP TS 28.622 [2], IOC, ManagedElement
ManagedElement 3GPP TS 28.622 [2], IOC, ManagedFunction ManagedFunction
* * *
.
## 4.2 Class diagram
### 4.2.1 Relationships
This clause depicts the set of classes (e.g. IOCs) that encapsulates the
information relevant for this IRP. This clause provides an overview of the
relationships between relevant classes in UML. Subsequent clauses provide more
detailed specification of various aspects of these classes. Figure 4.2.1-1
shows the containment/naming hierarchy and the associations of the classes
defined in the present document.
Figure 4.2.1-1 WLAN NRM Containment/Naming
NOTE: WLAN NRM may need to be updated, if the WLAN access point is to be part
of PLMN.
### 4.2.2 Inheritance
This clause depicts the inheritance relationships that exist between
information object classes. Figure 4.2.2-1 shows the inheritance diagram of
WLAN NRM.
Figure 4.2.2-1 WLAN NRM Inheritance Hierarchy
## 4.3 Class definitions
### 4.3.1 APFunction
#### 4.3.1.1 Definition
This class represents the functionality of wireless Access Point as defined in
IEEE 802.11 [4].
The APFunction IOC instance is not visible to Basic CM IRPManager,Bulk CM
IRPManager and Kernel CM IRPManager.
The ManagedElement IOC instance (TS 28.622 [2]) name-containing the APFunction
IOC instance is not visible to Basic CM IRPManager, Bulk CM IRPManager and
Kernel CM IRPManager in case all the instances directly name-contained by this
ManagedElement IOC instance (TS 28.622 [2]) are of APFunction IOC.
The InventoryUnit IOC instance (TS 28.632 [5]), name-contained by the
ManagedElement IOC instance (TS 28.622 [2]) that name-contains the APFunction
IOC instance, is not visible to Basic CM IRPManager, Bulk CM IRPManager and
Kernel CM IRPManager in case all the instances directly name-contained by this
ManagedElement IOC instance (TS 28.622 [2]) are of APFunction IOC or
InventoryUnit IOC.
The following are examples of cases describing the conditions where IOC
instance(s) are not visible to Basic CM IRPManager, Bulk CM IRPManager and
Kernel CM IRPManager:
> Case 1) if ManagedElement-1 name-contains only two instances: APFunction-A
> and APFunction-B, the three instances are not visible.
>
> Case 2) if ManagedElement-1 name-contains only two instances: APFunction-A
> and MMEFunction-76, the APFunction-A is not visible.
>
> Case 3) if ManagedElement-1 name-contains only two instances: APFunction-A
> and InventoryUnit-7883 (TS 28.632 [5]), the three instances are not visible.
#### 4.3.1.2 Attributes
None
#### 4.3.1.3 Notifications
_The set of notifications defined in the following table is valid._
* * *
Name Qualifier Notes notifyAckStateChanged See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2
[3])  
notifyChangedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyClearedAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyNewAlarm See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyComments See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyAlarmListRebuilt See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])  
notifyPotentialFaultyAlarmList See Alarm IRP (3GPP TS 32.111-2 [3])
* * *
#