# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The present document is part of a TS-family covering the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects,
Telecommunication Management; as identified below:
TS 28.680: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
management; Concepts and requirements
**TS 28.681: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Requirements**
TS 28.682: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information
Service (IS)
TS 28.683: Telecommunication management; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Solution Set
(SS) definitions
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the NRM IRP requirements of WLAN management.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 32.101: \"Telecommunication management; Principles and high level
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 32.102: \"Telecommunication management; Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 32.150: \"Telecommunication management; Integration Reference
Point (IRP) Concept and definitions\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1], 3GPP TS 32.101 [2], 3GPP TS 32.102 [3], and 3GPP TS 32.150
[4] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence over the
definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
AP Access Point
IRP Integration Reference Point
NE Network Element
NRM Network Resource Model
WLAN Wireless Local Access Network
# 4 Concepts and background
The architecture for management of WLAN AP is conformant to the management
reference model as defined in Figure 1 of TS 32.101 [2] where the WLAN AP is
depicted as NE. The system context of the WLAN management is in compliance
with the System Context A, defined in Figure 4.7.1 in TS 32.150 [4].
Based on the above characteristics, the present document defines respective
WLAN management NRM IRP requirements.
# 5 Requirements
The following general and high-level requirements apply for the present IRP:
A. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.101 [2].
B. IRP-related requirements in 3GPP TS 32.102 [3].
#