# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
> The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
> normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
>
> The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
> \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
> they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
> external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
> style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
> document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
> The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
> elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
> used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as substitutes
for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document explores how 3GPP management system can provide
management capabilities for fulfilling requirements derived from tenancy
concepts and use cases, and it also explores how to those management
capabilities are exposed to individual tenancy concepts consumers.
The present document investigates the evolution of management features and
capabilities due to the identified potential requirements and solutions for
tenancy concept.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; Performance
measurements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end key
performance indicators (KPI)\".
[9] 3GPP TR 28.805: \"Telecommunication management; Study on management
aspects of communication services\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP
**Tenant in 3GPP management system:** A group of 3GPP management system users
associated with the management capabilities they are allowed to access and
consume.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Sharing of same MnS
As described in Figure 4.1-1 and Figure 4.1-2, for fulfilling the tenancy
concept, operators\' can have different options to share their management
resources between multiple tenants (e.g. operator\'s business customers):
Option 1 (Figure 4.1-1)
\- Multiple tenants represented by single MnS Consumer instance
\- Same management service is consumed by 3 different tenants (e.g.
performance management service), from a single MnS Producer instance
\- Tenancy related management data isolation is not currently provided by 3GPP
management system
Note 1: MnS Consumer behaviour related to tenancy related management data
isolation is operator BSS scope.
Note 2: MnS Producer behaviour related to tenancy management data isolation is
3GPP management system scope and it is FFS.
{width="3.95625in" height="3.0388888888888888in"}
Figure 4.1-1: Multiple tenants represented by single MnS Consumer, while
consuming the same MnS
Option 2 (Figure 4.1-2)
\- Each tenant represented by dedicated MnS Consumer
\- Same management service is consumed by 3 different tenants (e.g.
performance management service), from a single MnS Producer
\- Tenancy related management data isolation is partially provided by 3GPP
management system (e.g. by dedicated MnS Consumer)
{width="3.957638888888889in" height="3.045138888888889in"}
Figure 4.1-2: Each tenant represented by dedicated MnS Consumer, while
consuming the same MnS
Editor\'s note: How utilize business roles defined in TS 28.530 into tenancy
concepts is FFS.
Note 3: Same tenant can be represented by option 1, by option 2 or by
combination of option 1 and option 2.
## 4.2 Key issues for tenant management
The non-exhaustive key issues for tenant management to be addressed in the
present document are as following:
**Issue 1. Tenancy, tenant and tenant management key concepts**
Study the key concepts of tenancy, tenant and tenant related management.
**Issue 2. Different exposure of network management capabilities for different
tenants**
Study scenarios, contents and behaviours of management capabilities exposure
for different tenants.
**Issue 3. Relation of tenant management, communication service management and
network management, including network slicing management**
Study the relation of tenant management, communication service management and
network management, including network slicing management.
## 4.3 Management service consumed by tenant
Tenant concept can be considered as a group of user in software and
virtualization context. The 3^rd^ party consumer using 3GPP management
capability can represent a tenant that use communication service (e.g. an
enterprise user).
In 3GPP management system, management services are produced to offer
management capabilities that provide management operation and management data
access for specific management purposes. The management services are supported
by 3GPP management system are as following:
\- provisioning service;
\- performance management service; and
\- fault management service.
When the 3^rd^ party consumer is represented as group of users, identified as
tenants (e.g. enterprises that consume V2X service), tenants should be able to
consume management services that are exposed to them.
The typical management data exposed to tenants are performance measurement
KPIs and fault alarms. When 3GPP management system exposes management data to
tenants, the management data should be provided by performance management
service or fault management service.
NOTE: Only a subset of management service specified by 3GPP specification will
be exposed to 3^rd^ party management service consumer representing the tenant.
## 4.4 Tenant categorization based on its management capability
The following tenant types may exist in order to provide 5G communication
services, the management capability for different tenant types may be
different depending on the services the tenant obtains from the provider.
\- Tenant type A: an entity uses its logical network (i.e. an instance of a
network) provided by NOP, and performs lifecycle management of its logical
network.
Tenant type A is categorized as below:
\- Tenant type A1: an entity uses its logical network provided by NOP to
provide CSIs to its customers (e.g., verticals), and performs lifecycle
management of its logical network.
\- Tenant type A2: an entity uses its logical network provided by NOP to
provide CSIs to end users, and performs lifecycle management of its logical
network.
\- Tenant type B: an entity uses its logical network provided by NOP, and does
not performs lifecycle management of its logical network. Any associated
management capabilities are accessed and consumed by the NOP.
Tenant type B is categorized as below:
\- Tenant type B1: an entity uses its logical network provided by NOP to
provide CSIs to its customers (e.g., verticals), and does not performs
lifecycle management of its logical network.
\- Tenant type B2: an entity uses its logical network provided by NOP to
provide CSIs to end users, and does not performs lifecycle management of its
logical network.
## 4.5 Managed resource representation for a tenant
3GPP management system may provide management capabilities based on agreed
requirements between a tenant and the network operator (e.g. performance
report, alarm notification, provisioning service, etc.).
NRM IOC represents managed resource that can be created or deleted for
multiple tenants in multiple tenant environment. For example, if NOP exposes
NSI provisioning services to external MnS consumer, the IOC of NetworkSlice
can be associated with authorized this external MnS consumer.
Editor\'s note: How to associate tenant information with NRM IOC is FFS.
MOI represents the managed resource that can be used by multiple tenants in
multiple tenant environment. In one of the scenario, 5G Core AMF may support
AMF measurement KPI reporting related to network slice instance supporting
multiple tenants. In another scenario when a network slice instance supports
multiple tenants, 3GPP management system may use an MOI to represent the
management resource for multiple tenants.
NOTE: Tenant information may be part of a MOI to further identify management
resource for a single tenant.
## 4.6 Management capabilities provided to a tenant in 3GPP management system
The tenant should be capable to consume MnS that provides management
capabilities. It is proposed to use MOI (component type B) to identify the
managed resource of the tenant. The 3GPP management system should be capable
to authorize, identify and enforce exposure of specified management
capabilities related to managed resource of a tenant.
## 4.7 Management function providing management capabilities for multiple
tenants
The network slice subnet management function can provide management services
that provide management capabilities in multiple tenant environment. For
example, the network management function is optionally capable of handling a
management data and monitor network measurement KPIs for multiple tenant. The
management function supporting multiple tenant environment may act as MnS
consumer and as MnS provider for tenants as shown in Figure 4.7-1.
Figure 4.7-1: Example of Management Function in multiple tenant environment
When tenant represents a group of CSI consumers in 3GPP management system, the
tenant may consume a set of management capabilities. The exposure governance
management function defined in TS 28.533 [5] may authorize the MnS consumer
representing the tenant and apply exposure governance on management services.
Figure 4.7-2: Exposure governance in multiple tenant environment
It is illustrated in Figure 4.7-2 that exposed management services can be
consumed by MnS consumers representing tenants. The MnS consumer should
provide the identity information of the tenant when it consumes services
provide by MnS producer. The EGMF should authenticate the identity information
of the tenant and authorize the MnS consumer representing the tenant to access
MnS and consume a specified set of management capabilities.
## 4.8 Relation to communication service instance
According to TR 28.805 [9], the vertical customer is authorized to obtain the
allowed management capability from CSI service provider according to the pre-
defined agreements between the CSI service provider and the CSI service
consumer. As described in Figure 4.8-1, CSI Consumer in CSMF can be mapped
into a MnS consumer associated with tenant information in 3GPP management
system. The MnS provider can provide management capabilities for this tenant
by using tenant information as following:
\- 5G network slice NRM IOC attribute with tenant information, used to
identify managed resource for the tenant
\- S-NSSAI value, additionally used by 3GPP management system to associate NF
performance measurement with a tenant
{width="4.9375in" height="1.5534722222222221in"}
Figure 4.8-1: NSMF/NSSMF tenant information relation with CSI Consumer in CSMF
## 4.9 Fault supervision management for a tenant
When the MnS consumer subscribes or queries alarm information of managed
resources, the alarm information of managed resource related to the tenant may
be provided to the MnS consumer. The tenant information in Serviceprofile IOC
is associated with S-NSSAI in sNSSAIList attributes or sub-attributes as
defined in TS 28.541 [6]. S-NSSAI may be used for filtering the alarm
information in subscribe or getAlarmList operation defined in TS 28.532 [4].
## 4.10 Performance measurement for a tenant
Tenant information in NRM IOCs may be used to distinguish performance
measurement for different tenants. The MnS consumer representing the tenant
may get the performance measurements of the network function. If the tenant
information in Network Slice IOC ServiceProfile is associated with S-NSSAI in
sNSSAIList attributes of MOI, the counter per S-NSSAI defined in TS 28.552 [7]
may be set for the network function performance measurements.
# 5 Use cases and potential requirements
## 5.1 Management capabilities provided to tenant by network slice management
### 5.1.1 Description
3GPP management system supports network slice and network slice subnet
management for 5G network according to TS 28.530 [2] and TS 38.531 [3]. 3GPP
management system should support network slice and network slice subnet
management for a tenant in multiple tenant environment.
According to TS 28.805 [9], when 3GPP management creates a CSI, 3GPP system
may create MOI and corresponding managed resource to provide management
capabilities to consumer of CSI and to identify the CSI consumer as a tenant
in 3GPP management system.
Network slice management function may provide management services for a CSI
consumer identified as a tenant in 3GPP management system.
### 5.1.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-TenM_Slice_MnS-01** The 3GPP management system may have capability to
provide performance measurements and fault alarms for a network slice to MnS
consumer associated with a tenant.
**REQ-TenM_Slice_MnS-02** The 3GPP management system may have capability to
provide network slice and network slice subnet lifecycle management (e.g.
creation, modification and termination) to MnS consumer associated with a
tenant.
## 5.2 Management capabilities provided to tenant by network function
management service
### 5.2.1 Description
Management service provider is capable to identify the MnS instance that
provides the monitoring metrics and fault alarms for a tenant. Since the NF
may be shared by multiple network slice instances, NF performance measurement
and fault alarm for a tenant can be provided with the network slice instance
information (e.g. S-NSSAI) by management service provider.
### 5.2.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-TenM_NFM_MnS-01** The 3GPP management system may have capability to
provide NF performance measurements and NF fault alarms MnS consumer
associated with a tenant.
# 6 Potential management enhancements to support multiple tenants environment
## 6.1 Potential management enhancements for performance measurement of
network slice management
It is proposed to use tenant information (e.g. tenant identifier) in NRM IOCs,
for purpose of identification to managed resource for the tenant.
## 6.2 Potential management enhancements for fault supervision
The alarm information of MOI may be provided to the management service
consumer a tenant in multiple tenant environment. The tenant information may
be used for filtering the alarm information associated with a tenant.
## 6.3 Potential management enhancements for performance measurement of
network function
The use of counter per S-NSSAI associated to tenant information may be
clarified for the network function performance measurements in TS 28.552 [7].
# 7 Conclusion and recommendations
Enhancement to management framework in TS 28.533 [5] is concluded for 3GPP
management system to support multiple tenant environment in this study. When
multiple tenants are consuming management capabilities, there is a need to
provide management services (e.g. provisioning service, performance management
service and fault management service) and managed resource for each tenant.
For purpose of identification to managed resources and specified management
capabilities for each tenant, tenant information should be included in Network
Slice IOC ServiceProfile data type.
Following normative work for the enhancement of 3GPP management system for
tenancy concept support in multiple tenant environment are recommended:
\- Conceptual descriptions of multiple tenant environment support by
management framework, added in TS 28.533 [5].
  * Provisioning service MOI creation, modification and termination in multiple tenant environment, reused from TS 28.531 [3], TS 28.532 [4].
```{=html}
``` \- Performance measurement in multiple tenant environment, reused from TS
28.552 [7] and TS 28.554 [8].
  * Network slice fault supervision in multiple tenant environment reused from TS 28.532 [4].
\- Network Slice IOC ServiceProfile data type extension with tenant
information, added to TS 28.541 [6].
#