# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
A non-public network is a network that is intended for non-public use.
Deployments of non-public networks in private environments (e.g. factories,
enterprises) to provide coverage within a specific geographic area for non-
public use is a key demand of emerging 5G applications and verticals. Non-
public networks may be deployed as completely standalone networks or with the
support of a PLMN. The 5G system supports non-public networks.
The present document studies the management aspects of non-public networks.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes use cases, potential requirements and solutions
(from the perspective of services based management architecture) for the
management aspects of non-public networks. The present document provides
conclusions and recommendations on the next steps for the standardization.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for next generation new services
and markets; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[4] 5G-ACIA White paper: \"5G Non-Public Networks for Industrial Scenarios\",
July 31, 2019.
[5] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[8] 3GPP TR 28.805: \"Study on management aspects of communication services\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and Orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[11] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Non-Public Network:** See definition in TS 22.261 [2].
**Public network integrated NPN:** See definition in TS 23.501 [3].
**Stand-alone Non-Public Network: See** definition in TS 23.501 [3].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MnS Management Service
NPN Non-Public Network
PNI-NPN Public Network Integrated NPN
SNPN Stand-alone NPN
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 General
A Non-Public Network (NPN) is a 5GS deployed for non-public use, see TS 23.501
[3]. In contrast to public networks that offer mobile network services to the
general public, non-public networks are intended for the sole use of a private
entity such as a college or an enterprise. Non-public networks may be deployed
on the entity\'s defined premises such as a campus or a factory to provide
coverage within a specific geographic area.
Non-public networks may be deployed in a variety of configurations, utilising
both virtual and physical network functions, see TS 22.261 [2]. Specifically,
see TS 23.501 [3], an NPN may be deployed as:
\- a Stand-alone Non-Public Network (SNPN), i.e. operated by an NPN operator
and not relying on network functions provided by a PLMN; or
\- a Public network integrated NPN (PNI-NPN), i.e. a non-public network
deployed with the support of a PLMN.
From the view of 5G-ACIA, non-public networks can be desirable for several
reasons, see clause 4 of [4]:
\- High quality-of-service requirements
\- High security requirements, met by dedicated security credentials
\- Isolation from other networks, as a form of protection against malfunctions
in the public mobile network. Also, isolation may be desirable for reasons of
performance, security, privacy, and safety
\- Accountability. A non-public network makes it easier to identify
responsibility for availability, maintenance, and operation
## 4.2 Model of roles
In the context of NPNs, responsibilities regarding operations have to be
clearly defined and assigned to roles. The roles related to NPNs include:
\- NPN operator: designs, builds and operates an NPN providing all the
required network services and resources.
\- NPN service provider: provides non-public communication services using an
NPN. Designs, builds and operates these services, which are supported by the
NPN operator provided network services.
\- NPN service customer: consumes services offered by an NPN service provider.
There is a direct mapping between these roles and the ones defined in clause
4.8 of TS 28.530 [7], when network and services under consideration are non-
public. The NPN operator role is a particularization of the Network Operator
(NOP) role, the NPN service provider role is a particularization of the
Communication Service Provider (CSP) role and the NPN service customer role is
a particularization of the Communication Service Customer (CSC) role.
Depending on actual scenarios and the type of NPN under consideration, i.e.
SNPN or PNI-NPN, different relationships can be found between NPN related
roles and potential stakeholders. This means:
\- each role can be played by one or more organizations simultaneously. For
example, in PNI-NPN deployments the NPN operator role can be shared between a
MNO and a vertical (or a private company acting on behalf of it). In the same
way, in SNPN deployments the NPN operator role can be played by either a
vertical (or a private company on behalf of it) or a MNO which manages the
SNPN;
\- an organization can play one or several roles simultaneously. For example,
a company can play both NPN operator and NPN service provider roles.
## 4.3 Management of Stand-alone Non-Public Networks
An SNPN is deployed as an independent, isolated network. As shown in figure
4.3-1, all SNPN network functions are located inside the logical perimeter of
the defined premises (e.g. factory) and the SNPN is separate from the public
network. The SNPN operator has full management control over the exclusive SNPN
network functions, e.g. the non-public 5G Core Network and/or 5G Access
Network part of SNPN.
Figure 4.3-1: SNPN deployment and SNPN management
To manage a SNPN, which is based on 3GPP-defined technologies, the standalone
SNPN management system needs a dedicated NPN identifier. The combination of a
PLMN ID and Network identifier (NID) is used to identify an SNPN. The NID
supports two assignment models, see clause 5.30.2 of TS 23.501 [3]:
> \- Locally managed NIDs are assumed to be self-managed by SNPNs (i.e. chosen
> individually by SNPNs) at deployment time (and may therefore not be unique)
> but use a different numbering space than the universally managed NIDs as
> defined in TS 23.003 [5].
>
> \- Universally managed NIDs are assumed to be globally unique.
Additional considerations:
\- With respect to the management of the NG-RAN segment of the SNPN:
\- The following roles are involved:
\- NPN Service Provider: played by the Vertical.
\- NPN Operator: played by the Vertical, for the NG-RAN segment.
\- NPN Service Customer: can be played by Vertical\'s employees, Vertical\'s
applications, Vertical\'s customers, etc.
\- The NG-RAN segment of the NPN is operated by the Vertical (see note 1, note
2 and note 3);
\- The NG-RAN segment of the NPN is deployed in well-defined areas (e.g.
within Vertical\'s premises, factory, along railroad tracks, etc.) to meet the
Vertical\'s requirements;
\- Only the Vertical\'s UEs are authorized to gain access to the NPN;
\- The following variants may exist:
\- Fully isolated SNPN (see [4] clause 5.2, Figure 1 with the optional
connection not being deployed); or
\- SNPN partly integrated with a PLMN (see [4] clause 5.2, Figure 1 with the
optional connection being deployed from SNPN to PLMN only). In such a case,
the management of the connection between the SNPN and the PLMN is shared
between proponents.
\- With respect to the management of the 5GC segment of the SNPN:
\- The following roles are involved:
\- NPN Service Provider: played by the Vertical
\- NPN Operator: played by the Vertical, for the 5GC segment (see note 1)
\- NPN Service Customer: can be played by Vertical\'s employees, Vertical\'s
applications, Vertical\'s customers, etc.
\- Virtualization Infrastructure Service Provider (VISP): played by a
3^rd^-party cloud service provider.
\- The 5GC segment of the NPN is deployed in Vertical\'s premises.
Alternatively, in case of virtualization of some 5GC network functions, the
Vertical may rely on one or more VISPs (see TS 28.530 [7], clause 4.8) to host
its virtualized 5GC network functions, out of the Vertical\'s premises;
\- In the 5GC segment, the Vertical may utilize \'Network Slice as NOP
Internals\' model (see TS 28.530 [7], clause 4.1.7) to accommodate services to
be provided to its own customers.
NOTE 1: Whether the Vertical outsources (part of) its network management tasks
to other stakeholder(s) is out of scope of the present document.
NOTE 2: The focus is put here on which roles are involved in the operation of
the NPN segments, not on which roles are involved in their deployment. Whether
a NPN segment is deployed by the Vertical, or by a Network Operator or by
anyone else on behalf of them, is out of scope of the present document
NOTE 3: How dedicated licensed spectrum is obtained by the Vertical to operate
its NPN is out of the scope of the present document.
## 4.4 Management of PNI-NPN
### 4.4.1 NPN supported by network slice instance of a PLMN
A Public Network Integrated NPN (PNI-NPN) can be made available by PLMNs e.g.
using one (or more) network slice instance(s). The existing network slicing
functionalities apply as described in clause 5.15 of TS 23.501 [3].
A Closed Access Group identifies a group of subscribers who are permitted to
access one or more CAG cells associated to the CAG. A CAG is identified by a
CAG Identifier which is unique within the scope of a PLMN ID, see clause
5.30.3.2 of TS 23.501 [3]. The management system of the PNI-NPN takes charge
of the management of CAG Identifiers.
From a management viewpoint, the provision of a network slice instance can
follow the Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS) principles as described in
clause 4.1.6 of TS 28.530 [7]. Figure 4.4.1-1, as an example, illustrates how
a PLMN operator can rely on NSaaS capabilities (e.g. OAM, exposure) for the
provisioning of a PNI-NPN to a vertical. This PNI-NPN, which is deployed
across one PLMN and the vertical\'s premises (e.g. factory), can be seen as an
end-to-end network composed of two differentiated segments: one public,
consisting of a (R)AN and network functions built upon public 5G network
resources; and one private, consisting of network functions deployed using
private 5G network resources. Using the NSaaS approach:
\- The public segment is made available by the PLMN in the form of a network
slice instance, and provisioned by the PLMN operator using NSaaS. In this
service provisioning, the PLMN operator and the vertical play the roles of
NSaaS provider and NSaaS customer, respectively.
\- The PLMN operator can offer possibilities (e.g. exposed MnS to manage the
network slice instance) for the vertical to manage the provided network slice
instance according to TS 28.531 [6].
\- The vertical adds the private segment to the network slice instance
obtained from the PLMN operator. The resulting combination, i.e. PNI-NPN, is a
new network slice instance or a new network.
\- In the case of a new network slice instance, following 3GPP 5G Network
Resource Model (NRM) [10], the PNI-NPN\'s public segment can be modelled as a
network slice subnet instance whilst the private segment can be modelled as
one or more network slice subnet instances according to the vertical\'s
policy.
\- In the case of a new network, the PNI-NPN\'s public segment can be modelled
as a network slice instance (i.e. remains unchanged as the network slice
instance obtained from the PLMN operator) with interaction with private
segment.
\- The vertical uses the PNI-NPN to provide non-public communication services
to his customer(s). In this case, the vertical plays the role of NPN service
provider, and his customer(s) play the role of NPN service customer(s). For
more information on these NPN related roles, see clause 4.2.
{width="6.69375in" height="3.7625in"}
Figure 4.4.1-1: PNI-NPN provisioning with NSaaS
Additional considerations:
\- With respect to the management of the NG-RAN segment of the PNI-NPN:
\- the Network Operator grants access to the Vertical to the whole Network
Operator NG-RAN, or only to a part of it;
\- whatever the part of the NG-RAN of the Network Operator which access is
granted to the Vertical, this part of the NPN is operated by the Network
Operator;
\- a roaming agreement or, alternatively, a RAN sharing agreement between the
Vertical and the Network Operator may be required;
\- one (or more) Closed Access Group(s) (CAG), identifying which Vertical\'s
UEs are permitted to access Network Operator NG-RAN cells may have to de
defined. Since only the Network Operator has management access to the NG-RAN,
the Vertical and the Network Operator may have to interact (Vertical requests
the network Operator to add, delete, modify the list of Vertical\'s UEs
allowed to access the Network Operator cells);
\- the same as above applies to CAG cells;
\- there may be more than one Network Operator involved in this scenario (e.g.
for coverage requirements).
\- With respect to the management of the 5GC segment of the PNI-NPN:
\- The 5GC segment of the NPN is operated by a Network Operator, whether the
5GC is:
i) wholly deployed in Vertical\'s premises (see [4] clause 5.3.1, Figure 2);
or
ii) partly in Vertical\'s premises (e.g. UPFs) and partly in the Network
Operator\'s domain (e.g. 5GC control plane network functions); or
iii) wholly in the Network Operator\'s domain.
\- In the 5GC segment, the Network Operator may utilize \"Network Slice as a
Service\" model (see TS 28.530 [7], clause 4.1.7) and/or \"Network Slice as
NOP internals\" model (see TS 28.530 [7], clause 4.1.7).
# 5 Use Cases
## 5.1 Use cases related to management of stand-alone NPN
### 5.1.1 Stand-alone NPN provisioning with 3GPP and non-3GPP segments
#### 5.1.1.1 Create a stand-alone NPN with 3GPP and non-3GPP segments
A non-public network, which includes 3GPP and non-3GPP segments, needs to be
created for use of a private company in the form of a stand-alone NPN. From a
management viewpoint, this means that the 3GPP and non-3GPP segments of this
NPN are completely independent and separated from PLMN provided network
functions.
The NPN management system in charge of operating this stand-alone NPN consists
of:
\- A 3GPP management system, responsible for managing the 3GPP segment of the
NPN.
\- one (or more) non-3GPP-management system(s), responsible for managing the
non-3GPP segment(s) of the NPN.
\- An interworking management function, which makes 3GPP and non-3GPP
management systems work together without the necessity to introduce
modifications on their design. The interworking management function sits on
top of these management systems, coordinating the execution of activities
across them, by sending one management system notifications about the state of
the activities carried out in other management system if necessary. The
interworking function is also responsible of performing any necessary model
translation when exchanging notifications across 3GPP and non-3GPP management
systems.
The main aspects of management to support the creation of a stand-alone NPN
which consists of 3GPP and non-3GPP segments include:
\- The NPN management system receives the requirements of the requested stand-
alone NPN from a private company, e.g. coverage requirement within a specific
geographic area, isolation requirement, deterministic communication
requirements, etc.
\- The interworking function decomposes these requirements into 3GPP-related
NPN requirements and non-3GPP-related NPN requirements. Based on the NPN
requirements from the private company, the 3GPP segment of the NPN may include
either only the RAN part or only the CN part or both the RAN and CN parts.
This means that 3GPP-related requirements may include either only RAN part-
related requirements or only CN part-related requirements or both the RAN
part- and CN part-related requirements.
\- To trigger the creation of the 3GPP segment for the requested NPN, the 3GPP
management system takes the 3GPP-related requirements from the interworking
management function.
\- Based on the 3GPP-related NPN requirements, the 3GPP management system
determines to reuse an existing 3GPP segment or create a new 3GPP segment for
the requested NPN. If a 3GPP segment from an existing stand-alone NPN can be
reused, the NPN operator may reconfigure that NPN.
NOTE 1: Reusing the 3GPP segment from an existing NPN requires that the
requested NPN and existing NPN can be shared with each other.
\- In case of creating a new 3GPP segment for the NPN:
\- Based on RAN part-related requirements, the 3GPP management system
determines to utilize new RAN NE(s).
\- Based on CN part-related requirements, the 3GPP management system
determines to utilize new CN NF(s) or CN NF service(s).
\- The 3GPP management system notifies the created 3GPP segment information to
the interworking management function.
\- To trigger the creation of the non-3GPP segment(s), the non-3GPP management
system(s) takes information about created 3GPP segment as well as non-3GPP-
related NPN requirements from the interworking management function.
NOTE 2: How the non-3GPP management system(s) proceeds with the creation of
non-3GPP segment(s) is out of the scope of the present document.
A stand-alone NPN consisting of 3GPP and non-3GPP segments is created.
## 5.2 Use cases related to management of PNI-NPN
### 5.2.1 NPN provisioning by a network slice of a PLMN
#### 5.2.1.1 Create a Network Slice Instance for a NPN
An operator decides to deploy a PLMN-integrated NPN in the local data network,
for example, deploying an NSI at the enterprise\'s premise or in the factory.
The NSI, based on the NPN requirement from the enterprise includes either only
the RAN part or only the CN part or both the RAN part and the CN part.
For the CN part, there may be some network functions/network function services
locally deployed at the enterprise\'s premise or in the factory, and some
other network functions/network function services being deployed in the PLMN
network (outside of enterprise\'s premise or outside the factory). This CN
part may be supported by two network slice subnet instances. The network slice
subnet instance(s) may be dedicated for a single enterprise or may be shared
by multiple enterprises.
For the RAN part, some network functions may be deployed in the PLMN network.
This RAN part may be supported by one or more network slice subnet instances.
The network slice subnet instance(s) may be dedicated for a single enterprise
or may be shared by multiple enterprises.
The main aspects of management to support NSI creation for a NPN includes:
\- Based on the NPN SLA requirements from NPN customer, for example coverage
requirement within a specific geographic area, slicing isolation level
requirement, downlink/uplink throughput requirements, latency requirement,
3GPP management system determines the requirements for both the RAN part and
the CN part.
\- 3GPP management system determines to reuse an existing NSI or create a new
NSI for the NPN. If an existing NSI can be reused, the operator may
reconfigure the existing NSI.
\- In case of creating a new NSI for the NPN:
\- The 3GPP management system determines to utilize the existing RAN NE(s) or
a new RAN NEs.
\- The 3GPP management system determines to utilize new or existing CN NF(s)
or CN NF service(s) of the CN part that are deployed in the PLMN network.
\- The 3GPP management system determines to utilize new CN NF(s) or CN NF
service(s) of the CN part that are deployed locally at the enterprise\'s
premise or in the factory.
An NSI for a NPN is created.
### 5.2.2 Exposure of management capability of NPN
#### 5.2.2.1 Providing specific management capability of configuration and
monitoring to an NPN operator
A PLMN operator has created an NSI, which includes either only the RAN part or
only the CN part or both the RAN part and the CN part, for an enterprise. CN
part is provided by the PLMN operator and the RAN part is either provided by
the PLMN operator or the NPN operator.
The service request from the NPN customer includes a requirement of a limited
management capability exposure which would enable the NPN customer to
dynamically change the configuration parameters and policies related to
traffic controlling and performance monitoring and associated data analytics
requirements. The NPN customer can then use the NPN most effectively for its
traffic. As an example, an NPN network may have a partial failure and running
with limited capabilities and in such a situation, only the critical traffic
is allowed by means of admission control or prioritization as required by the
NPN customer which may depend on the network condition and traffic demand at
that time.
The performance monitoring capabilities that may be provided to the NPN
customer may include creation of certain measurement jobs and selecting the
type of data analytics and performance to be monitored, e.g., performance
related to various traffic types, geographical areas, different device types,
for a specific group of devices, for certain traffic congestion situation and
analytical KPIs related to performance predictions.
### 5.2.3 UE related data issues
#### 5.2.3.1 Collecting UE related data and providing to authorized NPN
service customer
UEs under service of NPN may have various forms, such as phones or PCs or IoT
terminals, some of them are assets of the NPN service customer. In some cases,
UE related data including UE locations, measurements, etc. is required by the
NPN service customer to help their own business. Such UE related data is
easier or more cost-efficient to be acquired by NPN UEs compared with being
acquired by other methods e.g. by add-on devices or applications. For example,
healthcare industry NPN customers require location information of their NPN
UEs applied in mobile medical machines for asset management; enterprise NPN
customers require location information of the NPN UEs of their employees for
attendance management.
In this case, the NPN management system may need to collect UE related data
and provide to authorized NPN service customer. Such collected UE related data
are generated by management services which are defined and implemented in 3GPP
system, such as:
\- MDT data, including Immediate MDT, Logged MDT, RLF reports, accessibility
measurements.
\- Trace data, to track traffic process of UEs and locate possible causes of
traffic problems for example.
Furthermore, according to pre-defined agreements among the NPN roles (see
clause 4.2), some specific UE related data can be provided to authorized NPN
customer, e.g. to promote their positioning ability or evaluate QoE. Such data
may be processed or masked based on collected data such as MDT or trace. For
example, GNSS information can be distracted from MDT to locate assets in NPN.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Potential common requirements for management of NPN
**REQ-NPN-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
monitor the performance metrics related to an NPN.
**REQ-NPN-CON-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provide KPIs related to an NPN to authorized NPN service provider or NPN
service consumer.
**REQ-NPN-CON-03** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
receive SLA from authorized NPN service consumer and then translating the SLA
into network resources related requirements.
**REQ-NPN-CON-04** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
evaluate SLS fulfilment related to an NPN.
**REQ-NPN-CON-05** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
manage an NPN that provide coverage within a specific geographic area.
**REQ-NPN-CON-06** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
manage identifiers for a large number of NPNs to minimize collision
probability between assigned identifiers.
## 6.2 Potential requirements for management of SNPN
**REQ-SNPN-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
support standalone operation of an NPN without dependency on a PLMN.
**REQ-SNPN-CON-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
support management of dedicated NPN identifier which is used to identify an
SNPN.
**REQ-SNPN-CON-03** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
interwork with one or more non-3GPP management systems to support the
operation of a SNPN which includes 3GPP and non-3GPP segments.
## 6.3 Potential requirements for management of PNI-NPN
**REQ-PNIN-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
support management of CAG which identifies a group of subscribers who are
permitted to access one or more CAG cells associated to the CAG.
**REQ-PNIN-CON-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
configure a CAG cell with a CAG list containing up to 12 CAG-identifiers, as
defined in TS 38.331 [11].
**REQ-PNIN-CON-03** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
support exposure of management services defined in clause 6.1 of TS 28.531 [6]
to authorized NPN service consumer.
**REQ-PNIN-CON-04** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
collect NPN UE related data which may include MDT data and trace data.
**REQ-PNIN-CON-05** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provide NPN UE related data to authorized NPN service customer according to
pre-defined agreements.
**REQ-PNIN-CON-06** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
provision a PNI-NPN using Network Slice as a Service (NSaaS), with the
Vertical taking the NSaaS customer role.
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.1 Solutions for management of SNPN
### 7.1.1 Solution for SNPN provisioning with 3GPP and non-3GPP segments
An SNPN, which includes 3GPP and non-3GPP segments, needs to be created for
use of a NPN service customer (e.g. a private company). From management
viewpoint, this means that the 3GPP and non-3GPP segments of this NPN are
completely independent and separated from PLMN provided network functions.
1) NPN service provider, receives SLA information of the requested SNPN from
NPN service customer. The SLA information may include coverage requirement
within a specific geographic area, isolation requirement, deterministic
communication requirements, etc.
2) The NPN service provider translates the received SLA information into SLA
requirements, i.e. the service and network requirements derived from SLA. The
solution for translation of SLA into SLA requirements documented in clause 6.2
of TR 28.805 [8] may be reused for the context of NPN service.
3) The NPN service provider decomposes these requirements into 3GPP-related
NPN requirements and non-3GPP-related NPN requirements:
a) Based on the NPN requirements from NPN service customer, the 3GPP-related
NPN requirements may include either only RAN part-related requirements or only
CN part-related requirements or both the RAN part- and CN part-related
requirements.
4) The NPN service provider sends the 3GPP-related NPN requirements to NPN
operator to trigger the provisioning of the 3GPP segment for the requested
NPN.
5) Based on the 3GPP-related NPN requirements, the NPN operator determines to
reuse an existing 3GPP segment or create a new 3GPP segment for the requested
NPN. If a 3GPP segment from an existing stand-alone NPN can be reused, the NPN
operator may reconfigure that NPN:
a) In case of creating a new 3GPP segment for the NPN:
\- Based on RAN part-related requirements, the 3GPP network management system
determines to utilize new RAN NE(s).
\- Based on CN part-related requirements, the 3GPP network management system
determines to utilize new CN NF(s) or CN NF service(s).
6) The NPN operator notifies the created 3GPP segment information (e.g. a
dedicated SNPN identifier which is the combination of a PLMN ID and NID, see
clause 5.30.2 of TS 23.501 [3]) to the NPN service provider.
7) To trigger the provisioning of the non-3GPP segment(s), the non-3GPP
management system(s) takes information about created 3GPP segment as well as
non-3GPP-related NPN requirements from an interworking management function
which makes 3GPP and non-3GPP management systems work together without the
necessity to introduce modifications on their design or the 3GPP network
management system.
NOTE 1: The interworking management function sits on top of 3GPP and non-3GPP
management systems, coordinating the execution of activities across them, by
sending one management system notifications about the state of the activities
carried out in other management system if necessary. The interworking function
is also responsible of performing any necessary model translation when
exchanging notifications across 3GPP and non-3GPP management systems.
NOTE 2: How the non-3GPP management system(s) proceeds with the creation of
non-3GPP segment(s) is out of the scope of the present document.
8) A stand-alone NPN consisting of 3GPP and non-3GPP segments is created.
### 7.1.2 Solution for SNPN provisioning with 3GPP segments only
An SNPN, which includes 3GPP segment only, needs to be created for use of a
NPN service customer (e.g. a private company). From management viewpoint, this
means that the 3GPP segment of this NPN are completely independent and
separated from PLMN provided network functions.
1) NPN service provider receives SLA information of the requested SNPN from
NPN service customer. The SLA information may include coverage requirement
within a specific geographic area, isolation requirement, deterministic
communication requirements, etc.
2) The NPN service provider converts the received SLA information to SLA
requirements, i.e. the service and network requirements derived from SLA. The
solution for translation of SLA into SLA requirements documented in clause 6.2
of TR 28.805 [8] may be reused for the context of NPN service.
3) Based on the NPN requirements from NPN service customer, the 3GPP-related
NPN requirements may include either only RAN part-related requirements or only
CN part-related requirements or both the RAN part- and CN part-related
requirements.
4) The NPN service provider sends the 3GPP-related NPN requirements to NPN
operator to trigger the provisioning of the 3GPP segment for the requested
NPN.
5) Based on the 3GPP-related NPN requirements, the NPN operator determines to
reuse an existing 3GPP segment or create a new 3GPP segment for the requested
NPN. If a 3GPP segment from an existing stand-alone NPN can be reused, the NPN
operator may reconfigure that NPN:
a) In case of creating a new 3GPP segment for the NPN:
\- Based on RAN part-related requirements, the 3GPP network management system
determines to utilize new RAN NE(s).
\- Based on CN part-related requirements, the 3GPP network management system
determines to utilize new CN NF(s) or CN NF service(s).
6) The NPN operator notifies the created 3GPP segment information (e.g. a
dedicated SNPN identifier which is the combination of a PLMN ID and NID, see
clause 5.30.2 of TS 23.501 [3]) to the NPN service provider.
7) A stand-alone NPN consisting of 3GPP segment only is created.
## 7.2 Solutions for management of PNI-NPN
### 7.2.1 Solution for NPN provisioning by a network slice of a PLMN
An NPN operator decides to deploy a PNI-NPN in the local data network, for
example, by deploying an NSI at the enterprise\'s premise or in the factory.
The NSI, based on the requirements from the NPN service customer, includes
either only the RAN part or only the CN part or both the RAN part and the CN
part.
The main aspects of NPN provisioning by a network slice of a PLMN include:
1) CSMF receives SLA information from NPN service customer (e.g. a private
company), the SLA information may include coverage requirement within a
specific geographic area, isolation requirement, downlink/uplink throughput
requirements, latency requirement, etc.
2) The CSMF translates the received SLA information to SLA requirements, i.e.
the service and network requirements derived from SLA, the solution for
translation of SLA into SLA requirements documented in clause 6.2 of TR 28.805
[8] may be reused for the context of NPN service.
3) Based on the translated NPN SLA requirements from CSMF, NSMF determines the
requirements for NG-RAN part and/or 5GC part and/or TN part:
a) If any, the NG-RAN domain related requirements are provided to NSSMF which
manages NG-RAN domain.
b) If any, the 5GC domain related requirements are provided to NSSMF which
manages 5GC domain.
c) If any, the TN domain related requirements are provided to the management
system of TN domain.
4) NSMF determines to reuse an existing NSI or create a new NSI for the NPN.
If an existing NSI can be reused, the NSMF may reconfigure the existing NSI.
5) In case of creating a new NSI for the NPN, based on the requirements from
the NPN service customer (e.g. enterprise, factory) includes either only the
RAN part or only the CN part or both the RAN part and the CN part:
\- The NG-RAN domain NSSMF determines to utilize the existing NG-RAN NE(s) or
new NG-RAN NEs that are deployed in the PLMN network or deployed locally at
the enterprise\'s premise or in the factory.
\- The 5GC domain NSSMF determines to utilize new or existing 5GC NF(s) or 5GC
NF service(s) of the 5GC part that are deployed in the PLMN network or
deployed locally at the enterprise\'s premise or in the factory.
\- If any, the TN domain related requirements are provided to the management
system of TN domain.
6) An NSI for a PNI-NPN is allocated.
### 7.2.2 Solution for exposure of management capability of NPN
Authorized NPN management service consumer can obtain certain management
capability to manage the NPN (e.g., provisioning, monitoring) from NPN
management service producer according to their pre-defined agreements.
\- Using exposure of generic provisioning management services (see clause 5 of
TS 28.532 [9]) and management services for provisioning of networks and
network slicing (see clause 6 of TS 28.531 [6]), NPN customers can dynamically
change the configuration parameters and policies related to performance
monitoring.
\- Using exposure of generic fault supervision management service (see clause
6 of TS 28.532 [9]) and generic performance assurance management service (see
clause 7 of TS 28.532 [9]), NPN customers can create certain measurement jobs
and select the type of data analytics and performance to be monitored, e.g.,
performance related to various traffic types, geographical areas, different
device types, for a specific group of devices, for certain traffic congestion
situation and analytical KPIs related to performance predictions.
Depending on different scenarios, an NPN role can play management service
consumer or management service producer simultaneously. For example, an NPN
service provider A can be management service consumer and management service
producer simultaneously for the following cases:
\- NPN service provider A acts as a management service consumer who obtain the
allowed management capability to manage the NPN A provided by NPN management
service producer (e.g. NPN operator A).
\- Another NPN service provider B acts as a management service consumer who
obtain the allowed management capability to manage the NPN B provided by NPN
service provider A as the NPN management service producer.
### 7.2.3 Solution for collecting UE related data and providing to authorized
NPN service customer
UEs under service of NPN are assets of NPN service customer in some cases. UE
related data including UE locations, measurements, etc. can help NPN service
customer own business.
Authorized NPN service customer can obtain the following NPN UE related data
from NPN operator according to their pre-defined agreements.
\- MDT data, including Immediate MDT, Logged MDT, RLF reports, accessibility
measurements.
\- Trace data, to track traffic process of UEs and locate possible causes of
traffic problems for example.
\- Furthermore, according to pre-defined agreements among the NPN roles (see
clause 4.2), some specific UE related data can be provided to authorized NPN
customer, such data may be processed or masked based on collected data such as
MDT or trace. For example, GNSS information can be distracted from MDT to
locate assets in NPN.
# 8 Conclusions and recommendations
## 8.1 Conclusions
### 8.1.1 Management of SNPN
The study has identified use cases, potential requirements and solutions for
management of SNPN.
To manage a SNPN which is based on 3GPP-defined technologies, the study has
identified that the SNPN management system needs to allocate and manage a
dedicated NPN identifier for the SNPN. The combination of a PLMN ID and NID is
used as a dedicated NPN identifier to identify an SNPN.
The NPN service provider role can be played by a vertical (or a 3^rd^ party
service provider acting on behalf of it) or a MNO which provides non-public
services.
The NPN operator role can be played by either a vertical (or a private company
on behalf of it) or a MNO which manages the SNPN.
### 8.1.2 Management of PNI-NPN
The study has identified use cases, potential requirements and solutions for
management of PNI-NPN.
The NPN service provider role can be played by a vertical (or a private
company acting on behalf of it) or a MNO which provides the NPN service.
The NPN operator role can be played by a MNO or be shared between a MNO and a
vertical (or a private company acting on behalf of it).
To manage a PNI-NPN which is made via PLMN, the study has identified that the
PNI-NPN management system needs to allocate and manage CAG identifiers.
The NPN operator can offer possibilities (e.g. exposed MnS to manage the
network slice instance) for the NPN service provider to manage the NPN network
slice instance according to TS 28.531 [6].
Authorized NPN service customer can obtain NPN UE related data (e.g. MDT and
trace data) from NPN operator according to their pre-defined agreements.
## 8.2 Recommendations
### 8.2.1 Management of SNPN
To manage an SNPN, which includes 3GPP and non-3GPP segments, it is
recommended to manage the 3GPP and non-3GPP segments of this NPN separately,
means:
\- Using 3GPP management system to manage 3GPP segments of NPN which are
completely independent and separated from PLMN provided network functions.
\- Using non-3GPP management system to manage non-3GPP segments.
\- How the non-3GPP management system(s) cooperate with 3GPP management
system, for example, an interworking management function, which makes 3GPP and
non-3GPP management systems work together without the necessity to introduce
modifications on their design, needs further work during the normative work on
the management of SNPN in Rel-17.
To manage a SNPN which is based on 3GPP-defined technologies, it is
recommended to allocate and manage a dedicated NPN identifier for the SNPN.
The combination of a PLMN ID and NID is used as a dedicated NPN identifier to
identify an SNPN. For other aspects of management, it is recommended to re-use
and enhance the existing 3GPP network management solutions as much as
possible.
### 8.2.2 Management of PNI-NPN
To manage PNI-NPN, it is recommended to start further normative work focusing
on the following main aspects:
\- NPN specific SLA translation, such as specific SLA information which may
include coverage requirement within a specific geographic area, specific
isolation requirement, specific latency requirement, etc.
\- NPN specific SLA assurance.
\- NPN specific KPI reporting and performance measurements.
It is recommended to re-use and enhance the existing 3GPP network management
solutions as much as possible.
#