# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, certain modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
> The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
> normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
>
> The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
> \"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
> they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
> external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
> style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
> document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
> The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
> elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
> used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" shall not to be used as substitutes
for \"may\" and \"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
With the recent introduction of a service based management architecture for
management of mobile networks [2], a service provider or network operator can
manage 5G networks including network slicing, using management services. The
next level of management is to manage the communication services provided by
the network. The present document studies the use of a service based
management architecture for management of communication services.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies potential use cases, requirements and solutions
(from the perspective of services based management architecture) for the
management of communication services. The document provides conclusions and
recommendations on the next steps in the standardization.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for next generation new services
and markets\".
[5] 3GPP TR 28.801: \"Study on management and orchestration of network slicing
for next generation network\".
[6] 3GPP TR 23.791: \"Study of Enablers for Network Automation for 5G\".
[7] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning; Stage 1\".
[9] TMN M.3010: \"Principles for a telecommunications management network\"
M.3010 (02/00).
[10] 3GPP TS 28.404: \"Telecommunication management; Quality of Experience
(QoE) measurement collection; Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.288: \"Architecture enhancements for 5G System (5GS) to
support network data analytics services\".
[12] GSMA Official Document NG.116 \"Generic Network Slice Template Version
1.0 May 2019\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**communication services** : subset of 3GPP defined services. Examples of 3GPP
services (e.g. 5G LAN) can be found in TS 22.261.
**communication service instance:** run-time construct of a communication
service for a defined group of users
**service level specification** : specification of the minimum acceptable
standard of service
**SLA requirements** : service and network requirements derived from SLAs.
NOTE: A provider may add additional requirements not directly derived from
SLA\'s, associated to provider internal [business] goals.
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CFCS Customer Facing Communication Service
CS Communication Service
CSC Communication Service Customer
CSMF Communication Service Management Function
CSP Communication Service Provider
NMF Network Management Function
NSaaS NetworkSlice as a Service
NSI Network Slice Instance
NSMF Network Slice Management Function
RFCS Resource Facing Communication Service
SLA Service Level Agreement
SLS Service Level Specification
# 4 Concepts and background
## 4.1 Types of communication services
Communication Service (CS) is offered by a communication service provider to
its customers to fulfil their requested communication service requirements.
The types of communication service customers include B2B, B2C, B2H and B2B2X,
see clause 4.1.2 of TS 28.530 [3]. A communication service can be provided as
an end-user service or as a business service [3].
Communication services offered by Communication Service Providers (CSPs) to
Communication Service Customers (CSCs) are of various categories.
Communication services can be classified from different dimension views
according to the purpose of classification.
To investigate different business models or different roles involved from
business models perspective, using types of service consumers as the service
classification criteria, communication services can be classified as business
to consumer (B2C) services, business to business (B2B) services, business to
household (B2H) services and business to business to everything (B2B2X)
services, see clause 4.1.2 of TS 28.530 [3]. Two business models as \"Network
Slice as a Service (NSaaS)\" and \"Network Slices as NOP internals\" are
documented in clauses 4.1.6 and 4.1.7 of TS 28.530 [3].
Examples of the categories of communication services from performance
requirements perspective, are eMBB, URLLC and MIoT, see clause 4.1.4 of TS
28.530 [3].
\- EMBB service type aims at supporting performance requirements of high data
rates and high traffic densities, see Table 7.1-1 \"Performance requirements
for high data rate and traffic density scenarios\" of TS 22.261 [4].
\- URLLC service type aims at supporting performance requirements of low-
latency and high-reliability, see Table 7.2.2-1 \"Performance requirements for
low-latency and high-reliability services\" of TS 22.261 [4].
\- MIoT service type aims at supporting performance requirements of large
number and high density of IoT devices, see clause 4 of TS 22.261 [4].
## 4.2 Management aspects of communication services
### 4.2.1 Customer, service and resource views
A communication service can be described from the perspective of a customer
that orders and consumes the communication service and from the perspective of
a CSP that offers and provides the communication service.
A communication service can be realized by the instantiation of a
communication service, based on communication service description(s) with the
information applicable to the communication service instance. The
communication service information is mapped to resource information to realize
the communication service.
### 4.2.2 Communication service management function
The CSMF is described in [5] and involves provisioning and management of
communication service instances. Part of his role is to request the necessary
resources to realize the communication service instances. The request for the
resources includes service specific instance information to be used by the
resource management to realize the communication service instance.
{width="1.5881944444444445in" height="2.78125in"}
Figure 4.2.2.1: Customer aspects as well as, service and resource aspects
regarding CSMF
The CSMF is split into two parts where one of them is related to customer
aspects and the other is related to the service and resource aspects. Figure
4.2.2.2 depicts the CSMF functionalities.
Figure 4.2.2.2: CSMF functionalities
CFCS aspect provides the following functions and services:
\- **Service Design** : It defines parameters for service provisioning,
including parameter name, parameter type, allowed value and range of the
service parameters and so on.
\- **Service SLA Input and Translation** : It receives service SLA from CSC
and translates the SLA into resource aspect related requirements, e.g. service
profile for the instantiation of network slice instance.
\- **Service Catalogue** : It stores the service profile information which
represents the communication service type and capability.
\- **Capability exposure** : It handles exposure of communication service
management capability to CSC, e.g. communication service instance performance
monitoring.
RFCS aspect manages the resource aspects of the communication service instance
(CSI). RFCS aspect provides the following functions and services:
\- **CSI resource inventory** : It stores the identifications of the CSI
resources (e.g. CSI ID, NSI ID), including those that are currently in use,
and those that are available to be allocated. It also stores the mapping
relationship between the CSI and the resource e.g. NSI, as well as the real
time communication service resource availability and capability information
according to the feedback or notification from NSMF. CSIs are allocated,
modified and deallocated, and the corresponding network resource information
is updated during CSI life cycle management. It maintains the CSI resource
availability status.
\- **CSI LCM** : It manages CSI lifecycle e.g. through requesting NSMF to
allocate/deallocate/modify network resources for the CSI. It also does the
feasibility check for a new CSI request. The NSMF notifies CSMF the network
resource LCM status so that the CSI can update the CSI resource inventory
accordingly.
\- **Fault Supervision of CSI** : It collects CSI level fault supervision
information. The closed loop management should be operated through interaction
between CSMF and other OAM functions e.g. NSMF, MDAF.
\- **Performance Assurance of CSI** : It collects CSI level performance
measurement information and supports SLS assurance. CSMF needs to collaborate
with other OAM functions, e.g. NSMF, MDAF, for this purpose.
### 4.2.3 Lifecycle of communication service
Lifecycle of a communication service instance (CSI) includes the following
phases:
**\- Preparation phase:**
> Providing a communication service instance (CSI) starts with preparation of
> CSI, which includes service design, pre-planning, feasibility check, i.e.,
> checking the attainable service quality from both resource and service
> aspects, negotiation of the service attributes, preparing service and
> network requirements derived from SLA.
**\- CSI commissioning phase:**
> Once the CSI is prepared, it can be established by converting the
> communication service requirement for the CSI to network requirements and
> creation of the CSI. When the CSI is created, it is deployed on the network
> resources and ready to be activated.
**\- CSI operation phase:**
> After the commissioning phase, the CSI is activated. An activated CSI allows
> run-time operation of the communication service, e.g., quality assurance,
> data exposure, CSI modification. Optimization of CSI utilization may
> continue during the operation phase of the CSI.
**\- CSI decommissioning phase:**
> When the CSI is no longer needed, after being de-activated, lifecycle of the
> CSI ends with CSI termination.
Figure 4.2.3.1: Lifecycle of a communication service instance
### 4.2.4 Relation of CSI lifecycle to NSI lifecycle
#### 4.2.4.0 Introduction
Resource facing aspects of CSI lifecycle involve interactions with NSI
lifecycle. It is to be noted that except for certain situations when a CSI LCM
operation triggers a NSI LCM operation, CSI-NSI lifecycles are independent.
The following clauses show the cases when a CSI LCM operation triggers a NSI
LCM operation.
#### 4.2.4.1 CSI LCM operation triggering NSI creation
During the \"CSI commissioning\" phase the provider of the communication
service may run a trail for instance before the SLA (including SLS) is agreed.
The trial period may be needed to allow the shared network slice resources to
learn and adapt the resource allocation and configuration to changed traffic
flows associated with the CSIs and their target KPI\'s.
{width="6.69375in" height="2.386111111111111in"}
Figure 4.2.4.1.1: NSI is exclusively used for CSI
#### 4.2.4.2 CSI LCM operation triggering NSI modification
{width="6.696527777777778in" height="2.4090277777777778in"}
Figure 4.2.4.2.1: CSI LCM operation triggering modification of a NSI shared by
two CSIs
The modification step may necessitate a trial being performed to allow for
learning and adapting the resource allocation and configuration to shared NSI.
#### 4.2.4.3 CSI LCM operation triggering NSI activation and deactivation
The LCM operation of an NSI is independent of the LCM operation of CSIs using
the NSI. When CSIs share an NSI there is no constraints on the termination of
the CSIs. For example, CSI_1 is created before CSI_2: CSI_1 could then be
terminated first, or CSI_2 could be terminated first, both options are
possible. Even more options are possible if CSI_3... to CSI_N are added.
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="2.3208333333333333in"}
Figure 4.2.4.3.1: CSI LCM operation triggering activation/deactivation of a
NSI shared by two CSIs
### 4.2.5 Performance assurance of communication services
Performance assurance of communication services includes the following
aspects:
\- Performance monitoring of communication services;
\- Performance analytics of communication services;
\- Performance guarantee of communication services.
These aspects are responsible for restoring the communication service
performance for customers to a level specified in the SLS or other service KQI
descriptions as soon as possible.
## 4.3 Management layers
The high-level view of management layers is provided by ITU-T and can be found
in M.3010 [8]. Figure 4.3.1 shows the relation between the communication
service model and the business, service and network management layer specified
in [8].
{width="6.677083333333333in" height="3.2916666666666665in"}
Figure 4.3.1: Management model for management of communication services
The customers of a service provider (a subscriber or an enterprise) are not
directly connected to the CFCSs. The customer is connected via the products in
the portfolio of the service provider (a product is offered to the customers
of a service provider). One of the aspects on the business management layer is
the definition of the products, the product characteristics and their relation
to a customer. For example, a CSP agrees on requirements and documents them in
a Service Level Specification (SLS) with the customer. The SLS requirements
can be part of a product definition to allow the CSP e. g. to offer same
product definition to other customers. This relationship belongs to the
business management layer and is not subject to standardization.
A service order to provide a communication service comes from the business
management layer to the service management layer. The order contains
information about the communication service to be provided to the customer.
The information includes service specific information, i.e. attributes and
values that are needed to configure the communication service, and customer
specific information, i.e. attributes and values that are needed to configure
the service for a specific customer (for example endpoints, coverage, and QoS,
QoE attributes).
The information from a CFCS is mapped or converted to RFCS information and
depending on the type of service additional attributes may be needed for the
configuration of an RFCS. The RFCSProfile describes a specific RFCS type that
can be instantiated with a new service order.
The service order for provisioning of a new communication service is converted
to a request to the network management layer (NMF) to allocate a network slice
[8] and allocate or configure the associated network slice subnets [8].
Depending on the communication service requirements the network management
layer either creates a new network slice for the request or modifies, an
existing network slice and let the new communication service use the existing
network slice. The procedures for network slice allocation and network slice
subnet allocation and configuration are described in TS 28.531 [8].
**NSaaS**
Network slice as a Service is specified in TS 28.530 [8] and used in a number
of use cases. The NSaaS aspects are managed on the service management layer
while the resource aspects are managed on the network management layer. The
request for NSaaS comes to the service management layer and will be translated
into one or more resource requests on the network management layer. The
associated service profile(s) [7] specifies the network attributes that need
to be configured for the customer to use the network slice as a service. In
this scenario the CSMF layer receives the request for NSaaS from the business
management layer including the service management requirements derived from
the SLS.
## 4.4 Management model
### 4.4.1 Introduction
A CSP has to administrate communication services both from the view of the
customer and from the view of the resource. The administration from the view
of the customer is about information in relation to the business agreement for
example address, SLA information, etc. The administration of a communication
service from the view of the resources is about information on the relation
between the communication service and the resources being used, the behaviour
of the resources and how this impacts the users of the communication service.
NOTE: The meaning of SLA information in the context of the present document is
as follows: A CSP and a CSC have a business agreement of which the SLA is a
part of. The service and network requirements are derived from an SLA/SLS (for
example performance management metrics for eMBB on delay and latency).
### 4.4.2 Description
The administration of a customer facing communication service (CFCS) and the
administration of a resource facing communication service (RFCS) are the
responsibility of different organisations within a CSP, Administration of
CFCSs includes the administration of the business aspects between the CSP and
the CSC. For example, what actions the CSP is to take in case an SLA is
breached. This interaction takes place northbound of the customer facing part
of the CSMF which maintains the relationship between the customer and the
communication service(s). Not meeting the SLS (as part of the SLA) may result
in concrete actions to be performed towards the resources, this interaction
takes place between the RFCS and the resources.
The entities and the relationship are shown in Figure 4.4.2.1. a more detailed
description is provided below Figure 4.4.1.
{width="4.911111111111111in" height="3.2444444444444445in"}
Figure 4.4.2.1: Example of relationships shown between different entities
A CSP receives an order or request from a customer to provide a communication
service. With the reception and acceptance of the order, the administration
and management of communication services begins. The order from the customer
is processed and mapped to a Customer Facing Communication Service (CFCS).
The CSCF is what the customer will see and recognize, which is not the same as
which resources are configured and used to provide the communication service
to the customer.
The CFCS uses the RFCS, the RFCS represents a communication service instance
for a specific customer. A customer may have multiple RFCS (for example
eMBB#1, eMBB#2 and mIoT#1). An RFCS uses resources or uses resource services.
An example of a resource service is the NSaaS, an example of resources is a
RAN resource, CN resources or TN resources.
The provisioning of a RFCS can be done using a set of parameters that are
applicable to each instance of an RFCS. This set of parameters is called the
RFCS profile. Multiple RFCS profile can be supported depending on the
different types of RFCS that can be supported by the resources. The RFCS
profile holds all information that is needed to describe the capabilities of
an RFCS. The management function creates a new RFCS when a request is
received, the parameters from the RFCS profile are added to the new RFCS with
the values of the parameters populated with information from the request.
### 4.4.3 Communication services applied to network slicing
In a network slicing scenario, the resources used by an RFCS are captured by
the network slicing model. The CSP could have different types of RFCS where
each type is described by a ResourceFacingServiceProfile consisting of a pre-
defined set of attributes. A request for an RFCS involves the creation on an
instance of an RFCS using the attributes of the selected
ResourceFacingServiceProfile with the information from the request.
The RFCS instance uses an NSI, the RFCS instance is bound to an NSI instance
at instantiation time. The management system needs to allocate an appropriate
NSI to support the RFCS. Depending on the NSI capabilities many RFCS may use a
single NSI. The NSI capabilities are described by the set of ServiceProfiles
it supports. A single RFCSProfile maps to a single ServiceProfile supported by
the NSI.
The communication service always uses resources from the RAN, CN and TN domain
otherwise there would not be a connection for the Communication Service to
use. The top-level NSSI aggregates the resources of the domain NSSI\'s, and
through 1:1 relationship with the NSI the top-level NSSI does not require an
association with any profile, this information is already captured by the
ServiceProfiles supported by the NSI.
The lower level or domain NSSI\'s as per slicing model in TS 28.541 [7] may be
associated with one or more SliceProfiles.
{width="5.1875in" height="3.9166666666666665in"}
Figure 4.4.3.1: Example of relationships shown between different entities
## 4.5 Communication services
### 4.5.1 Introduction
Various organizations are involved in the specification of information that is
relevant for B2B customers of a CSP. The information can be used between CSP
and CSC to agree on the characteristics of service using network slices. This
clause captures the concept from GSMA.
### 4.5.2 GSMA GST/NEST
The Generic Network Slice Template (GST) is a set of attributes that can
characterise a type of network slice. One or more NSIs (Network Slice
Instance) can be created out of the same type based on the requirements. GST
is generic and is not tied to any specific network deployment, see GST defined
in GSMA [12]. Some of GST attributes are embodied as some attributes of
ServiceProfile [7], for example, GST attribute \"Isolation level\" [12] is
mapped to ServiceProfile attribute \"resourceSharingLevel\" [7].
The NEtwork Slice Type (NEST) is a GST filled with values. Some of NEST
attributes are embodied as some attributes of ServiceProfile [7] filled with
values, for example, NEST attribute \"Isolation level\" with value = 0 [12] is
mapped to ServiceProfile attribute \"resourceSharingLevel\" [7] with value =
shared.
Figure 4.x.2-1, as an example, shows the mapping relation of 3GPP
ServiceProfile and GSMA GST/NEST in context of the network slice lifecycle.
Network Slice Customer (NSC) acts as CSC (see Figure 1 of GST [12]), CSMF acts
as CSP, and NSMF prepares NSIs based on attributes values of ServiceProfile
[7] which is a mapping of GST/NEST.
Figure 4.5.1.1: Mapping of 3GPP ServiceProfile and GSMA GST/NEST\ in context
of the network slice lifecycle
## 4.6 SLS assurance
### 4.6.1 Description
The NOP needs to take into account their customers\' requirements in planning,
provision and optimization phases of the network, which may include:
\- Receive the service request from the customer.
\- Identify which SLS that management system could guarantee with the network
management capabilities.
\- Identify what other information except the management data may be needed to
support management decision.
### 4.6.2 Management cooperation with 5GC and NG-RAN
Coordination may be needed between the management, 5GC and NG-RAN domains as
shown in the figure 4.6.2.1. The management domain provides the SLS assurance
from the management perspective. Core and RAN contribute to the fulfilment of
network slice SLS from the control plane and user plane perspective.
{width="5.004166666666666in" height="2.323611111111111in"}
Figure 4.6.2.1: Cooperation between management,\ 5GC and NG-RAN domains
following Hybrid-SON
## 4.7 Service QoE
### 4.7.1 Description
The QoE information is information collected by the end user application in
the UE. The QoE information can be also collected by a collection centre for
analysis and/or KPI calculations [10].
Service QoE is analytics data from QoE information of user related to CSI. How
to analyse collected QoE information and calculate the result of Service QoE
may be defined by NOP or CSP/CSC. For example, the Service QoE can be a
weighted average experience of multiple user applications using CSI.
Percentage of users satisfied in a given CSI may also be the analytics result
and can be used as Service QoE for the CSI.
Service QoE may be used for supporting SLS fulfilment.
### 4.7.2 Service QoE collection and service quality assurance
If there is no methodology model to map end user QoE requirements into
resource aspect related requirements, the end user service QoE information
cannot be deduced from performance measurements in the network. There are two
types of methods for service QoE collection:
\- For DASH and MTSI user services in TS 28.404 [10], user QoE information is
measured and collected by the user application in the UE. A collection centre
collects user QoE information for a specified user service/user service type
either from UEs in a specified area or a specific UE in UMTS and LTE. For 5G
network MDAS may collect and analyse the user QoE information. Service QoE of
given CSI is an analytic result of user QoE information.
\- For other user services, user QoE information is measured or collected by
the application server of CSC or CSP. In TS 23.288 [11] the NWDAF collects
data from applications and provides analytics data services. The management
system may get analytic results by consuming the analytics data services
provided by NWDAF. The analytic result from NWDAF may be used as Service QoE.
In the case of Network Slices as NOP internal, the Service QoE may help the
management system to optimize the resources of CSI and guarantee the
performance.
In the case of Network Slice as a Service, the Service QoE of CSIs which is
using NSI may help the management system for SLS assurance.
# 5 Potential use cases and requirements
## 5.1 Management data analytics and automated service assurance
### 5.1.1 Service quality assurance and optimization of the services
#### 5.1.1.1 Description
_The goal of the use case is to enable service_ quality assurance and
_optimization for the_ set of services provided by the network to certain
group (category) of the UEs. For example, the set can include the services
provided via certain NSI(s) or to IoT devices in certain area.
It is assumed that the relevant NFs are deployed and active in NG-RAN and 5GC.
The group of NG-RAN and 5GC nodes, which are essential for the set of E2E
services, provide provisioning and PM management services. It is also assumed
that the providers of the related NSI / NSSI provisioning and PM management
services are deployed and active.
The management system is consuming above management services either directly
or through proxy nodes that re-exposure the management services; the
management system is aware of the performance requirements imposed on the set
of services.
The management system is collecting the network data and monitoring the
performance indicators related to the targeted services. Analytics hosted by
the MDAF may be utilized for processing of the network data to derive and
analyse the performance indicators. If the service quality assurance and
optimization function detects performance degradation or potential for
improvement of the targeted performance indicators, it modifies the
configuration parameters in the corresponding NG-RAN and 5GC nodes and
NSI(s)/NSSI(s), using the NG-RAN, 5GC, and NSI(s)/NSSI(s) (where relevant)
provisioning services, and continues monitoring the performance.
If the network performance does not recover / improves, the management system
may adjust the modifications, for example roll back to previous configuration.
In any case it continues collection of the network data and monitoring of the
performance indicators.
#### 5.1.1.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_SAO-CON-01** The network management system shall have the capability
to be configured with the target communication service performance indicators
for a set of communication services supplied to a group or category of UEs.
**REQ-CSM_SAO-CON-02** The network management system shall have the capability
to collect network data and analyse performance indicators related to the set
of communication services supplied to a group or category of UEs.
**REQ-CSM_SAO-CON-03** The network management system shall have the capability
to modify the configuration parameters in the NG-RAN and 5GC nodes and
NSI(s)/NSSI(s), related to the set of communication services supplied to a
group or category of UEs
### 5.1.2 CSI monitoring
#### 5.1.2.1 Description
After the CSI provisioning, the 3GPP management system monitors the KPIs of
CSI resource part, i.e. SLA related performance metrics. According to the KPIs
of CSI resource part, the 3GPP management system can evaluate SLA fulfilment
by ensuring that service requirements are fulfilled by the CSI resource part.
The 3GPP management system may provide the KPIs of CSI resource part to the
CSI to authorized CSI service provider or CSI service consumer to let them
check whether the service SLA requirements are met.
#### 5.1.2.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_CSI-MON-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability of
monitoring CSI resource part and evaluating SLA fulfilment.
**REQ-CSM_CSI-MON-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability of
providing KPIs of CSI resource part to authorized CSI service provider or CSI
service consumer.
### 5.1.3 SLS monitoring for network slicing
#### 5.1.3.1 Description
An SLS will contain information that will be broken down to service
requirements that are conveyed to the CSP by the CSC. The service requirements
may be used to provision a network slice instance.
After the network slice provisioning, the CSP and /or CSC may need to monitor
the SLS status of the NSI to make sure whether its service requirements are
achieved. In the service based management architecture, subscribe-notify and
request-response style interactions between the communication services
management function and network slice management function can be utilized.
Network slice management function reports the SLS related network slice level
KPIs and end user traffic level QoS/QoE parameters. The reporting can be
periodic, or event based. Communication services management function may also
invoke the SLS monitoring related APIs provided by the network slice
management function. Network slice management function collects network slice
domain specific operating data from the constituent network slice subnet
management functions. Aggregating, analysing and processing the data into E2E
network slice level operating parameters and presents them to the
communication services management function.
A new slice may be created with dedicated 5GC resource e.g. dedicated
SMF/UPF/PCF. Usually 5GC resource is enough while NG RAN is the bottleneck. In
the radio access network, QoS of user traffics and cell KPIs may be degraded
due to many factors such as congestion, coverage issues, interference,
shortage of radio resources etc. In such cases, there is a risk to guarantee
the E2E SLSs of one or more network slice instances for all the UEs from the
CSC all the time.
The networks outside of the 3GPP operators are out of control of the 3GPP
operators and may be exceptional for the SLA negotiation, e.g. the outside
transport networks or DCs of third parties and the applications etc.
The number users of the network slice (customers of the CSC) is slowly
increased while the network slice resources adapt to changing traffic
characteristics. What slice customer care is, how many subscribers (e.g. 1
million) can be served by the slice and the Service Experience statistics per
application (e.g. average Service MOS 4.0 for Application X for the slice
customer) and how many percent (e.g. 90 % for Application X) UEs\' service
experience satisfy per application ID, see clause 6.32 of TR 23.791 [6].
Therefore, the CSPs may need to monitor the SLS status of the NSI for those
aspects.
When a performance degradation impacts the service requirements the management
system reconfigures the resources to resolve the performance degradation, in
case the degradation cannot be resolved the management system may restrict the
total number of active users.
During the runtime phase of network slice, as consequence of SLS monitoring
the management system may adjust reserved resources for the network slice to
improve service experiences and ensure SLS according to the activity
prediction of users provided by NWDAF, as well as resource adjustment
recommendation provided by MDAF.
#### 5.1.3.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_SLS-CON-01** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability
monitoring the performance metrics related to the SLA.
**REQ-CSM_SLS-CON-02** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability
consuming the data related to QoE provided by for example an NWDAF.
**REQ-CSM_SLS-CON-03** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability
evaluating the QoE data provided by an NWDAF to trigger actions if the network
slice performance requirements are not met.
**REQ-CSM_SLS-CON-04** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability
configuring reserved resources in RAN potentially to be used for a new network
slice instance.
**REQ-CSM_SLS-CON-05** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
consume activity prediction of the users from, for example, historical data in
NWDAF.
**REQ-CSM_SLS-CON-06** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
consume the Management Data Analytics Service for the purpose of SLS
assurance.
### 5.1.4 MDA-Assisted network provisioning contributing to SLS assurance
#### 5.1.4.1 Description
The 5G network can support different services with various QoS parameters. The
QoS parameters are maintained by the system during the lifetime of the
network.
Utilizing MDAF to provide big data analytics in order to help the management
system functions to derive suitable network topology (e.g. VNF chains, network
configurations etc.) to guarantee the service assurance given by the vertical
customers from the network provisioning aspect. After the network is setup
with the suitable configurations, the control plane and user plane could do
further adjustment (e.g. with UE session control etc.) to improve the
individual user experiences.
In this case, management system needs to identify which service requirements
that are related to the network management system for the purpose of network
or network slice deployment, and which type of information that could be
provided to MDAF for the analytics.
For communication service provisioning, CSMF translates customer level SLA
into communication service requirements, and analyses the network capability
to determine whether to map the CSI to an existing NSI or a new NSI. This
operation is performed in the CSI or NSI planning phase. MDAF can be utilized
to assist such planning. MDAF may get SLS requirements as input from CSMF and
provide analytical information which may include network performance data and
recommended network configuration settings to help the management system
functions to derive the suitable configuration parameters.
For example, communication service SLS requirements such as E2E latency,
bandwidth, service area, user capacity, user QoE requirements etc. may be used
as input to MDAF. . Information from 5GC and NG-RAN, such as performance
measurements of 5GC NFs, performance measurements of gNBs and en-gNBs, QoE
measurement etc., may be used as input also to MDAF. The output data provided
by MDAF may include performance data and recommended configuration settings.
#### 5.1.4.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_MDA-CON-01** The communication services management system shall have
the capability providing the communication service requirements related to
network to the management data analytics service provider.
**REQ-CSM_MDA-CON-02** The management data analytics service provider shall
have the capability getting the network management data from network
management service provider.
**REQ-CSM_MDA-CON-03** The management data analytics service provider shall
have the capability allowing its authorized consumer to request recommendation
for the purpose of network provisioning.
**REQ-CSM_MDA-CON-04** The management data analytics service provider shall
have the capability providing information which may include performance data
and recommended configuration settings for communication service planning.
## 5.2 Lifecycle management
### 5.2.1 Communication service instances realized in a single network slice
instance
#### 5.2.1.1 Description
A CSP offers a portfolio of communication services to the market (CSC). CSC
selects a suitable product and orders communication service by inputting some
service requirements e.g. SLA requirements information.
The CSP receives a request from a customer to realize a communication service
instance:
\- The CSP checks the communication service catalogue to find communication
services with the communication service description which matches the request.
The CSP performs feasibility check, i.e., checking the attainable service
quality from both resource and service aspects.
\- The CSP translates the service SLS into parameterized E2E network slice
template information. In order to achieve this purpose, interactions between
the CSP and NOP or some manually network design and planning process are
needed. The CSP provides the service profile to the NOP for network resources
allocation. The NOP checks the network slice inventory to find a network slice
instances which matches the request.
\- The network slice instance to be used will be checked whether there is
sufficient capacity available to support the new communication service
instance. If there is enough capacity available, the communication service
instance will be assigned to the network slice instance. The mapping between
the communication service instance and the network slice instance will be
maintained by both the CSP and NOP.
The communication service instance has been realized.
#### 5.2.1.2 Potential requirements
REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-01 The 3GPP management system shall provide a management
service, which offers the capability to receive and process a request to
realize a communication service instance.
REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-02 The 3GPP management system shall provide management
service, which offers the capability to ensure that the list of realized
communication service instances are up to date.
REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-03 The 3GPP management system shall provide a management
service, which offers the capability to find a communication service
description based on a request.
REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-04 The 3GPP management system shall provide a management
service, which offers the capability to assign a communication service
instance to an existing network slice instance.
### 5.2.2 Remove a communication service instance from a network slice
instance
#### 5.2.2.1 Description
A Communication Service Provider (CSP) is informed by a CSC that a realized
communication service instance will cease to exist.
The CSP checks the communication service inventory to find the network slice
instance that is used to realize the communication service instance. The
communication service instance is unassigned from the network slice instance
and the network slice instance is modified or terminated to reflect the
changed requirements.
The communication service instance has been removed.
#### 5.2.2.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-05** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
remove an existing instance of communication service according to the request
from a CSC to remove a communication service instance.
**REQ-CSM_LCM_CON-06** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
request the network slice management function to modify or terminate the
existing NSI which supports the CSI to be removed.
### 5.2.3 Management aspects of NSIs utilized by multiple communication
services
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
Network slices and network slice subnets can be shared by different
communication services as described in clause 4.1.3 of TS 28.530 [3]. Also,
same NSI can be utilized to provide communication services to different
customers. In both cases, multiple CSIs may share a single NSI. In this use
case, a communication service provider uses a network slice to provide
multiple CSIs, i.e. network provider performs service-based sharing of the
network slice among its customers.
On the contrary to the cases where a single NSI is utilized for a single CSI,
the network management system is responsible for maintaining QoS guarantees
for each service or customer over the resource facing aspects of a single NSI.
For service-based sharing, the customer provides service requirements.
Therefore, the NSI resources are shared based on service requirements to
satisfy SLS requirements. In this case, the network provider determines the
policies and rules about how the network resources are utilized. In other
words, the network itself is transparent to the customer of the CSI service.
Therefore, the network management system can utilize a database including
available services.
While utilizing NSIs with sharing, effect of all services on that NSI and its
constituent should be considered. Effects of loads of services can be
evaluated using historical data and analysis provided by MDAF, as a part of
feasibility check for provisioning CSIs. Similarly, for modifications on NSIs
and NSSIs with sharing, effect of the modification on all services are
considered.
#### 5.2.3.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-07** The 3GPP management system shall have the capability to
assure the QoS guarantees for each service when a network slice is utilized by
multiple services.
### 5.2.4 Obtaining an NSI as an NOP Internal to provide multiple CSIs
#### 5.2.4.1 Description
CSI is defined in Clause 3.1 as a run-time construct of a communication
service for a defined group of users. For example, what a vertical customer or
an enterprise customer receives from a network operator is a CSI which can be
used to provide PDU sessions to its end users.
A consumer of an NSI as a NOP Internal may use the NSI to offer multiple CSIs
to its customers. One example case is a CSP obtains an IOT network slice
instance for a generic home monitoring service and offer it to multiple
customers who run different kind of home monitoring services such as electric
meter monitoring or alarm monitoring. Another example is that the CSP receives
a NSI for a certain application and provides the same services to multiple
customers using multiple CSIs.
Depending on the CSC requirements, CSC may obtain certain service management
capabilities such as session admission control or dynamic adjustment of
priorities so that it can manage the CSI services it provides to its
customers.
In certain scenarios, the CSI consumers (e.g. vertical customers) may also
obtain service management components such as service data handling and related
actions, subscriber data handling, service and use policy establishment (user
priority, user allowed services etc.) for managing the end user devices.
### 5.2.5 Providing CSI management capability to vertical industries
#### 5.2.5.1 Description
When a CSI is provided to a vertical industry or enterprise, the vertical
customer may want to get certain service management capabilities.
The vertical customer is authorized to obtain the allowed management
capability from CSI service provider according to the pre-defined agreements
between the CSI service provider and the CSI service consumer. Level of
management capability exposure has been agreed upon between the CSI service
provider and the CSI service consumer.
These management capabilities may include the ability to limit or allow the
traffic originated from certain end users, the ability to limit or allow
traffic related to specific applications by applying priority, policy changes
configuration setting which are related to session admission control.
### 5.2.6 Create a Communication Service (CSI)
#### 5.2.6.1 Description
A communication service provider (CSP) receives a request to provide a
communication service to a CSC.
Based on the request the CSP checks the list of CS profiles for a matching
profile, creates a new instance of the profile, adds information from the
request to this profile and stores it with a unique identity (CSI Id), this is
followed by a request to an NMF (Network Management Function) to allocate
resources (available and assigned) (for example an NSI) that can support the
characteristics of the requested CSI. Once the NMF confirms the resources have
been allocated to provide the CSI, the CSP informs the CSC that the CSI has
been created. The case when no matching profile can be found is not further
investigated in the present document.
#### 5.2.6.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-08** The 3GPP management system shall support capabilities
to create a communication service instance according to the request from a
CSC.
### 5.2.7 Activate a Communication Service (CSI)
#### 5.2.7.1 Description
A communication service provider (CSP) receives a request to activate provided
to a CSC.
Based on the request the CSP checks the CSI inventory and locates the CSI that
is requested to be activated. The resources needed for the CSI have been
allocated (assigned and available) before the activation request. From the
inventory the CSP will know which resources (for example which NSI) are used
for the CSI and sends an activation request to the NMF (Network Management
Function) to allow the CSI to use the allocated resources. A positive response
to the activation request will immediately allow the CSI to use the allocated
resources. Once the NMF confirms that the CSI can use the allocated resources,
the CSP informs the CSC that the CSI has been activated.
NOTE: In some cases when a trial is being performed to allow for learning and
adapting the resource allocation and configuration to the shared NSI, in such
case an activation request may allow a group of subscribers to use the
communication service instead of the target number of subscribers (maximum
number of subscribers allowed to use the NSI).
#### 5.2.7.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-09** The 3GPP management system shall support capabilities
to activate a communication service instance provided to a CSC.
### 5.2.8 De-activate a Communication Service (CSI)
#### 5.2.8.1 Description
A communication service provider (CSP) receives a request to de-activate a
communication service provided to a CSC.
Based on the request the CSP checks the inventory to locate the CSI that is
requested to be de-activated. From the inventory the CSP will know which
resources are used for the CSI and sends a de-activation request to the NMF
(Network Management Function) to disallow the CSI to use the allocated
(assigned and available) resources. Once the NMF confirms that the CSI cannot
use the allocated resources, the CSP informs the CSC that the CSI has been de-
activated.
#### 5.2.8.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-10** The 3GPP management system shall support capabilities
to de-activate a communication service instance provided to a CSC.
#### 5.2.9 Modify a Communication Service (CSI)
#### 5.2.9.1 Description
A communication service provider (CSP) receives a request to modify a
communication service provided to a CSC.
Based on the request the CSP checks the inventory to find the CSI that is
requested to be modified. In some cases a modification request may necessitate
a trial being performed to allow for learning and adapting the resource
allocation and configuration to the shared resources. From the inventory the
CSP will know which resources (for example an NSI) are used for the CSI and
sends a modification request to the NMF (Network Management Function) to
modify the allocated resources (available and assigned) a modification can
result in adding or removing resources, or changes of properties of the
resources within the scope of the service definition). Once the NMF confirms
that the modification has been completed, the CSP informs the CSC that the CSI
has been modified.
#### 5.2.9.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-11** The 3GPP management system shall support capabilities
to modify a communication service instance provided to a CSC.
### 5.2.10 Terminate a Communication Service (CSI)
#### 5.2.10.1 Description
A communication service provider (CSP) receives a request to terminate a
communication service provided to a CSC.
Based on the requirements from the request the CSP checks the inventory to
find the CSI that is requested to be terminated. If the status of the CSI is
active, the CSP has to de-activate the CSI before the CSI can be terminated.
When the status of the CSI is in-active the CSP can terminate the CSI. The CSP
will know which resources (for example an NSI) are used for the CSI and sends
a de-allocation request to the NMF (Network Management Function) to de-
allocate the allocated resources. Once the NMF confirms that the resources
allocated to the CSI have been de-allocated, the CSP informs the CSC that the
CSI has been terminated.
#### 5.2.10.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_LCM-CON-12** The 3GPP management system shall support capabilities
to terminate a communication service instance provided to a CSC.
### 5.2.11 Management of multi-party communication service
#### 5.2.11.1 Description
A Vertical Industry customer deploys IoT devices in a specific geographical
area supported by a communication service provided by a CSP. The customer
decides to venture into new geographical areas and request the CSP to extend
the agreement to cover other geographical areas. The new requirement includes
geographical areas where the CSP does not have mobile network coverage. The
CSP makes an agreement with an Access Network (AN) provider that can provide
the required additional coverage for the customer. To improve the latency the
CSP decides to extend its CN resources to be located near or with the CN
resources of the AN provider. The CSP provides the additional CN resources and
integrates the CN resources into the CSP\'s existing CN as well as into the AN
from the provider. The CSP offers the customer a seamless communication
service spanning the coverage areas required by the enterprise
This description identifies the following roles involved in the use case:
\- CSC is the Vertical Industry customer looking for coverage of new
geographical areas for IoT devices and therefore has a request to increase the
current coverage
\- CSP providing communication service to CSC
\- NOP#1 providing RAN, CN services to the CSP
\- NOP#2 providing RAN services, for different area, to CSP
\- VISP providing virtualization infrastructure (e.g. data centre) and
management services to NOP#2
The use case involves the following steps and interactions as sketched:
\- CSP provides a communication service to an CSC. The RAN and CN resources
that realize the communication services are provided by NOP#1
\- CSC wants to extend the communication service to areas that are not covered
by CSP.
\- CSP wants to provide the CSC with the same service agreement level when
outside the current CSPs coverage area.
\- CSP asks the NOP#1 to provide resources (e.g. RAN resources for additional
area) that enable the CSP to extend the currently provided communication
service to additional coverage areas.- NOP#1 requests to NOP#2 management
exposure to enable creation and configuration of additional RAN resources.
\- NOP#1 deploys its own CN resources on VISP using the management services
exposed.
\- NOP#1 connects CN resources to the AN of NOP#2 using the management
services exposed by NOP#2.
\- NOP#1 extends its CN with the CN resources connected to Access Network of
NOP#2.
\- The CSP extends the currently provided communication service to include the
additional requested coverage areas provided by NOP#2.
\- NOP#1 manages the resources, including its CN resources connected to the
NOP#2 Access Network.
\- CSP manages the extended communication service.
#### 5.2.11.2 Potential requirements
REQ-FNS_CON-01: The 3GPP management system shall support capabilities to
provide management services that allow the integration of 3GPP resources in
another operator\'s network to allow seamless provisioning and management of
communication services.
REQ-FNS_CON-02: The 3GPP management system should support capabilities to
provide management services that allow the management of 3GPP resources in
another operator\'s network.
## 5.3 Lifecycle management, data analytics and automated service assurance
### 5.3.1 Service management aspects of NSaaS
#### 5.3.1.1 Description
5G networks with slicing provides a variety of communication services,
including NSaaS as discussed in clause 4.1.6 of TS 28.530 [3]. NSaaS consumer
may provide multiple communication service instances (CSIs) using the obtained
NSI. In this case, it is assumed that the NSI is provided so as to satisfy the
network resource requirements provided by the NSaaS consumer. The management
system of the NSaaS consumer and the NSaaS provider are responsible for
maintaining QoS guarantees for each CSI using the NSI.
In this case, the customer\'s CSMF should convert NSI resource capability to
service provisioning capabilities. Whenever a new CSI added to the NSI, the
NSaaS consumer should ensure the NSI is capable of supporting the new CSI. The
NSaaS provider has to satisfy the policies and rules about how the NSaaS
consumer needs to utilize the network resources. In other words, the network
is exposed to the customer based on necessity.
The MDAS of the customer may assist for the conversion of resource capability
into service capability, or the customer may request services and analysis
from the MDAS of the NSaaS provider. Note that in the former case, the CSMF of
the NSaaS consumer needs to obtain resource information and then perform the
conversion. The NSI resource capability can be evaluated using historical data
and analysis provided by MDAS of the NSaaS consumer. This information can be
used by the NSaaS customer for provisioning and quality assurance of CSIs
utilizing the obtained NSI.
When obtaining analysis from the MDAS of the service provider, the network
management system of the service provider may prepare a database including
service requirements conversion to network resource requirements and/or
service capacity boundaries that can be supported by the network resources
available to NSaaS consumer. When the conversion is readily available, CSMF of
the NSaaS consumer do not need to make the conversion, and is used for service
and customer aspects.
#### 5.3.1.2 Potential requirements
**REQ-CSM_MDA-CON-05** The communication service provider, as the NSaaS
provider, shall have the capability to provide data analytics to an NSaaS
consumer.
# 6 Potential solutions
## 6.1 Solution for communication service instances realized in a single
network slice instance
The customer provides service requirements. The NSI resources are shared based
on service requirements (in case of sharing the same slice for different
services). Note that this assumes the case where the network itself is
transparent to the CSI provider at this point, i.e., only service and customer
facing aspects of CSMF are considered. Differently than a non-shared NSI, the
mutual effects of different services, as well as different requirements and
policies of several customers need to be considered while determining the
feasibility of provisioning the requested service.
Detailed explanation of steps are as follows.
1) CSMF receives an intent or request for service allocation.
2 If CSMF is not already provided with network resource information converted
to service capabilities, it may request the service capabilities from the NSI
provider.
a) If some network components are obtained by another provider, service
requirements may be given to this provider and service capabilities can be
obtained.
b) CSMF receives the analysis report.
3) CSMF sends the list of services to MDAF and other service information that
may be required for MDAF analysis, e.g. service policies and requirements.
a) MDAF may use historical analysis of services sharing the NSI and also
collects information about the current situation of the network, e.g. by
querying RAN and CN traffic load analysis and policies.
b) CSMF obtains information from MDAF without interacting with other
management functions at the lower layers, such as NSMF and NSSMF.
4) CSMF evaluates the feasibility of adding the requested service by using
service-level analysis and predictions.
5) CSMF makes a decision on whether to assign the CSI, or not.
6) The customer receives response.
a) If the service is feasible, the CSI is assigned for the service. The
customer receives acknowledgement along with necessary information about CSI,
e.g. the identifier and so on.
b) If the service is not feasible, the response includes reasons for
rejection. Rejection reasons may be provided depending on the exposure to the
customer.
## 6.2 Solution for translation of SLS into SLS requirements
A service-level agreement (SLA) specification (SLS) is an agreement between
two or more parties, where one is the customer and the others are service
providers. In this case, CSC is the consumer of the communication services,
CSMF is the service provider of communication services management.
Therefore, CSMF needs to convert the received SLAs from CSC to SLA
requirements, i.e. the service and network requirements derived from SLAs, see
figure 6.2.1.
{width="6.46875in" height="7.541666666666667in"}
Figure 6.2.1: Translation of SLA into SLA requirements
1) CSMF receives SLA information from CSC.
2) CSMF may request network management service providers (e.g. NFMF) to obtain
network capability related information.
3) CSMF may request network slicing and network slicing subnet management
service providers (e.g. NSMF and NSSMF) to obtain additional slicing
information regarding the resource facing aspects, if needed.
4) Based on the information retrieved from above step 2, 3 and 4, also
considering the CSP\'s policies and other input (e.g. service profile
information stored in service catalogue), CSMF completes the translation of
SLA to communication service requirements and network requirements and then
sends the translated requirements to network management service providers
(e.g. NSMF, NSSMF, NFMF)
a) In case of network slicing, NSMF fills the dataType ServiceProfile which
represents the properties of network slice related requirements that should be
supported by the network slice instance with the translated requirements.
1) If the conversion between CSMF and CSC is done upon a request, CSMF may
send a response to CSC, and may update a database with the conversion results.
## 6.3 Solution for communication service instance termination
### 6.3.1 Solution for the case that network slice used as resources
1) The CSC sends a request to the CSP for service termination.
2) If the status of the CSI is active, the CSP has to de-activate the CSI
before the CSI can be terminated.
a) The CSP decides on whether to decommission the related NSI(s) and NSSI(s),
or modify them. This decision can be based on current and prospective services
to utilize these NSI(s) and NSSI(s), e.g. MDAS may provide prediction on
prospective demand.
b) If the CSC has access to management exposure interfaces, the CSC may be
involved in decommissioning. The management exposure interface is disabled
before the termination of the service.
3) CSP manages the required modifications with NSMF and NSSMF via the resource
facing interface of CSMF.
4) An acknowledgement may be received by the CSP and CSC indicating that the
CSI termination is completed, and the exposure interfaces are disabled.
a) The CSP may decide to terminate the SLA with the CSC upon receiving the
acknowledgement.
## 6.4 Solution for communication service instance modification
### 6.4.1 Solution for the case that network slice used as resources
**After all NSIs for a customer\'s CSI are prepared and provisioned, CSMF of
the customer request the activation of the CSI so that CSI\'s runtime begins
(except in Exposure E2, the customer may not need to request activation).**
1) The CSC sends a request to the CSP for service modification.
a) Based on the request the CSP may check an inventory to find the CSI that is
requested to be modified.
b) CSP checks the feasibility of the modification request. The modification
may necessitate a trial being performed to allow for learning and adapting the
resource allocation and configuration. If the request is not feasible, CSC and
CSP may negotiate to agree on a feasible modification option.
**c) Alternatively, if CSC has information about estimated service capacities
as provided by CSP, CSC may directly request a feasible modification.**
**d) An update on the SLA may also be negotiated.**
2) After CSP evaluates the required changes on the CSI, CSP performs or
request for the necessary operations on the related NSI(s) and NSSI(s) via the
resource facing aspect of CSMF, NSMF, and NSSMF.
a) Service and resource facing aspects of the CSMF of the CSP may be partially
exposed to the CSC for monitoring and supervision. In this case, CSC may
utilize these interfaces for required operations.
3) Once the NMF confirms that the modification has been completed, the CSP
informs the CSC that the CSI has been modified.
## 6.5 Solution for communication service instance activation
### 6.5.1 Solution for the case that network slice used as resources
The resources needed for the CSI have been allocated (assigned and available)
before the activation request. From the inventory the CSP will know which
resources (for example which NSI) are used for the CSI.
1) The CSC sends a request to the CSP for service activation.
a) Based on the request the CSP may check the CSI inventory and locate the CSI
that is requested to be activated.
b) Alternatively, the request from the CSC may include a CSI indicator.
2) Prepared CSIs are deployed in this stage.
a) CSP is responsible for CSI deployment to NSI, which means that CSI is
allowed to use the allocated resources.
b) If CSC has access to management interfaces, CSC may initiate deployment.
3) CSI operation can begin after this stage.
a) CSC receives acknowledgement indicating that the CSI is activated.
## 6.6 Solution for communication service instance de-activation
### 6.6.1 Solution for the case that network slice used as resources
1) The CSC sends a request to the CSP for service de-activation.
a) Based on the request the CSP may check the CSI inventory and locate the CSI
that is requested to be de-activated.
b) Alternatively, the request from the CSC may include a CSI indicator.
2) CSP makes necessary changes with the resource facing aspects of CSMF to
disallow CSI from using the resources of the associated NSI(s).
3) CSI is de-activated and CSI cannot use the NSI resources after this stage.
a) Further decisions on NSI lifecycle are taken by the CSP.
4) CSP sends an acknowledgement indicating the de-activation of the CSI to the
CSC.
a) SLA between the CSP and CSC may be re-negotiated.
## 6.7 Solution for MDA-Assisted SLS assurance
### 6.7.1 MDA-Assisted network optimization
_To enable SLS_ assurance within certain region area to UEs or certain group
(category) of UEs, NSMF, NSSMF and NFMF use MDAF which provides MDAS to help
network optimization, see figure 6.7.1.1.
{width="6.761805555555555in" height="9.283333333333333in"}
Figure 6.7.1.1: MDA-Assisted network optimization contributing to SLS
assurance
1) Before network initial setting, there is fine tuning of configurations and
algorithms during a trial phase of provisioning.
2) After network initial setting, NSMF, NSSMF and NFMF continually monitor
network status during the runtime phase of network to make sure whether the
service and network requirements are achieved. Information from 5GC and NG-
RAN, such as alarms or performance measurements of 5GC NFs, alarms or
performance measurements of gNBs and en-gNBs, QoE measurement, high level
KPIs, etc., need to be collected frequently or on demand by the NSMF, NSSMF
and NFMF.
3) When the NSMF, NSSMF and NFMF detect performance degradation which impacts
the fulfilment of service or network requirements, the NSMF, NSSMF and NFMF
send MDAS request to MDAF. There may be one or several instances of MDAF
depending on the actual deployment.
4) MDAF may use historical analysis result and also collects information (e.g.
by querying NG-RAN and 5GC traffic load and policies) about the current
situation of the network to provide MDAS response which may include network
performance data and recommended network reconfiguration settings to the NSMF,
NSSMF and NFMF to help them reconfigure the resources to resolve the
performance degradation. SON function may be requested to trigger network
optimization.
5) The NSMF, NSSMF and NFMF reconfigure network resources with optimized
configurations to minimize resource consumption for goal fulfilment.
6) During the runtime phase of network, CSMF, NSMF, NSSMF and NFMF may receive
alarms, e.g., a KPI is not satisfied, or it is predicted that a KPI may not be
satisfied in the near future, or the under-utilization of service capacity.
SON function may be requested to perform fault handling such as fault
locating, and by the assistance of MDAS, triggers self-healing operation.
\- If the alarm is related to the insufficiency of resources, CSMF requests
increasing service capacity via resource-facing aspects.
\- If the alarm is related to under utilization of service capacity, CSMF
requests decreasing service capacity via resource facing aspects.
\- If the alarm is related to unexpected and high demand from one of the
services, CSMF facilitates load balancing, e.g., by updating service
priorities.
\- If the alarm is due to faults in the network, e.g., malfunction of network
equipment, NSMF, NSSMF and NFMF request alternative resources.
7) CSMF gets SLS requirements assurance information from NSMF, NSSMF and NFMF,
e.g., whether or not the SLS requirements are assured.
8) CSC gets SLS assurance information from CSMF, e.g., whether or not the SLA
is assured.
## 6.8 Solution for providing management capability to vertical industries
When a CSI is provided to a vertical industry or enterprise, the vertical
customer may want to get certain service management capabilities.
The vertical customer is authorized to obtain the allowed management
capability from CSI service provider according to the pre-defined agreements
between the CSI service provider and the CSI service consumer. Level of
management capability exposure has been agreed upon between the CSI service
provider and the CSI service consumer.
The management model shown in Figure 4.4.2.1 shows how a CSI has a CFCS part
and a RFCS part, the RFCS part represents the CSP\'s internal view of a CSI,
while the CFCS is the external view of a CSI towards the customer from a
vertical industry. The CFCS can also expose the management capabilities
required by the customer from the vertical industry without having to expose
all CSP internal management capabilities.
Management capabilities for communication services include observation of the
performance of the communication services, exposure of analytics services and
providing custom designed capabilities to CSC.
## 6.9 Solution for management aspects of NSI utilized by multiple
communication services.
### 6.9.1 Assignment of communication service to an existing NSI
1) The CSP receives the request, with CS requirements, from CSC and create a
new CSI.
2) CSP using the resource facing interface of CSMF.
a. Translates the service requirements into resource facing requirements
b. Communicates the resource facing requirements to the NSMF for the
allocation of an NSI
3) NSMF may create a new NSI or assign an existing NSI by performing a
feasibility check including the following.
a. An isolation requirement check will be performed to ensure that the target
NSI is shareable.
b. The target NSI should be able to satisfy the resource facing requirements
received from CSMF.
c. The total projected/expected NSI performance, maybe evaluated using MDAF
and NWDAF, should meet the predefined requirements (e.g. total expected load
of NSI shall not be exceeding a predefined threshold).
4) Depending on the feasibility check, some NSI modification procedures (e.g.
scaling) may be required during the CSI Commissioning.
### 6.9.2 Activation of CSI sharing NSI.
On receiving a CSI activation request a feasibility check should be initiated
in which the current performance (e.g. current load) of the assigned NSI
should be considered to confirm if the NSI will be able to satisfy the CSI
requirements. Based on the result of the feasibility check the NSI
modification (e.g. scale-out/up) procedure may be initiated before activating
the CSI.
1\. The CSP receives the request for a CSI activation.
2\. CSP evaluates the projected/expected NSI performance (e.g. NSI load
information) maybe using the network analytics function e.g. MDAF, NWDAF.
3\. Considering the projected/expected NSI performance and the CS
requirements, the CSP may either activate the CSI or initiate the NSI
modification procedure, via the resource facing interface of CSMF, before
activating the CSI.
### 6.9.3 Termination of CSI sharing NSI.
1\. The CSC sends a request to the CSP for communication service termination.
2\. CSP, via CSMF, initiate CSI Decommissioning.
3\. If the status of the CSI is active, the CSP has to de-activate the CSI
before the CSI can be terminated.
4\. CSP, via CSMF, terminates the CSI.
5\. CSMF identifies the NSI associated to the CSI and request NSMF to perform
NSI related modification or termination operation. Before initiating the NSI
termination, CSMF checks if there are current and prospective communication
services utilizing this NSI. The analytics functions e.g. NWDAF, MDAF can be
used to get this information.
6\. In case there are multiple communication services utilizing the NSI, CSMF
does the modification feasibility check, in collaboration with NSMF, to see
the required level of scale-in/down to be performed as a consequence of the
terminated CSI. This will include CSMF constructing the new set of resource
facing requirements for the NSI and doing the feasibility check based on those
requirements.
7\. Based on the modification feasibility check, NSMF then decides whether to
modify the NSI or to terminate it. If the NSI need to be scale-in/down at a
percentage more than a predefined threshold (e.g. 70% virtual resource
reduction) then the NSI may be terminated. Which will further require CSMF to
relocate the current CSI(s), in collaboration with NSMF, to an existing NSI
i.e. re-allocating existing NSI to active CSI(s). This is done in order to
keep the number of NSI to a manageable figure and to efficiently use the
capabilities of existing NSIs.
NOTE: In order to relocate the CSI, CSMF first has to de-activate the CSI
detaching it from the NSI. CSMF will then initiate CSI activation procedures
to allocate an existing NSI to the CSI(s).
8\. CSMF may then execute the NSI termination with NSMF and NSSMF.
# 7 Conclusions and recommendations
## 7.1 Conclusions
### 7.1.1 Introduction
The study has identified use cases, requirements and solutions for management
of communication services. The study has extended the existing concepts for
network slicing to include management of communication services.
The use cases and requirements address lifecycle management of communication
services and management data analytics as well as automated service assurance.
### 7.1.2 Lifecycle management of communication services
The study has identified that a communication service includes both customer
facing aspects and resource facing aspects,
The study has identified use cases and requirements for a management object
that represents all the network resources that are used by a communication
service instance. In the study the name used for this representation is RFCS.
The study has identified that an RFCS has a \ relationship to an NSI in
case the mobile network is partitioned in network slices.
The study has identified that the NSaaS can be considered a CFCS that maps
directly to an NSI. The NSaaS (CFCS) is exposed to a B2B customer (e.g.
enterprise) while the NSI is never exposed to a B2B customer.
### 7.1.3 Management data analytics
The study has identified use cases and requirements for the use of management
data analytics to support service level specification agreed between an
operator and a B2B customer (e.g. vertical).
The study has identified that interaction between an MDAF/S, other management
functions, RAN and 5GC is needed for management of communication services, to
ensure that the consumers of communication services experience an optimal
service.
The study has identified that further work is needed to understand deployment,
roles, responsibilities and management of MDAFs.
The application of management data analytics in context of SON has not been
evaluated
### 7.1.4 SLS assurance
The study has identified that a management solution is needed to address the
use case \"How to ensure that slice SLA is guaranteed\" documented as key
issue 14 in TR 23.791 [6].
## 7.2 Recommendations
### 7.2.1 Lifecycle management of communication services
It is recommended that business level information is not standardized in
Rel-16 timeframe.
### 7.2.2 SLS assurance solution
It is recommended to start normative work on the specification of an SLS
assurance solution in Rel-16.
### 7.2.3 Management data analytics in the SON context
It is recommended to come up with an additional study which covers the
application of management data analytics in the SON context.
### 7.2.4 Management of MDAF
It is recommended to come up with an additional study which covers the
management of MDAF in general and for example in relation to roles,
responsibilities, and deployments.
###### ### Annex A: Comparison table between 3GPP ServiceProfile attributes
and GSMA GST attributes
In context of the network slice lifecycle, comparison table between 3GPP
ServiceProfile attributes and GSMA GST attributes is listed in below table
A-1. The table can be extended to include more information for GST/NEST
mapping.
**Table A-1: Comparison between 3GPP ServiceProfile attributes and GSMA GST
attributes**
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **GST attribute |** GST attribute | **ServiceProfile | | name** | definition**| attribute** | | | | | | **in GSMA NG.116 |** in GSMA NG.116 | **in 3GPP TS | | Generic Network | Generic Network | 28.541** | | Slice Template | Slice Template | | | v1.0**| v1.0** | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Availability | Void | availability | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > NOTE: This | | | | > attribute is not | | | | > documented in this | | | | > version of the GST | | | | > [12] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Coverage | This attribute | coverageAreaTAList | | | specifies the | | | | coverage area of the | | | | network slice - the | | | | area where the | | | | terminals can access | | | | a particular network | | | | slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Delay tolerance | Provide the NSC with | FFS | | | service delivery | | | | flexibility, | | | | especially for the | | | | vertical services | | | | that are not chasing | | | | a high system | | | | performance. For | | | | instance, the | | | | service will be | | | | delivered once the | | | | mobile system has | | | | sufficient resources | | | | or during the | | | | off-peak hours. For | | | | this type of | | | | traffic, it is not | | | | too critical how | | | | long it takes to | | | | deliver the amount | | | | of data, e.g. within | | | | hours, days, weeks, | | | | etc. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Deterministic | This attribute | FFS | | communication | defines if the | | | | network slice | | | | supports | | | | deterministic | | | | communication for | | | | periodic user | | | | traffic. Periodic | | | | traffic refers to | | | | the type of traffic | | | | with periodic | | | | transmissions. | | | | | | | | Availability: This | | | | parameter describes | | | | if the network slice | | | | supports | | | | deterministic | | | | communication. | | | | | | | | Periodicity: This | | | | parameter provides a | | | | list of | | | | periodicities | | | | supported by the | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Downlink throughput | Is the achievable | areaTrafficCapDL in | | per network slice | data rate of the | Perf for eMBB of | | | network slice in | ServiceProfile | | | downlink that is | | | | available | trafficDensity in | | | ubiquitously across | Perf for URLLC of | | | the coverage area of | ServiceProfile | | | the slice.\ | | | | \ | | | | Guaranteed downlink | | | | throughput (M)\ | | | | Maximum downlink | | | | throughput (C) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Downlink throughput | Guaranteed downlink | expDataRateDL in | | per UE | throughput:\ | Perf for eMBB of | | | This attribute | ServiceProfile | | | describes the | | | | guaranteed data rate | expDataRate in Perf | | | supported by the | for URLLC of | | | network slice per UE | ServiceProfile | | | (User Equipment) in | | | | downlink, which is | | | | required to achieve | | | | a sufficient quality | | | | experience | | | | (dependent on the | | | | selected service | | | | type) and can be | | | | seen as a guaranteed | | | | throughput. If the | | | | value is 0, best | | | | effort traffic is | | | | expected where no | | | | minimum throughput | | | | is guaranteed. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum downlink | This attribute | FFS | | throughput | describes the | | | | maximum data rate | | | | supported by the | | | | network slice per UE | | | | in downlink. These | | | | parameters could be | | | | used to offer | | | | different contract | | | | qualities like gold, | | | | silver and bronze. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Energy efficiency | This attribute | FFS | | | describes the energy | | | | efficiency of the | | | | network slice, i.e. | | | | the ratio between | | | | the performance | | | | indicator, in terms | | | | of data volume (DV), | | | | and the energy | | | | consumption (EC) | | | | when assessed during | | | | the same time frame | | | | [26].\ | | | | \ | | | | Network slice energy | | | | efficiency\ | | | | Time frame of the | | | | measurement | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Group communication | This parameter | FFS | | support | describes which type | | | | of group | | | | communication is | | | | provided by the | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Isolation level | Isolation is one of | resourceSharingLevel | | | the key expectations | | | | of network slicing. | | | | A network slice | | | | instance may be | | | | fully or partly, | | | | logically and/or | | | | physically, isolated | | | | from another network | | | | slice instance | | | | [24]. This | | | | attribute describes | | | | different types of | | | | isolation:\ | | | | • Physical -- | | | | network slices are | | | | physically separated | | | | (e.g. different | | | | rack, different | | | | hardware, different | | | | location, etc.)\ | | | | \ | | | | • Logical -- network | | | | slices are logically | | | | separated. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Location based | This attribute | FFS | | message delivery | describes the | | | | delivery of | | | | information in a | | | | particular | | | | geographic region. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximum supported | This attribute | payloadSize in Perf | | packet size | describes the | for URLLC of | | | maximum packet size | ServiceProfile | | | supported by the | | | | network slice and | | | | may be important for | | | | URLLC | | | | (Ultra-Reliable Low | | | | Latency | | | | Communication) and | | | | MIoT (Massive IoT), | | | | or to indicate a | | | | supported maximum | | | | transmission unit | | | | (MTU). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mission critical | Mission-critical | FFS | | support | (MC) leads to a | | | | priority of the | | | | network slice | | | | relative to others, | | | | for C-plane (Control | | | | Plane) and U-plane | | | | (User Plane) | | | | decisions. This is | | | | relative to a | | | | customer provider | | | | relationship and to | | | | a PLMN (Public land | | | | Mobile Network). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | MMTel support | This attribute | FFS | | | describes whether | | | | the network slice | | | | supports IP | | | | Multimedia Subsystem | | | | (IMS) and Multimedia | | | | Telephony Service | | | | MMTel. This | | | | parameter describes | | | | whether the GSMA PRD | | | | IR.92 [22] | | | | compliant MMTel | | | | deployment is | | | | supported in the | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network Slice | A NSC can own some | FFS | | Customer network | Network Functions | | | functions | (e.g. User Plan | | | | Function (UPF), User | | | | Data Management, | | | | UDM). This attribute | | | | provides a list of | | | | network functions to | | | | be provided by the | | | | NSC. If the list is | | | | empty, the NSC is | | | | not expected to | | | | provide any network | | | | function relevant | | | | for the network | | | | slice instance. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of | This attribute | userDensity and | | connections | describes the | activityFactor in | | | maximum number of | Perf for eMBB of | | | concurrent sessions | ServiceProfile | | | supported by the | | | | network slice. | connDensity and | | | | serviceAreaDimension | | | | in Perf for URLLC of | | | | ServiceProfile | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of terminals | This attribute | maxNumberofUEs | | | describes the | | | | maximum number of | | | | terminals supported | | | | by the network | | | | slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance | This attribute | FFS | | monitoring | provides the | | | | capability for NSC | | | | and NOP to monitor | | | | Key Quality | | | | Indicators (KQIs) | | | | and Key Performance | | | | Indicators (KPIs). | | | | KQIs reflect the | | | | end-to-end service | | | | performance and | | | | quality while KPIs | | | | reflect the | | | | performance of the | | | | network.\ | | | | \ | | | | Availability: This | | | | parameter contains a | | | | list of KQIs and | | | | KPIs available for | | | | monitoring. If the | | | | list is empty this | | | | attribute is not | | | | available in the | | | | network slice and | | | | the other parameters | | | | might be ignored.\ | | | | \ | | | | Monitoring sample | | | | frequency\ | | | | This parameter | | | | describes how often | | | | the KQIs and KPIs | | | | are monitored. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Performance | This attribute | FFS | | prediction | defines the | | | | capability to allow | | | | the mobile system to | | | | predict the network | | | | and service status. | | | | Predictive QoS | | | | (Quality of Service) | | | | can be done for | | | | various Key Quality | | | | Indicators (KQIs) | | | | and Key Performance | | | | Indicators (KPIs). | | | | KQIs reflect the | | | | end-to-end service | | | | performance and | | | | quality, while KPIs | | | | reflect the | | | | performance of the | | | | network. The | | | | prediction is done | | | | for a specific point | | | | of time in the | | | | future and for a | | | | specific | | | | geolocation.\ | | | | Note: Only the KQIs | | | | of communication | | | | services offered by | | | | the NSP can be | | | | predicted. For over | | | | the top services, | | | | the NSP is not able | | | | to access the KQIs.\ | | | | \ | | | | Availability:\ | | | | This parameter | | | | contains a list of | | | | KQIs and KPIs | | | | available for | | | | prediction. If the | | | | list is empty the | | | | attribute is not | | | | available in the | | | | network slice and | | | | the other parameters | | | | might be ignored.\ | | | | \ | | | | Prediction | | | | frequency:\ | | | | This parameter | | | | describes how often | | | | KQIs and KPIs | | | | prediction values | | | | are provided. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Positioning support | This attribute | FFS | | | describes if the | | | | network slice | | | | provides | | | | geo-localization | | | | methods or | | | | supporting methods.\ | | | | \ | | | | Availability: This | | | | parameter describes | | | | if this attribute is | | | | provided by the | | | | network slice and | | | | contains a list of | | | | positioning methods | | | | provided by the | | | | slice.\ | | | | \ | | | | Prediction | | | | frequency: This | | | | parameter describes | | | | how often location | | | | information is | | | | provided. This | | | | parameter simply | | | | defines how often | | | | the customer is | | | | allowed to request | | | | location | | | | information.\ | | | | \ | | | | Accuracy: This | | | | parameter describes | | | | the accuracy of the | | | | location | | | | information. | | | | Accuracy depends on | | | | the respective | | | | positioning solution | | | | applied in the | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radio spectrum | Defines the radio | FFS | | | spectrum supported | | | | by the network | | | | slice. This is | | | | important | | | | information, as some | | | | terminals might be | | | | restricted in terms | | | | of frequencies to be | | | | used. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reliability | | FFS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | > NOTE: This | | | | > attribute is not | | | | > documented in this | | | | > version of the GST | | | | > [12] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Root cause | Root cause | FFS | | investigation | investigation is the | | | | capability provided | | | | to NSC to understand | | | | or investigate the | | | | root cause of | | | | network service | | | | performance | | | | degradation or | | | | failure. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Session and Service | The attribute | FFS | | Continuity support | defines the | | | | continuity of a | | | | Protocol Data Unit | | | | (PDU) session. The | | | | following three | | | | Session and Service | | | | Continuity (SSC) | | | | modes are specified | | | | [1]:\ | | | | • SSC mode 1 - the | | | | network preserves | | | | the connectivity | | | | service provided to | | | | the UE (the IP | | | | address is | | | | preserved)\ | | | | • SSC mode 2 - the | | | | network may release | | | | the connectivity | | | | service delivered to | | | | the UE and release | | | | the corresponding | | | | PDU Session (the | | | | network may release | | | | IP address(es) that | | | | had been allocated | | | | to the UE)\ | | | | • SSC mode 3 - | | | | changes to the user | | | | plane can be visible | | | | to the UE, while the | | | | network ensures that | | | | the UE suffers no | | | | loss of connectivity | | | | service (the IP | | | | address is not | | | | preserved in this | | | | mode when the PDU | | | | Session Anchor | | | | changes)\ | | | | • None -- UE loses | | | | the connectivity | | | | service | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Simultaneous use of | This attribute | FFS | | the network slice | describes whether a | | | | network slice can be | | | | simultaneously with | | | | other network slice | | | | and if so, which | | | | group the network | | | | slice belongs to. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Slice quality of | This attribute | latency | | service parameters | defines all the QoS | | | | relevant parameters | e2eLatency and | | | supported by the | jitter in Perf for | | | network slice. For | URLLC of | | | some of these | ServiceProfile | | | parameters 3GPP has | | | | already defined | | | | standard values | | | | [1]. By | | | | preselecting a 5G | | | | QoS Identifier (5QI) | | | | these parameters | | | | will automatically | | | | be filled out with | | | | the standardised | | | | values.\ | | | | Functional + | | | | operational\ | | | | \ | | | | - 3GPP 5QI\ | | | | - Resource Type\ | | | | - Priority level\ | | | | - Packet Delay | | | | Budget\ | | | | - Packet Error Rate\ | | | | - Jitter\ | | | | - Maximum Packet | | | | Loss Rate | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Support for non-IP | This attribute | FFS | | traffic | provides non-IP | | | | Session support | | | | (Ethernet session | | | | and forwarding | | | | support) of | | | | communication | | | | devices | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Supported access | This attribute | FFS | | technologies | defines which access | | | | technologies are | | | | supported by the | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Supported device | Maximum speed | uEMobilityLevel | | velocity | supported by the | | | | network slice at | uESpeed in Perf for | | | which a defined QoS | eMBB of | | | and seamless | ServiceProfile | | | transfer between | | | | TRxPs (Transmission | | | | Reception Point(s)), | | | | which may belong to | | | | different deployment | | | | layers and/or radio | | | | access technologies | | | | (multi-layer /-RAT), | | | | can be achieved. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Synchronicity | This attribute | FFS | | | provides | | | | synchronicity of | | | | communication | | | | devices. Two cases | | | | are most important | | | | in this context:\ | | | | • Synchronicity | | | | between a base | | | | station and a mobile | | | | device and\ | | | | • Synchronicity | | | | between mobile | | | | devices.\ | | | | \ | | | | Availability\ | | | | Accuracy | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Terminal density | This attribute | userDensity in Perf | | | describes the | for eMBB of | | | maximum number of | ServiceProfile | | | connected and/or | | | | accessible devices | connDensity in Perf | | | per unit area (per | for uRLLC of | | | km2) supported by | ServiceProfile | | | the network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink throughput | The achievable data | areaTrafficCapUL in | | per network slice | rate of the network | Perf for eMBB of | | | slice instance in | ServiceProfile | | | uplink that is | | | | available | trafficDensity in | | | ubiquitously across | Perf for URLLC of | | | the coverage area of | ServiceProfile | | | the network slice.\ | | | | \ | | | | Guaranteed uplink | | | | throughput\ | | | | Maximum uplink | | | | throughput | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink throughput | Guaranteed uplink | expDataRateUL in | | per UE | throughput\ | Perf for eMBB of | | | This attribute | ServiceProfile | | | describes the | | | | guaranteed data rate | expDataRate in Perf | | | supported by the | for URLLC of | | | network slice per UE | ServiceProfile | | | in uplink, required | | | | to achieve a | | | | sufficient quality | | | | experience | | | | (dependent on the | | | | selected service | | | | type). If the value | | | | is 0, best effort | | | | traffic is expected | | | | where no minimum | | | | throughput is | | | | guaranteed.\ | | | | \ | | | | Maximum uplink | | | | throughput\ | | | | This attribute | | | | describes the | | | | maximum data rate | | | | supported by the | | | | network slice per UE | | | | in uplink. These | | | | parameters could be | | | | used in order to | | | | offer different | | | | contract qualities | | | | like gold, silver | | | | and bronze. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | User management | This attribute | FFS | | openness | describes the | | | | capability for the | | | | NSC to manage their | | | | users or groups of | | | | users\' network | | | | services and | | | | corresponding | | | | requirements. For | | | | instance, if NSC Y | | | | orders a network | | | | slice which is | | | | capable to support X | | | | users of Y, then Y | | | | should be capable to | | | | decide which X users | | | | could use this | | | | network slice. | | | | Hence, Y could | | | | manage the users, in | | | | terms of add, modify | | | | or delete users to | | | | receive network | | | | services provided by | | | | the specific network | | | | slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | User data access | Data access:\ | FFS | | | The attribute | | | | defines how the | | | | network slice (or | | | | mobile network) | | | | should handle the | | | | user data.\ | | | | \ | | | | Tunnelling | | | | mechanism\ | | | | The attribute | | | | defines the | | | | tunnelling | | | | mechanism; how the | | | | user data can be | | | | delivered to the | | | | external private | | | | data network. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | V2X communication | This parameter | FFS | | mode | describes if the V2X | | | | communication mode | | | | is supported by the | | | | network slice. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#