# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes, intent driven management concept, intent
driven management scenarios, and recommendation for the way forward on
standardization expression of the intent in normative phase. The relation with
other automation mechanisms is also addressed in this study.
The present document considers below dimentions when studying Intent driven
management. For each dimention the scope is narrowed down to a certain aspect:
  1. Users; The study covers the Technical (NOP, NEP) and Techno-Business (CSP)
  2. Networks; The study covers the 5G and 4G
  3. Operated System; The study covers the Co-ordiated and Complex systems
  4. Infrastructure Automation; The study covers more Autonomus and less Automatic
  5. Language; The scope covers more declarative and less Imperative
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.530: \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, use cases and
requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements\".
[5] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.533: \" Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[7] IETF RFC 3198: Terminology for Policy-Based Management
[8] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 28.532, Management and orchestration; Generic management services
[10] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration of 5G networks; Network
Resource Model (NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[12] 3GPP TR 28.805: \"Study on management aspects of communication
services\".
[13] 3GPP TS 28.628: \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
Information Service (IS)
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Policy management:** A function that governs the choices in behaviour of a
system.
NOTE: It specifies the action(s) to be taken when specified condition(s)
occur. See ref [7] for details about definition and terminologies for policy
driven management.
**Intent:** A desire to reach a certain state/position for a specific entity
for instance for a service assurance or network deployment task.
NOTE: An intent does not define the necessary steps to get to the wanted
state.
**Intent driven MnS:** A management service that allows its consumer to
express an Intent.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CSC Communication Service Customer
CSP Communication Service Provider
Intent-CSC Intent from Communication Service Customer
Intent-CSP Intent from Communication Service Provider
Intent-NOP Intent from Network Operator
MOI Managed Object Instance
MnS Management Service
NEP Network Equipment Provider
NOP Network Operator
NSI Network Slice Instance
VISP Virtualization Infrastructure Service Provider
# 4 Concepts and Background
## 4.1 Intent driven management service
### 4.1.1 Introduction
Introduction of service-based architecture for 5G, in combination with
functional model of business roles, exceeds the level of complexity for
managing deployment and assurance use case scenarios both in a single and
multivendor network. New/simpler ways of managing are needed.
Intent driven management service (Intent driven MnS) reduces the complexity of
management without getting into the intricate detail of the underlying network
infrastructure. It will also contribute to efficient network management,
especially in a multiple vendor scenario.
### 4.1.2 Intent driven Management Service (Intent driven MnS) concept
#### 4.1.2.1 Overview
An Intent driven MnS allows its consumer to express desired intent for
managing the network and services. The Intent driven MnS producer paraphrases
the intent to executable actions for service assurance and deployment.
The executable actions can be one or more of the following:
  * Perform network management tasks
  * Identifying, formulating and activating network management policies
The following figure 4.1.2.1-1 shows the model elements of the MnS and usage
of the Intent driven MnS between consumer and producer.
{width="3.4854166666666666in" height="1.56875in"}
Figure 4.1.2.1-1: Model elements of MnS and Intent driven MnS
The combination of management service components (see subclause 4.3 in TS
28.533 [6]) for Intent driven MnS is described as follows:
  * MnS component type A, the operations and/or notifications agnostic of specified intent type, for example, a generic operation to transfer intent from Consumer to Producer.
  * MnS component type B, the model of intent, which is used to modelling the intent expression information described in clause 4.1.3. As examples described in clause 4.1.3, the intent driven model may include 'Action' and 'Object'.
  * MnS component type C, performance information and fault information related to the intent
The MnS of various kinds are specified for deployment over many standardized
reference interfaces. So, the Intent driven MnS could in principle, be
specified for deployment over the same set of standardized reference
interfaces, as a replacement of or as an addition to the deployed MnS, where
the consumer focuses on the 'what' and the producer is concerned about the
'how'.
> The following figure 4.1.2.1-2 shows an example using Intent driven MnS to
> provision a service.
>
> {width="3.3270833333333334in" height="1.9277777777777778in"}
Figure 4.1.2.1-2: An example of using Intent driven management service for
network provisioning
#### 4.1.2.2 Roles for utilization of intent
In an intent driven management service the roles for utilization of intent are
defined as:
\- Communication Service Customer (CSC) : The communication service customer
expresses intents for communication services. This role is not necessarily
aware of the network and service operations. The CSCs will monitor the
expressed intents. For details about this role see 3GPP 28.530 [3].
\- Communication Service Provider (CSP) : Expresses the intents for deployment
(build, design) and assurance (operation) for communication services. The CSPs
will monitor the expressed intents.
\- Network Operator (NOP) : Expresses the intents for deployment (build,
design) and assurance (operation) for network and infrastructure resources.
NOPs will monitor the expressed intents.
#### 4.1.2.3 Management Functions
A Management Function captures the essence of what is managed, by implementing
the network resource model governed by that management function and providing
management data, operations and notifications.
A Management Function can produce or consume both classic and intent driven
MnSs, letting any management layer to be intent driven.
#### 4.1.2.4 Intent related to roles description
Different kinds of intents are applicable for different kinds of standardized
reference interfaces.
\- Intent from Communication Service Customer (Intent-CSC)
\- Intent from Communication Service Provider (Intent-CSP)
\- Intent from Network Operator (Intent-NOP)
{width="5.433333333333334in" height="3.297222222222222in"}
Figure 4.1.2.4-1: Concept for utilization of intent
#### 4.1.2.4.1 Intent from Communication Service Customer (Intent-CSC)
Intent from Communication Service Customer enables Communication Service
Consumer (CSC) to provide what CSC would like to do for the communication
service management without knowing how to do the detailed management. The CSC
may not need to be aware of the details of the network and service operation
when using the communication services. The CSC only provides communication
service management related intent(s) to CSPThe received intents are translated
to network management related intents or detailed network management
requirements.
After the intent received or implemented, CSP provides the feedback
information to the CSC consumer. The feedback information include information
indicating whether the intent is successfully executed or not, and possibly
the reasons for not successful executions (e.g., conflicting with existing
intents).
#### 4.1.2.4.2 Intent from Communication Service Provider (Intent-CSP)
Intent from communication service provider enables Communication Service
provider (CSP) to express an intent about what CSP would like to achieve in
the network management without knowing how to do the detailed management. The
CSP may not need to have professional knowledge of network operations. The CSP
only provides network management related intent(s) to the NOP, and the NOP
translate the received intent(s) to network equipment management related
intents or detailed network equipment management requirements.
After the intent received and implemented, NOP provides the feedback
information to the CSP.
#### 4.1.2.4.3 Intent from Network Operator (Intent-NOP)
Intent from network operator enables Network Operator (NOP) to provide what
NOP would like to do for the network resource management without knowing how
to do the detailed management. The NOP may not have professional knowledge of
network equipment operation or virtualized infrastructure operation. There are
two type of Intent-NOP:
\- Intent-NOP for NEP, the NOP only expresses network equipment management
related intent to the NEP, and the NEP translates the received intent to
network equipment management requirements.
\- Intent-NOP for VISP, the NOP only expresses virtualized infrastructure
resource management related intent to the VISP, and the VISP translates the
received intent to virtualized infrastructure resource requirements.
After the intent implemented and received, NEP or VISP provides the feedback
information to the NOP. The feedback information see clause 4.1.2.2.
#### 4.1.2.5 Intent driven Management Service (MnS) interactions with 3GPP
management functions
The following figure shows the interaction of intent driven management service
(MnS) with management functions.
{width="3.579861111111111in" height="2.6527777777777777in"}
Figure 4.1.2.5.1: The intent driven management service (MnS) vs classic MnS
The Classic MnSs are specified as follows; Fault Supervision TS 28.545 [8], TS
28.532 [9], Provisioning TS 28.531 [2], TS 28.532 [9] and Performance
Assurance TS 28.550 [10], TS 28.532 [2], Network Resource Model (NRM) TS
28.541 [11], Performance measurements and assurance data TS 28.552 [4] and 5G
End-end Key Performance Indicators (KPI's) TS 28.554 [5].
Note 1: The MnS provided by the CSMF is described in TR 28.805 [12].
Note 2: The internactions between Classic MnS and Intent driven MnS is not
addressed in the present document.
### 4.1.3 Intent expression
An intent is a desire to reach a certain state/position for a specific entity
for instance for a service assurance or network deployment task. When an
intent is expressed by a consumer, it must be interpreted by the producer
without any ambiguity. This can be achieved by using a machine-readable input,
for instance a declarative language.
The intent expression information may include particular objective and
possibly some related details. For example, the **intent** expression from CSC
may contain elements such as \'Car A wants to acquire V2X communication
service\' which include \'acquire\' and \'V2X communication service\' in its
intent expressions. The **intent** expression from CSP may contain elements
such as \'Provide V2X communications for highway-417 to support 500 vehicles
simultaneously\' which include \'provide\' and \'V2X communications\' .The
**intent expressed from NOP to** NEP may contain elements such as \'optimize
the network to satisfy certain performance requirements\' which include
\'optimize\' and \'target performance requirements\' in its intent
expressions. It is the Intent driven MnSProducers\' responsibility to
translate the intent expression information into services, network operations,
and related resource requirements, to fulfil the intent.
### 4.1.4 Intent translation
The Intent MnS service producer is the provider of Intent driven MnS and is
responsible for deriving activities for networks and services or other
intent(s).
The MnS consumer may consume Intent Driven MnS(s) provided by the Intent
driven MnS producer(s) or may have the consumer role for non-intent MnS
producers.
The conflict(s) including conflict between the intent and other intent(s)
and/or Non-intent requirements needs to be detected and resolved during the
intent translation. Figure 4.4-1 illustrate the potential way to execute
intents:
\- Intent-CSC MnS producer provides intent driven MnS for communication
services. Intent-CSC MnS producers receive the expressed intent and translate
it to Intent-CSP or network requirements, then may consume Intent-CSP MnS(s)
or Non-Intent MnS(s) for network to fulfil the intent-CSC.
\- Intent-CSP MnS producer provides intent driven MnS for network services.
Intent-CSP MnS producers receive the intent and translate it to new Intents
for NOP or network element requirements, then may consume Intent-NOP MnS(s) or
Non-Intent MnS(s) for NE to fulfil the intent-CSP.
\- Intent-NOP MnS producer provides intent driven MnS for network equipment.
Intent-NOP MnS Producers receive the expressed intent, and translate it to
detailed network element requirements, then takes some internal actions to
fulfil the intent-NEP.
{width="4.764583333333333in" height="2.7222222222222223in"}
Figure 4.1.4-1 Potential way to satisfy intent-CSC
## 4.2 Dimensions of intent driven framework
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The dimensions shown in the figure 4.2.1 illustrates various aspects of intent
driven management and shows the boundaries to the ambition aspects of intent
driven magement solution.
{width="6.754166666666666in" height="5.345138888888889in"}
Figure 4.2.1: Dimension of intent
Note: The relation between the Operated system and Management system (Intent
driven MnS producer as a part of it) needs to be clarified and is not
addressed in the present document.
### 4.2.2 Definitions
#### 4.2.2.1 Users
In an intent driven management system, the type "user" is one of the
dimensions that plays a role in the definition of the intent driven management
system capabilities. The user of the system will bring expertise from its role
and responsibilities and will have certain expectations on what the system
might do. The user dimension and its levels proposed for the study are those
from the 28.530, Figure 4.8.1 [2]:
**IT Infra user type:** these are the **Data Centre Service Provider** and the
**Virtualization Infrastrucutre Service Providers**.
**Technical user type:** these are the **Network Operators** which may or may
not combine this role with that of Communication Service Provider, In the case
of a combined role the organization will have a technical department taking
care of network operations and a more customer centric role taking care of the
communication services.
**Techo-business user type:** these are the **Communication Service
Providers** with a more customer and business centric role providing
communication services to different type of customers.
**Business user type:** these are the organizations that traditionally do not
have a telecom or IT background and focus on the business aspects, work
closely together with CSP and NOP to enable ubiquitous communication for their
industry or business.
#### 4.2.2.2 Networks
Supported technology; 4G, 5G, ....
Mobile networks have evolved over different generations and the intent
expression used and interpretation of the intent may vary between generations
therefore the generation of the mobile network technology is a dimension.
#### 4.2.2.3 Operated System
The operated system are the systems that are the receivers and processors of
the intent. The technological evolution has enabled operated system to become
more complex through the introduction of articficail intelligence and machine
learning. While previous generations of operated system are classified as
simple (and maybe not as open as today's operated system), the introduction of
"virtualization" has made operated system more flexible as various system
functions can be co-orodinated in an agile sort of way. Maybe the co-ordinated
system is generally the current state of the technology, while complex system
with AI and ML are there but not on a ubiqituos scale. These complex systems
will require governance by intents and policies.
#### 4.2.2.4 Infrastructure for automation
This dimension is about the ability of an intent driven system to learn from
its environmental context and apply those learnings to resolution of intent
expressions. The more context the system can learn the less information needs
to be expressed in the intent.
Wikipedia:\ Automatic is Capable of operating without external control or
intervention. (more automatic or less automatic)\ Autonomous is Self-
governing. Intelligent, sentient, self-aware, thinking, feeling, governing
independently
4.2.2.5 Language
A language is used to express an instruction/activity/operation. There are
different types of languages
  * Native Machine language: An instruction is expressed in native machine language (Basically, used to refer to the native computer code i.e binary code).
  * Imperative: An instruction is expressed in simple statements. It focuses more on describing the "How" but less on "What"
  * Declartive: An instruction is expressed without describing control flow. It focuses more on describing the "What" but less on "How"
  * Natural: An instruction is expressed in human language
## 4.3 Automation mechanisms and intent driven management
The Intent driven MnS producer may utilize management closed-loop automation
mechanisms (e.g. continuously monitor the intent fulfilment status, analyse
the service and network information and meet the intent automatically etc.).
The closed-loop automation mechanisms to achieve the intent are the
implementation of the producer and shall not be standardized. The closed-loop
automation of Intent driven MnS Producer is shown in the figure 4.3-1.
For example, to satisfy the Intent-NOP for NEP, after Intent-NOP MnS Producer
translates the received intent to network equipment management requirements,
the Intent-NOP MnS Producer may continuously monitoring the intent fulfillment
status, making analysis and adjust the network automatically to meet the
intent requirements. Some SON automatic mechanisms could be reused by the
producer if needed.
{width="4.8493055555555555in" height="2.290277777777778in"}
Figure 4.3-1 Closed-loop automation of Intent driven MnS producer
## 4.4 Intent Driven Management vs Policy Driven Management
A policy is a function that governs the choices in behavior of a system. It
specifies the action(s) to be taken when specified condition(s) occur. See ref
[7] for details about definition and terminologies for policy driven
management.
An intent defines to what position (in what state) we want as specific entity
to be. The necessary steps to get to this position is not defined by the
intent but by policy.
The relation between the policy driven management (rule based) and intent
driven management is shown in the figure below:
{width="5.024305555555555in" height="3.0972222222222223in"}
Figure 4.6.1: Intent driven management vs Policy driven management
This figure describes the "What-How" view. As it now stands, the systems are
mainly focused on "How" and "less What". The networks like 5G brings more
operational complexities, which is driving systems to shift the focus from
"How" to "What". The first step towards that shift, has been "Policy driven
management", with more focus on "How" and less on "What" covering domain
specific issues/aspects. As technologies are evolving and the level of
complexity exeeds, the need for an abstraction level (Intent) becomes more
apparent. An intent driven system will be able to learn the behavior of
networks and services and allows an operator to provide the desired state,
without detailed knowledge of how to get to the desired state.
4.5 Relation between intent driven MnS and SON
SON target information can be derived from Intent, which means MnS producer
can translate the intent to SON target information (e.g. the UE throughput
intent can be translated to SON target information to for one or multiple SON,
e.g. CCO, HO, etc) or MnS producer can use the information in the intent for
SON target directly (e.g. information in the areaload balance intent can be
used for SON target of LBO Funtion).
## 4.6 Lifecycle management of intent
An intent is subject to lifecycle management. An intent request is mapped to
an expression that can be interpreted by a computer and processed with some
input parameters from the request and parameters from the system. The intent
is an instantiation of the intent expression and the associated parameters.
This is captured by the system and lifecycle managed. The lifecycle management
operations of intent may include:
1) Create intent, MnS Consumer deliver a new intent to MnS Producer.
2) Activate intent, MnS Consumer request the MnS Producer to activate an
intent when the intent is inactive.
3) Monitor the network service and performance before and after the
implementation of the intent to evaluate the effect of the intent on the
performance [KPIs]
4) Supervise the fault status before and after the impelemntation of the
intent to evaluate the effect of the intent on the fault status
5) De-activate intent, MnS consumer request the MnS Producer to de-activate an
intent. For example, for optimization related intent, the MnS Consumer may
request to de-activate the intent for a period of time.
6) Delete intent, MnS Consumer request the MnS Producer to remove an intent.
7) Query intent, MnS Consumer request MnS Producer to return information,
including content of the intent, state of the intent (e.g. active, inactive),
fulfilment information of the intent.
8) Rollback intent, MnS Consumer requests to revert the active intents of the
MnS Producer to a certain previous state, for example in case problems are
detected during the monitor and supervise operations.
Note: The need for all actions above and details will be further discussed in
the normative phase.
{width="2.8194444444444446in" height="2.676388888888889in"}
**Figure 4.5-1: The transition of the intent state with lifecycle management
operations**
# 5 Scenarios for Intent driven management services for mobile network
## 5.1 Scenarios related to Intent-CSC
### 5.1.1 Service deployment
#### 5.1.1.1 Introduction
In this business scenario a service provider organization expresses the intent
to provide a new service to its customers. The business intent can result in a
number of intent expressions that cover various aspects of the business
intent.
#### 5.1.1.2 Pre-condition
See description.
#### 5.1.1.3 Description
In an organization, the research and market groups perform analysis and
provides input to the Service Strategy & Planning group. The Service Strategy
& Planning group identifies service capabilities and geographical locations
where the services should be running. Based on these results the business
group expresses their intent to introduce \"_a new service for priority
customers_ \". This may lead to it, that parts of the organization have to
take actions concerning the expressed intent.
{width="4.804166666666666in" height="3.3493055555555555in"}
Figure 5.1.1.3-1: Enable MBB Service to Priority Customers
#### 5.1.1.4 Post-condition
Successful activation of the service.
### 5.1.2 Intent driven service creation
#### 5.1.2.1 Pre-condition
A communication service customer expresses its intent to order a 3GPP service
to support a group of end users.
#### 5.1.2.2 Description
In order to enable a group of end users to connect to a 3GPP network, a
communication service customer (CSC) as a MnS Consumer expresses its intent to
order a 3GPP service to CSP. The MnS producer in the CSP translates the CSC's
intent to relevant 3GPP service creation requirements (e.g. routing
configuration needed to connect the group of users to the corresponding data
network, QoS requirements (e.g., latency, jitter, error rate, etc.) and
relevant authentication and authorization rules specifying that only the users
specified by the CSP can access the network).
#### 5.1.2.3 Post-condition
The requested 3GPP service for a specified group of end users is provisioned.
### 5.1.3 Intent driven Communication Service deployment at the edge
5.1.3.1 Introduction
In this scenario a CSC expresses the intent to deploy a URLLC service at the
edge of the network. The intent is expressed in terms of service requirements.
The service is deployed without the CSC knowing the details of service
components, their configuration and provisioning.
5.1.3.2 Pre-condition
CSC express the intent to deploy a URLLC service at the edge of the network.
5.1.3.3 Description
CSC, as the MnS consumer, express the intent to deploy a URLLC service at the
edge of the network. The service requirements are expressed in terms of
service description (e.g availability), required SLA (e.g latency) and the
information to identify the edge (e.g geographical area) where the service
needs to be deployed. The MnS producer in the CSP translates the CSC's intent
to relevant procedures to be done, including:
  * Identifying the network edge to be used according to the information provided for the same in the Intent expression.
  * Identifying the CS profile available as per the service description and the SLA provided.
  * Identification of the resources (NSI/NSSI) to be assigned to the service. The NSI/NSSI selected must contain the suitable edge application required to provide the service (e.g a video streaming server for an ultra-low latency video streaming service).
  * Evaluation of the virtual resources available to the NSI and need to assign more resources, if required.
5.1.3.4 Post-condition
Successful activation of the requested service at the network edge.
## 5.2 Scenarios related to Intent-CSP
### 5.2.1 Network provisioning
#### 5.2.1.1 Pre-conditions
The network consumer (e.g. vertical customer etc.) wants the network producer
to allocate a network to satisfy the network consumer\'s intent (e.g. provided
with specific network characteristics).
The network provider analyses the intent and triggers the network allocation.
#### 5.2.1.2 Description
The network consumer as MnS consumer expresses his intent for a network by
providing high level requirements (e.g. the service type to be supported with
corresponding geographical areas and time durations, maximum number of UEs,
DL/UL throughput per UE) to MnS consumer). The network consumer does not care
about what network elements are used and how to connect those network
elements.
The MnS consumer translates the intent from the MnS consumer to network
deployment related requirements (e.g. using network slice or not, network
topologies, etc.) and configurations (e.g. radio access network configurations
such as cell list, TA list, DL/UL throughput per cell and UE measurements or
core network configurations such as capacity, memory). According to these
network related requirements, the MnS consumer provides the network to satisfy
the intent of the MnS consumer, using the network provisioning procedures
described in clause 7 in TS 28.531 [2].
{width="5.534722222222222in" height="3.3291666666666666in"}
Figure 5.2.1.2-1: Network provisioning
#### 5.2.1.3 Post-conditions
The requested network as expressed in the intent from the network consumer is
provisioned.
### 5.2.2 NSI resource utilization optimization
#### 5.2.2.1 Pre-condition
Operator wants to optimize the NSI resource utilization efficiency. Since the
network resource has a wide scope, the operator needs to determine further
details, e.g. the aspect of resource utilization efficiency. For instance, the
operator can indicate desired network utilization KPIs such as mean number of
PDU sessions of network and NSI, and virtualised resource utilization of NSI.
The operator can also determine the optimization to be end-to-end or focused
on a selected geographical area.
#### 5.2.2.2 Description
In order to enhance its services, Operator as MnS Consumer expresses intent to
optimize NSI resource utilization to improve network usage efficiency. The
intent expression for NSI resource utilization can include information on
target resource utilization related KPIs, service quality requirements which
can(not) be compromised, service areas for which the NSI resource utilization
should be optimized, and other relevant information.
{width="5.239583333333333in" height="3.658333333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: NSI Performance optimization scenario
Based on the intent expression, the MnS Producer decides on necessary
configurations and monitoring for NSI components. Handling the complexity of
the optimization process is the responsibility of the MnS Producer, which
simplifies the process from the perspective of the MnS Consumer. MnS Producer
can utilize SON and MDA services to monitor and predict the performance of
each component, and take some actions to fulfil the intent received from the
operator.
#### 5.2.2.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the network resource utilization optimization is
fulfilled by the MnS Producer.
### 5.2.3 Intent driven NSI resource capacity planning scenario
#### 5.2.3.1 Pre-condition
The NSI consumer (e.g. vertical slice customer etc.) wants the NSI Producer to
plan the NSI resource in an optimal status to satisfy the NSI consumer\'s
intent (e.g. NSI resource capacity utilization over 90 %, frequency (daily,
weekly, monthly, etc.), scope (IDs of target NSIs)).
The NSI Producer analyses the intent and triggers the requested NSI capacity
planning operation.
#### 5.2.3.2 Description
The NSI consumer as provisioning MnS consumer expresses his intent for a NSI
resource capacity planning (e.g. desired utilization ratio of the target NSI,
indication of pre-emption of existing provisioned resources, frequency (daily,
weekly, monthly, etc.), scope (target NSIs), etc.) to provisioning MnS
Producer. The NSI consumer does not care about what capacity planning
optimization algorithm is used.
The MnS Producer translates the intent from the MnS consumer to the
implementable NSI resource capacity planning related requirements and performs
NSI resource capacity planning operation to satisfy the intent of the MnS
consumer. All implementable NSI resource capacity planning related
requirements and associated procedure are described in TS 28.531 [2].
{width="3.39375in" height="3.21875in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2-1: An example of intent driven NSI resource capacity planning
scenario
#### 5.2.3.3 Post-condition
The requested NSI resource capacity planning requirements as expressed in the
intent from the NSI consumer is fulfilled and the result of the NSI resource
capacity planning procedure is notified.
### 5.2.4 Intent driven NSI performance assurance scenario
#### 5.2.4.1 Pre-condition
The NSI consumer (e.g. vertical slice customer etc.) wants the NSI Producer to
assure the performance of the provided NSI based on its intent (e.g. type of
services that need performance assurance, granularity of performance assurance
report notifications, etc.).
The NSI Producer translates the intent and triggers the requested NSI
performance assurance operations including resource provisioning based on the
performance requirements, performance monitoring, and performance
notification.
#### 5.2.4.2 Description
The NSI consumer as performance assurance MnS consumer expresses his intent
for a NSI performance assurance (e.g. high-level abstraction of the SLA for
performance assurance, granularity of performance assurance report
notifications, etc.) to performance assurance MnS Producer. The NSI consumer
does not care about what the details of mechanisms to assure the performance.
The MnS Producer translates the intent from the MnS consumer to the
implementable NSI performance assurance related requirements and provisions
target resources, deploy performance monitoring management services, and
perform periodic optimization operations to ensure the target KPIs through the
associated performance assurance related management services. It also
generates performance assurance reports and notifies to the MnS consumers.
All implementable NSI performance assurance related requirements and
associated procedures are defined in TS 28.531 [2], 28.550 [3], 28.552 [4],
28.554 [5].
{width="4.610416666666667in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Figure 5.2.4.2-1: An example of intent driven NSI performance assurance
scenario
#### 5.2.4.3 Post-condition
The requested NSI performance assurance requirements as expressed in the
intent from the NSI consumer is fulfilled.
## 5.3 Scenarios related to Intent-NOP
### 5.3.1 Cell Re-home
#### 5.3.1.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants to re-home a selected Cell from source RAN Node to
destination RAN Node.
**The** selected Cell **has already been deployed.**
#### 5.3.1.2 Description
Due to network planning or load balance between different RAN Nodes, the
operator wants to re-home a selected Cell from source RAN Node to destination
RAN Node. So operator as MnS Consumer expresses his intent that the selected
Cell needs to be rehomed from the source RAN Node to the destination RAN Node
to the MnS Producer.
{width="4.834027777777778in" height="3.071527777777778in"}
Figure 5.3.1.2-1: An example of cell Re-home scenario
MnS Producer associates the selected re-home Cell to the destination RAN Node.
MnS Producer may adjust corresponding cell relations of the selected Cell and
its neighbour cells within the management scope. MnS Producer may also adjust
corresponding external neighbour Cell.
MnS Producer may notify other MnS Producer (s) to adjust the selected cell
related cell relation(s) according to the selected Cell rehomed.
#### 5.3.1.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the selected Cell is re-homed to the destination RAN
Node is fulfilled by the MnS Producer which means the selected Cell is
associated to the destination RAN Node and related cell relation(s) and
external neighbour cell(s) are adjusted.
### 5.3.2 Area load balance
#### 5.3.2.1 Pre-condition
Operator wants the selected area to be balanced and ensure sufficient traffic
capacity for new UE(s) to access.
#### 5.3.2.2 Description
In order to avoid traffic congestion for certain Cells and failure access of
new UE(s) in the specified area, Operator as MnS Consumer expresses his intent
that load in the specified area needs to be balanced and ensure sufficient
traffic capacity for new UE(s) access to MnS Producer.
{width="4.420138888888889in" height="3.3430555555555554in"}
Figure 5.3.2.2-1: An example of area load balance scenario
Based on the intent received, the MnS Producer decides load balance between
which neighbour Cells in the specified area is needed.
MnS Producer monitors and predicts the traffic load for the each Cell(s) in
the specified areas, and take some actions to fulfil the intent received from
the operator.
The following example is illustrated:
MnS Consumer expresses his intent that the area 1 needs to be load balanced.
MnS Producer identifies the selected area is covered by Cell 1 and Cell 2, and
decides the load balance between neighbour Cell 1 and Cell 2 is needed.
When MnS Producer predicts the traffic may increase with a large number of UEs
in the area, MnS Producer could in advance provide the corresponding RAN with
information that considering the new UEs to access to Cell 1 which has low
traffic compared with Cell 2.
#### 5.3.2.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that traffic load balance for the specified area is
fulfilled by the MnS Producer.
### 5.3.3 Instant Cell Updating
#### 5.3.3.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants to update Cell with new Cell information (e.g. Frequency
information, PCI) and adjust all associated Cell configuration (e.g. Cell
Relation(s) and External Cell(s)).
#### 5.3.3.2 Description
The operator as MnS expresses his intent that the selected Cell need to be
updated with new Cell information (e.g. frequency information, PCI), and all
associated Cell configuration (e.g. CellRelation(s) and ExternalCell(s)) needs
to be updated.
MnS Producer updates the selected Cell with new cell information.
{width="3.9402777777777778in" height="2.388888888888889in"}
Figure 5.3.3.2-1: Instant Cell updating scenario
MnS Producer updates corresponding External Cell(s) and Cell Relation(s) which
are associated with the selected Cell with the new Cell information.
MnS Producer may notify other MnS Producer (s) to adjust corresponding
External Cell(s) and Cell Relation(s) which are associated with the selected
Cell with the new Cell information.
#### 5.3.3.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the selected Cell and all associated Cell
configuration (i.e. CellRelation(s), External Cell(s)) need to be updated with
new Cell information is fulfilled by the MnS Producer.
### 5.3.4 Instant Cell Deletion
#### 5.3.4.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants to delete an existing Cell, and delete all associated Cell
Relation(s) and External Cell(s).
#### 5.3.4.2 Description
Due to network planning (e.g. reduce the capacity can be provided by certain
RAN node), the operator wants to delete a selected Cell. So operator as MnS
Consumer expresses his intent that the selected Cell needs to be deleted and
all associated Cell Relation(s) and External Cell(s) need to be deleted to MnS
Producer.
MnS Producer delete the selected Cell.
MnS Producer derive all associated Cell Relation(s) and External Cell(s), and
delete them.
MnS Producer may notify other MnS Producer(s) to delete ExternalCell(s) and
CellRelation(s) which is associated with the selected Cell.
{width="5.045833333333333in" height="2.620138888888889in"}
Figure 5.3.4.2-1: An example of instant Cell Deletion
#### 5.3.4.3 Post-condition
Operator\'s intent that the selected Cell, and all associated Cell Relation(s)
and External Cell(s) needs to be deleted is fulfilled by the MnS Consumer.
### 5.3.5 Intent driven network optimization scenario
#### 5.3.5.1 Pre-condition
The operator wants to optimize the network to satisfy certain user experience
related performance requirements (e.g. the percentage of users with low
experienced data rate (e.g. \: Categories for Intent driven management services
scenarios
Scenarios for Intent driven MnS can be categorized based on the network
operations and services provided by the mobile network operator. The scenarios
are applicable to different teams/group within the mobile network operator's
organization and involve providing/updating/new resource/network information
or ensuring the network/services are performing optimally. Different
approaches might be taken to fulfil a particular scenario depending on the
type of scenario.
Identified scenarios in this TR are either a deployment or an assurance
scenario. Other categories might exist but not yet identified or included in
the TR.
Examples on Deployment scenarios in clause 5: "Service deployment", "Cell re-
home", "Instant Cell Updating" and "Instant Cell Deletion", "Capacity
Management", "Intent driven NF deployment", and "Intent driven NF capacity
changing".
Examples on Assurance scenarios in clause 5: "NSI resource utilization
optimization", "Intent driven NSI performance assurance", "Area Load Balance",
and "Intent driven network optimization".
  * Annex \:\ Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D | * |** T | * | ** | ** | **Su |** New | | ate**| *Meet | Doc** | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| Cat_ _| bject | vers | | | ing_ _| | | | | /Comm | ion_ _| | | | | | | | ent_ * | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | First | 0.0.0 | | 18-09 | #121 | 86065 | | | | draft | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.1.0 | | 18-10 | #121 | 86414 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | S5-1 | | | | rding | | | | | 86417 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5-1 | | | | foll | | | | | 86416 | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | S5-1 | | | | greed | | | | | 86415 | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | S5-1 | | | | ions: | | | | | 86423 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. | | | | | S5-1 | | | | S5-1 | | | | | 86424 | | | | 86414 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | S5-1 | | | | 2 | | | | | 86425 | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Ge | | | | | | | | | neral | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ncept | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 86417 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | ovisi | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 86416 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Key | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ssues | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | IDM | | | | | | | | | study | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 86415 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | scope | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ser | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | obile | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 86423 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | -home | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 86424 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | predi | | | | | | | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | load | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | lance | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 86425 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.2.0 | | 18-11 | #122 | 87413 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | S5-1 | | | | rding | | | | | 87414 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5-1 | | | | foll | | | | | 87415 | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | S5-1 | | | | greed | | | | | 87416 | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | S5-1 | | | | ions: | | | | | 87417 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | S5-1 | | | | .S5-1 | | | | | 87418 | | | | 87413 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | S5-1 | | | | 2 | | | | | 87526 | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ncept | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | tiliz | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | .S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 87414 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fi | | | | | | | | | gures | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | load | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | lance | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | ehome | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | .S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 87415 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | stant | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | del | | | | | | | | | etion | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | .S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 87416 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | | timiz | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 87417 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | ovisi | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | .S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 87418 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | NSI | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | ource | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | tiliz | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | | timiz | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | .S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 87526 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | trodu | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | Expre | | | | | | | | | ssion | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.3.0 | | 019-1 | #123 | 91375 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | S5-1 | | | | rding | | | | | 91416 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5-1 | | | | foll | | | | | 91487 | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | S5-1 | | | | greed | | | | | 91377 | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | S5-1 | | | | ions: | | | | | 91378 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | .S5-1 | | | | | 91379 | | | | 91375 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | 2 | | | | | 91495 | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Reorg | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | anize | | | | | 91496 | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 5 to | | | | | | | | | categ | | | | | | | | | orize | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 91416 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | BSS | | | | | | | | | layer | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 91487 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Phy | | | | | | | | | sical | | | | | | | | | layer | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 91377 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | inten | | | | | | | | | t-CSP | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Inten | | | | | | | | | t-NOP | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 91378 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | irtua | | | | | | | | | lized | | | | | | | | | NE | | | | | | | | | deplo | | | | | | | | | yment | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 91379 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 4.1.3 | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | expre | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 91495 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | NSI | | | | | | | | | cap | | | | | | | | | acity | | | | | | | | | pla | | | | | | | | | nning | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 8. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 91496 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | NSI | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | assu | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 9. | | | | | | | | | Edit | | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | up | | | | | | | | | date. | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | SA5 | S5‑1 | | | | U | 0.4.0 | | 019-3 | #124 | 92343 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | rding | | | | | 92344 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | foll | | | | | 92438 | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | greed | | | | | 92132 | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | ions: | | | | | 92439 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | 92266 | | | | 92343 | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ncept | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | IDMS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 92344 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | NF | | | | | | | | | cap | | | | | | | | | acity | | | | | | | | | expa | | | | | | | | | nding | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 92438 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | autom | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 92132 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | abb | | | | | | | | | revia | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 92439 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | 5GLAN | | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | | rvice | | | | | | | | | cre | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 92266 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2881 | | | | | | | | | 2-030 | | | | | | | | | edi | | | | | | | | | thelp | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | SA5 | S5‑1 | | | | U | 0.5.0 | | 019-4 | #125 | 93130 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | rding | | | | | 93370 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | foll | | | | | 93372 | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | | | | | ions: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 93130 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 4.3 | | | | | | | | | Autom | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | mecha | | | | | | | | | nisms | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 93370 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransl | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 93372 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | trodu | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | sider | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | IDMS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 93374 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Cla | | | | | | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | dimen | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 93375 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | fee | | | | | | | | | dback | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 93376 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | bstra | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | ersus | | | | | | | | | lay | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 93377 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Cla | | | | | | | | | rific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | rel | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | olicy | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 8. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 93534 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | life | | | | | | | | | cycle | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | pects | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 9. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 93199 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | TR28 | | | | | | | | | .812: | | | | | | | | | Edit | | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | clar | | | | | | | | | ifica | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | expre | | | | | | | | | ssion | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.6.0 | | 019-6 | #125 | 94447 | | | | pdate | | | | ad | | | | | acco | | | | hoc | S5-1 | | | | rding | | | | | 94540 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5-1 | | | | foll | | | | | 94142 | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | S5-1 | | | | greed | | | | | 94445 | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | S5-1 | | | | ions: | | | | | 94446 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. | | | | | S5-1 | | | | S5-1 | | | | | 94444 | | | | 94447 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | S5-1 | | | | 2 | | | | | 94541 | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Re | | | | | | | | | -stru | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | im | | | | | | | | | prove | | | | | | | | | flow | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | tents | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94540 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntera | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | func | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94142 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | tific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94445 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | life | | | | | | | | | cycle | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94446 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ncept | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransl | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94444 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | load | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | lance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 94541 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ncept | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 8. | | | | | | | | | edit | | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | anges | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | SA5 | S5‑1 | | | | U | 0.7.0 | | 019-6 | #126 | 95675 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | rding | | | | | 95852 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | foll | | | | | 95677 | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | greed | | | | | 95679 | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | ions: | | | | | 95680 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | 95853 | | | | 95675 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | 2 | | | | | 95854 | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Cle | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | an-up | | | | | 95858 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | 95682 | | | | 95852 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | 2 | | | | | 95855 | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | sol | | | | | 95857 | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | Cell | | | | | 95498 | | | | Reh | | | | | | | | | oming | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95919 | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | 95677 | | | | | 95920 | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95679 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | state | | | | | | | | | trans | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95680 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | fee | | | | | | | | | dback | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | | timiz | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95853 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | | timiz | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95854 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | ovisi | | | | | | | | | oning | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 8. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95858 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | Concl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Reco | | | | | | | | | mmend | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 9. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95682 | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-16 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | CSI | | | | | | | | | deplo | | | | | | | | | yemnt | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | .S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95855 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransl | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 11 | | | | | | | | | .S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95857 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | | | ctors | | | | | | | | | roles | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | | | .S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95498 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Corre | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ermin | | | | | | | | | ology | | | | | | | | | IDM | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | IDMS | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 13 | | | | | | | | | .S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95919 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ser | | | | | | | | | vices | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | obile | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | | | .S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 95920 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | efini | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | abb | | | | | | | | | revia | | | | | | | | | tions | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5-1 | | | | U | 0.8.0 | | 19-10 | #127 | 96650 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | S5-1 | | | | rding | | | | | 96833 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5-1 | | | | foll | | | | | 96207 | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | S5-1 | | | | greed | | | | | 96653 | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | S5-1 | | | | ions: | | | | | 96666 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 96650 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | Rol | | | | | | | | | lback | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | Life | | | | | | | | | cycle | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 96833 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | cov | | | | | | | | | erage | | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | | timiz | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 96207 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | Fi | | | | | | | | | gures | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 96653 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | | escri | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | MnS | | | | | | | | | comp | | | | | | | | | onent | | | | | | | | | type | | | | | | | | | C in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | ncept | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | S5-1 | | | | | | | | | 96666 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | I | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | D | | | | | | | | | riven | | | | | | | | | O | | | | | | | | | bject | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5 | S5‑1 | | | | U | 0.9.0 | | 19-11 | #128 | 97607 | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | rding | | | | | 97767 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | foll | | | | | 97768 | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | greed | | | | | 97611 | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | ions: | | | | | 97612 | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | 97097 | | | | 97607 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | 2 | | | | | 97769 | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | rel | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | tween | | | | | | | | | IDMS | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | SON | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 97767 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | pote | | | | | | | | | ntial | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | exi | | | | | | | | | sting | | | | | | | | | scen | | | | | | | | | arios | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 97768 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | pote | | | | | | | | | ntial | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | life | | | | | | | | | cycle | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 4. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 97611 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | area- | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | manag | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | sce | | | | | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 5. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 97612 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Add | | | | | | | | | pote | | | | | | | | | ntial | | | | | | | | | sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | area | | | | | | | | | based | | | | | | | | | radio | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | deplo | | | | | | | | | yment | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 97097 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.2 | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | no | | | | | | | | | tific | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | ntent | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | S5‑1 | | | | | | | | | 97769 | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | el-16 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Sol | | | | | | | | | ution | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | CSI | | | | | | | | | deplo | | | | | | | | | yemnt | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 8. | | | | | | | | | edit | | | | | | | | | orial | | | | | | | | | up | | | | | | | | | date. | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | SA5\ | S5-2 | | | | U | 0 | | 20-03 | #129e | 01279 | | | | pdate | .10.0 | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | S5-2 | | | | rding | | | | | 01282 | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | greed | | | | | | | | | cont | | | | | | | | | ribut | | | | | | | | | ions: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1. | | | | | | | | | S5-2 | | | | | | | | | 01279 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | Rappo | | | | | | | | | rteur | | | | | | | | | cl | | | | | | | | | eanup | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 2. | | | | | | | | | S5-2 | | | | | | | | | 01282 | | | | | | | | | pCR | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 8.812 | | | | | | | | | U | | | | | | | | | pdate | | | | | | | | | Reco | | | | | | | | | mmend | | | | | | | | | ation | |