# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the background, concept, definition and
classification of network autonomy levels, typical scenarios for managing
network and service which need autonomous support, the potential requirement
and solutions and recommendation for the way forward in normative work.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] SAE J3016_201401: \"Taxonomy and Definitions for Terms Related to On-Road
Motor Vehicle Automated Driving Systems\".
[3] GSMA: \"AI & Automation: An Overview\",
https://www.gsma.com/futurenetworks/wiki/ai-automation-an-overview/.
[4] TMF: \"A whitepaper of autonomous networks: empowering digital
transformation for the telecoms industry\", https://www.tmforum.org/wp-
content/uploads/2019/05/22553-Autonomous-Networks-whitepaper.pdf.
[5] 3GPP TR 28.812: \"Telecommunication management; Study on scenarios for
Intent driven management services for mobile networks\".
[6] 3GPP TS 28.313: \"Self-Organizing Networks (SON) for 5G networks\".
[7] 3GPP TR 28.809: \"Study on enhancement of management data analytics\".
[8] 3GPP TS 28.535: \"Management services for communication service assurance;
Requirements\".
[9] ITU-T Y.3173: \"Framework for evaluating intelligence levels of future
networks including IMT-2020\".
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
**Intent** : See definition in TR 28.812[5].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
\ \
# 4 Background and concepts
## 4.1 Background
### 4.1.1 Overview
Autonomous network is one of the important topics in 5G network. Complexity of
5G network increases with large number of devices and diversity of services.
Different autonomous mechanisms are introduced by the industry to reduce the
complexity of mobile network and service management. Different autonomous
mechanisms in the networks may lead to different capabilities of autonomy and
different performance on network and service management, which may lead to
different autonomous networks levels.
### 4.1.2 Relevant study in other SDOs or industry parties
#### 4.1.2.1 Relevant study in automotive industry
In 2014, the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) proposed the automatic
driving levels in [2], clarifying the 6-level automatic driving rating
standard (L0～L5). The SAE J3016 scheme determines the automatic driving level
by evaluating the participation degree of the driver and the automatic driving
system from four evaluation dimensions: motion control
(acceleration/deceleration/steering), driving environment monitoring, fallback
performance of dynamic driving task, and system capability (driving modes).
The SAE J3016 has been widely accepted by the automotive industry and applied
to industry analysis, product planning, and been used for guiding the
automotive industry to carry out five stages of work to achieving full
automatic driving.
SAE J3016 provides a helpful reference to telecommunications industry for the
study of autonomous networks levels. However, there are some fundamental
differences between the automotive industry and telecommunication networks,
thus the classification of network autonomy levels and automatic driving
levels is different as well.
#### 4.1.2.2 Relevant study in GSMA
The transformation from "no intelligence" to "full intelligence" is considered
to be a long term with a step-by-step process and introducing automation with
AI abilities into network can bring value to operators. GSMA calls for a
harmonized classification system and supporting definitions regarding
intelligent network, see [3]. A harmonized classification system of
intelligent network is considered to be helpful to define the concept, levels
of intelligent network, describe categorical distinction and educate a broader
community while a network automation system is engaged.
GSMA is interested on this topic and encourage relevant studies.
#### 4.1.2.3 Relevant study in TMF
Similar with [3], a harmonized classification system and supporting
definitions for autonomous networks is delivered in [4]. The following factors
of autonomous networks are introduced for evaluation of autonomous networks
levels: execution, awareness, analysis, decision, intent/experience,
applicability.
The following levels of autonomous networks are described as well: level 0 -
manual management, level 1 - assisted management, level 2 - partial autonomous
network, level 3 - conditional autonomous network, level 4 - high autonomous
network, level 5 - full autonomous network.
#### 4.1.2.4 Relevant study in ITU
A framework for evaluating intelligence of future networks including IMT-2020
is specified in Recommendation ITU-T Y.3173 [9]. A method for evaluating
intelligence level and an architecture view for evaluating network
intelligence level are introduced. The following dimensions for evaluating
network intelligence level are identified: demand mapping, data collection,
analysis, decision, action implementation. The following network intelligence
levels are specified:
\- L0: Manual network operation
\- L1: Assisted network operation
\- L2: Preliminary intelligence
\- L3: Intermediate intelligence
\- L4: Advanced intelligence
\- L5: Full intelligence
### 4.1.3 Benefits of having autonomous network level
As described in clause 4.1.2.1, the document of SAE J3016 [2] has been widely
applied to automobile industry analysis, consulting of motor vehicle products
planning, and also been used for guiding the automotive industry to carry out
five stages of work to achieving full automatic driving.
Similar to what SAE J3016 means to the automotive industry, a common
understanding of the levels of autonomous network will be helpful to the
telecommunications industry. The operator's operational and management efforts
and dedicated relevant resources will vary according to different autonomous
networks levels. It would be beneficial for operators to have clear view on
the expectation of the level of their network (s) to indicate the maturity of
the network autonomy, so that they could first focus on the important features
which should be prioritized to achieve certain level of autonomy in their
networks. This approach will help operators to smoothly migrate to a higher
autonomy level and a better operational efficiency.
Having autonomous network level has the following benefits:
\- Providing evaluation basis for measuring the level of an autonomous network
along with its components and workflows.
\- Providing reference for gaps and priorities analysis for standardization
works on network autonomy.
\- Providing guidance to operators, vendors and other participants of
telecommunications industry for roadmap planning.
## 4.2 Concept of network autonomy
Network autonomy describes the telecom system (including management system and
network) capability which is able to be governed by itself with minimal to no
human intervention. Some features discussed in 3GPP are related to network
autonomy. Following are some examples:
  * Self-Organizing Network (SON)
  * Management data analytics
  * Intent driven management
  * Close loop SLS assurance
## 4.3 Concept of network autonomy level
Network autonomy level describes the level of application of autonomy
capabilities in the network management workflow. The participation of the
human and telecom system in the network management workflow are important
factors to evaluate the network autonomy level. For each network autonomy
level, which tasks can be performed by telecom system, which tasks can be
performed by human, and which tasks can be performed by cooperation of human
and telecom system needs to be clarified. For example, in the highest autonomy
level, all tasks are performed by telecom system.
## 4.4 Potential dimensions for classification of network autonomy
### 4.4.1 Introduction
This clause describes the potential dimensions for classification of network
autonomy.
### 4.4.2 Workflow
Workflow is used to describe the necessary steps to fulfil certain management
purposes. A workflow is composed of one or more management tasks. The autonomy
capabilities of the tasks in the workflow may impact the network autonomy
level.
Following are the potential categorization of the tasks in a workflow:
\- **Intent translation:** The group of tasks which translate network or
service intent from operator or customer into detailed management operations
which may affect one or more of the following groups of tasks, i.e. awareness,
analysis, decision, execution.
\- **Awareness:** The group of tasks which monitor network by collecting
network information.
\- **Analysis:** The group of tasks which analyse the collected information
(e.g. information about network status, network issues and so on) or based on
the historical data to further predict the future change trend of the above
network status, and make recommendation for decision.
\- **Decision:** The group of tasks which decide the necessary management
operation for execution, e.g. network configuration or adjustment.
\- **Execution:** The group of tasks which execute the management operations.
Figure 4.4.2-1 illustrate the general workflow for network autonomy.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="2.4965277777777777in"}**Figure 4.4.2-1:
General workflow for network autonomy**
### 4.4.3 Management scope
The network autonomy can be implemented in different management scopes, the
complexity of network autonomy depends on the management scope. For example,
it will be more challenge for the telecom system to achieve the network
autonomy on cross domain layer than domain layer, because more autonomy
mechanism needs to be introduced for the coordination between different
domains.
Following are potential scopes of network autonomy:
\- Autonomy in NE layer, which means the autonomy mechanism is executed in the
NE.
\- Autonomy in domain layer, which means the autonomy mechanism is executed in
the MnF(s) in domain.
\- Autonomy in cross domain layer, which means the autonomy mechanism is
executed in the MnF(s) in cross domain.
\- Autonomy in communication service layer, how to execute the autonomy
mechanism in communication service layer is FFS.
{width="2.2868055555555555in" height="2.5743055555555556in"}
**Figure 4.4.3-1: Autonomy for different management scope**
### 4.4.4 Scenarios
The network autonomy can be implemented for different scenarios, the
complexity of network autonomy depends on the detailed scenarios it applied.
Also it will be more challenge for the telecom system to achieve the network
autonomy for full scenarios than for certain scenarios. For example, autonomy
applicability of network deployment will be more challenge for outdoor combine
indoor scenario than only outdoor scenario.
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 Fault recovery use case example for network autonomy level
### 5.1.1 Introduction
Fault recovery use case refers to the entire workflow of network fault
management, full autonomy of fault recovery can help the network operator to
reduce OPEX by reducing manual involvement in such tasks and to enhance user
experience by reducing the time for network fault recovery. However, full
autonomy of fault recovery is a long term goal, it will be beneficial for
operator to achieve this goal step by step and have clear view on which
typical issues can be addressed by utilizing network autonomy mechanism in
corresponding steps.
### 5.1.2 Entire workflow
The entire workflow of fault recovery is as following:
\- **Task A:** Fault recovery intent translation. The task which translate the
fault recovery intent to the detailed fault management operations.
NOTE: The examples of fault recovery intent are alarm compression rate
increasing, fault recovery response time reducing, etc.
\- **Task B:** Fault related information collection. The task which collect
the alarm information and other fault related information (e.g. performance
information and configuration information etc.).
\- **Task C:** Alarm filtering. The task which filter the alarms collected in
Task B based on the filtering rules specified. A single network fault may
generate a large number of correlative alarms over space and time, therefore
it is considered advantageous to have methods filtering the redundant alarms.
Reporting only effective alarms without redundant alarms would improve the
efficiency of alarm management.
\- **Task D:** Fault recognition. The task which recognize or predict the
fault and its category based on the alarm information and other fault related
information.
\- **Task E:** Fault root cause analysis (RCA). The task which analyse the
detailed root cause of the network fault.
\- **Task F:** Fault recovery mechanism analysis. The task which analyse the
possible fault recovery mechanisms and corresponding solutions for support of
maintenance based on the fault root cause, thereby generate the feasible
options (e.g. recovery procedures).
\- **Task G:** Fault recovery action generation. The task which determine the
fault recovery action.
\- **Task H:** Fault recovery execution. The task which execute the fault
recovery actions (e.g. reconfiguring the network), and other corresponding
actions (e.g. clearing of alarms, storage and retrieval of alarms).
### 5.1.3 Potential classification of network autonomy for fault recovery
Each of the detailed task in clause 5.1.2 can be accomplished either manually
by the operator or automatically by the telecom system. Following are the
potential classifications of network autonomy for fault recovery based on the
participation degree of the human operator and the telecom system:
Level 0:
\- All the tasks in the fault recovery workflow in clause 5.1.2 are
accomplished by human.
Level 1:
\- Fault related information are collected (Task B) automatically by telecom
system based on human predefined rules. Fault recovery actions (Task H) which
can be executed without human intervention (e.g. system initialisations,
activation of a backup or fall back software load) are triggered by human and
executed by telecom system based on human defined execution rules.
\- All the other tasks in the fault recovery workflow are accomplished by
human.
Level 2:
\- Compared to Level 1, telecom system additionally assist human operator to
filter the alarms (Task C) based on the filtering rules predefined by human
operator. Fault recovery execution (only for the actions that can be executed
without human intervention) (Task H) are triggered by human and fully executed
by telecom system based on human defined rules.
\- All the other tasks (Task A, Task D, Task E, Task F and Task G) are
accomplished by human.
Level 3:
\- Compared to Level 2, telecom system can additionally identify the fault
domain and type (Task D except for fault prediction) and analyse the root
cause of the network fault (Task E). For certain network faults, telecom
system can accomplish the fault recovery mechanism analysis (Task F) and
action generation (Task G) based on the fault recovery policies pre-defined
and specified by human.
\- Fault recovery intent translation (Task A) is accomplished by human, and
all the other tasks (Task F and Task G) are accomplished by human operator for
most of the faults except several conventional ones.
Level 4:
\- Compared to Level 3, the fault recovery mechanism analysis (Task F) and
action generation (Task G) are accomplished automatically by telecom system
without human intervention. Telecom system also can predict the fault based on
service performance (e.g. QoE, call drop ratio, user experience). For certain
scenario, telecom system additionally assist human operator to translate the
fault recovery intent to the detailed fault recovery policies (Task A) based
on human predefined policies.
\- Intent translation policies can be pre-defined and specified by human.
Level 5:
\- The entire fault RCA and recovery workflow is accomplished automatically by
telecom system without human intervention and human predefined rules or
policies.
\- Human can but not have to supervise the fault recovery decision generated
by telecom system.
Figure 5.1.3-1 illustrate the classification of network autonomy for fault
recovery.
{width="6.692913385826771in" height="3.1580730533683288in"}
**Figure 5.1.3-1: Classification of network autonomy for fault recovery**
## 5.2 Network optimization use case example for classification of network
autonomy
### 5.2.1 Coverage optimization use case example for classification of network
autonomy
#### 5.2.1.1 Introduction
Coverage is critical for good user experience, however, coverage optimization
is complexity. Full autonomy of coverage optimization for whole network is a
long term goal, it will be beneficial for operator to achieve this goal step
by step and have clear view on which typical issues can be addressed by
utilizing network autonomy mechanism in corresponding steps.
#### 5.2.1.2 Entire workflow
Following are the entire workflow for the radio network coverage optimization:
\- **Task A** : Coverage requirements determination. The tasks of determining
the coverage requirements (e.g. coverage area, weak coverage ratio) based on
service assurance intent specified by customer.
\- **Task B** : Coverage optimization policies determination. The tasks of
determining the coverage optimization related policies (e.g., weak coverage
analysis policies, weak coverage optimization policies).
\- **Task C** : Coverage related information collection. The tasks of
collecting coverage performance data (e.g. measurement data, MDT data).
\- **Task D** : Coverage issues identification. The tasks of analysing the
coverage performance and identifying the coverage issues (e.g. weak coverage).
\- **Task E** : Coverage adjustment solution analysis and generation. The
tasks of analysing the cause of the identified coverage issues and generating
the coverage adjustment actions.
\- **Task F** : Coverage adjustment actions determination. The tasks of
deciding the coverage adjustment actions to be executed.
\- **Task G** : Coverage adjustment actions execution (e.g. selection of
coverageShape, digitalTilt and digitalAzimuth). The tasks of adjusting and
configuring the coverage related parameters.
#### 5.2.1.3 Potential classification of network autonomy for coverage
optimization
Level 0:
\- All the tasks in the radio network coverage optimization workflow (Task A,
Task B, Task C, Task D, Task E, Task F, Task G) are accomplished by human.
Level 1:
\- Telecom system executes the tasks of adjusting and configuring coverage
related parameters (e.g. coverageShape, digitalTilt and digitalAzimuth) based
on coverage related parameters specified by human (Task G). Telecom system
also can execute the tasks of collecting coverage related data (e.g.
measurement data, MDT data and trace data) based on collection rule specified
by human (Task C).
\- All the other tasks in the radio network coverage optimization workflow
(Task A, Task B, Task D, Task E, Task F) are accomplished by human.
Level 2:
\- Compared to Level 1, telecom system can analyse the coverage performance
and identify the coverage issue based on the coverage issue rule specified by
human (Task D).
\- All the other tasks in the radio network coverage optimization workflow
(Task A, Task B, Task E, Task F) are accomplished by human.
Level 3:
\- Compared to Level 2, telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
analysing the coverage optimization solution (Task E) and determining the
coverage adjustment actions (Task F) to be executed based on coverage
requirements and/or optimization policies specified by human.
\- All the other tasks in the radio network coverage optimization workflow
(Task A, Task B) are accomplished by human.
Level 4:
\- Compared to Level 3, the telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
determining coverage optimization policies (e.g., weak coverage cause analysis
policies, weak coverage adjustment policies) (Task B). For certain scenarios,
the telecom system can determines the coverage requirements (e.g. coverage
area, weak coverage ratio) based on service assurance intent.
\- The intent translation policies maybe pre-defined and specified by human to
assist the telecom system.
Level 5:
\- Telecom system can autonomously execute the entire workflow of radio
network coverage optimization for all scenarios, which means the telecom
system can achieve the full autonomy for radio network coverage optimization
for full scenarios.
{width="6.692913385826771in" height="3.116929133858268in"}
**Fgiure 5.2.1.3-1: Classification of network autonomy for radio network
coverage optimization**
_Editor's Note: The relation of above classification of network autonomy for
radio network coverage optimization and Framework approach for classification
of network autonomy level defined in Clause 6.1.2 is FFS._
### 5.2.2 Capacity optimization use case example for classification of network
autonomy
#### 5.2.2.1 Introduction
Network resources, especially radio resources are limited. In order to utilize
radio resources in the most efficient way and improve user service experience,
it is important to achieve higher system capacity by distributing user traffic
across the system radio resources. Currently the flow of traffic simply
follows the physical topology of the network or network slice, or static radio
resource management policies, and resource usage may be unreasonable.
Autonomous capacity optimization can help to improve resource usage efficiency
greatly by taking into account the traffic steering when scheduling the
network or network slice. For example, by creating a traffic prediction model,
3GPP management system can provide precise traffic prediction and the optimal
network topology and traffic distribution.
#### 5.2.2.2 Entire workflow
The entire workflow of capacity optimization is as following:
\- **Task A** : Capacity optimization intent translation. Translate the intent
to the capacity optimization target information (e.g., capacity planning data,
network topology, traffic model, etc.).
\- **Task B** : Capacity information collection. Collect the current and
historical performance data related to resource usage (e.g., PRB usage, RRC
connection number, QoS flows, etc.) and network traffic (e.g., composite
available capacity per cell (DL/UL), cell level load (DL/UL/SUL), TNL Load,
etc.) for the network.
\- **Task C** : Capacity data analysis. Analyse the current and historical
performance data related to resource usage and network traffic for the network
or network slices.
\- **Task D** : Capacity issues identification and/or prediction. Identify the
ongoing issues on resource utilization and predict the potential issues, and
generate the capacity or resource utilization possible solutions (e.g., RRM
policy adjustment, user migration, handover policy adjustment).
\- **Task E** : Capacity optimization decision. Decide recommended solutions
to optimize capacity and resource utilization.
\- **Task F** : Capacity optimization execution. Apply capacity optimization
solutions to telecom system (e.g., configuration of parameters and/or
policies).
#### 5.2.2.3 Potential classification of network autonomy for capacity
optimization
Each of the detailed tasks in clause 5.2.2.2 can be accomplished either
manually by the operator or automatically by the telecom system. Following are
the potential classifications of network autonomy for capacity optimization
based on the participation degree of the human operator and the telecom
system:
Level 0:
All the tasks in the capacity optimization workflow are accomplished by human.
Level 1:
\- Capacity related information is collected (Task B) automatically by telecom
system based on human predefined rules or configurations. Capacity
optimization solutions can be triggered by human and executed by telecom
system based on human-defined rules (Task F).
\- All the other tasks in the capacity optimization workflow are accomplished
by human.
Level 2:
\- Compared to Level 1, telecom system additionally assists human to execute
tasks of analysing the current and historical performance data (Task C)
related to resource usage and network traffic for the network or network
slices, and identifying the ongoing issues on resource utilization and predict
the potential issues (Task D) based on human-defined rules. Capacity
optimization solutions (Task F) are executed by telecom system without human
intervention.
\- Task A and Task E are accomplished by human.
Level 3:
\- Compared to Level 2, the telecom system can automatically collect the
current and historical performance data related to resource usage and network
traffic (Task B). Telecom system could additionally assist human to review the
capacity optimization solutions (Task E), which will finally be decided by
human (operator).
\- Task A is accomplished by human.
Level 4:
\- Compared to Level 3, the capacity data analysis (Task C), capacity issues
identification and/or prediction (Task D), and decision making (Task E) are
accomplished automatically by telecom system without human intervention.
Telecom system could additionally assist human to translate the intent to
capacity optimization target information (Task A).
\- The intent translation policies may be pre-defined and specified by human
to assist the telecom system.
Level 5:
\- The entire workflow of capacity optimization is accomplished automatically
by telecom system without human intervention and human-defined rules.
Figure 5.2.2.3 -1 illustrate the classification of network autonomy for
capacity optimization.
{width="6.692913385826771in" height="3.230351049868766in"}
**Figure 5.2.2.3 -1: Classification of network autonomy for capacity
optimization**
_Editor's Note: The relation of above classification of network autonomy for
radio network capacity optimization and framework approach for classification
of network autonomy level defined in Clause 6.1.2 is FFS._
## 5.3 RAN NE provisioning use case example for classification of network
autonomy
### 5.3.1 Introduction
RAN NE provisioning use case refers to the entire workflow of deploying an RAN
NE, full autonomy of RAN NE provisioning can help the network operator to
reduce OPEX by reducing manual involvement in such tasks. However, full
autonomy of RAN NE provisioning is a long term goal, it will be beneficial for
operator to achieve this goal step by step and have clear view on which
typical issues can be addressed by utilizing network autonomy mechanism in
corresponding steps.
### 5.3.2 Entire workflow
Following are the entire workflow for RAN NE provisioning:
\- **Task A** : RAN NE provisioning decision making.
\- **Task B** : RAN NE planning data determination, the tasks of analysing and
determining the network planning data (i.e. radio planning data, transport
planning data) for the new RAN NE to be provisioned.
\- **Task C** : RAN NE configuration data generation, the tasks of generating
the network configuration data for the RAN NE based on the network planning
data for the RAN NE and hardware information collected.
\- **Task D** : RAN NE connection and hardware information collection, the
tasks of connecting the RAN NE to the management system (including NE acquire
its IP address and corresponding management system IP address) and collecting
the RAN NE information (e.g. hardware information).
\- **Task E** : RAN NE configuration data and software download and
activation, the tasks of downloading and activating network configuration data
and software in RAN NE.
\- **Task F** : RAN NE verification, the tasks of performing the RAN NE
verification (e.g. RAN NE test).
### 5.3.3 Potential classification of network autonomy for RAN NE provisioning
Following are the potential classification of network autonomy for RAN NE
provisioning:
Level 0:
\- All the tasks in the RAN NE provisioning workflow (Task A, Task B, Task C,
Task D, Task E, Task F) are accomplished by human.
Level 1:
\- Telecom system executes tasks of downloading and activating the available
RAN NE network configuration data (i.e. transport and radio configuration
data) and software prepared by human (Task E).
\- Human makes the RAN NE provisioning decision and prepares the network
configuration data for the RAN NE (Task A, Task B, Task C). Human connects the
RAN NE to the management system and collects the RAN NE information (Task D).
Human performs the RAN NE verification (Task F).
Level 2:
\- Compared to Level 1, telecom system additionally executes the tasks of
connecting RAN NE to the management system and collecting the RAN NE
information (Task D).
\- Human makes the RAN NE provisioning decision and prepares the network
configuration data for the RAN NE (Task A, Task B, Task C). Human performs the
RAN NE verification (Task F).
Level 3:
\- Compared to Level 2, based on the network configuration data generation
policies specified by human, the telecom system additionally executes tasks of
analysing and determining the network configuration data for the RAN NE
according to the network planning data specified by human (Task C). Telecom
system also can executes tasks of performing the RAN NE verification (e.g. RAN
NE test) (Task F) based on test policies specified by human.
\- Human makes the RAN NE provisioning decision and prepares the network
planning data (Task A and Task B). Human pre-defines the network configuration
data generation policies.
Level 4:
\- Compared to Level 3, for certain scenarios, the telecom system additionally
execute the task of making the RAN NE provisioning decision (Task A),
analysing and determining network planning data (i.e. radio planning data,
transport planning data) for the RAN NE to be provisioned (Task B) based on
radio network deployment intent (e.g. provisioning radio network in certain
area with network characteristics or SLA specified).
\- The intent translation policies maybe pre-defined and specified by human.
Level 5:
\- Telecom system can autonomously execute the entire workflow of provisioning
an RAN NE for all scenarios, which means the telecom system can achieve the
full autonomy for RAN NE provisioning.
{width="6.692913385826771in" height="3.3810575240594924in"}
**Figure 5.3.3-1: Classification of network autonomy for RAN NE provisioning**
_Editor's Note:_ _The relation of above classification of network autonomy for
RAN NE provisioning and Framework approach for classification of network
autonomy level defined in Clause 6.1.2 is FFS._
## 5.4 Multi-domain/layer/technology management service coordination
automation use case example
_The goal of this_ use case _is to enable automation of end-to-end joint
coordination of management services across multiple domains (e.g. AN, CN),
multi-layers (packet and optical transport), and multi-technology (wireless
and wireline, x-haul, mobile core, data network, physical and virtual
functions)_.
The following functions and services are assumed to be deployed and active:
\- NG-RAN, 5GC, NSI(s).
\- The performance assurance (PM), fault supervision (FM) and provisioning
(CM) services are available across multi-domain, multi-layer, and multi-
technology.
\- The provider of multi-domain, multi-layer, and multi-technology
coordination of management services.
The provisioning, assurance and supervision services provide information on
the multi-domain, layer, and technology, the information characterized by:
\- Status details on domain/layer/technology specific network resources, e.g.
NG-RAN and 5GC, packet and transport networks, physical network resources and
virtual resources
\- Information from one or multiple network slices and slice subnets in
relation with multi-domain, layer, and technology
\- For each domain, layer, and technology, information on allocated resources
and their utilization, event history (e.g. recent orchestration actions taken
per domain, layer, and technology), history of actions taken (e.g. recent
orchestration actions taken per domain, layer, and technology)
The provisioning, assurance and supervision services provide information on
the multi-domain, layer, and technology, the information characterized by:
\- Status details on domain/layer/technology specific network resources, e.g.
NG-RAN and 5GC, packet and transport networks, physical network resources and
virtual resources.
\- Information from one or multiple network slices and slice subnets in
relation with multi-domain, layer, and technology.
\- For each domain, layer, and technology, information on allocated resources
and their utilization, event history (e.g. recent orchestration actions taken
per domain, layer, and technology), history of actions taken (e.g. recent
orchestration actions taken per domain, layer, and technology).
The following scopes of network autonomy is applied to meet the objectives of
automation of the multi-domain, layer, and technology coordination of
management services:
\- Network autonomy in NE layer
\- Network autonomy in domain layer
\- Network autonomy in cross domain layer
_Based on the assumptions described above, the provider of_ multi-domain,
multi-layer, and multi-technology coordination _of management services is
running jointly with individual coordination providers of domain, layer, and
technology to automate end-to-end vertical and horizontal management
coordination processes across multiple domain, layers, and technologies._
_The provider of_ multi-domain, multi-layer, and multi-technology coordination
_of management services utilizes_ provisioning, assurance and supervision
services to achieve optimal management coordination across multiple domains,
layers, and technologies.
The provider of multi-domain, multi-layer, and multi-technology coordination
of management services may utilize AI technologies (e.g. machine learning,
deep learning algorithms, etc.) to achieve an optimal coordination.
_The provider of_ multi-domain, multi-layer, and multi-technology coordination
_of management services offers management capabilities on the resource
parameters configuration._
The coordination of management services consists of different levels of
network autonomy as follows:
\- Automation of coordination across multiple layer, technology, or domain
individually.
\- Automation of coordination across a combination of multiple-layer and
technology, multiple-layer and domain, or multiple-technology and domain.
\- Automation of coordination across multiple-layer, technology, and domain as
a whole.
# 6 Potential solutions
## 6.1 Potential solutions for network autonomy level
### 6.1.1 Introduction
This clause describes the potential solutions for network autonomy level.
### 6.1.2 Framework approach for classification of autonomous network level
According to the potential categorization of the tasks in a general network
autonomy workflow, a framework approach for classification of autonomous
network level is introduced as following, which is used for evaluating the
autonomy capability of telecom system.
**Table 6.1.2-1: Framework approach for classification of autonomous network
level**
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Network | Task | | | | | | | a | cat | | | | | | | utonomy | egories | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | +=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+=========+ | | Ex | Aw | A | D | Intent | | | | ecution | areness | nalysis | ecision | tran | | | | | | | | slation | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L0 | Manual | Human | Human | Human | Human | Human | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L1 | A | Human & | Human & | Human | Human | Human | | | ssisted | Telecom | Telecom | | | | | | op | system | system | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L2 | Prel | Telecom | Human & | Human & | Human | Human | | | iminary | system | Telecom | Telecom | | | | | aut | | system | system | | | | | onomous | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L3 | Inter | Telecom | Telecom | Human & | Human & | Human | | | mediate | system | system | Telecom | Telecom | | | | aut | | | system | system | | | | onomous | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L4 | A | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | Human & | | | dvanced | system | system | system | system | Telecom | | | aut | | | | | system | | | onomous | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L5 | Full | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | Telecom | | | aut | system | system | system | system | system | | | onomous | | | | | | | | network | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | Human | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eviewed | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ecision | | | | | | | | have | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | highest | | | | | | | | au | | | | | | | | thority | | | | | | | | in each | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | is any | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | liction | | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | | human | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | eviewed | | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | | ecision | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | telecom | | | | | | | | system | | | | | | | | ge | | | | | | | | nerated | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | cision. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | present | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | five | | | | | | | | task | | | | | | | | cat | | | | | | | | egories | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | reflect | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | orkflow | | | | | | | | se | | | | | | | | quence. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
**Level 0 manual operating network** : No categorization of the tasks is
accomplished by telecom system itself.
**Level 1 assisted operating network** : A part of the execution and awareness
tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system itself based on human
defined rules. At this level, telecom system can assist human to improve the
execution and awareness efficiency.
**Level 2 preliminary autonomous network** : All the execution tasks are
accomplished automatically by telecom system itself. A part of the awareness
and analysis tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system itself
based on human defined policies. At this level, telecom system can assist
human to achieve the close loop based on human defined policies.
**Level 3 intermediate autonomous network** : All the execution and awareness
tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system itself. A part of the
analysis and decision tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system
itself based on human defined policies. At this level, the telecom system can
achieve the close loop automation based on the human defined close loop
automation policies.
**Level 4 advanced autonomous network** : All the execution, awareness,
analysis and decision tasks are accomplished automatically by telecom system
itself. And intent translation tasks can be partly accomplished automatically
by telecom system itself based on human defined intent translation policies.
At this level, telecom system can achieve the intent driven close loop
automation based on human defined intent translation policies, which means the
telecom system can translate the intent to the detailed close loop automation
policies based on human defined intent translation policies.
**Level 5 fully autonomous network** : The entire network autonomy workflow is
accomplished automatically by telecom system without human intervention. At
this level, telecom system can achieve the whole network autonomy.
Note: Above framework approach for classification of autonomous network level
are applicable for evaluating the autonomous network level from both
management scope and scenario perspective. The overall autonomous network
level of the whole telecom system is a comprehensive reflection of autonomous
network level of the individual management scope and scenarios, which means in
fully autonomous network level, the telecom system can achieve the whole
network autonomy for all management scopes and scenarios.
## 6.2 Potential requirements for standardized features
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This clause describes the relation among the autonomous network levels and
existing standardized features related to autonomous network and the potential
requirements for autonomous network related standardized features to enable
management use cases to support the expected autonomous network levels.
### 6.2.2 Potential relation with autonomous network related standardized
features and interfaces
According to Clause 4.4.2 and Clause 6.1, a framework approach for
classification of autonomous network level is based on the potential
categorization of the tasks in a general network autonomy workflow, i.e.
intent translation, awareness, analysis, decision and execution. According to
Clause 4.4.3, the network autonomy can be implemented in different management
scopes, i.e. NE layer, domain layer, cross domain layer and communication
service layer.
Regarding this general network autonomy workflow and different management
scopes, the relation among the autonomous network levels and autonomous
network related standardized features is described as following:
\- Standardized features in 3GPP SA WG5
> \- Work item 850030 SON_5G "Self-Organizing Networks (SON) for 5G networks"
> specified the concepts, use cases, requirements, and procedures for the SON
> functions in 5GS. As described in Clause 4.1 in TS 28.313 [6], based on the
> location of the SON algorithm, SON is categorized into four different
> solutions, i.e. Cross Domain-Centralized SON, Domain-Centralized SON,
> Distributed SON and Hybrid SON. And the SON algorithm may consist of the
> functionalities including Monitoring, Analysis, Decision, Execution and
> Evaluation. The autonomy capabilities of various SON functions in 5GS may be
> different and therefore lead to different capabilities of autonomy on
> workflow and management scopes which may lead to different autonomous
> network levels. On the other hand, different autonomous network levels may
> lead to different requirements for the workflow and management scope
> capabilities of SON functions.
>
> \- Study item 850028 FS_eMDAS "Study on enhancement of Management Data
> Analytics Service" studied concepts, process and role of MDAS, the use
> cases, potential requirements and possible solutions regarding the relation
> and interaction between MDAS and other NF functionalities are studied as
> well. It is described in Clause 5.1 in TR 28.809 [7] that the MDA plays the
> role of Analytics in the management loop and techniques such as AI and ML
> (e.g., ML model) may be utilized. The autonomy capabilities of various MDAS
> may be different and therefore lead to different capabilities of autonomy on
> analytics which may lead to different autonomous network levels. On the
> other hand, different autonomous network levels may lead to different
> requirements for the analysis capabilities of MDAS.
>
> \- Work item 850026 COSLA "Closed loop SLS Assurance" specified a closed
> loop assurance solution that helps an operator to continuously deliver the
> expected level of communication service quality. It is described in Clause
> 4.2 in TS 28.535 [8] that the management control loop for communication
> service assurance consists of Monitoring, Analysis, Decision and Execution,
> and in an open control loop, the human operator intervenes in one or more of
> the process steps of the loop while in a closed control loop, there is no
> direct involvement of a human operator or other operations system in the
> control loop. The process steps of the management control loop for
> communication service are covered by the general network autonomy workflow
> and the autonomy capabilities of the management control loop may be
> different and therefore lead to different capabilities of autonomy on
> awareness, analysis, decision and execution, which may lead to different
> autonomous network levels. On the other hand, different autonomous network
> levels may lead to different requirements for the management control loop
> for communication service.
>
> \- 5G MDT, Trace, PM, QoE related work items, such as work item 860021 5GMDT
> "Management of MDT in 5G", work item 820036 TM_SBMA "Trace Management in the
> context of Services Based Management Architecture", work item 810031
> 5G_SLICE_ePA "Enhancement of performance assurance for 5G networks including
> network slicing", work item 760058 QOED "Management of QoE measurement
> collection", are relevant with the management of network and service data
> collection. The autonomy capabilities of these standardized features may be
> different and therefore lead to different capabilities of autonomy on
> awareness, which may lead to different autonomous network levels. On the
> other hand, different autonomous network levels may lead to different
> requirements for these features.
>
> \- Work item 820032 eNRM "NRM enhancements" specified the enhancement of NRM
> for SBA based 5G networks including NF Service Managed Object modelling, NF
> profile associated to a core control plane NF modelling, and NF & NF Service
> instance status and registration status modelling. They are relevant with
> the network and service configuration. The modelling of NRM and autonomy
> capabilities of the configuration may be different and therefore lead to
> different capabilities of autonomy on execution, which may lead to different
> autonomous network levels. On the other hand, different autonomous network
> levels may lead to different requirements for NRM normative work.
>
> \- Work item 810027 IDMS_MN "Intent driven management services for mobile
> networks" studied intent driven management concept, scenarios and standard
> consideration for intent driven MnS. Intent translation is described in
> Clause 4.1.4 in TR 28.812 [5]. The Intent driven MnS producer is responsible
> for receiving intent and translate it to detailed requirements. The autonomy
> capabilities of various Intent driven MnS producers may be different and
> therefore lead to different capabilities of autonomy on intent translation,
> which may lead to different autonomous network levels. On the other hand,
> different autonomous network levels may lead to different requirements for
> the intent translation capabilities of Intent driven MnS producers.
\- Standardized features in 3GPP SA WG2
> \- Work item 830047 eNA "Enablers for Network Automation for 5G" specified
> architecture enhancements for 5G System to support network data analytics
> service and framework to enable data collection and provide analytics to
> consumers. Extensions to NWDAF services to support the analytics that are
> required for e.g. QoS Profile Provisioning, Traffic Routing, Future
> Background Data Transfer and Slice SLA, etc. were defined as well. The
> autonomy capabilities of various NWDAF may be different and therefore lead
> to different capabilities of autonomy on data collection (i.e. awareness)
> and analysis which may lead to different autonomous network levels. On the
> other hand, different autonomous network levels may lead to different
> requirements for the data collection and analysis capabilities of NWDAF.
\- Standardized features in 3GPP RAN
> \- Study item 801000 FS_LTE_NR_data_collect "Study on RAN-centric Data
> Collection and Utilization for LTE and NR" and work item 840091 "SON (Self-
> Organising Networks) and MDT (Minimization of Drive Tests) support for NR"
> specified the support of SON features, including MRO, MLB, and RACH
> optimization and MDT (Minimization of Drive Tests) features and L2
> measurements as described in TR 37.816, TS 38.314, TS 37.320. TS 38.300,
> TS38.331, TS38.420, etc. These SON/MDT features are expected and specified
> to support network autonomy on network awareness (e.g. MDT features support
> automatic network data collection by measurements enhancement), decision and
> execution (e.g. MRO, MLB and RACH optimization support automatic UE
> reporting, inter-node information exchange, interface and network
> configuration enhancements). The autonomy capabilities of these SON/MDT
> features may be different and therefore lead to different capabilities of
> autonomy on awareness, decision and execution, which may lead to different
> autonomous network levels. On the other hand, different autonomous network
> levels may lead to different requirements for the SON/MDT features.
Different autonomous network levels may affect standardized interfaces (i.e.
MnS) as well. The higher autonomous network level may request more sufficient
network or service data to improve the capability on awareness and request
faster configurations to improve the capability on execution, therefore lead
to the enhancement of data collection and configuration related interfaces.
On the other hand, in a multi-vendor scenario, the higher autonomous network
level may request simpler standardized interfaces (i.e. MnS) to reduce the
interoperability complexity of 5G network management, and improve the network
operating efficiency and automation performance.
### 6.2.3 Potential solutions for autonomous network related standardized
features
_Editor\'s note: the potential requirements for autonomous network related
standardized features to enable management use cases listed in Clause 5 to
support the expected autonomous network levels may be added later._
# 7 Conclusion and recommendation
_Editor\'s note: this clause will be used to document the conclusions and
recommendation of the study._
#