# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
In the present document, modal verbs have the following meanings:
**shall** indicates a mandatory requirement to do something
**shall not** indicates an interdiction (prohibition) to do something
The constructions \"shall\" and \"shall not\" are confined to the context of
normative provisions, and do not appear in Technical Reports.
The constructions \"must\" and \"must not\" are not used as substitutes for
\"shall\" and \"shall not\". Their use is avoided insofar as possible, and
they are not used in a normative context except in a direct citation from an
external, referenced, non-3GPP document, or so as to maintain continuity of
style when extending or modifying the provisions of such a referenced
document.
**should** indicates a recommendation to do something
**should not** indicates a recommendation not to do something
**may** indicates permission to do something
**need not** indicates permission not to do something
The construction \"may not\" is ambiguous and is not used in normative
elements. The unambiguous constructions \"might not\" or \"shall not\" are
used instead, depending upon the meaning intended.
**can** indicates that something is possible
**cannot** indicates that something is impossible
The constructions \"can\" and \"cannot\" are not substitutes for \"may\" and
\"need not\".
**will** indicates that something is certain or expected to happen as a result
of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of
the present document
**will not** indicates that something is certain or expected not to happen as
a result of action taken by an agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
**might** indicates a likelihood that something will happen as a result of
action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the scope of the
present document
**might not** indicates a likelihood that something will not happen as a
result of action taken by some agency the behaviour of which is outside the
scope of the present document
In addition:
**is** (or any other verb in the indicative mood) indicates a statement of
fact
**is not** (or any other negative verb in the indicative mood) indicates a
statement of fact
The constructions \"is\" and \"is not\" do not indicate requirements.
# Introduction
A 5G network is more complex than previous generations of mobile networks,
which means that the need for automation is higher for 5G.
This study is evaluating SON functions in previous generations of mobile
networks and is studying new SON functions, both for RAN and the core network.
# 1 Scope
The present document comprises management use cases, potential requirements
and potential solutions of SON for 5G mobile networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 32.500: \"Telecommunication Management; Self-Organizing Networks
(SON); Concepts and requirements\".
[3] 3GPP TR 32.501: \"Telecommunication Management; Self-configuration of
network elements; Concepts and requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.525: \"Life Cycle Management (LCM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Requirements\".
[5] 3GPP TR 38.321 v0.0.0 \"NR; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol
specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 32.511: \"Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) management; Concepts
and requirements\"
[8] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\"
[9] 3GPP TS 28.628: \"Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\"
[10] 3GPP TS 28.551: \"Performance Management (PM) for mobile networks that
include virtualized network functions; Procedures\"
[11] 3GPP TR 38.423: \"NG-RAN; Xn Application Protocol (XnAP)\".
[12] 3GPP TR 37.816: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
NR; Study on RAN-centric data collection and utilization for LTE and NR\".
[13] 3GPP TR 38.300: \"NR; NR and NG-RAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 32.541: \"Telecommunication Management; Self-Organizing Network
(SON); Self-healing concepts and requirements\".
> [15] 3GPP TS 28.550 v15.0.0 \"Management and orchestration; Performance
> Assurance\"
>
> [16] 3GPP TS 28.530 v15.1.0 \"Management and orchestration; Concepts, Use
> cases and Requirements\"
>
> [17] 3GPP TS 28.533 v15.1.0 \"Management and orchestration; Architecture
> framework\"
>
> [18] TS 28.627 \"Telecommunication management; Self-Organizing Networks
> (SON) Policy Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
> Requirements\"
>
> [19] 3GPP TS 28.658 \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
> (E-UTRAN) Network Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP);
> Information Service (IS)\"
>
> [20] 3GPP TS 32.297 \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
> Charging Data Record (CDR) file format and transfer\"
>
> [21] 3GPP TS 37.320 Radio measurement collection for Minimization of Drive
> Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2
>
> [22] 3GPP TS 32.502: \"Telecommunication Management; Self-configuration of
> network elements Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
> (IS)\".
>
> [23] 3GPP TS 32.508: \"Telecommunication Management; Procedure flows for
> multi-vendor plug-and-play eNode B connection to the network\".
>
> [24] 3GPP TS 28.310 \"Management and orchestration; Energy Efficiency (EE)
> of 5G; Concepts, use cases and requirements\".
>
> [25] 3GPP TS 38.211: \"NR; Physical channels and modulation\".
[26] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\"
> [27] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision
> (FS)\"
>
> [28] 3GPP TS 32.522: \"Self-Organizing Networks (SON) Policy Network
> Resource Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
> (IS)\"
>
> [29] 3GPP TS 28.806: \"Study on non-file-based trace reporting\"
>
> [30] 3GPP TS 32.421: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and
> equipment trace; Trace concepts and requirements\"
>
> [31] 3GPP TS 32.422: \"Telecommunication management; Subscriber and
> equipment trace; Trace control and configuration management\"
# 3 Definitions of terms, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Terms
For the purposes of the present document, the terms given in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document takes
precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in 3GPP TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAS Active Antenna System
ANR Automatic Neighbour Relation
CCO Coverage and Capacity Optimization
LB Load Balancing
MRO Mobility Robustness Optimization
NR NR Radio Access
NSI Network Slice Instance
NSSI Network Slice Subnet Instance
OAM Operation, Administration and Maintenance
OPEX Operating Expenditure
PCI Physical Cell Identifier
PM Performance Management
RLF Radio Link Failure
# 4 Concept and background
## 4.1 SON concepts
### 4.1.1 Introduction
3GPP management system includes 3GPP Cross Management Domain and Management
Domain.
Based on the location of the SON algorithm, SON is categorized into
centralized SON (i.e. Cross Domain-Centralized SON, Domain-Centralized SON),
distributed SON and hybrid SON.
The SON algorithm is not standardized by 3GPP.
Following figure illustrates the overview of SON Framework.
{width="4.4375in" height="3.275in"}
Figure 4.1.1-1: SON Framework
### 4.1.2 Centralized SON
#### 4.1.2.1 Introduction
3GPP management system includes 3GPP Cross Management Domain and Management
Domain.
The centralized SON (C-SON) means the SON algorithm is located in the 3GPP
management system. The centralized SON concept has been defined for LTE in TS
32.500 [2].
For centralized SON, the 3GPP management system monitors the networks via
management data (see NOTE), analyses the management data (i.e., by management
data analytics), makes decisions on the SON actions, and executes the SON
actions towards the networks.
NOTE: The management data may vary for different the SON cases. For example,
for automated creation of NSI, NSSI and/or NFs related cases, the management
data may be SLA requirements received from service management layer; for
automated optimization related cases, the management data may be performance
measurements of the networks; for automated healing related cases, the
management data may be alarm information of the networks. The management data
is to be specified case by case.
The monitoring, analysis, decision and execution process also applies to
monitoring the result of already executed SON actions, evaluating the results
(by analysing the historical and current management data), making decisions on
new SON actions (which may move forward or backward of the prior actions), and
the executing the new SON actions.
As presented at the Figure 4.1.2-1, 3GPP management system is monitoring and
executes SON actions in and across multiple network domains such as RAN and
Core.
Figure 4.1.2-1: C-SON view
Centralized SON has two variants:
\- Cross Domain-Centralized SON: SON solution where SON algorithms are
executed at 3GPP Cross Management Domain Layer.
\- Domain-Centralized SON: SON solution where SON algorithms are executed at
Management Domain layer.
#### 4.1.2.2 Cross Domain-Centralized SON
The Cross Domain-Centralized SON means the SON algorithm is located in the
3GPP Cross Management Domain layer.
For Cross Domain-Centralized SON, the 3GPP Cross Management Domain monitors
the networks via management data, analyses the management data, makes
decisions on the SON actions, and executes the SON actions.
#### 4.1.2.3 Domain-Centralized SON
The Domain-Centralized SON means the SON algorithm is located in the
Management Domain layer.
For Domain-Centralized SON, Management Domain monitors the networks via
management data, analyses the management data, makes decisions on the SON
actions, and executes the SON actions.
3GPP Cross Management Domain is responsible for management and control of the
Domain-Centralized SON Functions. The management and control may include
switching on/off a Domain-Centralized SON function, making policies for a
Domain-Centralized SON function, and/or evaluating the performance of a
Domain-Centralized SON function.
### 4.1.3 Distributed SON
The distributed SON means the SON algorithm is located in the NFs. The
distributed SON concept has been defined for LTE in TS 32.500 [2].
For distributed SON (D-SON), the NFs monitors the network events, analyses the
network data, makes decisions on the SON actions and executes the SON actions
in the network nodes.
The 3GPP management system is responsible for management and control of the
D-SON functions. The management and control may include switching on/off a
D-SON function, making policies for a D-SON function, providing supplementary
information (e.g. the value range of an attribute) to a D-SON function, and/or
evaluating the performance of a D-SON function.
Figure 4.1.3-1: D-SON view
### 4.1.4 Hybrid SON
The hybrid SON (H-SON) means the SON algorithm is partially located in the
3GPP management system and partially located in the NFs. The hybrid SON
concept has been defined for LTE in TS 32.500 [2].
The 3GPP management system and NFs work together, in a coordinated manner, to
build up a complete SON algorithm. The decisions on SON actions may be either
made by 3GPP management system or NFs, depending on the specific cases.
As presented at the Figure 4.1.4-1, the centralized SON component is
monitoring and executes SON actions in and across multiple network domains
such as RAN and Core.
Figure 4.1.4-1: H-SON view
4.1.5 Management Data Analytics Service and SON functions
Management data analytics for 5G networks have already been defined in [15]
and also by other specifications including [16] and [17]. It utilizes both
management and network data collected through management services and from
network functions (including e.g. service, slicing and/or network functions
related data) and makes the corresponding analytics based on the collected
information. These analytics services (i.e., MDAS) can be made available and
consumed by other management and SON functions. Figure 4.1.5-1 gives a high
level illustration of potential interaction and utilization of the MDAS.
{width="4.169444444444444in" height="4.060416666666667in"}
Figure 4.1.5-1: Management Data Analytics Service and SON functions
It is therefore important that the following concept is observed and
considered for the development of use cases and requirements, i.e.
\- SON functions may utilize the services provided by the management data
analytics (i.e., MDAS) to conduct their functionalities and control actions.
Note: Other potential interactions between the entities are not shown in the
diagram in Figure 4.1.5-1 above.
## 4.2 Human intervention of SON
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The full automation of SON is desirable to maximally reduce the operating
expenditure (OPEX) of the networks, and to achieve the fastest reaction to the
network issues.
However, any improper SON action (e.g. modification of the networks) may cause
significantly negative impact to the networks, for instance downgrade of the
user experience. Therefore, the consumer (e.g. network operator) may need to
build the confidence about the SON functions step by step before allowing the
SON process to run fully autonomously, thus human intervention of the SON
process needs to be allowed.
Based on whether the SON process is intervened by the consumer, the SON
process is categorized to open loop process and closed loop process.
### 4.2.2 Open loop
The SON process with human intervention is the open loop process (see TS
32.500 [2]). Therefore, the open loop SON process is semi- autonomous.
In the open loop SON process, the consumer (e.g. network operator) may pre-
define some stop points and the SON process will stop at each pre-defined stop
point. Based on the status of the SON process at each stop point, the consumer
may decide to resume the SON process or cancel the SON process. The consumer
may also make some adjustment to the networks, besides the resumption or
cancellation of the SON process.
### 4.2.3 Closed loop
The SON process without human intervention is the closed loop process (see TS
32.500 [2]) and thus fully autonomous. Human intervention is only possible in
case of exceptions.
### 4.2.4 Open loop and closed loop transition
The consumer may need to transit a SON process from open loop to closed loop
if sufficient confidence has been built; vice-versa, the consumer may transit
a SON process from closed loop to open loop if the human intervention is
required to gain more trust.
## 4.3 Legacy SON Functions
### 4.3.1 Self-establishment of 3GPP NF, including automated software
management
For LTE, the self-establishment SON function has been defined for eNB in TS
32.501 [3].
This concept may be applicable to 5G: the 3GPP NF or its components (e.g. gNB-
DU) including NG-RAN and 5GC NFs, is automatically established, when it is
powered up and connects to the IP network. As a part of self-establishment,
the 3GPP NF or its components is also automatically connected to the network
and provided with initial configurations.
For 5G, some phases of the self-establishment (e.g. self-configuration, Multi-
Vendor Plug and Play eNB connection to network) may be implemented in other
types of 3GPP NFs (not only the Base Stations).
### 4.3.2 Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) management (including automatic
X2 and Xn setup)
The neighbour relations, including intra-5G neighbour relations and inter-RAT
neighbour relations, are automatically established by the gNB and the
management system.
The ANR management concept defined for LTE in TS 32.511 [7] may be applicable
to 5G.
For NG-RAN, the ANR functionality is specified in TR 38.300 [13], TS 38.331
[6] and TS 38.423 [11].The ANR management concept defined for LTE in TS 32.511
[7] may be applicable to 5G.
There is related study TR 37.816 [12].
### 4.3.3 PCI Configuration
The PCI is to be automatically assigned to an NR cell by the gNB DU and the
management system.
The framework for PCI selection defined for LTE in TS 36.300 [8] (see clause
22.3.5) may be applicable to 5G.
There is related study TR 37.816 [12].
### 4.3.4 Automatic Radio Network Configuration Data Handling
The concept of automatic radio configuration data (ARCF) handing for eNB
defined in TS 32.501[3], including ARCF data preparation, ARCF Data Transfer
and ARCF Data Validation, may be applicable to 5G. Whether the detailed ARCF
data for eNB can be applied for gNB needs to be revisited.
### 4.3.5 Load Balancing Optimization
The objective of LB is to automatically distribute cell load evenly among
cells or to transfer part of the traffic from congested cells, by means of
optimizing the intra-RAT and inter-RAT mobility parameters.
The LB concept and mechanism defined for LTE in TS 28.628 [9] and TS 36.300
[8] may be applicable to 5G.
There is related study TR 37.816 [12].
Actions undertaken through the LB mechanism may have impact on the Virtual
Network Functions' and/or network slices' load and resources. The LB mechanism
defined for LTE with its uni-dimensional perspective on resources needs to be
enhanced in 5G to address or account for such effects.
### 4.3.6 Inter-Cell Interference (Interference coordination)
Inter-cell interference coordination is to optimize use of radio resources to
ensure that inter-cell interference is kept under control. ICIC mechanism
defined for LTE in TS 36.300 [8] includes a frequency domain component and
time domain component. ICIC is inherently a multi-cell RRM function that needs
to take into account information (e.g. the resource usage status and traffic
load situation) from multiple cells.
The ICIC concept defined for LTE in TS 36.300 [8] may be applicable to 5G.
### 4.3.7 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimization)
The RACH parameters, for example listed in the following, are optimized
automatically to achieve a better performance for UE random access:
\- RACH configuration (resource unit allocation);
\- RACH preamble split;
\- RACH back-off parameter value;
\- RACH transmission power control parameters.
The RACH optimization concept defined for LTE in TS 36.300 [8] may be
applicable to 5G.
There is related study TR 37.816 [12].
### 4.3.8 Centralized Capacity and Coverage Optimization
The CCO is to automatically optimize the coverage and capacity for radio
networks, with the consideration of trade-off between them. The CCO concept
was defined for LTE in TS 28.627 [18] with the targets and parameters to be
optimized specified in TS 28.628 [9] and the NRM support in the TS 28.658
[19].
The concept may be applicable to 5G, however the functions specific to 5G
radio technology (e.g. beam management) need to be taken into account.
### 4.3.9 Self-healing
The concept of Self-healing for LTE NE described in TS 32.541[14] may be
applicable to 5G NE (including 5GC and NG-RAN NE).
### 4.3.10 SON coordination
Some SON functions eventually affect the same network parameters, thus these
SON functions need to be coordinated to prevent or resolve the conflicts.
The SON coordination concept defined for LTE in TS 28.628 [9] may be also
applicable to 5G, however the new 5G SON functions and the 5G specific network
parameters affected by the 5G SON functions need to be taken into account.
The SON coordination (as defined for LTE) does not account for multiple
network aspects e.g. virtualization or slicing. Functionality for multi-aspect
views of the network requires new services to be defined.
### 4.3.11 SON for AAS-based Deployments
SON for AAS-based deployments was specified for LTE and is documented in TS
28.627 [18] and TS 28.628 [9]. Its purpose was to create a framework for
splitting and merging cells, as well as for changing cell configuration (cell
shaping.)
The NR beamforming will be able to take over the role of cell splitting and
cell merging. Cell shape changes, in LTE SON for AAS-based deployments
manifested by changing handover and similar parameters, is in NR primarily
handled by the SON function CCO.
### 4.3.12 Trace and MDT
Trace and the reporting of Trace data as it refers to subscriber tracing and
equipment tracing. Trace also includes the ability to trace all active calls
in a cell or multiple cells. Trace records control signalling information for
specified interfaces.
The trace function is specified in Rel-15 for NR.
MDT is collecting UE measurements either when the UE is in active or idle
mode. Information can be collected either on individual basis or for UEs in a
specified area.
The concept of MDT, defined in the TS 37.320 [21], may be applicable to 5G.
There is related study TR 37.816 [12].
### 4.3.13 Mobility Robustness Optimization
The MRO is to automatically detect and solve the problems relate to the
intra-5G and inter-RAT mobility, which include (but not limited to):
\- Too early handover;
\- Too late handover;
\- Handover to wrong cell;
\- Unnecessary handover;
\- Ping-pang handover.
The MRO concept and mechanism defined for LTE in TS 28.628 [9] and TS 36.300
[8] may be applicable to 5G.
There is related study TR 37.816 [12].
### 4.3.14 Energy Saving Management
#### 4.3.14.1 General
There is related study TR 37.816 [12].
#### 4.3.14.2 Intra-5G Energy Saving in 5G networks
For energy saving purpose, in an off-peak-traffic situation, some functions of
an NR cell or a NF are powered-off or restricted in resource usage in other
ways, whereas the cell or NF is still controllable, and the coverage or
capacity of the energy saving cell or NF is taken over by other NR cells or
NFs.
The intra-RAT Energy Saving scenarios defined for LTE in TS 32.551 [10] are is
also applicable to 5G, with the consideration that the RAT is for 5G instead
of LTE.
#### 4.3.14.3 Inter-RAT Energy Saving
For energy saving purpose, in an off-peak-traffic situation, some functions of
an NR cell or a NF are powered-off or restricted in resource usage in other
ways, whereas the NR cell or NF is still controllable, and the coverage or
capacity of the energy saving cell or NF is taken over by the cells or NFs of
another RAT.
The inter-RAT Energy Saving scenarios defined for LTE in TS 32.551 [10] are is
also applicable to 5G, with the consideration that the cell for energy saving
is of 5G instead of LTE.
### 4.3.15 (Distributed) Capacity and Coverage Optimization
There is related study TR 37.816 [12].
# 5 Use cases
## 5.1 NSI resource allocation optimization
### 5.1.1 Goal
_The goal is to_ enable the authorized consumer to optimize resource
utilization performance of NSI.
### 5.1.2 Pre-conditions
\- The NSI(s) have been deployed.
\- The NSI management service producer is in operation.
### 5.1.3 Steps
1\. (Optional) For shared NSIs, NSI management service provider may need to
check policies and resource requirements of several services sharing the NSI.
2\. Unless there are policies already determining configurations, SON service
provider determines thresholds to trigger NSI optimization (e.g. scale in/out,
configure policy), such as network traffic loading, a network resource usage
percentage, and available bandwidth, based on policies and requirements of
services using the NSI.
3\. SON function collects the performance data (related to the data volume,
the number of registered UEs, the number of PDU sessions, UE behaviour
statistics based on Charging Data Records information (TS 32.297 [20] ]), QoS
parameter notifications and UE mobility event notifications from the 5GC ...
etc.), and utilizes the historical performance data to identify the traffic
patterns for the NSIs, and predict the demand for network resources per every
NSI for a given time and location. This information is analysed, for example,
with assistance of the MDAS, and the information may include data from NSI
constituents' data analytics entities, such as NWDAF, e.g. regarding the load
of some network functions.
4\. Based on analytics reports, current situation, and the performance
optimization targets, the SON function adjusts the resource allocation (e.g.
addition, reduction) for the NSIs. If the NSI needs to be adjusted to optimize
performance, e.g. configure policies, scale in or out resources, network slice
management systems checks the feasibility of the change requirements and
initiates the provisioning of changes
5\. SON function continues monitoring NSIs to validate the actions being
taken, and may perform additional adjustments if necessary.
### 5.1.4 Post-conditions
The resource utilization for the NSI is optimized based on the indicated
aspect.
## 5.2 Self-establishment of 3GPP NF, including automated software management
### 5.2.1 Goal
The new-installed NG-RAN node or 5G Core Network node to be configured in
automated manner with no or minimal manual intervention.
### 5.2.2 Pre-conditions
The NG-RAN or 5G Core Network node has been installed. The node has
implementation of the self-configuration function. It is configured with
initial OAM setup information e.g. local OAM IP address
The producer of the self-configuration service in the network is activated.
### 5.2.3 Steps
> 1\. The network node is powered up.
>
> 2\. The network node may start the process of discovering self-configuration
> services provided in the network.
>
> 3\. When proper self-configuration service producer is discovered, the
> network node establishes connection with the self-configuration service
> producer.
>
> 4\. Mutual authentication and authorization is performed by the network node
> and the self-configuration service producer.
>
> 5\. The network node requests configuration data and software from the self-
> configuration service producer and receives the configuration data that may
> include radio configuration data, connectivity data, etc. and software
>
> 6\. The network node performs self-configuration and automated software
> management procedure based on the received configuration data and software.
>
> 7\. The network node establishes external interfaces to other network nodes
> and becomes operational.
## 5.3 Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) management (including automatic X2
and Xn setup)
### 5.3.1 Introduction
ANR is defined by RAN3 in clause 5.3.3 of TR 38.300 [13] and resides in the
gNB. Typically, it runs continually from the deployment of the gNB. When ANR
discovers a new Neighbour Cell Relation (NCR) candidate, either for an intra-
NR cell or for an LTE cell, it adds the NCR to its internal list of NCRs and
sets up an Xn connection to the neighbour gNB, or an Xn connection to the
neighbour ng-eNB, or an X2 connection to the neighbour en-eNB. NCRs that have
not been used for handovers after a certain time are removed by ANR.
In some cases, an NCR needs to be prohibited, or enforced.
### 5.3.2 Pre-conditions
5G NR cells are in operation.
The ANR function is active in gNBs.
The NG-RAN and the provider(s) of the NG-RAN provisioning management service
is deployed and active.
### 5.3.3 Description
The default configuration for a newly deployed gNB is for the ANR function in
a gNB to be active for all its cells. As ANR might not be wanted for a cell in
a gNB, the ANR function can be switched off for that cell.
The ANR function, residing in the gNB, automatically adds NCRs to the internal
list of NCRs. It also has the ability to remove an NCR, for example when the
NCR has not been used for handover for a certain amount of time. The MnS
producer has the possibility to send notifications when an NCR has been added.
The MnS consumer, receiving this notification might find out that this NCR is
not wanted. In this case, the MnS consumer can blacklist that NCR.
Blacklisting consists of marking the NCR as not to be used for handover and
marking it sticky, i.e. the ANR function will not time out and not remove the
NCR.
Conversely, the MnS consumer might find that the ANR function fails to add a
wanted NCR. In this case the MnS consumer can whitelist that NCR. Whitelisting
consists of creating the NCR from the MnS consumer, marking it to be used for
handover and marking it sticky, i.e. the ANR function will not time out and
not remove the NCR.
The MnS producer also lets the MnS consumer read the list of NCRs, the
whitelist and the blacklist.
## 5.4 Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) optimization
### 5.4.1 Goal
The goal is to optimize the Neighbor Cell Relations (NCRs) configured at the
NG-RAN node.
### 5.4.2 Pre-conditions
The NG-RAN and the provider(s) of the NG-RAN provisioning management service
and NG-RAN PM service are deployed and active.
The ANR optimization function is deployed and active. It is a consumer of NG-
RAN provisioning management service and also it is subscribed to the PM
measurements related to mobility management and the RLF/RCEF reports. The
measurements may include such performance indicators as statistics of failed /
dropped RRC connections, handover failures etc.
### 5.4.3 Steps
The ANR optimization function optimizes the NCRs in the following ways:
> 1\. The ANR optimization function gets the geographical data and terrain
> data of the NR cells from a data source (such as radio planning tool), and
> consumes the NF provisioning management service to get the configuration
> parameters of the NR cells. The ANR optimization function analyses the
> received data and determines to add or blacklist one or more NCRs.
>
> 2\. The ANR optimization function monitors the performance (e.g. failed /
> dropped RRC connections, handover failures, RLF/RCEF reports, etc.) of the
> NCRs of the NR cells. Based on the performance of the NCRs, the ANR
> optimization function may decide to blacklist one or more NCRs.
This Use Case ends when the NG-RAN cells are taken out of service or when the
ANR optimization function is stopped.
## 5.5 PCI Configuration
### 5.5.1 Introduction
Each gNB is assigned a PCI (Physical-layer Cell ID) that is broadcast in PSS
(Primary Synchronization signal) and SSS (Secondary Synchronization signal).
When an UE receives PSS and SSS to acquire time and frequency synchronization,
it also obtains the PCI that is used to uniquely identify an NR cell. There
are 1008 unique PCIs (see clause 7.4.2 in TS 38.211 [25]). Therefore, PCIs
need to be reused, as massive number of NR cells and small cells operating in
millimetre wave bands are deployed. Typically, operators use network planning
tool to assign PCIs to cells when the network is deployed to insure all
neighbouring cells have different PCIs. However, due to the addition of new
cells or changes of neighbour relations from ANR functions, problems can
arise, such as:
\- PCI collision: Two neighboring cells have the same PCIs;
\- PCI confusion: A cell has 2 neighboring cells with the same PCI value,
where Cell #A has PCI that is different from the PCIs of its two neighbors --
Cell #B and Cell #C, but Cell #B and Cell #C have the same PCI. PCI confusion
can impact the handover performance as UEs are confused with which cell they
should handover to.
The goal is to configure the PCIs of NR cells which are newly deployed and to
re-configure the PCIs of NR cells which endure the problem of PCI confliction
or PCI confusion. There are two ways to configure the PCI -- centralized PCI
configuration and distributed PCI configuration, as described in clause 5.2.1
in TR 37.816 [12].
### 5.5.2 Pre-conditions
The NG-RAN is deployed and active, besides, the provider(s) of NG-RAN
provisioning management service or NG-RAN fault management service is deployed
and active.
The PCI optimization function (located in 3GPP management system) is deployed
and activated. It is a consumer of NG-RAN provisioning management service or
NG-RAN fault management services related to PCI confliction or confusion.
### 5.5.3 Steps
#### 5.5.3.1 Management of distributed PCI configuration
1\. The PCI management and control function sets a list of PCI values to be
used by a NR cell, and activates the distributed PCI configuration function.
2\. The distributed PCI configuration function randomly selects a PCI value
from the list of PCI values provided by PCI management and control function
(see clause 5.2.1 in TR 37.816 [12]).
3\. The distributed PCI configuration function reports the PCI value selected
for this NR cell to the PCI management and control function.
#### 5.5.3.2 Centralized PCI configuration
1\. The centralized PCI configuration function monitors and collects the PCI
related data (e.g. the measurements related to measurement report, such as
physCellId, MeasQuantityResults, which are generated from the MeasResultNR
(see clause 6.3.2 in TS 38.331 [6])) reported by NG-RAN.
2\. The centralized PCI configuration function analyses the PCI related
information to detect new deployed NG-RAN or PCI confliction or confusion of
the NR cells.
3\. The centralized PCI configuration function consumes NG-RAN provisioning
service to configure a specific PCI value or a list values for each newly
deployed NR cell or re-configure a PCI value or a list values for the NG-RAN
cell which is in the problem of PCI confliction or confusion.
4\. NG-RAN performs PCI selection according to the configured specific PCI or
list of PCIs.
5\. If the newly deployed NR-RAN cell is not correctly configured or PCI
confliction or confusion is not resolved, the centralized PCI configuration
function reverts to Step 3.
This Use Case ends when the new deployed NG-RAN cells are configured
successfully, or the NG-RAN cells are taken out of service or when the
centralized PCI configuration function is stopped.
### 5.5.4 Post-conditions
The PCIs for the NR cells have been configured or corrected.
## 5.6 Automatic Network Configuration Data Handling
### 5.6.0 Introduction
The use case for automatic radio network configuration data handling described
in clause 6.4.1.1 in TS 32.501 [3] can be applicable to 5G.
### 5.6.1 Goal
Transfer the automatic network configuration data to the MF providing ANCF
data and ensure that it is valid when it is used during self-configuration.
ANCF data are the data which are required for successful activation of NF and
cannot be generated during self-configuration process.
### 5.6.2 Pre-conditions
Automatic network configuration data is known to the ANCF MnS Consumer.
### 5.6.3 Steps
1\. (Optional) MF consuming the ANCF data indicates need for automatic network
configuration data to the MF providing ANCF data.
2\. MF providing ANCF data transfers the automatic network configuration data
to MF consuming ANCF data or indicate the MF consuming ANCF data where the
automatic network configuration data is available and MF consuming ANCF data
retrieve the data from there.
3\. (Optional) MF providing ANCF data requests the MF consuming ANCF data to
validate the received automatic network configuration data.
4\. MF consuming ANCF data validates the received automatic network
configuration data.
### 5.6.4 Post-condition
The self-configuration process can use the automatic network configuration
data.
## 5.7 Load Balancing Optimization
### 5.7.1 Introduction
It includes the management of distributed LBO and centralized LBO.
### 5.7.2 Pre-conditions
NG RAN and 5GC are in operation.
### 5.7.3 Description
#### 5.7.3.1 The management of distributed LBO
The LBO management and control function sets the target of D-LBO function
The LBO management and control function activates the D-LBO function to
balance the cell load among gNB(s) automatically.
#### 5.7.3.2 Centralized LBO
The LBO management and control function receive the target of LBO from
consumers.
The C-LBO function collects the load performance measurements (e.g. radio
resource usage, HW / VR / TNL load indicators, Composite Available Capacity
PRB, TNL measurements, ...) or notifications (e.g. threshold crossing of
certain measurements) from gNB-CU-CP, gNB-CU-UP(s), gNB-DU(s).
The C-LBO function analyses the load measurements to determine the actions, if
needed, including the configuration of the handover and/or reselection
parameters, and the initiation of changing virtualized resources, to optimize
the traffic load distributions among neighboring cells,
The C-LBO function collects the performance measurements (e.g. the number of
RRC connection establishment / release, abnormal release, handover failures,
call drops, etc...) to evaluate the LBO performance, and may update the
handover and/or reselection parameters of the cell or its neighbors.
### 5.7.4 Post-conditions
The cell load of gNB(s) have been optimized.
## 5.8 Void
## 5.9 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimization)
### 5.9.1 Introduction
A poorly configured RACH (Random Access Channel) may increase the time it
takes for an UE to access the network, and may increase the accesses failures
that can impact call setup performance. RACH optimization is to automatically
configure the RACH parameters in a cell in order to achieve the optimal
network performance by reducing the network access time, and minimize the
failures.
### 5.9.2 Pre-conditions
5G NR cells are in operation.
RACH management and control function is in operation.
RACH optimization function is active.
### 5.9.3 Description
RACH optimization function is running to optimize the RACH performance by
adjusting RACH parameters, such as RACH-ConfigCommon properties specified in
TS 38.331 [6], clause 6.3.2 automatically.
The RACH management and control function sets the targets for RACH
optimization function, and collects the following performance measurements to
monitor the RACH performance:
\- Distribution of the number of preamble UEs sent to achieve synchronization,
where the number of preamble sent corresponds to PREAMBLE_TRANSMISSION_COUNTER
(see clause 5.1.1 in TS 38.321 [5]) in UE.
\- Distribution of the time needed for UEs to achieve synchronization;
NOTE: These performance measurements are reported in the most timely manner to
monitor the RACH performance.
The RACH management and control function analyses the measurements, and may
perform one of the following actions, if the RACH performance does not meet
the target:
1\. Update the targets for RACH optimization function;
2\. Update the ranges of RACH parameters for NR cells;
3\. Disable RACH optimization function, and configure the RACH parameters for
the NR cells with values deemed to improve RACH performance.\ The RACH
management and control function should not configure the RACH parameters when
the RACH optimization function is active.
### 5.9.4 Post-conditions
The RACH performance in NR cells is optimized.
## 5.10 Centralized Capacity and Coverage Optimization
### 5.10.1 Goal
_The goal is NG-RAN coverage and capacity optimization for NR_ cells _._
### 5.10.2 Pre-conditions
NG-RAN in certain geographic area is active, managed by the provider(s) of the
NG-RAN provisioning management service and the PM service.
The CCO SON function is active and consumes the NG-RAN and 5GC provisioning
management services and the PM services, provided by the corresponding
providers.
The measurements received by the CCO function may include indicators of
network performance, which may include indications of bad coverage such as of
RSRP and RSRQ statistics, RLFs, failed / dropped RRC connections, handover
failures etc. Additional information sources can be taken into account, such
as MDT (UE level trace) and information carried in the CDRs.
### 5.10.3 Steps
1\. The CCO function is monitoring the performance indicators of the NG-RAN
cells, certain areas or beams within the cells, and may monitor 5GC for
example CDRs of such events as voice call drops, by collecting performance
measurements, such as RSRP, RSRQ, SINR, and RLF measurements for cells and
beams within the cell (see clause 6.3.2 in TS 38.331 [6]).
2\. If the CCO function detects coverage hole or capacity (performance)
degradation in some cells, certain areas or beams within the cell, by
analysing measurements, such as RSRP, RSRQ, SINR, and RLF measurements of DL
SSB beams.
Some examples of degradation criteria are too low signal strength, low success
rate for RRC connection attempts, for random access attempts etc.
3\. The CCO function determines the actions needed to improve the coverage
and/or capacity of cell and areas within the cell.
4\. The CCO function modifies the configuration parameters in the cell and/or
in one or several neighbor cells or configuration of the 5GC, such as PCF
policies to reduce the load, and continues monitoring the PM measurements.
5\. If the network performance does not recover, the CCO function adjusts the
modifications made in the Step 2.
6\. Return to the Step 1.
This Use Case ends when the monitored cells are taken out of service or when
the CCO function is stopped.
## 5.11 Self-healing
The use cases of Self Recovery of NE Software, Self-healing of board faults
and Self-healing of Cell Outage described in TS 32.541 [14] can be applied for
5G NE. The description of use case needs to be revisited to align with the
service based management architecture.
## 5.12 SON coordination
The function SON coordination has not been addressed in the present document.
## 5.13 Multi-vendor Plug and Play of NFs
### 5.13.0 Introduction
Use case of multi-vendor plug and connect eNB to network defined in clause
6.4.3 in TS 32. 501[3] can be applicable for non-virtualized NF in 5G network.
Use case of managing EM IP address provided to instantiated VNF using MVPNP
defined in clause 6.4.3 in TS 28.525 [4] can be applicable for VNF in 5G
network.
### 5.13.1 Multi-Vendor Plug and Connect NF to Management System
#### 5.13.1.1 Goal
After NF deployed (physical installation for non-virtualized NF or
instantiation for VNF), connect the NF (e.g. NG RAN Node, 5GC Node) to its
management system providing support for self-configuration processes
automatically as possible.
#### 5.13.1.2 Pre-condition
The NF is deployed (physical installation for non-virtualized NF or
instantiation for VNF).
#### 5.13.1.3 Steps
1\. If a VLAN ID is available the NF uses it. Otherwise the NF uses the native
VLAN where PnP traffic is sent and received untagged.
2 The NF acquires its IP address through stateful or stateless IP auto-
configuration.
3\. The NF acquires the IP address of the CA/RA server.
4\. The NF performs Certificate Enrolment.
5\. The NF acquires the IP address of the OAM SeGW.
6\. The NF establishes a secure connection (tunnel) to the Security Gateway.
7\. The NF acquires the IP address of the correct management system providing
support for self-configuration process.
8\. The NF establishes a connection to the provided management system
providing support for self-configuration and acquires its configuration and
software if any.
#### 5.13.1.4 Post-condition
One or more secure connections exist between the NF and the management system
providing support for self-configuration process.
### 5.13.2 Self-configuration of a new NF
#### 5.13.2.1 Goal
After NF deployed (physical installation for non-virtualized NF or
instantiation for VNF), put in an automated manner the NF into a state to be
ready to carry traffic.
#### 5.13.2.2 Pre-condition
\- The NF is deployed (physical installation for non-virtualized NF or
instantiation for VNF) and connect to IP network.
\- One or more secure connections exist between the NF and the management
system providing support for self-configuration.
\- The (transport and radio) configuration data and software packages for the
NF is made available in management system providing support for self-
configuration.
#### 5.13.2.3 Steps
1\. The NF provides information about its type, hardware and other relevant
data about itself to the management system providing support for self-
configuration.
2\. Management system providing support for self-configuration take the
decision of which software and (transport and radio) configuration data have
to be downloaded to the NF.
3\. Management system providing support for self-configuration download the
software and (transport and radio) configuration data to the NF.
4\. Management system providing support for self-configuration also update the
dependent nodes with new configuration data as well if required.
5\. NF **performs a self-test.**
**6.** Management system providing support for self-configuration **inform its
Consumer about the progress of the self-configuration process and important
events occurring during the self-configuration process.**
#### 5.13.2.4 Post-condition
**The NF (5GC Node or NG-RAN Node) is ready to carry traffic.**
## 5.14 SON for AAS-based Deployments
In E-UTRAN networks, SON for AAS-based Deployments uses techniques like cell
splitting and cell merging. As the NG-RAN uses beamforming for sub-sector
structures, these techniques are not relevant for NR-RAN. Instead, Coverage
and Capacity Optimization will cover this topic.
## 5.15 Trace and MDT
Use cases from TS 32.421 [30], clause 5.8 apply.
## 5.16 Mobility Robustness Optimization
### 5.16.1 Introduction
5G NR cells may experience issues, such as too early or too late handover,
handover to wrong cell, ping-pong handover, that not only impact user
experience, but also waste network resources, if handover parameters are not
set properly. Mobility Robustness Optimization (MRO) is intended to
automatically configure the handover parameters in cells in order to improve
the handover performance.
### 5.16.2 Pre-conditions
5G NR cells are in operation.
MRO management and control function is in operation.
MRO function is active.
### 5.16.3 Description
MRO function is running to optimize the handover performance by adjusting
handover parameters automatically.
The MRO management and control function sets the ranges of the NR and EUTRAN
handover parameters and the targets for the MRO function, and collects
handover related measurements and radio link failure (see clause 5.3.10 in TS
38.331 [6]) reports to monitor the handover performance:
The MRO management and control function analyses the measurements and radio
link failure reports, and may perform one of the following actions, if the
handover performance does not meet the target:
1\. Update the targets for MRO function;
2\. Update the ranges of handover parameters for the NR neighbour relations
and EUTRAN neighbour relations;
3\. Disable MRO function, and configure the handover parameters (see clause
5.5.4 in TS 38.331 [6]) for NR neighbour relations with values deemed to
improve handover performance.
Note: The MRO management and control function should not configure the
handover parameters when the MRO function is active.
### 5.16.4 Post-conditions
The handover performance in and across NR and EUTRAN neighbour relations is
optimized.
## 5.17 Energy Saving Management
Energy saving management is addressed in TS 28.310 [24].
## 5.18 Automatic NSI creation
### 5.18.1 Introduction
Network slicing in 5G provides mobile operators opportunities and flexibility
to create services tailored for various customers on demand. Automatic NSI
creation enables operators to create the NSI that contains 5G CN NF, gNB CU,
and gNB DU automatically, based on the requirements given by the customers.
### 5.18.2 Pre-conditions
NG RAN and 5GC are in operation.
### 5.18.3 Description
The service producer of automatic NSI creation receives the network slice
related requirements to support communication services from an authorized
consumer.
The service producer of automatic NSI creation analyses requirements to
determine the NSSIs, network functions and resources needed to support the
requirements.
The service producer of automatic NSI creation creates an NSI, which may
include the instantiation of new network functions, configuration of existing
NF, and interworking with transport management system to allocate the
transport resources if needed.
### 5.18.4 Post-conditions
The NSI is created.
## 5.19 Optimization of the quality of communication services
### 5.19.1 Goal
_The goal is to enable service quality optimization. For example, the goal can
be to minimize average latency on the communication services provided to the
URLLC category of services._
### 5.19.2 Pre-conditions
A set of communication services is provided by the network to certain group
(category) of the UEs. The services may be provided with relation to certain
NSI(s).
The following functions are deployed and active:
\- NG-RAN, 5GC
\- The providers of the NG-RAN and 5GC provisioning and Performance assurance
MnS for the NG-RAN and 5GC nodes, which are essential for the quality of the
set of services.
\- The providers of the NSI / NSSI provisioning and Performance assurance MnS
for the relevant NSI(s) / NSSI(s) (if there are any), which are essential for
the quality of the set of services received by the group (category) of the
UEs;
\- Network management system consuming above services; this function is aware
of the performance requirements imposed on the set of services.
_For example, for the URLLC latency optimization, the latency components can
be measured by the involved network nodes and processed to compute the average
end-to-end latency._
### 5.19.3 Steps
1\. The service optimization function is collecting the performance data and
monitoring the performance indicators related to the targeted services.
For example, for the URLLC latency optimization, the management system may
collect the latency components contributed by the involved network nodes and
communication links measured by the involved network nodes; these components
are processed to compute the average end-to-end latency.
2\. If the service optimization function detects performance degradation, it
modifies the configuration parameters in the corresponding NG-RAN and 5GC
nodes and NSI(s)/NSSI(s), using the NG-RAN, 5GC, and NSI(s)/NSSI(s) (if
relevant) provisioning services, and continues monitoring the performance.
3\. If the network performance does not recover, the service optimization
function adjusts the modifications made in the Step 2.
4\. Return to the Step 1.
This Use Case ends when the monitored services or network nodes or
NSI(s)/NSSI(s) are taken out of service or when the service optimization is
stopped.
## 5.20 Cross-slice network resource optimization
### 5.20.1 Goal
The goal is to enable the authorized consumer to optimize the resource
allocation across multiple NSIs of the total available physical and virtual
resources. The resources associated with an NSI are those resources associated
with NSSIs in 5GC and resources associated with NSSIs in NG-RAN.
### 5.20.2 Pre-conditions
\- Multiple NSIs have been deployed.
\- The NSI management service producer is in operation.
### 5.20.3 Steps
1\. (Optional) For shared NSIs, the NSI management service provider may need
to check policies, slice priorities and resource requirements of several
services sharing the NSI.
2\. Unless there are policies already determining configurations, the SON
service provider determines thresholds to trigger network resource
optimizations (e.g. increase or decrease NSI capacities like storage,
computing, network bandwidth and radio resources), such as thresholds in
network traffic loading, a network resource usage percentage, and available
bandwidth, based on policies and requirements of services using the NSI and
taking the slice priority into account.
3\. The SON service provider collects the performance data (related to data
volume, the number of registered UEs, the number of PDU sessions, ... etc.),
as well as data indicating changes in the network resources (e.g. from the
NFV-MANO system or from the TN network) available for the NSIs, and utilizes
the historical performance data collected in the past days, weeks, months, and
beyond to understand the traffic patterns for the NSIs, and predictions
regarding the demand for each NSI for a given time and location. This
information is analysed, for example, by the MDAF, and the information may
include data from NSI constituents data analytics entities, such as NWDAF,
e.g. regarding the load of some network functions.
4\. Based on analytics reports, current situation and changes in network
resource usage, and the network resource optimization targets, the SON service
provider determines whether the NSIs can still be supported by the available
resources. If this is not the case, the SON service provider determines how
resource allocation (e.g. addition, reduction) for the NSIs needs to be
adjusted. If NSI needs to be adjusted, e.g. configure policies, scale in or
out resources, the SON service provider checks the feasibility of the change
requirements.
5\. If network resource optimization cannot fulfill the resource requirements
and policies of all NSIs, the SON function will inform the CSP that resource
requirements or slice priorities need to be changed to help solve NOP resource
problems.
6\. The CSP responds to the request with a set of adjusted resource
requirements and slice priorities.
7\. The SON service provider provides the (adjusted) resource requirements and
slice priority data provided by the CSP to the NSI management service provider
which then initiates the provisioning of changes.
8\. The SON service provider continues monitoring NSIs to validate the actions
being taken, and may perform additional adjustments if necessary.
### 5.20.4 Post-conditions
The total virtual and physical resource allocation is optimized to sustain all
the NSI with their current resource utilization.
## 5.21 Multi-aspect / multi-domain resource optimization
### 5.21.1 Goal
_The goal is to enable joint resource optimization across multiple domains
(e.g. AN, CN) among multiple_ network aspects including the Radio resources,
virtualized network functions and network slices.
### 5.21.2 Pre-conditions
A set of communication services is provided by the network to certain group
(category) of the UEs. The services can be provided with or without relation
to certain NSI(s).
The following functions and services are deployed and active:
\- NG-RAN, 5GC, NSI(s).
\- The performance assurance (PM), fault supervision (FM) and provisioning
(CM) services are available across different network aspects.
\- The provider of Multi-Aspect Resource Optimization (MARO).
The provisioning, assurance and supervision services provide information on
the multiple aspects, the information characterized by:
\- Status details on network resources for different resource types, e.g. both
physical radio resource and virtual resources.
\- Information from one or multiple network slices and slice subnets.
\- For each subnet/slice/infrastructure aspect, information on allocated
resources and their utilization, event history (e.g. recent overload
situations), history of actions taken (e.g. LB decisions, scaling of virtual
resources).
### 5.21.3 Description
_The provider of MARO is running to jointly optimize resource utilization
among multiple network aspects._
_The provider of MARO consumes network_ resource-related provisioning,
assurance and supervision services on the different network aspects including
Radio resources and virtual resources; the deployment environments including
virtual machines or cloud instances; as well as the slices and subnets
utilizing these functions.
_The provider of MARO offers management capabilities on the resource
parameters configuration._
### 5.21.4 Steps
The provider of multi-aspect resource optimization (MARO) takes network status
inputs from multiple domains and derives the policies for network
configuration and optimization. This may be specific to a single network slice
or it may be applicable to multiple network slices.
The provider of MARO consumes performance assurance (PM), fault supervision
(FM) and provisioning (CM) services across different domains. The information
retrieved may consists of network resource-related data (both physical and
virtual resources), which may be characterized as, but not restricted to:
\- The information from one or multiple network slices, slice subnets and/or
infrastructure domains (physical and virtual)
\- For each domain/subnet/slice, information on allocated resources and their
utilization, event history (e.g. recent overload situations), history of
actions taken (e.g. MLB decisions, scaling of resources)
The provider of MARO then:
\- Analyses the collected data for resource optimization across different
infrastructure domains for either a single network slice or multiple network
slices
\- Correlates the data across network slices or slice subnets. Note that
although from network planning some initial mapping on resource allocation
across domains is known, correlation of performance in the different domains
is still necessary. For example, even given CU/DU split with known resource
allocation in each domain the relative performance in each domain (CU-virtual
resource utilization, vs. DU physical load) needs to be correlated.
\- Calculates/generates network resource provisioning policy improvements.
Non-exhaustive list of examples of policy improvements may be:
\- Adjusting the policy on scaling of virtual resources based on the
observation that RAN MLB (on physical resources) was performing well but the
virtual resources were not adequately provisioned.
\- Change the characteristics of transport links based on observed transport
network performance bottleneck.
\- Change in the network slice or subnet resource provisioning for inter-slice
resource optimization
\- Exposes obtained policy improvements as a service toward other network
functions.
The policy improvement service exposed can be either:
\- Directly applied by MDROF by utilizing the configuration management service
of the related network function
\- Consumed by the domain-specific control function which:
\- takes into account all the existing policy improvement requests related to
that particular domain/resource.
\- analyses potential conflicts among policy improvements.
\- resolves identified conflicts among policy improvements and derives the
actual policy improvement to be applied within that specific domain.
\- applies the resulting policy improvement through the configuration
management of involved network function.
## 5.22 Automatic CSI creation
### 5.22.1 Goal
_The goal is to enable_ operators to properly design and initiate a new
communication service. Automatic CSI creation is able to digest the SLA into
service profile so that corresponding network functionalities can use the
service profile.
### 5.22.2 Pre-conditions
A set of E2E services is provided by the network to certain group (category)
of the UEs.
The following functions and services are deployed and active:
\- NG-RAN, 5GC, CSI(s), NSI(s)
### 5.22.3 Description
_The service producer of automatic CSI creation receives the SLA requirements
from an authorized consumer._
_The service producer of automatic CSI creation analyses SLA requirements to
determine the resource parameters configuration needed to support the
requirements._
The service producer of automatic CSI creation needs to analysis between the
input SLA with the capability of existing network resource during feasibility
check, and provide the possible negotiate the output service profile.
### 5.22.4 Post-conditions
The CSI is created.
# 6 Potential requirements
## 6.1 Self-Establishment of NG-RAN and 5GC nodes, including automated
Software Management
**REQ-SC-1** The self-establishment functionality at the network node should
be capable of self-configuration service producer discovery, mutual
authentication, authorization, and registration for the service with the
producer of the self-configuration service
**REQ-SC-2** The self-establishment functionality at the network node, should
be capable of receiving the configuration data, and consequent self-
configuration
**REQ-SC-3** The producer of the self-configuration service should be capable
of supporting the procedure of self-configuration service producer discovery,
mutual authentication and authorization
**REQ-SC-4** The provider of the self-configuration service should be capable
of delivery of the configuration data to the consumer that requested the data
**REQ-SC-5** The self-establishment functionality at the network node, should
be capable of receiving the software, and consequently using
## 6.2 Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) management (including automatic X2
setup)
**REQ-ANR-CON-1** The MnS (i.e., MnS for ANR management) producer shall
support a capability allowing the MnS consumer to switch ANR on and off for
each cell. The default value for ANR is to be switched on.
**REQ-ANR-CON-2** The MnS producer shall support a capability allowing the MnS
consumer to whitelist an NCR.
**REQ-ANR-CON-3** The MnS producer shall support a capability allowing the MnS
consumer to blacklist an NCR.
**REQ-ANR-CON-4** The MnS producer shall support a capability allowing the MnS
consumer to prohibit the setting up of Xn or X2 connections to a neighbour for
a certain NCR.
**REQ-ANR-CON-5** The MnS producer shall support a capability allowing the MnS
consumer to read the NCRs, the blacklist and the whitelist.
**REQ-ANR-CON-6** The MnS producer shall support a capability allowing the MnS
consumer to receive notification when the ANR function adds or removes an NCR
in an NR cell
## 6.3 Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) optimization
**REQ-ANRO-1** The ANR optimization function should be able to monitor the
performance of the cells using by NG-RAN PM services.
**REQ-ANRO-2** The ANR optimization function should be able to set / modify
the neighbour configuration parameters in the cells using the NG-RAN
Provisioning services.
**REQ-ANRO-3** The ANR optimization function should be able to monitor the
statistics of UE measurement results for intra-RAT neighbour relations and
inter-RAT neighbour relations for NR cells.
**REQ-ANRO-4** The ANR optimization function should be able to create, modify,
or delete the intra-RAT and inter-RAT neighbour relations for NR cells.
## 6.4 PCI Configuration
**PCI-OPT-CON-1** The MnS of performance assurance should have a capability to
collect the information related to PCI collision or PCI confusion.
**PCI-OPT-CON-2** The MnS of performance assurance should have a capability to
provision the PCIs of one or more NR cells.
**PCI-CONFIG-3** The MnS of provisioning should have a capability to set the
list of PCI values for a NR cell.
**PCI-CONFIG-4** The MnS of provisioning should have a capability to activate
or deactivate the distributed PCI configuration function for a NR cell.
## 6.5 Void
## 6.6 Load Balancing Optimization
**REQ-LBO-1** LBO management and control function should have the capability
to set and update the LBO targets and initiates the changes of virtualized
resources for distributed LBO.
**REQ-LBO-2** LBO management and control function should have the capability
to activate or deactivate D-LBO function.
**REQ-LBO-3** C-LBO function should have the capability to collect the load
performance measurements and notifications needed for LBO function.
**REQ-LBO-4** C-LBO function should have the capability to determine the
actions, including the configuration of the handover and/or reselection
parameters, and the initiation of changing virtualized resources, to optimize
the traffic load distributions among neighbouring cells.
**REQ-LBO-5** C-LBO function should have the capability to collect the
performance measurements to evaluate the C-LBO performance.
## 6.7 Void
## 6.8 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimization)
**REQ-RACH-1** RACH management and control function should have a capability
to set the targets for RACH optimization function.
**REQ-RACH-2** RACH management and control function should have a capability
to collect performance measurements, such as distribution of the number of
preamble UEs sent to achieve synchronization, distribution of the time needed
for UEs to achieve synchronization.
**REQ-RACH-3** RACH management and control function should have a capability
to set and update the targets of RACH optimization function, and the ranges
and values of the RACH parameters for NR cells.
**REQ-RACH-4** RACH management and control function should have a capability
to enable or disable the RACH optimization function.
## 6.9 Centralized Capacity and Coverage Optimization
**REQ-CCO-1** The CCO function should be able to collect the performance
indicators related to coverage and capacity, using PM management services
**REQ-CCO-2** The CCO function should be able to set / modify the RAN and 5GC
configuration parameters that affect coverage and capacity.
**REQ-CCO-3** The CCO function (in 3GPP management system) should have a
capability to collect measurements, such as RSRP, RSRQ, SINR, and RLF
measurements for cells and DL SSB beams.
**REQ-CCO-4** The MnS producer shall provide a capability allowing the MnS
consumer to configure sectors. A sector is defined by its spatial information
(pointing direction, width and shape).
## 6.10 Void
## 6.11 Self-healing
The function Self-healing has not been addressed in the present document.
## 6.12 SON coordination
The function SON coordination has not been addressed in the present document
## 6.13 Multi-vendor Plug and Play of NFs
See clause 6.1.
## 6.14 SON for AAS-based Deployments
In E-UTRAN networks, SON for AAS-based Deployments uses techniques like cell
splitting and cell merging. As the NG-RAN uses beamforming for sub-sector
structures, these techniques are not relevant for NR-RAN. Instead, Coverage
and Capacity Optimization will cover this topic.
## 6.15 Trace and MDT
Requirements from TS 32.421 [30] clause 5 apply.
## 6.16 Mobility Robustness Optimization
**REQ-MRO-1** MRO management and control function should have a capability to
set the targets for MRO function.
**REQ-MRO-2** MRO management and control function should have a capability to
receive handover related performance measurements and radio link failure
reports.
**REQ-MRO-3** MRO management and control function should have a capability to
configure the ranges of handover parameters for NR neighbour relations and
EUTRAN neighbour relations.
**REQ-MRO-4** MRO management and control function should have a capability to
enable or disable the MRO function.
## 6.17 Energy Saving Management
Energy saving management is addressed in TS 28.310 [24].
## 6.18 NSI resource allocation optimization
**REQ-NSI_RAO-1** 3GPP management system should have a capability to collect
the performance data (including data volume, the number of registered UEs, and
the number of PDU sessions ... etc.) for NSIs and NSI constituents.
**REQ-NSI_RAO-2** NSI resource allocation optimization function should have a
capability to adjust the resource allocations for the NSIs and NSI
constituents.
## 6.19 Automatic NSI creation
**REQ-ANSIC-CON-1** The service producer of automatic NSI creation should have
a capability to receive the network slice related requirements to support the
communication service.
**REQ-ANSIC-CON-2** The service producer of automatic NSI creation should have
a capability to create an NSI.
## 6.20 Requirements related to the service quality optimization
**REQ-SQO-1** The Performance assurance MnS for NG-RAN, 5GC and slicing,
should support the capabilities to provide performance data related to the
quality of communication services provided to a group (category) of UEs.
**REQ-SQO-2** The provisioning MnS for NG-RAN, 5GC and slicing, should support
the capabilities allowing to set / modify the configuration parameters
affecting the quality of communication services provided to a group (category)
of UEs.
## 6.21 Cross-slice network resource optimization
**REQ-CNRO-1** 3GPP management system should have a capability to collect the
performance data (including data volume, the number of registered UEs, and the
number of PDU sessions ... etc.) for NSSIs and NSSI constituents.
**REQ-CNRO-2** 3GPP management system should have a capability to collect the
network resources utilization data (storage, computing, network bandwidth and
radio resources) for NSSIs and NSSI constituents.
**REQ-CNRO-3** 3GPP management system should have a capability to detect
changes in the total amount of available network resources (storage,
computing, network bandwidth and radio resources) for NSSIs and NSSI
constituents.
**REQ-CNRO-4** Cross-slice network resource optimization functionality should
have a capability to adjust the resource allocations for the NSSIs and NSSI
constituents.
**REQ-CNRO-5** Cross-slice network resource optimization functionality should
have a capability to inform a CSP if resource requirements or slice priorities
need to be changed in order to continue operation of the slice.
**REQ-CNRO-6** Cross-slice network resource optimization functionality should
have a capability to receive a response from the CSP and adjust the NSI based
on its contents.
**REQ-CNRO-7** Cross-slice network resource optimization functionality should
have a capability to analyse the performance data, resource utilization data
and the available network resources.
# 7 Potential solutions
## 7.1 Self-establishment of NFs including automated Software Management
The Figure 7.1-1 illustrates the major phases for self-establishment of NF
(5GC Node and NG-RAN Node).
{width="4.963888888888889in" height="2.7416666666666667in"}
Figure 7.1-1: Major phases of NF self-establishment
Following are description for major phases of NF establishment.
**Pre-condition for self-establishment of NF:**
\- NF is installed. For non-virtualized NF, the NF is physically installed.
For VNF, the VNF is instantiated.
**Stage 1: ANCF data handling**
This stage is to make the Automatic Network Configuration data (ANCF data)
available to the management system support self-configuration process, which
may include ANCF data preparation, ANCF data transfer and ANCF data
Validation.
TS 32.502 [22] defines the automation radio configuration data for eNB. For
5G, following ANCF data needs to be defined:
For NG-RAN Node: Automatic radio configuration data and automatic transport
configuration data.
For 5GC Node: Automatic core network configuration data and automatic
transport configuration data.
TS 32.502 [22] defines IRP based operations to transfer ARCF data. For 5G,
needs to consider whether these operations can be applicable and define MnS
based solution for these operations if applicable. Also needs to consider
whether additional operations needed.
**Stage 2: Multi-vendor plug and connect to management system**
This stage is to connect the NF to its management system provide support self-
configuration process as automatically as possible. MvPnC include following
functionality: initial IP Autoconfiguration service, Certificate enrolment,
establish secure connection, establish connect to management system provide
support self-configuration process.
TS 32.508 [23] defines multi-vendor plug and connect to network procedure for
eNB. For 5G, needs to consider whether the procedure is applicable for both
NG-RAN Node and 5GC Node, and make it more generic to be applicable for both
NG-RAN Node and 5GC Node which is virtualized or non-virtualized if
applicable.
**Stage 3: Self-Configuration**
This stage is to put the NF into a state to be ready to carry traffic in an
automated manner. Self-Configuration include following functionality: create
self-configuration task, monitor self-configuration process, generate
configuration data based on ANCF data, download and activate software,
download and active configuration data, perform self-test and update network
resource model, etc.
TS 32.502 [22] define several IRP based operations for self-configuration
management (e.g. createScManagementProfile, resumeScProcess,
notifyProcessStage) for LTE. For 5G, needs to consider whether these
operations can be applicable and define the MnS based operation if applicable.
Also needs to consider whether additional operations needed.
## 7.2 Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) management (including automatic X2
and Xn setup)
The ANR function deployed in the gNB is documented in clause 15.3.3 in TR
38.300 [13]. The ANR function is distributed, and its purpose is to add and
remove NCRs.
The solution for ANR management consists of the following items:
1) When the ANR function adds a new NRCellRelation instance, the MnS producer
notifies the MnS consumer that a new NCR has been created.
2) When the ANR function deletes a NRCellRelation instance, the MnS producer
notifies the MnS consumer that an existing NCR has been deleted.
3) An attribute isRemoveAllowed of _NRCellRelation_ allows the MnS producer to
request the MnS consumer to prohibit the distributed ANR function to remove an
existing NCR.
4) An attribute isHOAllowed of _NRCellRelation_ allows the MnS producer to
request the MnS consumer to prohibit handovers on this NCR.
5) Attributes _x2BlackList_ and _xnBlackList_ allow the MnS consumer to
request the MnS producer to prohibit the gNB or gNB-CUCP to set up X2
respectively Xn connections for these particular NCRs.
Attributes _x2WhiteList_ and _xnWhiteList_ allow the MnS consumer to request
the MnS producer to configure the gNB or gNB-CUCP to set up X2 respectively Xn
connections for these particular NCRs.
## 7.3 PCI Configuration
### 7.3.1 General
This subclause the solutions for the use case of PCI configuration (see use
case in clause 5.5).
### 7.3.2 Management of distributed PCI configuration
**pCI configuration for newly deployed gNB**
The PCI management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS
28.532 [26]) to configure the PCI list for a given NR cell.
The PCI management function may consume the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the D-PCI
configuration function for a given NR cell.
The D-PCI configuration function randomly selects a PCI value from the PCI
list, (see clause 5.2.1 in TR 37.816 [12]).
The D-PCI configuration function informs the management service producer for
NF provisioning to send a notification notifyMOIAttributeValueChange (see
clause 5.1.9 in TS 28.532 [26]), indicating the new PCI value(s) being
selected.
**pCI configuration for already deployed gNB**
The D-PCI configuration function detects the PCI conflict among NR cells, and
informs the management service producer for NF fault supervision (see clause
6.3 in TS 28.545 [27]) to send a notification notifyNewAlarm (see clause
6.1.1.4 in TS 28.532 [26]) to the PCI management function, indicating that the
PCI conflict has been detected on NR cells.
The PCI management function may consume the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the PCI list for a
given NR cell.
D-PCI configuration function reassigns the new PCI value(s) from the PCI list
for the affected NR cells (see clause 5.2.2 in TR 37.816 [12]), resulting in a
notification notifyMOIAttributeValueChange (see clause 5.1.9 in TS 28.532
[26]) being sent to indicate the new PCI value(s) being reassigned to mitigate
the conflict.
D-PCI configuration function detects that the PCI conflict has been resolved,
resulting in a notification notifyClearedAlarm (see clause 9.2.5 in TS 28.532
[26]) being sent to the PCI management function, indicating the PCI conflict
has been resolved.
NOTE 1: NRM needs enhancement to support D-PCI enable / disable, PCI list, PCI
value.
NOTE 2: NF fault supervision needs enhancement to PCI conflict alarm
notification.
### 7.3.3 Centralized PCI configuration
It is assumed that the C-PCI configuration function has consumed the
management service to collect PCI related measurements, and the MOIs related
to the PCI configuration has been created.
**pCI configuration for newly deployed gNB**
TheC-PCI configuration function determines the PCI value based on analyses of
the collected data, e.g. performance measurements, historical KPIs, historical
PCI configuration data.
TheC-PCI configuration function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to configure a single PCI
for each cell.
**pCI configuration for already deployed gNB**
The C-PCI configuration function collects the PCI related measurements (e.g.
performance measurements related to connections and mobility, historical PCI
configuration data) reported by NG-RAN.
The C-PCI configuration function analyses the PCI related information and
detects that NR cells have experienced PCI conflict or confusion.
NOTE 1: C-PCI configuration function may record the count of PCI conflict or
confusion in performance measurements.
The C-PCI configuration function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS
28.532 [26]) to configure a specific PCI value or a list values for each newly
deployed NR cell.
gNB detects the PCI conflict among NR cells (see clause 5.2.2 in TR 37.816
[12]), resulting in a notification notifyNewAlarm being sent to the C- PCI
configuration function, indicating the PCI conflict has been detected on NR
cells.
C-PCI configuration function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to reassign new PCI value(s)
for each affected NR cell.
gNB detects that the PCI conflict has been resolved, resulting in a
notification notifyClearedAlarm being sent to the C-PCI configuration
function, indicating the PCI conflict has been resolved.
NOTE 2: PCI related measurements need to be defined to support centralized PCI
configuration function.
## 7.4 Void
## 7.5 Load Balancing Optimization
### 7.5.1 General
This subclause the solutions for the use case of load balancing optimization
(see use case in clause 5.7).
### 7.5.2 Management of distributed LBO
The D-LBO management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS
28.532 [26]) to configure the policy (e.g. threshold, target) of D-LBO
function.
The D-LBO management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the D-LBO
function.
D-LBO function analyses the load related information (see clause 5.4.2 in TR
37.816 [12]) to perform load balancing by means of optimization of cell
reselection/handover parameters and handover actions (e.g. offloading UEs to
neighboring cells) (see clause 5.4.1 in TR 37.816 [12]), resulting in a
notification notifyMOIAttributeValueChanges (see clause 5.1.9 in TS 28.532
[26]) being sent to notify the D-LBO management function that the
reselection/handover parameters have been changed, and/or the update of
virtualized resources is needed.
The D-LBO management function collects the performance measurements (e.g. the
number of RRC connection establishment / release, abnormal release, handover
failures, call drops, etc...) to evaluate the D-LBO performance (see clause
4.2.5 in TS 32.522 [28]).
The D-LBO management function analyses the measurements, and may perform one
of the following actions, if the D-LBO performance does not meet the target:
1\. Consume the management service for NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the policy;
2\. Determine actions to optimize the traffic load distributions among
neighboring cells, by invoking _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to disable the
D-LBO function and change the parameters, such as the handover and/or
reselection parameters (TR 38.300 [13]) of the cell or its neighbors.
NOTE: NRM may need to be enhanced to support the policy and control of D-LBO
function, and handover related parameters.
### 7.5.3 Centralized LBO
It is assumed that the C-LBO function may have received LBO target from a
consumer, and has consumed the management service to collect load related
measurements, and relevant IOCs have been created to support C-LBO.
The C-LBO function collects the load performance measurements (e.g. radio
resource usage, HW / VR / TNL load indicators, Composite Available Capacity
PRB, TNL measurements, ...) or notifications (e.g. threshold crossing of
certain measurements) from gNB-CU-CP, gNB-CU-UP(s), gNB-DU(s) (see clause
5.4.2 in TR 37.816 [12]).
The C-LBO function analyses the measurements to determine the actions, as
shown below, to optimize the traffic load distributions among neighbouring
cells:
1\. Invoke _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to change the parameters, such as
the handover and/or reselection parameters (TR 38.300 [13]) of the cell or its
neighbours.
The C-LBO function collects the performance measurements (e.g. the number of
RRC connection establishment / release, abnormal release, handover failures,
call drops, etc...).
The C-LBO function analyses the performance measurements to evaluate the LBO
performance, and may invoke _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the
handover and/or reselection parameters if the performance does not meet the
target.
NOTE: LBO related performance measurements need to be defined to support C-LBO
function.
## 7.6 Void
## 7.7 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimization)
### 7.7.1 General
This subclause the solutions for the use case of RACH optimization (see use
case in clause 5.9).
### 7.7.2 Management of RACH optimization
It is assumed that the RACH optimization management function has consumed the
management service to collect RACH optimization related measurements.
The RACH optimization management function consumes the management service for
NF provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS
28.532 [26]) to configure the targets for D-RACH optimization function, as
shown below (see clause 5.5.1 in TR 37.816 [12]).
\- Minimize access delays for the UEs under the coverage of popular SSBs
\- Minimize the delays for the UEs to request the other SIs
\- Minimize the imbalance of UEs access delays on uplink (UL) and
supplementary uplink (SUL) channel
\- Minimize the beam failure recovery delays for the UEs in RRC_Connected.
\- Minimize the failed/unnecessary RACH attempts on RACH resource before
success.
The RACH optimization management function consumes the management service for
NF provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the D-RACH
optimization function for a given NR cell.
The D-RACH optimization function receives the RACH information report, and
analyses them to determine the actions to optimize the RACH performance if the
performance does not meet the targets by updating the following RACH
parameters (see clause 5.5.2 in TR 37.861 [12]):
> \- RACH configuration (resource unit allocation);
>
> \- RACH preamble split (among dedicated, group A, group B);
>
> \- RACH backoff parameter value;
\- RACH transmission power control parameters.
The D-RACH optimization function informs the management service producer for
NF provisioning to send a notification notifyMOIAttributeValueChange to the
RACH optimization management function (see clause 5.1.9 in TS 28.532 [26]),
indicating the RACH parameters have been changed.
The RACH optimization management function collects the following RACH related
measurements (see clause 4.6.4 in TS 32.552 [28]):
\- Distribution of the number of preambles UEs sent to achieve
synchronization, where the number of preambles sent corresponds to
PREAMBLE_TRANSMISSION_COUNTER (see clause 5.1.1 in TS 38.321 [5]) in UE.
\- Distribution of the time needed for UEs to achieve synchronization,
including access delay and UE request delay;
\- Distribution of beam failure recovery delays.
The RACH optimization management function analyses the measurements to
evaluate the RACH performance, and may perform one of the following actions,
when the RACH optimization performance does not meet the targets:
1) Consume the management service for NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the targets for the RACH
optimization function;
2) Consume the management service for NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to disable RACH optimization function, and
update the RACH parameters.
NOTE 1: NRM needs to be enhanced to support RACH optimizations related
attributes, such as RACH performance targets, and RACH parameters.
NOTE 2: RACH optimization related performance measurements need to be defined.
## 7.8 Capacity and Coverage Optimization
### 7.8.0 Overview of Potential solution for CCO
There are following potential solutions to address Capacity and Coverage
Optimization:
Solution A: 3GPP management system (3GPP Cross Management Domain or Management
Domain) management with RAN distributed CCO:
\- A-1: RAN Distributed CCO managed by only 3GPP Cross Management Domain
\- A-2: RAN Distributed CCO managed by both 3GPP Cross Management Domain and
Management Domain
Solution B: Centralized CCO without RAN distributed CCO:
\- B-1: Domain centralized CCO managed by 3GPP Cross Management Domain
\- B-2: 3GPP Cross Management Domain centralized CCO only
### 7.8.1 Potential solution for centralized CCO
The Figure 7.8.1-1 illustrates the framework for EM centralized CCO with NM
controlled policies. The CCO Algorithm is located in MnS Producer for CCO.
\- EM as MnS Producer for CCO is responsible for coverage and/or capacity
issues detection and optimization.
\- NM as MnS Consumer for CCO is responsible for CCO policy control for RAN
SubNetwork.
\- MnS for CCO is utilized by NM to trigger CCO optimization task with
specified corresponding CCO policies, and receive the notification about the
coverage and/or capacity issues occurrence and corresponding recovery.
{width="3.464583333333333in" height="2.1256944444444446in"}
Figure 7.8.1-1: Framework for EM centralized CCO with NM controlled policies
The Figure 7.8.1-2 illustrates the procedure for EM centralized coverage and
capacity optimization.
{width="5.769444444444445in" height="3.8895833333333334in"}
Figure 7.8.1-2: Procedure for EM centralized CCO with NM controlled policies
1) NM (act as MnS Consumer for CCO) decides to start the coverage and capacity
optimization task and corresponding CCO policies for RAN Subnetwork, including
coverage and/or capacity issue detection condition (e.g. SINR threshold for
coverage hole and weak coverage) and optimization constraint condition (e.g.
optimization regions, optimal coverage, minimum uplink interference).
2) NM triggers the optimization task to EM (act as MnS Producer for CCO) with
corresponding optimization object (RAN Subnetwork) and CCO polices specified.
3) EM configures the CCO policies to start the optimization task.
4）EM monitor the coverage and/or capacity issues (i.e. Coverage hole, Weak
coverage, Pilot pollution, Overshoot coverage, DL and UL channel coverage
mismatch defined in TS 28.628[9]) based on CCO related performance
measurements collected.
5.1) When EM detected the coverage and/or capacity issues, EM may notify the
NM about the occurrence of coverage and/or capacity issues.
5.2) EM determines the corrective actions (e.g. switch on antenna pattern) to
address the coverage and/or capacity issues.
5.3) If the corrective actions are executed and the detected issues are
addressed successfully, the EM may notify the NM about the recovery of
coverage and/or capacity issues.
## 7.9 Self-healing
The function Self-healing has not been addressed in the present document.
## 7.10 SON coordination
The function SON coordination has not been addressed in the present document.
## 7.11 Multi-vendor Plug and Play eNB connection to the network
See clause 7.1.
## 7.12 SON for AAS-based Deployments
In E-UTRAN networks, SON for AAS-based Deployments uses techniques like cell
splitting and cell merging. As the NG-RAN uses beamforming for sub-sector
structures, these techniques are not relevant for NR-RAN. Instead, Coverage
and Capacity Optimization will cover this topic.
## 7.13 Trace and MDT
Potential solutions from TS 32.422 [31] will be considered.
## 7.14 Mobility Robustness Optimization
### 7.14.1 General
This subclause the solutions for the use case of mobility robustness
optimization (see use case in clause 5.16).
### 7.14.2 Management of mobility robustness optimization
It is assumed that the MRO management function has consumed the management
service to collects handover related measurements.
The MRO management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation (see clause 5.1.3 in TS
28.532 [26]) to configure the ranges for the NR and EUTRAN handover parameters
and the targets for the D-MRO function.
The MRO management function consumes the management service for NF
provisioning with _modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to enable the D-MRO function
for a given NR cell.
The D-MRO function detects the handover issues (e.g. too late HO, too early HO
and HO to a wrong cell) in intra-RAT or inter-RAT mobility by analysing the
reports from UE and network side information, and then determine the actions
to mitigate the HO issues by adjusting HO related parameters (see clause 5.3.1
in TR 37.861 [12]).
The D-MRO function informs the management service producer for NF provisioning
to send a notification notifyMOIAttributeValueChange to the MRO management
function (see clause 5.1.9 in TS 28.532 [26]), indicating the HO related
parameters have been changed.
The MRO management function collects the handover related measurements and
radio link failure reports to evaluate the handover performance (see clause
4.3.5 in TS 32.552 [28]).
The MRO management function analyses the measurements and radio link failure
reports, and determines to perform one of the following actions, when the
handover performance does not meet the targets:
1) Consume the management service for NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the targets for the D-MRO function;
2) Consume the management service for NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the ranges of handover parameters
for the NR neighbour relations and EUTRAN neighbour relations;
3) Consume the management service for NF provisioning with
_modifyMOIAttributes_ operation to update the ranges of handover parameters
(see clause 5.5.4 in TS 38.331 [6]) for NR neighbour relations with values
deemed to improve handover performance.
NOTE 1: NRM needs to be enhanced to support MRO related attributes, such as
MRO ranges, targets, and ranges of handover parameters.
NOTE 2: Handover related performance measurements need to be defined.
## 7.15 Energy Saving Management
Energy saving management is addressed in TS 28.310 [24].
## 7.16 Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) optimization
### 7.16.1 General
This subclause the solutions for the use case of ANR optimization (see use
case in clause 5.4).
### 7.16.2 ANR optimization
1\. The ANR optimization function (a.k.a. MnS producer for ANR optimization)
consumes the NF provisioning service to get the attributes of the NR cells
with getMOIAttributes operation.
The ANR optimization function gets the geographical data and terrain data of
the NR cells from a data source (such as radio planning tool), see Note.
The ANR optimization function may get the data mentioned above regularly or
once being notified that the data have been changed.
NOTE: how to get the geographical data and terrain data of NR cells is FFS.
The ANR optimization function analyses the NR cells attributes, the
geographical data and terrain data, and determines to consume the NF
provisioning service add or blacklist one or more NCRs:
\- by operation createMOI to add a new NCR for a NR cell;
\- by operation modifyMOIAttributes to blacklist a NCR (i.e., setting the is
HoAllowed attribute to \"no\").
2\. The ANR optimization function consumes the NF PM service to regularly
collect the performance measurements related to abnormal RRC connection
releases of the NR cells and the performance measurements about handover
failures for the NCRs. The ANR optimization function may also consume the NF
PM service to receive the notifyThresholdCrossing notifications for these
performance measurements.
The ANR optimization function consumes the Trace/MDT service to collect the
RLF/RCEF reports related the NR cells.
The ANR optimization function analyses the collected performance measurements
and RLF/RCEF reports, and determines to consume the NF provisioning service to
blacklist one or more NCRs if the performance about the NCRs does not meet the
requirements:
\- by operation modifyMOIAttributes to blacklist a NCR.
## 7.17 Cross-slice network resource optimization
The following steps support cross-slice network optimization as described in
clause 5.20.
1) The NFV-MANO system sends information to the 3GPP management on changes in
resources.
2) The 3GPP management analyses whether the change in resources causes
problems or when resources are not optimal utilized in the supporting the
network slices.
3) In case of resource problems, the CSPs are notified by the 3GPP management
via an API.
4) The CSPs decide on the action they prefer: by adjusting the priority of
slices or by adjusting the current minimal resource requirements needed for
the slices.
5) The CSPs communicate their preferences to the 3GPP management.
6) The 3GPP management checks whether the new modification by the CSP solves
the resource problems. If not, then steps 3, 4 and 5 be executed again for
affected slices, with a predetermined maximum for the number of iterations.
7) If the new configuration can solve the resource problems, the slice
priorities and/or resource requirements will be updated by the 3GPP Management
and will be propagated via the interface Os-Ma-nfvo towards the NFV-MANO.
8) In the case of resources that are not utilized optimal, the 3GPP management
system will reallocate resources to optimize performance among NSSIs.
# 8 Conclusion and recommendation
## 8.1 Self-establishment of non-virtualized NFs, including automated Software
Management
The features and solution as described in clause 7.1 are recommended to be
specified in the normative work.
## 8.2 Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) management (including automatic X2
setup)
The features and solution as described in clause 7.2 are recommended to be
specified in the normative work.
## 8.3 PCI Configuration
The features and solution as described in clause 7.3 are recommended to be
specified in the normative work.
## 8.4 Void
## 8.5 Automatic Neighbour Relation (ANR) optimization
The features and solution as described in clause 7.16 are recommended to be
specified in the normative work.
## 8.6 Load Balancing Optimization
The features and solution as described in clause 7.5 are recommended to be
specified in the normative work.
## 8.7 RACH Optimization (Random Access Optimization)
The features and solution as described in clause 7.7 are recommended to be
specified in the normative work.
## 8.8 Centralized Capacity and Coverage Optimization
The features and solution as described in clause 7.8 are recommended to be
specified in the normative work.
## 8.9 Self-healing
The function Self-healing has not been addressed in the present document.
## 8.10 SON coordination
The function SON coordination has not been addressed in the present document.
## 8.11 Multi-vendor Plug and Play of NFs
See clause 8.1.
## 8.12 SON for AAS-based Deployments
In E-UTRAN networks, SON for AAS-based Deployments uses techniques like cell
splitting and cell merging. As the NG-RAN uses beamforming for sub-sector
structures, these techniques are not relevant for NR-RAN. Instead, Coverage
and Capacity Optimization will cover this topic.
## 8.14 Trace and MDT
Trace is already supported since Rel-15.
Support for MDT is present in RAN specifications for Rel-16, however, no
support exists for management of MDT. Therefore, it is recommended to specify
MDT management support in the normative work.
## 8.15 Mobility Robustness Optimization
The features and solution as described in clause 7.14 are recommended to be
specified in the normative work.
## 8.16 Energy Saving Management
It's recommended to do normative work for Energy Saving Management in TS
28.310 [24].
#