# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document studies compatibility of the ONAP management platform
architecture and functionality with that of the 5G service-based management
architecture being defined in 3GPP TS 28.53x, 28.54x and 28.55x series
specifications. The present document is based on ONAP releases up to and
including R3 (\"Casablanca\") and the corresponding APIs and related
interfaces.
The scope of the present document includes:
\- analysis and comparison of 3GPP and ONAP configuration management
mechanisms.
\- analysis of how ONAP configuration management mechanisms can be supported
in 3GPP.
\- analysis and comparison of 3GPP and ONAP alarm management and performance
management mechanisms, concentrating on DCAE (Data Collection, Analytics and
Events) / Collection Framework event stream and batch data collection on the
ONAP side.
\- study how notify mechanisms are handled by ONAP DCAE and 3GPP management
services.
\- study if any gaps exist between the semantics and format of data collected
by DCAE and the semantics and format of data produced by both alarm
supervision and performance management services.
\- analysis of ONAP/3GPP protocol compatibility.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 28.533: \"Management and orchestration; Architecture framework\".
[3] 3GPP TS 28.531: \"Management and orchestration; Provisioning\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.541: \"Management and orchestration; 5G Network Resource Model
(NRM); Stage 2 and stage 3\".
[5] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure: https://wiki.onap.org/display/DW/Casablanca+Architecture
(v3.0.3).
[6] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure:
https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/dcaegen2.git/docs/sections/architecture.html,
accessed 10.10.2018
[7] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure: ONAP Developer Wiki - [https://wiki.onap.org/]{.underline}
(v94), accessed 25.04.2018.
[8] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure:
https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/vfc/nfvo/lcm.git/docs/platform/architecture.html,
accessed 18.10.2018.
[9] 3GPP TS 28.550: \"Management and orchestration; Performance assurance\".
[10] 3GPP TS 28.532: \"Management and orchestration; Generic management
services\".
[11] 3GPP TS 28.545: \"Management and orchestration; Fault Supervision (FS)\".
[12] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure:
https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/vnfsdk/model.git//docs/files/VESEventListener_7_0_1.html?highlight=ves%20collector#datatype-
commoneventheader, accessed 26.09.2018.
[13] Text Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the text:
https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/vnfsdk/model.git/docs/files/VESEventListener_7_0_1.html,
accessed 10.10.2018.
[14] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure:
http://onap.readthedocs.io/en/beijing/submodules/vnfrqts/requirements.git/docs/Chapter7.html#data-
model-for-event-records, accessed 20.06.2018.
[15] 3GPP TS 28.552: \"Management and orchestration; 5G performance
measurements \".
[16] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure:
https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/vnfrqts/requirements.git/docs/Chapter7/Monitoring-
And-Management.html, accessed 19.10.2018.
[17] 3GPP TS 28.554: \"Management and orchestration; 5G end to end Key
Performance Indicators (KPI)\".
[18] Table Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the table:
https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/vnfsdk/model.git/docs/files/VESEventListener_7_0_1.html,
accessed 10.10.2018.
[19] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure: https://wiki.onap.org/display/DW/Controllers, accessed
19.10.2018.
[20] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure:
https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/appc.git/docs/APPC%20User%20Guide/APPC%20User%20Guide.html,
accessed 18.10.2018.
[21] Figure Attribution: Creator: ONAP, under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, URI to
access the figure:
https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/appc/deployment.git/docs/APPC%20Ansible%20Adapter/APPC%20Ansible%20Adapter.html,
accessed 18.10.2018.
[22] 3GPP TS 28.622: \"Telecommunication management; Generic Network Resource
Model (NRM) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service (IS)\".
[23] 3GPP TS 32.352: \"Telecommunication management; Communication
Surveillance (CS) Integration Reference Point (IRP); Information Service
(IS)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
APPC Application Controller
CS Communication Surveillance
DCAE Data Collection, Analytics and Events
IRP Integration Reference Point
LCM Life Cycle Management
MD-SAL Model-Driven Service Abstraction Layer
MDAF Management Data Analytics Function
MDAS Management Data Analytics Service
MnF Management Function
MnS Management Service
NFV Network Function Virtualization
NFVO NFV Orchestrator
ONAP Open Network Automation Platform
PNF Physical Network Function
REST Representational State Transfer
VES VNF Event Stream
VF-C Virtual Function Controller
VNF Virtualized Network Function
VNFC VNF Component
xNF Network Function (x indicating either physical or virtual)
# 4 Introduction
## 4.1 Architecture overview
### 4.1.1 3GPP 5G management framework
The 3GPP 5G management framework (cf. TS 28.533 [2]) defines service-based
management, where Management Services (MnSs) expose their capabilities to
authorized consumers. MnSs are specified in:
\- TS 28.531 [3] for provisioning,
\- TS 28.545 [11] for fault supervision,
\- TS 28.550 [9] for performance management,
\- TS 28.532 [10] for generic management services.
### 4.1.2 ONAP Architecture overview
Figure 4.1.2.1 depicts the ONAP Release 3 overall architecture (see [5] -
figure 1).
{width="5.573611111111111in" height="3.4166666666666665in"}
Figure 4.1.2.1: ONAP Release 3 overall architecture
NOTE: ONAP Release 3 overall architecture Figure attribution [5].
Within the ONAP architecture the DCAE (Data Collection, Analytics, and Events)
platform collects, processes, and distributes performance, usage,
configuration, and fault data from the managed environment, and is therefore
of particular importance when comparing ONAP and 3GPP fault management and
performance management functionality.
# 5 Integration of ONAP/DCAE with 3GPP management services for FM and PM
purposes
## 5.1 Positioning of ONAP/DCAE wrt. 3GPP management architecture framework
### 5.1.1 ONAP/DCAE architecture
Figure 5.1.1.1 (see [6] - figure 1) provides a functional view of the DCAE
platform architecture.
{width="5.0125in" height="2.963888888888889in"}
Figure 5.1.1.1: Functional view of the DCAE platform architecture
NOTE: Functional view of the DCAE platform architecture Figure attribution [6]
-- Figure 1.
The Data Collection, Analytics, and Events (DCAE) subsystem, in conjunction
with other ONAP components, gathers performance, usage, and configuration data
from the managed environment, which includes virtual network functions and
their underlying infrastructure.
Figure 5.1.1.2 (see [6] - figure 3) shows the DCAE data flow and illustrates
data flow issued by VNFs to push performance and usage data to the DCAE VES
(VNF Event Stream) Collector, the DCAE Collection Framework component in
charge of stream data collection.
{width="4.550694444444445in" height="3.4138888888888888in"}
Figure 5.1.1.2: DCAE data flow (data plane)
NOTE: DCAE data flow (data plane) Figure attribution [6] -- Figure 3.
### 5.1.2 Positioning
#### 5.1.2.0 General
If authorized, the ONAP / DCAE Collection Framework would be a consumer of PM
and FM related notifications issued by 3GPP 5G management services, including,
e.g.:
\- fault management related notifications (cf. clause 6 of [11] and clause 6.1
of [10]),
\- performance management related notifications (cf. clause 5.2 of [9] and
clause 7.1 of [10]).
In subsequent sections, the focus is put on analysing how and to what extent
various types of information produced by 3GPP 5G management services (alarm
notifications, performance measurement results, configuration change
notifications, etc.) can be consumed by the ONAP/DCAE Collection Framework.
#### 5.1.2.1 An example of ONAP DCAE Collection Framework utilizing the
management services provided by 3GPP Management Services Provider
Figure 5.1.2.1.1 shows an example of ONAP DCAE Collection Framework utilizing
the management services provided by 3GPP Data Report MnS provider. In this
example, the ONAP DCAE Collection Framework, as part of the 3GPP MnS(s)
Consumer, may utilize the management services (i.e., Performance Data Report
MnS, Fault Supervision Data Report MnS) provided by 3GPP Management Service(s)
Provider based on comparative analysis in the present document.
{width="3.3715277777777777in" height="2.178472222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.2.1.1: An example of ONAP DCAE Collection Framework utilizing the
management services provided by 3GPP Data Report MnS(s) Provider
#### 5.1.2.2 An example of 3GPP MnF using information provided by ONAP DCAE
Figure 5.1.2.2.1 shows an example of 3GPP MnS Provider using information
provided by ONAP DCAE. In this example, in order to support management data
analytics, the 3GPP MDAF, which provides MDAS as an ONAP DCAE consumer, may
use some information (e.g. FM data, PM data) provided by ONAP DCAE.
Figure 5.1.2.2.1: An example of 3GPP MnF using some information provided by
ONAP DCAE
## 5.2 Comparative analysis
### 5.2.1 Communication principles
#### 5.2.1.1 ONAP DCAE
In ONAP (cf. [6]), VNFs use REST calls to push measurement data to the DCAE
VES Collector. The VES Collector validates, filters, and packages the received
measurement data and publishes the data to other components of the ONAP
architecture. All VNF instances are provisioned with VES Collector address(es)
so as to be able to send alarm notifications, event notifications, etc. to the
VES Collector. ONAP does not offer a subscribe / notify mechanism between the
DCAE / VES Collector and VNFs. Consequently, all possible notifications that
can be issued by VNFs are to be sent out to the VES Collector.
Regardless of the type of notication, all notifications sent to the VES
Collector will have a common header, whose schema is given in table 5.2.1.1.1.
NOTE: Table 5.2.1.1.1 is copied verbatim from ONAP (cf. [12]) and therefore
the apparent normative language that appears therein does not imply a
normative requirement within the context of the present document.
Table 5.2.1.1.1: ONAP DCAE VES Collector - common event header schema
* * *
Field Type Required? Description domain string Yes Event domain enumeration:
\'fault\', \'heartbeat\', \'measurement\', \'mobileFlow\', \'notification\',
\'other\', \'pnfRegistration\', \'sipSignaling\', \'stateChange\', \'syslog\',
\'thresholdCross ingAlert\', \'voiceQuality\' eventId string Yes Event key
that is unique to the event source. The key must be unique within notification
life cycle similar to EventID from 3GPP. It could be a sequential number, or a
composite key formed from the event fields, such as domain_sequence. The
eventId should not include whitespace. For fault events, eventId is the
eventId of the initial alarm; if the same alarm is raised again for changed,
acknowledged or cleared cases, eventId must be the same as the initial alarm
(along with the same startEpochMicro sec but with a different sequence
number). Note: see section 1.3 for eventId use case examples. eventName string
Yes Unique event name (see section 1.2 for more information) eventType string
No For example: \'applicationNf\', \'guestOS\', \'hostOS\', \'platform\'
internalHeaderFields internalHeaderFields No Fields (not supplied by event
sources) that the **VES** Event Listener service can use to enrich the event
if needed for efficient internal processing. This is an empty object which is
intended to be defined separately by each service provider (e.g., AT&T)
implementing the VES Event Listener. lastEpochMicrosec number Yes the latest
unix time aka epoch time associated with the event from any component--as
microseconds elapsed since 1 Jan 1970 not including leap seconds nfcamingCode
string No Network function component type: 3 characters (aligned with vfc
naming standards) nfNamingCode string No Network function type: 4 characters
(aligned with vnf and pnf naming standards) nfVendorName String No Network
function vendor name Priority string Yes Processing priority enumeration:
\'High\', \'Medium\', \'Normal\', \'Low\' reportingEntityId string No UUID
identifying the entity reporting the event or detecting a problem in another
vnf/vm or pnf which is experiencing the problem. (Note: the AT&T internal
enrichment process shall ensure that this field is populated). The
reportingEntity Id is an id for the reportingEntity Name. See \'reportingEntit
yName\' for more information.in reportingEntityName string Yes Name of the
entity reporting the event or detecting a problem in another vnf/vm or pnf
which is experiencing the problem. May be the same as the sourceName. For
synthetic events generated by DCAE, it is the name of the app generating the
event. Sequence integer Yes Ordering of events communicated by an event source
instance (or 0 if not needed)
* * *
* * *
sourceId string No UUID identifying the entity experiencing the event issue,
which may be detected and reported by a separate reporting entity (note: the
AT&T internal enrichment process shall ensure that this field is populated).
The sourceId is an id for the sourceName. See \'sourceName\' for more
information. sourceName string Yes Name of the entity experiencing the event
issue, which may be detected and reported by a separate reporting entity. The
sourceName identifies the device for which data is collected. A valid
sourceName must be inventoried in A&AI. If sourceName is a xNFC or VM, then
the event must be reporting data for that particular xNFC or VM. If the
sourceName is a xNF, comprised of multiple xNFCs, the data must be
reported/aggreg ated at the xNF leveI. Data for individual xNFC must not be
included in the xNF sourceName event. startEpochMicro sec number Yes the
earliest unix time aka epoch time associated with the event from any component
--as microseconds elapsed since 1 Jan 1970 not including leap seconds. For
measurements and heartbeats, where events are collected over predefined
intervals, startEpochMicro sec shall be rounded to the nearest interval
boundary (e.g., the epoch equivalent of 3:00PM, 3:10PM, 3:20PM, etc...). For
fault events, startEpochMicro sec is the timestamp of the initial alarm; if
the same alarm is raised again for changed, acknowledged or cleared cases,
startEpoch Microsec must be the same as the initial alarm (along with the same
eventId and an incremental sequence number). For devices with no timing source
(clock), the default value will be 0 and the VES collector will replace it
with Collector time stamp (when the event is received) timeZoneOffset String
No Offset to GMT to indicate local time zone for device formatted as
\'UTC+/-hh.mm\'; see
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_time_zone_abbreviations for UTC offset
examples version number Yes Version of the event header as \"#.#\" where # is
a digit; see section 1 for the correct digits to use. vesEventListenerVersion
String Yes Version of the ves event listener api spec that this event is
compliant with (as \"#\" or \"#.#\" or \"#.#.#\" where # is a digit; see
section 1 for the correct digits to use).
* * *
NOTE: ONAP DCAE VES Collector - Common event header schema Figure attribution
[12].
The VES Collector is a RESTful collector for processing JSON messages; an
example of a notification header, in JSON, is given in [13] and reproduced
here:
{
\"event\": {
\"commonEventHeader\": {
\"version\": \"4.0.1\",
\"vesEventListenerVersion\": \"7.0.1\",
\"domain\": \"heartbeat\",
\"eventName\": \"Heartbeat_vIsbcMmc\",
\"eventId\": \"heartbeat0000249\",
\"sequence\": 0,
\"priority\": \"Normal\",
\"reportingEntityId\": \"cc305d54-75b4-431b-adb2-eb6b9e541234\",
\"reportingEntityName\": \"ibcx0001vm002oam001\",
\"sourceId\": \"de305d54-75b4-431b-adb2-eb6b9e546014\",
\"sourceName\": \"ibcx0001vm002ssc001\",
\"nfVendorName\": \"Ericsson\",
\"nfNamingCode\": \"ibcx\",
\"nfcNamingCode\": \"ssc\",
\"startEpochMicrosec\": 1413378172000000,
\"lastEpochMicrosec\": 1413378172000000,
\"timeZoneOffset\": \"UTC-05:30\"
}
}
}
NOTE: ONAP DCAE VES Collector - Common event header example in JSON Text
attribution [13].
#### 5.2.1.2 3GPP 5G management framework
In the 3GPP 5G management framework, as specified in TS 28.533 [2], management
services may generate notifications of events occurring within the network.
Different kinds of events carry different kinds of information. For instance,
a new alarm (as specified in TS 28.545 [11]) is one possible kind of event; an
object creation (as specified in TS 28.531 [3]) is another possible kind of
event.
Information of an event is carried in a notification. A management service
producer may emit notifications. Authorized consumers receive notifications.
Management service producers that are able to emit notifications offer the
following capabilities:
\- Notification mechanism subscription: management service producers provide
authorized consumers with the capabilities to subscribe and unsubscribe to
their notifications. A consumer can specify the types of notifications that
the producer should emit to the consumer during subscription, to specify
filtering criteria that can be applied by the notification mechanism;
\- Subscription control: the management service provider may provide a
consumer with capabilities to control its subscriptions;
\- Notification control: in principle, notifications are forwarded to the
consumer as soon as they are available;
#### 5.2.1.3 Comparison
##### 5.2.1.3.1 Events headers / notification parameters
The table below provides a high-level mapping between the ONAP common event
header fields (in first column) and the 3GPP 5G management services
notifications fields with similar functions (in second column).
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ONAP | Potential mapping to | | | notification parameters in 3GPP | | Fields common to all events | TS 28.532 [10]) | | | | | | Notification parameters | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **domain** (required): the | Nothing similar in notification | | eventing domain associated with | parameters. | | the event. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **eventId** (required): event | Similar to notificationId. | | key that is unique to the event | | | source. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **eventName** (required): unique | eventName could be mapped to | | event name | notificationType. | | | | | | Actual values of | | | notificationType are specified | | | on a per notification type | | | basis. Example: in 3GPP TS | | | 28.532 [10], the following | | | actual notificationType values | | | are specified: | | | \"notifyNewAlarm\", | | | \"notifyChangedAlarm\", | | | \"notifyFileReady\", | | | \"notifyFilePreparationError\", | | | etc. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **eventType** (optional): for | Nothing similar in notification | | example: applicationVnf, | parameters. | | guestOS, hostOS, platform | | | | NFVI related event types are out | | | of the scope of the present | | | document. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **internalHeaderFields** | No definition of this field | | (optional) | could be found. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **lastEpochMicrosec** | See eventTime, which does not | | (required): the latest unix time | distinguish the start time of | | aka epoch time associated with | the event from its end time. | | the event from any component as | | | microseconds elapsed since 1 Jan | | | 1970 not including leap seconds | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **nfNamingCode** (optional): 4 | Nothing similar in notification | | character network function type, | parameters. | | aligned with vnf naming | | | standards | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **nfcNamingCode** (optional): 3 | Nothing similar in notification | | character network function | parameters. | | component type, aligned with vfc | | | naming standards | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **nfVendorName** (optional | Similar to vendorName | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **priority** (required): | Nothing similar in notification | | processing priority | parameters. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **reportingEntityId** | Similar to systemDN. | | (optional): UUID identifying the | | | entity reporting the event, for | | | example an OAM VM. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **reportingEntityName** | Nothing similar in notification | | (required): Name of the entity | parameters. | | reporting the event, for | | | example, an EMS name. May be the | | | same as the sourceName. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **sequence** (required): | Nothing similar in notification | | Ordering of events communicated | parameters. | | by an event source instance (or | | | 0 if not needed) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **sourceId** (optional): UUID | Similar to objectInstance. | | identifying the entity | | | experiencing the event issue | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **sourceName** (required): Name | Nothing similar in notification | | of the entity experiencing the | parameters. | | event issue | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **startEpochMicrosec** | See eventTime, which does not | | (required): The earliest unix | distinguish the start time of | | time aka epoch time associated | the event from its end time. | | with the event from any | | | component as microseconds | | | elapsed since 1 Jan 1970 not | | | including leap seconds | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **timeZoneOffset** (optional) | Nothing similar in notification | | | parameters. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **version** (required): version | Nothing similar in notification | | of the event header | parameters. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **vesEventLinstnerVersion** | Nothing similar in notification | | (required) | parameters. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 5.2.1.3.2 FM/PM data collection
##### 5.2.1.3.2.1 Existing gap {#existing-gap .H6}
In ONAP, as previously described, VNF instances are provisioned with the
address of the VES Collector and VNFs use REST calls to push FM and PM
measurement data to the DCAE VES Collector. There is no Subscribe / Notify
paradigm in place between the VES Collector and VNFs; all VNFs, by default,
send out their \'performance, usage, and configuration data\' to the DCAE /
VES Collector as it becomes available. Therefore, it is necessary that VNFs
know the address of the VES Collector (e.g. its URL or IP address) from the
time of their creation, meaning that an input parameter is needed for the
management operation which creates the VNFs, indicating the VES Collector
address.
Within the existing 3GPP 5G management framework there is no mechanism for
providing a VES Collector address during VNF instantiation, and thus this is
an interoperability gap between 3GPP and ONAP. This can be solved by modifying
the 3GPP Network Resource Model to add a new IOC capturing the attribute
indicating the address of the recipient to which MOIs are to send their
notifications.
##### 5.2.1.3.2.2 Proposed modifications to 3GPP specifications {#proposed-
modifications-to-3gpp-specifications .H6}
The following are proposed changes to 3GPP specification TS 28.541 (or TS
28.622 -- FFS) to align the 3GPP 5G management framework with ONAP FM/PM data
collection mechanisms:
The notificationsConsumerReference can be defined as a new attribute, possibly
multi-valued. Whether this new attribute is added to an existing IOC or in a
new IOC is FFS.
As a potential option in case a new IOC is introduced, a corresponding class
diagram can be introduced. An example is given below:
Figure 5.2.1.3.2.2.1: NRM for support of FM/PM data consumer
In case a new IOC is introduced, it needs to be defined. The following is an
example:
\"
4.3.x NotificationConsumer
4.3.x.1 Definition
This IOC represents the consumer of notifications emitted by MOIs.
4.3.x.2 Attributes
* * *
Attribute name Support Qualifier isReadable isWritable **isInvariant**
isNotifyable notificationsConsumerReference M T T F T
* * *
4.3.x.3 Attribute constraints
None.
4.3.x.4 Notifications
The common notifications defined in subclause 4.5 are valid for this IOC,
without exceptions or additions.
\".
#### 5.2.1.4 Comparison of interface technologies
The table below provides a high-level mapping between 3GPP and ONAP interface
technologies.
Table 5.2.1.4-1: Comparison of 3GPP and ONAP interface technologies
+----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | | 3GPP | ONAP | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Man | NETCONF (allowed protocol | NETCONF | | agement-application-layer- | but not used in any SS) | | | communication method | | SNMP | | | SNMP | | | | | VES | | | SOAP | | | | | REST | | | REST | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Management-a | ftp | sftp | | pplication-layer-protocols | | | | for bulk & file transfer | ftps | ftpes | | | | | | | sftp | | | | | | | | http | | | | | | | | https | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Valid network layer | IP | IP | | protocols | | | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Solution sets | SOAP (WSDL 1.1/SOAP 1.1) | JSON | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+ | Network Resource Model | UML | YANG | | notations | | | | | XSD | JSON | +----------------------------+----------------------------+---------+
#### 5.2.1.5 Heartbeat
##### 5.2.1.5.1 ONAP
Clause 7.4.1 - Data Model for Event Records - of [16] describes the data model
for the collection of various types of data from xNFs, as illustrated below:
{width="6.692361111111111in" height="3.7631944444444443in"}
Figure 5.2.1.5.1. Data model for event records.
NOTE: ONAP data model of event records Figure attribution [16].
Clause 7.4.1 of [16] states:
_\"_
_The Heartbeat Record provides an optional structure for communicating
information about device health. Heartbeat records would only have the Common
Event Header block. An optional heartbeat domain is available to specify
information such as heartbeat interval and recommended action upon missing
heartbeat interval. Heartbeat avoids the need to ping a device. A
communication failure can be determined via missing heartbeat events being
delivered to DCAE and appropriate action (e.g. restart VM, rebuild xNF or
create ticket) can be taken by DCAE CLAMP._
\".
Bottom up, heartbeat messages are sent periodically by xNFs to the DCAE VES
JSON Collector. These messages contain only the common header, in which the
\'domain\' field is equal to \'heartbeat\'.
Top-down, heartbeat commands can be sent from an event collector, e.g. the
DCAE VES JSON Collector, to xNFs.
##### 5.2.1.5.2 3GPP
For pre-5G technologies, 3GPP Communication Surveillance (CS) IRP provides
functionalities similar to ONAP Heartbeat. 3GPP TS 32.352 [23] defines the
following operations:
\- getHeartbeatPeriod (), used by the CS IRPManager to obtain the current
heartbeat period;
\- setHeartbeatPeriod (),used by the CS IRPManager to set the heartbeat
period;
\- triggerHeartbeat (), used by the CS IRPManager to solicit a notifyHeartbeat
notification
and the following notification:
\- notifyHeartbeat (), used by the CS IRP Agent to notify the subscribed CS
IRPManager instances that the resources supporting the communication path
between the CS IRPAgent and the notification receiving CS IRPManagers are
working.
##### 5.2.1.5.3 Proposed way forward
The concept of IRP has been replaced by the concept by Management Service
(MnS) in the 5G management architecture framework [2]. However, there is no
such Heartbeat or CS MnS defined in Rel-15. Consequently, it is proposed that
such a MnS should be defined in Rel-16.
### 5.2.2 Handling of alarm / event notifications
#### 5.2.2.1 ONAP DCAE VES Fault Field
In ONAP, VES defines the fault domain for fault (alarm) notifications. Fault
domain allows expansion, users can increase their own specific fault (alarm)
related information.
VES fault fields schema is given in table 5.2.2.1.1 (cf. [18]).
Table 5.2.2.1-1: ONAP DCAE VES Collector - Fault fields schema
+----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | Name | Required | Type | Format | Pr | Des | | | | | | operties | cription | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | al | No | hashMap | | | Ad | | armAddit | | | | | ditional | | ionalInf | | | | | alarm | | ormation | | | | | info | | | | | | | rmation. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 1: | | | | | | | for SNMP | | | | | | | mapping | | | | | | | to VES, | | | | | | | for hash | | | | | | | key use | | | | | | | OID of | | | | | | | varbind, | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | use | | | | | | | incoming | | | | | | | data for | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | arbind). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | | Alarm ID | | | | | | | for 3GPP | | | | | | | should | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | included | | | | | | | (if | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | licable) | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | larmAddi | | | | | | | tonalInf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | \'ala | | | | | | | rmId\':\ | | | | | | | 'alarmId | | | | | | | Value\'. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Could | | | | | | | contain | | | | | | | managed | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | instance | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | separate | | | | | | | ke | | | | | | | y:value; | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | add | | | | | | | probable | | | | | | | cause as | | | | | | | separate | | | | | | | ke | | | | | | | y:value. | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | alarmC | Yes | string | | | Short | | ondition | | | | | name of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | alarm | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | ndition/ | | | | | | | problem, | | | | | | | such as | | | | | | | a trap | | | | | | | name. | | | | | | | Should | | | | | | | not have | | | | | | | white | | | | | | | space | | | | | | | (e.g., | | | | | | | tpLgCgi | | | | | | | NotInCon | | | | | | | fig, | | | | | | | BfdSess | | | | | | | ionDown, | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | inkDown, | | | | | | | etc...) | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | alarmIn | No | string | | | card, | | terfaceA | | | | | port, | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterface | | | | | | | name of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | device | | | | | | | ge | | | | | | | nerating | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | alarm | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | event | No | string | | | Event | | Category | | | | | c | | | | | | | ategory, | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | example: | | | | | | | license, | | | | | | | link, | | | | | | | routing, | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ecurity, | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ignaling | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | event | Yes | string | | {\ | event | | Severity | | | | 'enum\': | severity | | | | | | [\'CRI | | | | | | | TICAL\', | | | | | | | \' | | | | | | | MAJOR\', | | | | | | | \' | | | | | | | MINOR\', | | | | | | | \'WA | | | | | | | RNING\', | | | | | | | \'NOR | | | | | | | MAL\']} | | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | eventSo | Yes | string | | | type of | | urceType | | | | | event | | | | | | | source; | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | xamples: | | | | | | | card, | | | | | | | host, | | | | | | | other, | | | | | | | port, | | | | | | | portTh | | | | | | | reshold, | | | | | | | router, | | | | | | | slotTh | | | | | | | reshold, | | | | | | | switch, | | | | | | | virtual | | | | | | | Machine, | | | | | | | virtua | | | | | | | lNetwork | | | | | | | Function | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | fa | Yes | number | | | version | | ultField | | | | | of the | | sVersion | | | | | fau | | | | | | | ltFields | | | | | | | block | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | specifi | Yes | string | | | short | | cProblem | | | | | des | | | | | | | cription | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | alarm or | | | | | | | problem | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+ | vfStatus | Yes | string | | {\ | virtual | | | | | | 'enum\': | function | | | | | | [\'A | status | | | | | | ctive\', | enu | | | | | | \ | meration | | | | | | 'Idle\', | | | | | | | \'P | | | | | | | reparing | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | term | | | | | | | inate\', | | | | | | | \'Ready | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | term | | | | | | | inate\', | | | | | | | \'Re | | | | | | | questing | | | | | | | terminat | | | | | | | ion\']} | | +----------+----------+---------+--------+----------+----------+
NOTE 1: ONAP DCAE VES Collector - Common fault fields schema Table attribution
[18].
The VES Collector is a RESTful collector for processing JSON messages; an
example of a fault fields, in JSON, is given below (cf. [13]):
> \"faultFields\": {
>
> \"faultFieldsVersion\": 3.0,
>
> \"alarmCondition\": \"PilotNumberPoolExhaustion\",
>
> \"eventSourceType\": \"other\",
>
> \"specificProblem\": \"Calls cannot complete - pilot numbers are
> unavailable\",
>
> \"eventSeverity\": \"CRITICAL\",
>
> \"vfStatus\": \"Active\",
>
> \"alarmAdditionalInformation\": {
>
> \"PilotNumberPoolSize\": \"1000\"
>
> }
>
> }
NOTE 2: ONAP DCAE VES Collector - Common fault fields example in JSON Figure
attribution [13].
#### 5.2.2.2 3GPP alarm supervision
The 3GPP fault supervision information model defines the AlarmInformation in
TS 28.532 [10].
#### 5.2.2.3 Comparison
##### 5.2.2.3.1 Fault fields
A comparison of the ONAP fault event fields and 3GPP fault supervision
AlarmInformation fields is given in Table 5.2.2.3.1-1.
Table 5.2.2.3.1-1: Comparison of ONAP and 3GPP fault fields
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | ONAP | Potential mapping to 3GPP TS | | | 28.532 [10] -- clause 6.2.1.3) | | Fault events fields | | | | Generic fault supervision | | | management service | | | | | | AlarmInformation fields | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **alarmAdditionalInformation** [ | Similar to additionalText and/or | | ]{.underline} (optional): | additionalInformation. Probable | | additional alarm information. | cause would be included in this | | | field. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **alarmCondition** [ | Nothing similar in Generic fault | | ]{.underline} (required): alarm | supervision management service | | condition reported by the | AlarmInformation fields. Similar | | device. | to alarmType | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **alarmInterfaceA** [ | Nothing similar in Generic fault | | ]{.underline} (optional): card, | supervision management service | | port, channel or interface name | AlarmInformation fields. | | of the device generating the | | | alarm. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **eventCategory** [ | Similar to eventType. | | ]{.underline} (optional): Event | | | category, for example: license, | | | link, routing, security, | | | signaling | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **eventSeverity** [ | Similar to perceivedSeverity. | | ]{.underline} (required): event | | | severity:CRITICAL, MAJOR, MINOR, | The legal values of | | WARNING, NORMAL | perceivedSeverity include: | | | CRITICAL, MAJOR, MINOR, WARNING, | | | INDETERMINATE, CLEARED. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **eventSourceType** [ | Nothing similar in Generic fault | | ]{.underline} (required): type | supervision management service | | of event source; examples: card, | AlarmInformation fields. | | host, other, port, | | | portThreshold, router, | | | slotThreshold, switch, | | | virtualMachine, | | | virtualNetworkFunction | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | * | Nothing similar in Generic fault | | _faultFieldsVersion_ _(required): | supervision management service | | version of the faultFields block | AlarmInformation fields. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ |__specificProblem_ _(required): | Similar to specificProblem. | | short description of the alarm | | | or problem | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ |__vfStatus_ *(required): virtual | Nothing similar in Generic fault | | function status enumeration | supervision management service | | | AlarmInformation fields. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
##### 5.2.2.3.2 Mapping 3GPP alarm notifications to ONAP R3 VES JSON API
To allow mapping 3GPP alarm notifications to the ONAP R3 VES JSON API, 3GPP
could request ONAP to add a new type of event to the existing types of events,
i.e. a new possible value to the field \'domain\', as shown in Table
5.2.2.3.2-1:
Table 5.2.2.3.2-1: ONAP DCAE VES common event header -- domain field
* * *
Field Type Required? Description domain string Yes Event domain enumeration:
\'fault\', \'heartbeat\', \'measurement\', \'mobileFlow\', \'notification\',
\'other\', \'pnfRegistratio n\', \'sipSignaling\', \'stateChange\',
\'syslog\', \'thresholdCross ingAlert\', \'voiceQuality\'
* * *
NOTE: ONAP DCAE VES common event header - domain field Figure attribution
[12].
It is proposed to add the following new possible value to the field \'domain\'
of ONAP VES JSON API:
\- 3GPPFault, corresponding to 3GPP alarm notifications.
New types of fields would have to be added to the existing ones at the root
level of the common event format of ONAP VES JSON API shown below:
Table 5.2.2.3.2-2: Existing types of headers for VES JSON Collector R3 ([12]
-- Datatype: event)
* * *
Name Required Type commonEventHeader Yes commonEventHeader faultFields No
faultFields heartbeatFields No heartbeatFields measurementsForVfScalingFields
No measurementsForVfScalingFields mobileFlowFields No mobileFlowFields
otherFields No otherFields sipSignalingFields No sipSignalingFields
stateChangeFields No stateChangeFields syslogFields No syslogFields
thresholdCrossingAlertFields No thresholdCrossingAlertFields
voiceQualityFields No voiceQualityFields
* * *
NOTE: ONAP DCAE VES JSON - Existing types of headers Figure attribution [12].
The following new type of fields would thus be added to ONAP DCAE VES JSON API
header fields:
Table 5.2.2.3.2-3: Possible new ONAP DCAE VES JSON API header field
* * *
Name Required Type Fault3GPPField No Fault3GPPFieldType
* * *
where Fault3GPPField could use input parameter definitions of alarm
notifications defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [10]. An example, copied verbatim from
clause 6.1.1.4.2 of 28.532 [10], valid for input parameters of notifyNewAlarm
(), is shown in table 5.2.2.3.2-4.
Table 5.2.2.3.2-4: Example definitions of alarm notification fields
+----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | Name | Required | Type | Format | Pr | Des | | | | | | operties | cription | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | obj | M | Mon | | | The | | ectClass | | itoredEn | | | Monitor | | | | tity.obj | | | edEntity | | | | ectClass | | | is | | | | | | | id | | | | It shall | | | entified | | | | carry | | | by the | | | | the | | | relatio | | | | Monitor | | | n-Alarme | | | | edEntity | | | dObject- | | | | class | | | AlarmInf | | | | name. | | | ormation | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | new | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | larmInfo | | | | | | | rmation. | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | object | M | Monito | | | The | | Instance | | redEntit | | | Monitor | | | | y.object | | | edEntity | | | | Instance | | | is | | | | | | | id | | | | It shall | | | entified | | | | carry | | | by the | | | | the | | | relatio | | | | Disti | | | n-Alarme | | | | nguished | | | dObject- | | | | Name | | | AlarmInf | | | | (DN) of | | | ormation | | | | the | | | of the | | | | instance | | | new | | | | of | | | A | | | | Monitor | | | larmInfo | | | | edEntity | | | rmation. | | | | class. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | notifi | M | This is | | | | | cationId | | an | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifier | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ication, | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | may be | | | | | | | used to | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | orrelate | | | | | | | notifi | | | | | | | cations. | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifier | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | noti | | | | | | | fication | | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | | chosen | | | | | | | to be | | | | | | | unique | | | | | | | across | | | | | | | all | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ications | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | pa | | | | | | | rticular | | | | | | | managed | | | | | | | object | | | | | | | th | | | | | | | roughout | | | | | | | the time | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | cor | | | | | | | relation | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | ificant, | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | uniquely | | | | | | | id | | | | | | | entifies | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | noti | | | | | | | fication | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | other | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ications | | | | | | | g | | | | | | | enerated | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | subject | | | | | | | Inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | Object. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | e | M | AlarmInf | | | | | ventTime | | ormation | | | | | | | .alarmRa | | | | | | | isedTime | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | systemDN | C | It shall | | | | | | | carry | | | | | | | the DN | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | oviders. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | notifica | M | \"n | | | | | tionType | | otifyNew | | | | | | | Alarm\". | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | proba | M | AlarmI | | | | | bleCause | | nformati | | | | | | | on.proba | | | | | | | bleCause | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | p | M | Al | | | | | erceived | | armInfor | | | | | Severity | | mation.p | | | | | | | erceived | | | | | | | Severity | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | ro | O | It | | | \"Yes\", | | otCauseI | | i | | | \"No\" | | ndicator | | ndicates | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | AlarmInf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | is the | | | | | | | root | | | | | | | cause of | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | events | | | | | | | captured | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | notif | | | | | | | ications | | | | | | | whose | | | | | | | ide | | | | | | | ntifiers | | | | | | | are in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | Correl | | | | | | | atedNoti | | | | | | | fication | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | stances. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | a | M | Al | | | The | | larmType | | armInfor | | | noti | | | | mation.e | | | fication | | | | ventType | | | s | | | | | | | tructure | | | | | | | of this | | | | | | | table is | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | if this | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | arameter | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | ndicates | | | | | | | \"I | | | | | | | ntegrity | | | | | | | Viol | | | | | | | ation\", | | | | | | | \"Ope | | | | | | | rational | | | | | | | Viol | | | | | | | ation\", | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | Physical | | | | | | | Viol | | | | | | | ation\", | | | | | | | \" | | | | | | | Security | | | | | | | Service | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | echanism | | | | | | | Viol | | | | | | | ation\", | | | | | | | \"Time | | | | | | | Domain | | | | | | | Viol | | | | | | | ation\". | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | specifi | O | AlarmInf | | | | | cProblem | | ormation | | | | | | | .specifi | | | | | | | cProblem | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | correla | O | The set | | | | | tedNotif | | of | | | | | ications | | Correl | | | | | | | atedNoti | | | | | | | fication | | | | | | | related | | | | | | | to this | | | | | | | A | | | | | | | larmInfo | | | | | | | rmation. | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | backed | O | AlarmIn | | | | | UpStatus | | formatio | | | | | | | n.backed | | | | | | | UpStatus | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | back | O | Monito | | | This may | | UpObject | | redEntit | | | contain | | | | y.object | | | no | | | | Instance | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | It | | | if the | | | | carries | | | identity | | | | the DN | | | of the | | | | of the | | | serv | | | | back-up | | | ice-user | | | | object. | | | (re | | | | | | | questing | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | service) | | | | | | | is not | | | | | | | known. | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | trendIn | O | AlarmInf | | | This | | dication | | ormation | | | shall | | | | .trendIn | | | always | | | | dication | | | identify | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | service- | | | | | | | provider | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | eceiving | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | request, | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | serv | | | | | | | iceUser, | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | provokes | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | alarm. | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | thres | O | AlarmI | | | This may | | holdInfo | | nformati | | | contain | | | | on.thres | | | no | | | | holdInfo | | | inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | if the | | | | | | | detector | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | security | | | | | | | alarm is | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | serviceP | | | | | | | rovider. | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | state | O | AlarmI | | | | | ChangeDe | | nformati | | | | | finition | | on.state | | | | | | | ChangeDe | | | | | | | finition | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | mon | O | Alar | | | | | itoredAt | | mInforma | | | | | tributes | | tion.mon | | | | | | | itoredAt | | | | | | | tributes | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | propo | O | Alarm | | | | | sedRepai | | Informat | | | | | rActions | | on.propo | | | | | | | sedRepai | | | | | | | rActions | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | additi | O | AlarmIn | | | | | onalText | | formatio | | | | | | | n.additi | | | | | | | onalText | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | addit | O | AlarmI | | | | | ionalInf | | nformati | | | | | ormation | | on.addit | | | | | | | ionalInf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+ | alarmId | M | AlarmInf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | .alarmId | | | | +----------+----------+----------+--------+----------+----------+
The following example in Table 5.2.2.3.2-5 illustrates the data type
definition (described in clause 9.4.2.18) and JSON schema definition
(described in Annex A.2) for notifyNewAlarm-NotifyType, which is valid
forFault3GPPField:
**Table 5.2.2.3.2-5: Definition of type notifyNewAlarm-NotifType (defined in
clause 9.4.2.18 in TS28.532)**
* * *
**Attribute name** **Data type** **Description** **SQ** header  
> href uri-Type URI of the resource where the event (alarm) occurred M >
> notificationId notificationId-Type Notification identifier as defined in
> ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] M > notificationType notificationType-Type
> Notification type (notifyNewAlarm, etc.) M > eventTime dateTime-Type Event
> (alarm) occurrence time M > systemDN systemDN-Type System DN C body  
> alarmId alarmId-Type Alarm identifier, see clause 6.2.1.5.1 M > alarmType
> alarmType-Type Alarm type as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] M >
> probableCause probableCause-Type Probable cause of an alarm as defined in
> ITU-T Rec. X.733 [4] M > specificProblem specificProblem-Type Identifies
> further refinements to the Probable cause of the alarm as defined in ITU-T
> Rec. X. 733 [4] O > perceivedSeverity perceivedSeverity-Type Perceived
> severity of an alarm as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] M > backedUpStatus
> backedUpStatus-Type Indicating if the object emitting the alarm has been
> backed up as defined in ITU-T Recommendation X. 733 [4] O > backUpObject
> backUpObject-Type Indicating the backup object of the alarmed object as
> defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] O > trendIndication trendIndication-Type
> Severity trend of the alarmed object as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] O >
> thresholdInfo thresholdInfo-Type Provides additional information for
> threshold crossing alarms as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] O >
> correlatedNotifications array(correlatedNotification-Type) Set of all
> notifications to which this notification is considered to be correlated as
> defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] O > stateChangeDefinition
> array(attributeValueChange-Type) Indicates a state transition associated to
> an alarm as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] O > monitoredAttributes
> array(attributeNameValuePair-Type) Defines one or more attributes of the
> alarmed manged object and their corresponding values at the time of the
> alarm as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4]. O > proposedRepairActions
> proposedRepairActions-Type Used if the cause is known and the system being
> managed can suggest one or more solutions to fix the problem causing the
> alarm as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] O > additionalText additionalText-
> Type Allows a free form text description to be reported as defined in ITU-T
> Rec. X. 733 [4] O > additionalInformation array(attributeNameValuePair-Type)
> Allows the inclusion of a set of additional information in the event report
> as defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] O > rootCauseIndicator
> rootCauseIndicator-Type Indicates if this event is the root cause of the
> events captured by the notifications whose identifiers are in the related
> correlatedNotifications attribute, see clause 6.2.1.5.1 O
* * *
The JSON schema definition (defined in Annex A.2 in TS 28.532) for
\"notifyNewAlarm-NotifType\" is described as follows:
\"notifyNewAlarm-NotifType\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"header\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/header-Type\"
},
\"body\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"alarmId\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/alarmId-Type\"
},
\"alarmType\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/alarmType-Type\"
},
\"probableCause\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/probableCause-Type\"
},
\"specificProblem\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/specificProblem-Type\"
},
\"perceivedSeverity\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/perceivedSeverity-Type\"
},
\"backedUpStatus\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/backedUpStatus-Type\"
},
\"backUpObject\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/backUpObject-Type\"
},
\"trendIndication\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/trendIndication-Type\"
},
\"thresholdInfo\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/thresholdInfo-Type\"
},
\"correlatedNotifications\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/correlatedNotification-Type\"
}
},
\"stateChangeDefinition\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/attributeValueChange-Type\"
}
},
\"monitoredAttributes\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/attributeNameValuePair-Type\"
}
},
\"proposedRepairActions\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/proposedRepairActions-Type\"
},
\"additionalText\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/additionalText-Type\"
},
\"additionalInformation\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/attributeNameValuePair-Type\"
}
},
\"rootCauseIndicator\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/rootCauseIndicator-Type\"
}
}
}
}
},
#### 5.2.2.4 Alarm Life Cycle management in ONAP
The attributes of an alarm are defined in ONAP, example use cases exist, but
there is no operation for acknowledgement of alarms, adding comments to
alarms, or support for alarm correlation in ONAP.
### 5.2.3 Handling of performance data collection
#### 5.2.3.1 ONAP DCAE
In ONAP (cf. [6]), VNFs use REST calls to push measurement data to the DCAE
VES Collector. The VES Collector validates, filters, and packages the received
measurement data, and publishes the data to other components of the ONAP
architecture. All VNF instances are provisioned with VES Collector address(es)
so as to be able to send measurement data, in the form of event records, to
the VES Collector.
The ONAP data model for event records consists of a Common Header, followed by
records containing measurement data. In ONAP, measurement data may be of two
kinds (cf. [14]):
\- \'Technology independent\' - these include Fault, Heartbeat, State Change,
Syslog, Threshold Crossing Alerts, and measurements related to VNF scaling;
\- \'Technology specific\' - these include records related to Mobile Flow,
Signalling and Voice Quality.
Both the Technology Independent and Technology Specific records are
extensible.
Each technology-specific measurement data specification allows additional
fields (name/value pairs) for extensibility.
In addition, technology specific measurement data can be extended to support
other types of records (e.g. Network Fabric, Security records, etc.). In such
cases, the VNF providers can use these VNF-specific additional fields to
provide additional information that may be relevant to the managing systems. A
placeholder for additional technology specific areas of interest to be defined
in the future documents has been depicted.
This placeholder potentially leaves room for 3GPP to define performance
measurement data for 3GPP technologies (GERAN, UTRAN, E-UTRAN).
Figure 5.2.3.1.1: ONAP R2 DCAE VES Collector -- Technology-specific
measurement data
NOTE: ONAP R2 DCAE VES Collector -- Technology-specific measurement data
Figure attribution [14].
#### 5.2.3.2 3GPP Performance Management
3GPP performance measurement data are specified on a per-technology basis,
i.e. for GERAN, UTRAN, LTE and 5G technologies, and, for each technology, for
the radio access network part and for the core network part. For 5G networks,
all measurements are defined in TS 28.552 [15].
In 5G, performance management services (cf. 3GPP TS28.550 [9] and 28.532 [10])
enables a potential consumer to start / stop performance jobs on network
functions of the 3GPP 5G network. When initiating a PM job, the consumer
specifies the network functions on which the PM job is to be launched, the
name of measurements to be collected, granularity period, collection period,
etc. as well as threshold values, enabling the performance management service
provider to issue notifications when actual performance measurement values
reach or cross those threshold values.
Performance measurement data are made available to the consumer either via
files or streaming (cf. [9]). Prior to this, potential consumers willing to be
informed of the existence of such files or to receive streamed measurement
data have to subscribe to the relevant notifications.
#### 5.2.3.3 Comparison
##### 5.2.3.3.1 PM job handling
##### 5.2.3.3.1.1 Existing gap {#existing-gap-1 .H6}
In 3GPP 5G networks, performance measurement jobs are launched from an
application service consumer on network functions. Performance measurement job
parameters include start time, end time, identifiers of network function
instances on which to collect the performance measurements, name of
performance measurements to be collected, granularity period (i.e. the
periodicity at which the measurements are collected), and reporting period
(i.e. the periodicity at which the measurement results are made available to
the consumer(s)). When measurement results are available, i.e. at the end of
each reporting period, a notification (\'Notify File Ready\') is sent out to
the consumer(s) that subscribed to such notifications, and which can then
retrieve this measurement data via file transfer mechanisms.
In ONAP, there is no concept of Performance Management (PM) job. Instead, VNFs
are configured with information indicating which performance measurements are
to be collected, low and high thresholds assigned to these performance
measurements, recommended actions to be initiated in case thresholds are
crossed, etc. Virtualized network functions and services are designed within
the ONAP Design Time Framework based on information supplied by the VNF
provider about parameters, metrics, and KPIs exposed for resource and
application management.
In ONAP Release 3, three collection frameworks are specified and VNF instances
are configured, via configuration management, to enable them to collect
specified measurements and send them to the specified DCAE collector.
In order to bridge this existing gap in the 3GPP 5G management framework, the
Network Resource Model in TS 28.541 could be extended with IOCs and their
attributes so as to represent PM job control capabilities, (e.g., the
granularity period, reporting period, type of reporting (streaming, file-
based), low and high thresholds assigned to these performance measurements,
recommended actions to be initiated in case thresholds are crossed, etc.) and
PM measurements which MOIs are to collect.
A potential integration of 3GPP 5G performance measurement data collection
into ONAP/DCAE R3 would require the following:
\- some ONAP component provides, at VNF instantiation time or later, a list of
parameters corresponding to performance measurements to be collected during
the life time of VNF instances, with their granularity period, reporting
period, etc.;
\- VNF instances have the capability to send their performance measurement
data to the ONAP/DCAE Collector using the specified reporting method;
\- the ONAP/DCAE VES Collector API is extended with the definition of 3GPP 5G
technology-specific measurement data definitions defined in [15].
##### 5.2.3.3.1.2 Proposed modifications to 3GPP specifications {#proposed-
modifications-to-3gpp-specifications-1 .H6}
A potential solution for the control of PM measurements in the 3GPP management
framework, in line with ONAP, is to update TS 28.541 [4] with new IOCs and
attributes, configurable via the provisioning management service (cf. [3] and
[10]).
##### 5.2.3.3.2 FM/PM data reporting
##### 5.2.3.3.2.1 Existing gap {#existing-gap-2 .H6}
In ONAP, the DCAE collection framework is aimed at collecting all sorts of
events from VNFs.
In ONAP R1 and R2 architectures, the DCAE collection framework was comprised
of:
\- VES (VNF Event Stream) Collector, via REST / HTTPS / JSON API;
\- SNMP Trap Collector, via SNMP.
In ONAP R3 architecture, the DCAE collection framework has been augmented
with:
\- File Collector, to support Bulk PM, to support 3GPP bulk data file
collection over FTPES (SFTP);
\- VES-HV (High-Volume) Collector, to support Real-Time Performance
Measurement (RTPM), using Google Protocol Buffer (GPB) over TLS/TCP.
In ONAP R1 and R2, the following management requirements (still valid for R3)
specified what xNFs (i.e. PNFs and VNFs) support with respect to how they
deliver their alarms, performance measurements, etc.:
\"
  * _R-06924 The xNF MUST deliver asynchronous data as data becomes available, or according to the configured frequency. (cf. https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/beijing/submodules/vnfrqts/requirements.git/docs/Chapter7.html - section 7.4.5.7)_
  * _R-98191 The xNF MUST vary the frequency that asynchronous data is delivered based on the content and how data may be aggregated or grouped together. (cf. https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/beijing/submodules/vnfrqts/requirements.git/docs/Chapter7.html - section 7.4.5.5)_
> _Note:_
  * _For example, alarms and alerts are expected to be delivered as soon as they appear. In contrast, other content, such as performance measurements, KPIs or reported network signaling may have various ways of packaging and delivering content. Some content should be streamed immediately; or content may be monitored over a time interval, then packaged as collection of records and delivered as block; or data may be collected until a package of a certain size has been collected; or content may be summarized statistically over a time interval, or computed as a KPI, with the summary or KPI being delivered._
  * _We expect the reporting frequency to be configurable depending on the virtual network function\'s needs for management. For example, Service Provider may choose to vary the frequency of collection between normal and trouble-shooting scenarios._
  * _Decisions about the frequency of data reporting will affect the size of delivered data sets, recommended delivery method, and how the data will be interpreted by ONAP. These considerations should not affect deserialization and decoding of the data, which will be guided by the accompanying JSON schema or GPB definition files._
\".
In ONAP R3, requirements for \'bulk performance measurement\' have been
introduced (cf.
https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/vnfrqts/requirements.git/docs/Chapter9/index.html?highlight=ves):
\"
  * _R-841740 - The xNF SHOULD support FileReady VES event for event-driven bulk transfer of monitoring data._
  * _R-440220 - The xNF SHOULD support File transferring protocol, such as FTPES or SFTP, when supporting the event-driven bulk transfer of monitoring data_
  * _R-75943 - The xNF SHOULD support the data schema defined in 3GPP TS 32.435, when supporting the event-driven bulk transfer of monitoring data._
\".
In the 3GPP 5G management framework, the createMeasurementJob () operation
(cf. draft TS 28.550 [1] -- clause 6.1.1) supports, amongst others, the three
following input parameters:
# reportingMethod
# granularityPeriod
# reportingPeriod
Note that, in draft TS 28.550 [1] -- clause 6.1.1, it is stated that:
\"
If the reportingMethod is performance data streaming:
\- The value of granularityPeriod is an integer value in seconds (see Note 1
below).
Note 1: The granularityPeriod defines the measurement data production rate.
The supported rates are dependent on the capacity of the producer involved
(e.g. the processing power of the producer, number of measurements being
measured by the producer at the time, the complexity of the measurement type
involved etc) and therefore, it cannot be standardized for all producers
involved. The supported rates can only reflect the negotiated agreement
between producer and the consumer involved.
\".
Table 5.2.3.3.2.1-1 gives an overview of reporting methods in 3GPP 5G
management framework, supported values of Reporting Period, candidate
collectors in DCAE (ONAP R3) and candidate solution sets in 3GPP Rel-16:
Table 5.2.3.3.2.1-1: Comparison of 3GPP and ONAP PM data reporting
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3GPP | Supported | Candidate | Candidate 3GPP | | performance | values of | collectors in | Rel-16 | | data reporting | Reporting | ONAP R3 | solution sets | | method | Period | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Data file | 5 minutes, 15 | VES JSON | Protocol: REST | | | minutes, 30 | Collector (for | / HTTPS | | | minutes, 1 | FileReady | | | | hour, 12 hours | notification) | Payload: JSON | | | and 24 hours | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | File Collector | Protocol: | | | | (for PM file | FTPES or SFTP | | | | upload) | | | | | | File content: | | | | | XML | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Data stream | No values | VES JSON | Protocol: REST | | | defined in TS | Collector for | / HTTPS | | | 28.550 2.0.0) | low-medium | | | | | volume PM | Payload: JSON | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | VES-HV | Protocol: | | | | Collector for | REST/HTTPS | | | | real-time | | | | | (less than 1 | Payload: ASN.1 | | | | minute) high | Binary | | | | volume PM | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 5.2.3.3.2.1-2 applies for alarm notifications:
Table 5.2.3.3.2.1-2: Comparison of 3GPP and ONAP alarm event reporting
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3GPP alarm | Number / | Candidate | Candidate 3GPP | | reporting | Periodicity / | collectors in | Rel-16 | | method | Volume | ONAP R3 | solution sets | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Notification | Number: High | VES JSON | Protocol: REST | | | (potentially) | Collector for | / HTTPS | | | | alarm | | | | Periodicity: | notifications | Payload: JSON | | | unknown | under normal | | | | | conditions | | | | Volume (of | | | | | each | | | | | notification): | | | | | low | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | VES-HV | Protocol: REST | | | | Collector for | / HTTPS | | | | alarm | | | | | notifications | Payload: ASN.1 | | | | under alarm | Binary | | | | flooding | | | | | conditions | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
##### 5.2.3.3.2.2 Proposed modifications to 3GPP specifications {#proposed-
modifications-to-3gpp-specifications-2 .H6}
The following are proposed changes to 3GPP specifications TS 28.550 and TS
28.532 to align the 3GPP 5G management framework with ONAP for the reporting
of FM/PM data:
\- Specify in TS 28.550 (and in TS 28.532), in addition to existing file-based
PM data reporting, how PM measurement data can be reported to a PM data
consumer (e.g. ONAP DCAE Collection Framework), via:
# REST / HTTP and JSON for low-medium non-real-time reporting
# REST/HTTPS and ASN.1 Binary for high volume real-time reporting.
##### 5.2.3.3.3 Reporting 3GPP Rel-15 PM data to DCAE R3 VES JSON Collector
In [12] -- clause \'Datatype: commonEventHeader\', the \'domain\' field
indicates all types of events that can be received by the DCAE R3 VES JSON
Collector:
Table 5.2.3.3.3-1: ONAP DCAE VES common event header domain field
* * *
Field Type Required? Description domain string Yes Event domain enumeration:
\'fault\', \'heartbeat\', \'measurement\', \'mobileFlow\', \'notification\',
\'other\', \'pnfRegistratio n\', \'sipSignaling\', \'stateChange\',
\'syslog\', \'thresholdCross ingAlert\', \'voiceQuality\'
* * *
NOTE: ONAP DCAE VES common event header - domain field Figure attribution
[12].
As a potential solution for enabling the DCAE R3 VES JSON Collector to consume
3GPP Rel-15 PM data, 3GPP could collaborate with ONAP to add new possible
values to the field \'domain\' of ONAP VES JSON API:
\- 3GPPNGRANMeasurement, corresponding to 3GPP TS 28.552 [15] -- clause 5.1
(Performance measurements for gNB);
\- 3GPP5GCMeasurement, corresponding to 3GPP TS 28.552 [15] -- clauses 5.2 to
5.6;
\- 3GPPNSMeasurement, corresponding to measurements for network slices defined
3GPP TS 28.552 [15] -- clause 6;
\- 3GPPE2EMeasurement, corresponding to measurements for networks defined 3GPP
TS 28.552 [15] -- clause 6.
New types of fields would have to be added to the existing ones at the root
level of the common event format of ONAP VES JSON API shown in Table
5.2.3.3.3-2 below:
Table 5.2.3.3.3-2: Existing types of headers for VES JSON Collector R3 ([12]
-- Datatype: event)
* * *
Name Required Type commonEventHeader Yes commonEventHeader faultFields No
faultFields heartbeatFields No heartbeatFields measurementsForVfScalingFields
No measurementsForVfScalingFields mobileFlowFields No mobileFlowFields
otherFields No otherFields sipSignalingFields No sipSignalingFields
stateChangeFields No stateChangeFields syslogFields No syslogFields
thresholdCrossingAlertFields No thresholdCrossingAlertFields
voiceQualityFields No voiceQualityFields
* * *
NOTE: ONAP DCAE VES JSON - Existing types of headers Figure attribution [12].
The following new types of events would thus be added to ONAP DCAE VES JSON
API header fields:
Table 5.2.3.3.3-3: Possible new types of headers for VES JSON Collector \--
Datatype: event
* * *
Name Required Type 3GPPNGRANMeasurementFields No 3GPPNGRANMeasurementFields
3GPP5GCMeasurementFields No 3GPP5GCMeasurementFields 3GPPNSMeasurementFields
No 3GPPNSMeasurementFields 3GPPE2EMeasurementFields No
3GPPE2EMeasurementFields
* * *
where 3GPPNGRANMeasurementFields, 3GPP5GCMeasurementFields,
3GPPNSMeasurementFields and 3GPPE2EMeasurementFields could use the input
parameter definitions for performance data file content defined in 3GPP TS
28.532 [10] and names of measurements defined in TS 28.552[15] and TS
28.554[17].
##### 5.2.3.3.4 3GPP Fault Supervision operations
3GPP alarm notifications can be mapped to HTTP messages from xNFs to DCAE
Collectors.
3GPP fault supervision data report management service for NF is also made up
of the following operation (cf. [10] clause 6.1.1):
\- getAlarmList ().
getAlarmList () may be used by a fault supervision data report management
service consumer to deal with alarm loss. 3GPP TS 28.545 [11] does not specify
conditions under which a management service consumer should invoke this
operation. In the ONAP architecture, the fault supervision data report service
consumer receiving alarm notifications from xNFs would typically be a DCAE
Collector (VES/JSON or VES-HV), whereas the fault supervision data report
service consumer issuing getAlarmList () operation requests to xNFs would be
the APP-C.
3GPP fault supervision data control management service for NF is made up of
the following operations (cf. [10] clause 6.1.2):
\- acknowledgeAlarms ();
\- unacknowledgeAlarms ();
\- clearAlarms ().
The fault supervision data control management service consumer issuing
acknowledgeAlarms (), unacknowledgeAlarms (), clearAlarms () operation
requests to xNFs would be the ONAP APP-C.
## 5.3 Conclusions on FM/PM
The clause 5 of the present document studies the positioning of ONAP DCAE
Collectors with regard to 3GPP management services for fault and performance
management purposes. It also analyzes how ONAP DCAE Collectors can consume
3GPP management services, from various perspectives:
\- General communication principles for all sorts of messages (FM and PM),
based on ONAP DCAE common event header. It identifies a gap between ONAP DCAE
Collectors which addresses, as recipient of notifications from 3GPP management
service producers, are known by 3GPP management service producers (e.g. VNFs /
PNFs), and 3GPP management framework which relies on the subscribe / notify
paradigm;
\- Fault management: possible mapping of 3GPP fault supervision alarm
notification parameters to ONAP DCAE Collectors' API, either by using existing
technology-independent records or by defining a new 3GPP-specific fault
management technology-specific record;
\- Fault management operations, specified in 3GPP fault supervision management
services, and not addressed by ONAP;
\- Performance management: possible mapping of 3GPP performance measurement
data reporting to ONAP DCAE Collectors' API, both data file based and stream
based. For the latter one, the study illustrates how the mapping can be done,
either by using existing technology-independent records or by defining a new
3GPP-specific performance management technology-specific record. It aslo shows
that 3GPP PM job control can be supported via configuration management in
ONAP;
\- Heartbeat mechanism, enabling DCAE Collectors to stay informed that VNFs /
PNFs are alive.
The group recommends starting normative work on the following aspects:
\- General communication aspects:
\- Specifying a mapping between 3GPP notification mandatory input parameters
and ONAP DCAE common event header required fields,
\- Specifying a corresponding JSON schema,
\- Specifying a solution for capturing the 3GPP notification recipients
addresses when subscribing to notifications is not supported;
\- Fault supervision:
\- Definition of new use cases and requirements for fault supervision
management services,
\- Specifying a mapping from existing 3GPP alarm notification input parameters
(except those addressed above) to a new ONAP VES JSON schema,
\- Specifying JSON solution set definitions for fault supervision data report;
\- Performance management:
\- Definition of new use cases and requirements for performance management
services,
\- Specifying a mapping from existing 3GPP performance measurement data
streaming parameters (except those addresseed above) to a new ONAP VES JSON
schema
\- Specifying an alternative to existing 3GPP performance management job
control via configuration management based control of performance management,
\- Specifying JSON and ASN.1 solution set definitions for performance
measurement data streaming;
\- Heartbeat:
\- Definition of use cases and requirements for heartbeat,
\- Specifying solutions for heartbeat, in case of 3GPP network functions.
# 6 Integration of ONAP with 3GPP management services for configuration
management purposes
## 6.1 ONAP controllers and 3GPP provisioning service
### 6.1.1 ONAP controllers
#### 6.1.1.1 Introduction
The southbound interface of the ONAP platform for LCM and CM operations is
based on a layer of controllers. Controllers are components in the ONAP
platform that connect to cloud and network services, execute configuration and
real-time policies, and control the state of distributed components and
services. Rather than using a single monolithic control layer, operators may
choose to use multiple distinct controller types to manage different resources
in the execution environment, each corresponding to a distinct domain.
ONAP controllers expose a northbound API to other ONAP components that allow
them to initiate activities (effectively commands) on VNFs and/or PNFs. ONAP
controllers interact southbound with xNFs through network and application
adapters to perform configuration and other lifecycle management activities
towards xNFs.
In ONAP R3, the following controllers are available:
\- Application Controller (APPC)
\- Software Defined Networking Controller (SDNC)
\- Virtual Function Controller (VF-C).
These controllers are further described in the following sections.
#### 6.1.1.2 APPC
##### 6.1.1.2.1 Overview
The Application Controller (APPC) is one of the components in the ONAP
platform. Its main function is to control the lifecycle of VNFs and VNFCs (but
not PNFs). APPC can use one of several adapters to connect to a VNF.
{width="6.65625in" height="3.65625in"}
Figure 6.1.1.2.1-1: APPC High Level Architecture
NOTE: APPC High Level Architecture Figure attribution [20].
In ONAP R3, APPC contains adapters towards the following interface protocols:
\- Netconf with uploadable Yang model (requires a Netconf server running on
the VNF)
\- Chef (requires a Chef client running on the VNF)
\- Ansible (no requirements on the VNF software)
APPC interacts with VNFs through its Network and Application Adapters to
perform configuration activities within NFV environment. These activities
include service and resource configuration/reconfiguration, automated scaling
of resources, service and resource removal to support runtime lifecycle
management of VNFs and services. The Adapters employ a model driven approach
along with standardized APIs provided by the VNF developers to configure
resources and manage their runtime lifecycle.
The APPC architecture is designed to allow a VNF owner or vendor to enable a
new VNF to support a set of LCM API actions that are designated as self-
service. This procedure is known as VNF self-service onboarding. The VNF
owner/vendor needs to create a template and parameter definitions for LCM
actions that use the Netconf, Chef, or Ansible protocols.
The template is a text block in XML (if the protocol is Netconf) or JSON (for
Chef or Ansible) format that defines the \"payload\" to be included in the
request. This file contains the desired configuration parameter values to
execute the LCM action and is sent, either directly to the VNF (for Netconf),
or to the Chef/Ansible server that in turn uses these values to configure the
VNF.
##### 6.1.1.2.2 APPC Netconf Adapter
The APPC Netconf Adapter is responsible for sending configuration tasks in XML
format to VNFs that support the Netconf protocol. APPC includes a deployment
of OpenDaylight and thus can consume NRMs expressed in the YANG modelling
language.
##### 6.1.1.2.3 APPC Chef Adapter
Chef is an open-source VNF management framework. The APPC Chef adapter enables
APPC to operate cookbooks that perform various LCM operations towards VNFs
connected to an external Chef server. This server acts as a hub for
configuration data and stores cookbooks, the policies that are applied to
VNFs, and metadata that describes each registered VNF that is being managed by
Chef. A Chef client is required on the VNFs that will be directly managed by
the Chef server. The client exposes REST APIs used to manage the VNF.
A cookbook is the fundamental unit of configuration and policy distribution. A
cookbook defines a scenario and contains recipes that specify the resources to
use and the order in which they are to be applied. A recipe is expressed in
the Ruby language and consists mainly of a collection of resources, defined
using patterns (resource names, attribute-value pairs, and actions). Each
recipe is required to be stored in a cookbook and may be included in another
recipe or have a dependency on one (or more) recipes.
A cookbook also contains:
\- Attribute values
\- File distributions
\- Templates
\- Extensions to Chef, such as custom resources and libraries
##### 6.1.1.2.4 APPC Ansible Adapter
Ansible is an open-source VNF management framework. The APPC Ansible adapter
enables APPC to operate playbooks that perform various LCM operations towards
VNFs connected to an external Ansible server. This server can execute Ansible
playbooks southbound towards the VNF and exposes a **REST** interface
northbound towards APPC that is compliant with its requirements. The exact
implementation of the Ansible Server is left open. Any action (e.g.,configure,
restart, health check) can be executed on the VNF by constructing a playbook
or set of playbooks that is executed by an Ansible agent on the VNF via SSH.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="3.075in"}
Figure 6.1.1.2.4-1: Ansible workflow envisioned when APPC receives an event
NOTE: Ansible workflow envisioned when APPC receives an event Figure
attribution [21].
Playbooks are expressed in YAML format and model a configuration or process.
Each playbook is composed of one or more \'plays\' in a list. Each play
contains of a list of tasks and indicates a set of host machines to target and
a remote user for authentication. Tasks are executed in order, one at a time,
against all machines matched by the host pattern, before moving on to the next
task. Within a play, all hosts receive the same task directives. It is the
purpose of a play to map a selection of hosts to tasks.
The goal of each task is to execute a single Ansible module with specific
arguments. Ansible modules are reusable, standalone scripts that execute
within an Ansible server and return information in JSON format. Variables can
be used in arguments to modules. Each module has a dedicated use, such as
administering users on a specific type of database or managing VLAN interfaces
on a specific type of network device. Modules are for the most part vendor-
specific.
#### 6.1.1.3 SDNC
The Software Defined Networking Controller supports management of transport
network resources. Before ONAP R3, the ONAP controllers (APPC and SDNC) were
classified as L4-L7 (APPC) and L0-L3 (SDNC) controllers. But this
classification was removed in R3, which would mean that the scope of each
controller becomes wider and potentially overlapping. Configuration management
is not supported by SDNC in ONAP Rel-3.
#### 6.1.1.4 VF-C
The Virtual Function Controller (VF-C) is an implementation of an ETSI NFV-
MANO stack and provides an LCM interface towards ETSI-compliant VNFs. VF-C
also provides a GVNFM capability and can integrate with external VNFMs and
VIMs as part of an NFV MANO stack.
{width="6.696527777777778in" height="3.0875in"}
Figure 6.1.1.4-1: VF-C High Level Architecture
NOTE: VF-C High Level Architecture Figure attribution [8].
### 6.1.2 3GPP provisioning service
Management services for provisioning of networks and network slicing are
defined in [3]. The management services for /NS/NSS/NF/network and subnetwork
provisioning are listed in the following tables.
Table 6.1.2-1: Management services for network slice provisioning
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **MnS Name** | **MnS |** MnS | **Note** | | | Component Type | Component Type | | | | A\ | B\ | | | | (operations | (information | | | | and | model)**| | | | no | | | | | tifications)** | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Provisioning | Operations | NSI | This | | for NSI | defined in | information | management | | | clause 5 of TS | model defined | service | | | 28.532 [10]: | in clause 6.3 | enables its | | | | of TS 28.541 | consumer to | | | > \- createMOI | [4] | request | | | > operation | | allocating, | | | > | | deallocating, | | | > \- deleteMOI | | or modifying | | | > operation | | an NSI.\ | | | > | | \ | | | > \- | | The typical | | | > ge | | scenario is | | | tMOIAttributes | | \"Network | | | > operation | | Slices as NOP | | | > | | internals\" | | | > \- | | model where | | | > modif | | this MnS is | | | yMOIAttributes | | consumed by | | | > operation | | operators. | | | | | | | | Operations | | | | | defined in | | | | | clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | > allocateNsi | | | | | > operation | | | | | > | | | | | > \- | | | | | > | | | | | deallocateNsi | | | | | > operation | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Provisioning | Notification | NSI | This | | data report | defined in | information | management | | for NSI | clause 5 of TS | model defined | service | | | 28.532 [10]: | in clause 6.3 | enables its | | | | of TS 28.541 | consumer to | | | noti | [4] | obtain | | | fyProvisioning | | notifications | | | notification | | about NSI | | | | | Information | | | | | model data. | | | | | | | | | | The typical | | | | | scenario is | | | | | \"Network | | | | | Slices as NOP | | | | | internals\" | | | | | model where | | | | | this MnS is | | | | | consumed by | | | | | operators | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Provisioning | Operations | NSI | This | | exposure for | defined in | information | management | | NSI | clause 5 of TS | model defined | service | | | 28.532 [10]: | in clause 6.3 | enables its | | | | of TS 28.541 | consumer to | | | > \- createMOI | [4] | request | | | > operation | | allocating, | | | > | | deallocating | | | > \- deleteMOI | | or modifying | | | > operation | | an NSI.\ | | | > | | \ | | | > \- | | The typical | | | > ge | | scenario is | | | tMOIAttributes | | NSaaS model | | | > operation | | where this MnS | | | > | | is consumed by | | | > \- | | vertical | | | > modif | | industry. | | | yMOIAttributes | | | | | > operation | | | | | | | | | | Operations | | | | | defined in | | | | | clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | > allocateNsi | | | | | > operation | | | | | > | | | | | > \- | | | | | > | | | | | deallocateNsi | | | | | > operation | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Provisioning | Notifications | NSI | This | | data report | defined in | information | management | | exposure for | clause 5 of TS | model defined | service | | NSI | 28.532 [10]: | in clause 6.3 | enables its | | | | of TS 28.541 | consumer to | | | > \- | [4] | obtain | | | > noti | | notifications | | | fyProvisioning | | about NSI | | | > notification | | Information | | | | | model data. | | | | | | | | | | The typical | | | | | scenario is | | | | | NSaaS model | | | | | where this MnS | | | | | is consumed by | | | | | vertical | | | | | industry. | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Table 6.1.2-2: Management services for NSS provisioning
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **MnS Name** | **MnS Component of |** MnS Component of | | | type A (Operations | type B (information | | | and notifications)**| model)** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning for | Operations defined | NSSI information | | NSSI | in clause 5 of TS | model defined in | | | 28.532 [10]: | clause 6.3 of TS | | | | 28.541 [4] | | | > \- createMOI | | | | > operation | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | > operation | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > getMOIAttributes | | | | > operation | | | | > | | | | > \- deleteMOI | | | | > operation | | | | | | | | Operations defined | | | | in clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | > \- allocateNssi | | | | > operation | | | | > | | | | > \- deallocateNssi | | | | > operation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning data | Notifications | NSSI information | | report for NSSI | defined in clause 5 | model defined in | | | of TS 28.532 [10]: | clause 6.3 of TS | | | | 28.541 [4] | | | notifyProvisioning | | | | notification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 6.1.2-3: Management services for NF provisioning
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **MnS Name** | **MnS Component of |** MnS Component of | | | type A (Operations | type B (information | | | and notifications)**| model)** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning for NF | Operations defined | NF(s)/ME(s) | | | in clause 5 of TS | information model | | | 28.532 [10]: | defined in TS 28.541 | | | | [4] | | | > \- createMOI | | | | > operation | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | > operation | | | | > | | | | > \- | | | | > getMOIAttributes | | | | > operation | | | | > | | | | > \- deleteMOI | | | | > operation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning data | Notifications | NF(s)/ME(s) | | report for NF | defined in clause 5 | information model | | | of TS 28.532 [10]: | defined in TS 28.541 | | | | [4] | | | notifyProvisioning | | | | notification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 6.1.2-4: Management services for network and sub-network provisioning
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | **MnS name** | **MnS Component of |** MnS Component of | | | type A (Operations | type B (information | | | and notifications)**| model)** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning for | Operations defined | IOC(s) of | | network and | in clause 5 of TS | sub-network, as | | sub-networks | 28.532 [10]: | defined in TS 28.541 | | | | [4] | | | - createMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - | | | | modifyMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - getMOIAttributes | | | | operation | | | | | | | | - deleteMOI | | | | operation | | | | | | | | Operation defined in | | | | clause 6.5: | | | | | | | | - AllocateNetwork | | | | operation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Provisioning data | Notifications | IOC(s) of | | report for | defined in clause 5 | sub-network, as | | sub-networks | of TS 28.532 [10]: | defined in TS 28.541 | | | | [4] | | | notifyProvisioning | | | | notification | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.1.3 Positioning
#### 6.1.3.1 Introduction
If authorized, the ONAP controller plays the role of the consumer of the
provisioning management services produced by a 3GPP management service
producer. If authorized, the 3GPP management function can play the role of the
consumer of the LCM and CM interface produced by ONAP controller.
#### 6.1.3.2 An example of ONAP controller utilizing management services
provided by 3GPP Management Services Provider
Figure 6.1.3.2-1 shows an example of ONAP Controller (e.g. APPC) utilizing
part of provisioning management services provided by 3GPP Management Service
Provider. In this example, the ONAP Controller as part of 3GPP MnS(s) Consumer
may utilize part of provisioning management services (e.g. configuration
related provisioning management service components) as follows provided by
3GPP Management Service Provider based on comparative analysis in the present
document:
{width="4.024305555555555in" height="2.6625in"}
Figure 6.1.3.2-1: An example of ONAP Controller utilizing the management
services provided by 3GPP MnS(s) Provider
#### 6.1.3.3 An example of 3GPP MnF using interface provided by ONAP VF-C
Figure 6.1.3.3-1 shows an example of 3GPP MnF using interfaces provided by
OANP VF-C. In this example, in order to support provisioning MnS in the
virtualization environment, the 3GPP MnF which provide provisioning MnS as
ONAP VF-C consumer may use some interfaces (e.g. Network Service lifecycle
management interface and VNF lifecycle management interface) provided by ONAP
VF-C for the lifecycle management of Network Service(s) and VNF(s).
{width="5.065972222222222in" height="1.1631944444444444in"}
Figure 6.1.3.3-1: An example of 3GPP MnF using some interfaces provided by
ONAP VF-C
NOTE: In this example, the 3GPP MnF is used to provide the provisioning MnS.
## 6.2 Comparative analysis
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This clause provides a comparison of configuration management capabilities
between ONAP controllers and 3GPP 5G management services for provisioning
based on the assumed positioning (cf. clause 6.1).
### 6.2.2 Management principles
APPC is designed to perform LCM and CM operations on VNFs. In ONAP R3, APPC
does not officially support any operations towards PNFs.
VF-C is an implementation of an ETSI NFV-MANO stack and provides an LCM
interface towards ETSI-compliant VNFs via the Os-Ma-nfvo, Ve-Vnfm-em and Ve-
Vnfm-vnf reference points (cf. clause 5.2 of [2]). These reference points are
outside of the domain of the 3GPP 5G management services. VF-C is not designed
to perform application CM operations on VNFs.
A 3GPP 5G management service producer provides provisioning management
services to perform LCM and CM operations and related notifications on a 5G
network. The 5G network is modelled in the 5G NRM (model is specified in YANG,
JSON and XML solution sets) and allows the consumer of the provisioning
management service to create, delete, modify and get attributes of any object
instances in the model (NRM) The consumer may additionally subscribe to
receive notifications on creation and deletion of an object instance or an
attributeValueChange of an object instance. The NRM fragments includes
Subnetwork, NR, 5GC, NetworkSlice, NetworkSliceSubnet, ME, MF, VNF and PNF
(VNF and PNF models are imported from ETSI NFV). For provisioning management
of Subnetwork, NetworkSlice and NetworkSliceSubnet the 3GPP provisioning
management service producer can in addition perform allocate and deallocate
operations.
### 6.2.3 Communication protocols
#### 6.2.3.1 NETCONF
APPC allow the use of the NETCONF protocol towards the xNF. (As noted above,
APPC does not officially have support for PNFs in ONAP R3). APPC and their
Adapters utilize device YANG model and NETCONF APIs to make the required
changes in the VNF state and configuration. APPC support the following
operations which act directly upon the VNF. Most of these utilize the NETCONF
interface.
The Table below is an example mapping between APPC configuration management
action and NETCONF commands.
Table 6.2.3.1.1: Example mapping table between APPC configuration management
action and NETCONF commands
* * *
**Action** **Description** **VNF Action** **NETCONF COMMANDs** Audit Compare
active configuration against a configuration stored in ONAP's configuration
store. Retrieve running configuration and device state information. Get-config
updates the config tree which can then be compared to the stored current
config in the ONAP database. get-config Configure Configures the target VNF or
VNFC. The \ operation loads all or part of a specified
configuration data set to the specified target VNF. edit-config, commit
ConfigModify The ConfigModify LCM action affects only a subset of the total
configuration data of a VNF. It can be used to change specific parameters
across a number of separate instances for the same VnfcType without changing
instance specific values of each. It can also be used to make successive
changes to a number of parameters where those changes are considered
cumulative. Thus each ConfigModify invocation leaves previous values untouched
and only edits the parameters which are sent to ONAP. The \
operation loads only a part of the full set of configuration parameters to the
specified target configuration without changing any existing parameters. edit-
config, commit ConfigSave Saves a VNF's running configuration into the
configuration store in ONAP, for later retrieval. (optional) If copy-config to
a local file is supported by the VNFC this command is used to store the
running config locally in order to save time on any subsequent Reconfigure. To
support this action, the VNF must allow \ to save to a local file
and must support subsequent retrieval of the copied configuration back to the
running configuration. If this capability is not supported, ONAP will still
function, but updates will take longer. copy-config, delete-config
ConfigRestore Reconfigure a VNF to some previously stored baseline
configuration stored by a previous ConfigSetBaseline. If a previous config has
been saved locally use quick restore (\ from file). If the
restore fails, fallback to a process of changing the configuration value by
value using \. edit-config or copy-config
* * *
In 3GPP release 15, a YANG model of the 5G NRM is specified in TS 28.541. 3GPP
SA5 has yet to decide if the required NETCONF solution should be introduced as
Rel-16 new feature.
#### 6.2.3.2 Other protocol options
The Chef and Ansible protocols supported by ONAP controllers are primarily
intended for LCM operations rather than CM operations. Furthermore, both
protocols require the use of an open-source-based server external to ONAP. For
these reasons, these protocols are not applicable to, or appropriate for, CM
operations on the 5G NRM.
### 6.2.4 Handling of configuration management notifications
#### 6.2.4.1 3GPP configuration management notifications
3GPP configuration management notifications (i.e. notifyMOICreation,
notifyMOIDeletion and notifyMOIAttributesValueChange) are described in clauses
5.1.5, 5.1.6 and 5.1.7 of TS 28.532 [10].
#### 6.2.4.2 ONAP configuration notifications
Currently, there is no existing domain field of the ONAP R3 VES JSON API that
can be used to support or map to 3GPP configuration management notifications.
#### 6.2.4.3 Potential solution for enabling ONAP DCAE VES JSON Collector to
consume 3GPP configuration management notifications
As a potential solution for enabling the DCAE VES JSON Collector to consume
3GPP configuration management notifications, 3GPP could collaborate with ONAP
to add new possible values to the field \'domain\' of ONAP VES JSON API:
\- Prov3GPP, corresponding to 3GPP provisioning notifications.
The following new type of fields would thus be added to ONAP DCAE VES JSON API
header fields:
Table 6.2.4.3-1: New domain 'Prov3GPPFields'
* * *
Name Required Type Prov3GPPFields No Prov3GPPFields
* * *
whereProv3GPPFields could use input parameters definitions of provisioning
related notifications defined in 3GPP TS 28.532 [10]. Following example
illustrates the data type definition (described in clause 8.3.2.15 of TS
28.532 [10]) and JSON schema definition (described in Annex A.1) for
notifyMOICreation-NotifyType, which is valid for Prov3GPPFields.
Table 6.2.4.3-2: Definition of type notifyMOICreation-NotifType (defined in
clause 8.3.2.15 of TS 28.532 [10])
* * *
**Attribute name** **Data type** **Description** **SQ** header  
> href uri-Type URI of the resource where the event (alarm) occurred M >
> notificationId notificationId-Type Notification identifier as defined in
> ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] M > notificationType notificationType-Type
> Notification type (notifyMOICreation) M > eventTime dateTime-Type Event (MOI
> creation) occurrence time M > systemDN systemDN-Type System DN M body  
> correlatedNotifications array(correlatedNotification-Type) Set of all
> notifications to which this notification is considered to be correlated as
> defined in ITU-T Rec. X. 733 [4] O > additionalText additionalText-Type
> Allows a free form text description to be reported as defined in ITU-T Rec.
> X. 733 [4] O > sourceIndicator sourceIndicator-Type Indicates the source of
> the operation that led to the generation of this notification. O >
> attributeList array(attributeNameValuePair-Type) The attributes (name/value
> pairs) of the created MOI. O
* * *
The JSON schema definition (defined in Annex A.1 of TS 28.532 [10]) for
\"notifyMOICreation-NotifType\" is described as follows:
\"notifyMOICreation-NotifType\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"header\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/header-Type\"
},
\"body\": {
\"type\": \"object\",
\"properties\": {
\"correlatedNotifications\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/correlatedNotification-Type\"
}
},
\"additionalText\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/additionalText-Type\"
},
\"sourceIndicator\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/sourceIndicator-Type\"
},
\"attributeList\": {
\"type\": \"array\",
\"items\": {
\"\$ref\": \"#/components/schemas/attributeNameValuePair-Type\"
}
}
}
}
}
},
## 6.3 Conclusions on configuration management
The clause 6 of the present document studies the positioning of ONAP
Controllers with regard to 3GPP management services for configuration
management purposes. It also analyzes configuration management mechanisms in
both ONAP Controllers (APPC) and 3GPP provisioning management services, from
following perspectives:
\- Configuration management: NETCONF protocol should be used for configuration
management purposes. The Chef and Ansible protocols supported by ONAP
controllers are primarily intended for LCM operations rather than CM
operations and are not appropriate for configuration management on 5G network;
\- Configuration management notification: is specified in 3GPP provisioning
management services, but there is no existing domain field of the ONAP R3 VES
JSON API that can be used to support or map to 3GPP configuration management
notifications. One potential solution is enabling the DCAE R3 VES JSON
Collector to consume 3GPP configuration management notifications.
It is recommended to start normative work on configuration management on the
following aspects:
\- Specifying NETCONF solution set support for configuration management
purpose,
\- Investigating potential solution for CM notification.
#