# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
In order to ensure correctness and consistency of the specifications (i.e.,
technical specifications and technical reports) under responsibility of the
Technical Specification Groups (TSG) of the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP), clear, manageable and efficient mechanisms are necessary to
handle version control, change control, document updating, distribution and
management.
The provisions for this Release are identical with those for the latest
Release of TR 21.900 [1].
# 1 Scope
This document outlines the working methods to be used by the 3GPP Technical
Specification Groups and their Working Groups and their Sub-Groups, and by the
3GPP Support Team in relation to document management, i.e. handling of
specifications, updating procedures, Change Request procedures, version
control mechanisms, specifications status information etc. It complements the
rules and procedures defined for 3GPP. This document does not stipulate the
details of the internal working of the TSG Sub-Groups. From the Technical
Specification Group point of view, a task and responsibility is given to a
Working Group directly answering to the Technical Specification Group. In
practice, the work/task may be carried out in a subgroup of that Working
Group.
# 1A References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.900 Release 12: \"Technical Specification Group working
methods\".
#