# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies requirements on UEs supporting a DB-DC-HSDPA,
4C-HSDPA, and 8C-HSDPA configuration that is independent of release. TSG-RAN
has agreed that the standardisation of new configurations may be independent
of a release. However, in order to implement a UE that conforms to a
particular release but supports a configuration that is specified in a later
release, it is necessary to specify some extra requirements.
For example, Band I-XI combination for DB-DC-HSDPA (referred to as DB-DC-HSDPA
configuration 4 in [2]) is contained in the Release 10 specifications. In
order to implement a UE conforming to Release 9 but supporting this
configuration, it is necessary for the UE to additionally conform to some
parts of the Release 10 specifications, such as the radio frequency and radio
resource management requirements for the configuration.
Similarly, 4C-HSDPA configuration I-3 is contained in the Release 11
specification [3]. In order to implement a UE conforming to Release 10, but
supporting this configuration, it is necessary for the UE to additionally
conform to some parts of the Release 11 specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.101 (Release 10): \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.101 (Release 11): \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and
reception (FDD)\".
[4] Void
[5] Void
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
DB-DC-HSDPA Dual Band Dual Cell HSDPA
4C-HSDPA Four-carrier HSDPA
8C-HSDPA Eight-carrier HSDPA
# 4 DB-DC-HSDPA configurations independent of release
## 4.1 Void
## 4.2 Void
## 4.3 Void
# 5 4C-HSDPA configurations independent of release
## 5.1 Single-band contiguous configurations
### 5.1.1 Void
### 5.1.2 Void
## 5.2 Dual-band configurations
### 5.2.1 Void
### 5.2.2 Void
### 5.2.3 Void
### 5.2.4 Void
### 5.2.5 Void
# 6 8C-HSDPA configurations independent of release
#