# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is an introduction to the 3GPP TS 25.41x series of
Technical Specifications that define the Iu interface for the interconnection
of Radio Network Controller (RNC) component of the UMTS Terrestrial Radio
Access Network (UTRAN) to the Core Network of the UMTS system.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN Overall Description\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.930: \"Iu Principles\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.110: \"UMTS Access Stratum Services and Functions\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.411: \"UTRAN Iu Interface Layer 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.412: \"UTRAN Iu Interface Signalling Transport\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu Interface RANAP Signalling\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.414: \"UTRAN Iu Interface Data Transport and Transport
Signalling\"
[8] 3GPP TS 25.415: \"UTRAN Iu Interface User Plane Protocols\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation Q.711 (1996-07): \"Functional description of the
signalling connection control part\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation Q.712 (1996-07): \"Definition and function of
signalling connection control part messages\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation Q.713 (1996-07): \"Signalling connection control
part formats and codes\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation Q.714 (1996-07): \"Signalling connection control
part procedures\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, Addressing and Identification\".
[14] 3GPP TS 25.419: \"UTRAN Iu Interface: Service Area Broadcast Protocol
SABP\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.153: \"Out of Band Transcoder Control; Stage 2\".
[16] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.1: \"AAL type 2 signalling protocol -
(Capability Set 1)\".
[17] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2: \"AAL type 2 signalling protocol -
Capability Set 2\".
[18] IETF RFC 3332 (2002-09): \"Signalling System 7 (SS7) Message Transfer
Part 3 (MTP3) -- User Adaptation Layer (M3UA)\"
[19] IETF RFC 1889 (1996-01): \"RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real Time
Applications\".
[20] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[21] IETF RFC 793 (1981-09): \"TCP, Transmission Control Protocol\".
[22] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[23] Void
[24] Void
[25] 3GPP TS 23.236: \"Intra-domain connection of Radio Access Network (RAN)
nodes to multiple Core Network (CN) nodes\".
[26] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network sharing; Architecture and functional
description\".
[27] 3GPP TS23.246: **Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS)**
Architecture and functional description
[28] 3GPP TS 25.346: "Introduction of the Multimedia Broadcast Multicast
Service (MBMS) in the Radio Access Network (RAN); Stage 2".
[29] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[30] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection for
Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TS 25.401 [1] apply.
**MBMS related terms and definitions:**
**MBMS bearer service** : as defined in TS 23.246 [27].
**MBMS RAB** : as defined in TS 25.346 [28].
**MBMS Iu signalling connection** : as defined in TS 25.346 [28].
**MBMS session start** : as defined in TS 25.346 [28].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
3G-MSC 3^rd^ Generation Mobile Switching Centre
3G-SGSN 3^rd^ Generation Serving GPRS Support Node
AAL ATM Adaptation Layer
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
BC Broadcast
BSSMAP Base Station Subsystem Management Application Part
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
CC Connection Confirm
CN Core Network
CR Connection Release
CREF Connection Refusal
CS Circuit Switched
GT Global Title
GTP-U GPRS Tunnelling Protocol
GWCN Gateway Core Network
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
IP Internet Protocol
ISDN Integrated Services Digital Network
L-GW Local GateWay
LA Location Area
M3UA MTP3 User Adaptation Layer
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
MDT Minimization of Drive-Tests
MOCN Multi Operator Core Network
NAS Non Access Stratum
NACC Network Assisted Cell Change
NNSF NAS Node Selection Function
O&M Operation and Maintenance
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
PS Packet Switched
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network
PVC Permanent Virtual Circuit
QoS Quality of Service
RA Routing Area
RAB Radio Access Bearer
RANAP Radio Access Network Application Part
RIM RAN Information Management
RLP Radio Link Protocol
RNC Radio Network Controller
RNL Radio Network Layer
RRC Radio Resource Control
RTCP Real Time Control Protocol
RTP Real Time Protocol
SA Service Area
SABP Service Area Broadcast Protocol
SAP Service Access Point
SCCP Signalling Connection Control Part
SIPTO Selected IP Traffic Offload
SIPTO\@LN Selected IP Traffic Offload at the Local Network
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SNA Shared Network Area
SPC Signalling Point Code
SRNS Serving Radio Network Subsystem
SSN Sub-System Number
SVC Switched Virtual Circuit
S-GW Serving GateWay
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
UE User Equipment
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UP User Plane
URA UTRAN Registration Area
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
VC Virtual Circuit
## 3.3 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
Procedure When referring to a procedure in the specification the Procedure
Name is written with the first letters in each word in upper case characters
followed by the word \"procedure\", e.g. Radio Network Layer procedures.
Message When referring to a message in the specification the MESSAGE NAME is
written with all letters in upper case characters followed by the word
\"message\", e.g. RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST message.
Frame When referring to a control or data frame in the specification the
CONTROL/DATA FRAME NAME is written with all letters in upper case characters
followed by the words \"control/data frame\", e.g. DCH transport frame.
# 4 General Aspects
## 4.1 UTRAN Architecture
### 4.1.1 Iu Interface Architecture
The overall UMTS architecture and UTRAN architectures are described in TS
25.401 [1]. This subclause specifies only the architecture of the Iu
interface, and shall not constrain the network architecture of either Core or
Radio Access Networks.
The I~u~ interface is specified at the boundary between the Core Network and
UTRAN. Figure 4.1 depicts the logical division of the I~u~ interface. From the
Iu perspective, the UTRAN access point is an RNC.
Figure 4.1: I~u~ Interface Architecture
The Iu interface towards the PS-domain of the core network is called Iu-PS,
and the Iu interface towards the CS-domain is called Iu-CS. The differences
between Iu-CS and Iu-PS are treated elsewhere in the present document. The Iu
interface to the Broadcast domain is called Iu-BC.
There shall not be more than one Iu interface (Iu-PS) towards the PS-domain
from any one RNC-- except where the NNSF is used, see subclause 4.1.3, or in
MOCN configuration -- see TS 23.251 [26]. Each RNC shall not have more than
one Iu interface (Iu-CS) towards its default CN node within the CS domain, but
may also have further Iu interfaces (Iu-CS) towards other CN nodes within the
CS domain. (See [6] for definition of Default CN node.) These further Iu
interfaces (Iu-CS) shall only be used as a result of intra-MSC inter-system
handover or SRNS relocation, in the case the anchor CN node directly connects
to the target RNC. There may also be more than one Iu interface towards the
CS-Domain if the NNSF is used -- see subclause 4.1.3, or in MOCN configuration
-- see TS 23.251 [26]. There shall not be more than one Iu interface (Iu-BC)
from an RNC towards the Broadcast domain.
In the separated core network architecture, this means that there shall be
separate signalling and user data connections towards the PS and CS domains --
this applies in both transport and radio network layers.
In the combined architecture, there shall be separate connections in the user
plane towards the PS and CS domains (in both transport and radio network
layers). In the control plane, there shall be separate SCCP connections to the
two logical domains.
In either architecture, there can be several RNCs within UTRAN and so UTRAN
may have several I~u~ access points towards the Core Network. As a minimum,
each Iu access point (in UTRAN or CN) shall independently fulfil the
requirements of the relevant Iu specifications (25.41x series \-- see clause
7).
### 4.1.2 I~u~ connection principles
The Iu interface has a hierarchical architecture where one higher layer entity
controls several lower layer entities. The hierarchy for the CN - UTRAN
signalling connection end points is described below:
\- Each CN Access Point may be connected to one or more UTRAN Access Points.
\- For the PS domain, each UTRAN Access Point shall not be connected to more
than one CN Access Point -- except where the NNSF is used, see subclause
4.1.3, or when RNC is shared in MOCN configuration..
\- For the CS domain, each UTRAN Access Point may be connected to one or more
CN Access Points.
\- For the BC domain, each UTRAN Access Point may be connected to one CN
Access Point only.
### 4.1.3 Implementation of the NAS Node Selection Function
The optional NAS Node Selection Function (NNSF) is described in TS 23.236
[25].
If the NAS Node Selection Function is used by an RNC:
\- There may be more than one Iu interface (Iu-CS) towards the CS domain
and/or more than one Iu interface (Iu-PS) towards the PS-domain from this RNC.
### 4.1.4 Implementation of MOCN configuration support
The MOCN configuration is described in TS 23.251 [26]. When the RNC is shared
in MOCN configuration:
  * There may be more than one Iu interface (Iu-CS) towards the CS domain of different CN operators and/or more than one Iu interface (Iu-PS) towards the PS-domain of different CN operators from this RNC.
  * The MOCN Rerouting Function shall be supported.
## 4.2 I~u~ Interface General Principles
From a UTRAN perspective, maximising the commonality of the various protocols
that flow on the Iu interface is desirable. This means at the minimum that:
\- A common set of radio access bearer services will be offered by UTRAN to
the Core Network nodes, regardless of their type (e.g. 3G-MSC or 3G-SGSN).
There will be a common functional split between UTRAN and the Core Network
nodes, regardless of their type (e.g. 3G-MSC or 3G-SGSN).
Signalling in the radio network control plane shall not depend on the specific
choice of transport layers.
## 4.3 I~u~ Interface Specification Objectives
The following objectives are partly derived from TR 23.930 [2].
The I~u~ interface shall be specified such that it can support:
\- the interconnection of RNCs with Core Network Access Points within a single
PLMN, and within several PLMNs in case of network sharing, as described in TS
23.251 [26].
\- the interconnection of RNCs with Core Network Access Points irrespective of
the manufacturer of any of the elements.
\- all UMTS services.
The I~u~ interface shall facilitate the use of the same RNC, MSC or SGSN in
all PLMNs.
The I~u~ interface shall facilitate the sharing of transport technology
between Iu-PS and Iu-BC.
The I~u~ interface shall allow interworking to the GSM Core Network.
Independence between the protocol layers and between control and user planes
shall be maintained on the Iu interface.
The I~u~ interface shall allow independent evolution of technologies within
the Core, Radio Access and Transport Networks.
The I~u~ interface shall allow separate evolution of O&M facilities.
The I~u~ interface shall be standardised as an open and multi-vendor
interface.
The Iu interface specifications shall facilitate the migration of some
services from the CS-domain to the PS-domain. In particular, the RANAP
protocol shall be common to both PS and CS domains, and the I~u~ user plane
protocol(s) shall be independent of the core network domain (PS or CS), except
where a specific feature is only required for one domain.
## 4.4 I~u~ Interface Capabilities
The following capabilities are derived from the requirements described in TR
23.930 [2].
The I~u~ interface supports:
\- procedures to establish, maintain and release Radio Access Bearers;
\- procedures to perform SRNS relocation, intra-system handover, inter-system
handover and inter-system change;
\- procedures to support the Cell Broadcast service;
\- a set of general procedures, not related to a specific UE;
\- the separation of each UE on the protocol level for user specific
signalling management;
\- the transfer of NAS signalling messages between UE and CN;
\- location services by transferring requests from the CN to UTRAN, and
location information from UTRAN to CN. The location information may comprise a
geographical area identifier or global co-ordinates with uncertainty
parameters;
\- simultaneous access to multiple CN domains for a single UE;
\- mechanisms for resource reservation for packet data streams;
\- procedures to support MBMS bearer services;
\- mechanisms to support SIPTO at Iu-PS for a specific UE (optional);
\- mechanisms to support SIPTO at the Local Network with standalone GW for a
specific UE (optional).
## 4.5 I~u~ Interface Characteristics
### 4.5.1 Use of Transport Network User Plane as Signalling Bearer
#### 4.5.1.1 Use of SCCP
##### 4.5.1.1.1 General
The SCCP (ITU-T Rec. Q.711 [9] /ITU-T Rec. Q.712 [10]/ITU-T Rec. Q.713
[11]/ITU-T Rec. Q.714 [12]) is used to support signalling messages between the
CNs and the RNC. One user function of the SCCP, called Radio Access Network
Application Part (RANAP), is defined. The RANAP uses one SCCP signalling
connection per active UE and CN for the transfer of layer 3 messages. RANAP
also uses one SCCP signalling connection per MBMS bearer service.
Both connectionless and connection-oriented procedures are used to support the
RANAP. TS 25.413 [6] explains whether connection oriented or connectionless
services should be used for each layer 3 procedure.
RANAP may use SSN, SPC and/or GT and any combination of them as addressing
schemes for the SCCP. Which of the available addressing scheme to use for the
SCCP is an operator matter.
When GT addressing is utilised, the following settings shall be used:
\- SSN Indicator = 1 (RANAP SSN as defined in TS 23.003 [13] shall always be
included).
\- Global Title Indicator = 0100 (GT includes translation type, numbering
plan, encoding scheme and nature of address indicator).
\- Translation Type = 0000 0000 (not used).
\- Numbering Plan = 0001 (E.163/4).
\- Nature of Address Indicator = 000 0100 (International Significant Number).
\- Encoding Scheme = 0001 or 0010 (BCD, odd or even).
\- Routing indicator = 0 or 1 (route on GT or PC/SSN).
When used, the GT shall be the E.164 address of the relevant node.
The following subclauses describe the use of SCCP connections for RANAP
transactions. Subclause 4.5.1.2 describes the connection establishment
procedures. Subclause 4.5.1.3 describes the connection release procedures.
Subclause 4.5.1.4 describes abnormal conditions.
##### 4.5.1.1.2 SCCP Connection Establishment procedure
A new SCCP connection is established when information related to the
communication between a UE and the network has to be exchanged between RNC and
CN, and no SCCP connection exists between the CN and the RNC involved, for the
concerned UE. A new SCCP connection is also established for MBMS service
purpose between the RNC and CN.
Various SCCP connection establishment cases have to be distinguished:
i) RNC Initiated SCCP Signalling Connection for a UE;
ii) CN Initiated SCCP Signalling Connection for a UE;
iii) CN Initiated SCCP Signalling Connection for an MBMS Service.
The above cases are the only cases currently identified for SCCP connection
establishment. Others may emerge in the future.
##### 4.5.1.1.2.1 Establishment procedure in case i {#establishment-procedure-
in-case-i .H6}
The SCCP signalling connection establishment is initiated, by the RNC, at the
reception of the first layer 3 non access stratum message from the UE or at
the execution of the enhanced relocation or at the initiation of the UE
Registration Query procedure.
**Initiation**
The RNC sends SCCP CONNECTION REQUEST message to the Core Network. A RANAP
message shall be included in the user data field of the SCCP CONNECTION
REQUEST message when the RANAP message size is less than or equal to the
maximum size of the user data field in the SCCP CONNECTION REQUEST message.
When the RANAP message is longer than the maximum size, the user data field
shall not be included in the SCCP CONNECTION REQUEST message.
If the Core Network receives an SCCP CONNECTION REQUEST message for a UE for
which an SCCP connection already exists, or if the Core Network receives an
SCCP CONNECTION REQUEST message that does not include a user data field, and
later finds out that the SCCP CONNECTION REQUEST message was for a UE for
which an SCCP connection already exists, the Core Network shall ensure that
the new SCCP connection and the already existing SCCP connection are for the
same UE, e.g. by security functions, and if so, release the already existing
SCCP connection via the normal Iu Release procedure and all UTRAN resources
allocated to it.
**Termination**
**\- successful outcome**
\- The SCCP CONNECTION CONFIRM message, which may optionally contain a
connection oriented RANAP message in the user data field, is returned to the
RNC.
**\- unsuccessful outcome**
\- If the SCCP signalling connection establishment fails, an SCCP CONNECTION
REFUSAL message will be sent back to the RNC. This message may contain a RANAP
message in the user data field.
For more information on how the RANAP procedures Initial UE Message, Enhanced
Relocation Complete and UE Registration Query are handled, please see the
elementary procedures Initial UE Message, Enhanced Relocation Complete and UE
Registration Query in TS 25.413 [6].
RNC CN\ \ CR {SSN=RANAP, a1=x, RANAP message or no user data}\
\------------------------------------------->\ \ \ CC {a1=y,a2=x, RANAP
message or no user data}\ \\ \ or\
CREF{a2=y, RANAP message or no user data}\
\------------------------------------------>\ \ \ a1 = source local
reference,\ a2 = destination local reference,
x = SCCP connection reference at the RNC,
y = SCCP connection reference at the CN.
Figure 4.3: Setting-up of CN Initiated SCCP Signalling Connection
##### 4.5.1.1.2.3 Establishment procedure in case iii {#establishment-
procedure-in-case-iii .H6}
The SCCP signalling connection establishment is initiated, by the Core
Network, to establish a new SCCP connection between the RNC and the CN for an
MBMS service at the start of an MBMS session and when no SCCP connection
already exists between the CN and the RNC involved, for the concerned MBMS
service.
**Initiation**
The Core Network initiates the connection establishment by sending an SCCP
CONNECTION REQUEST message to the RNC. Optionally, a RANAP message may be
included in the user data field of the SCCP CONNECTION REQUEST message.
**Termination**
**\- successful outcome**
\- The SCCP CONNECTION CONFIRM message, which may optionally contain a
connection oriented RANAP message in the user data field, is returned to the
Core Network.
**\- unsuccessful outcome**
\- If the SCCP signalling connection establishment fails, an SCCP CONNECTION
REFUSAL message will be sent back to the Core Network. This message may
contain a RANAP message in the user data field.
##### 4.5.1.1.3 SCCP Connection Release procedure
This procedure is always initiated at the Core Network side in normal release
case.
An SCCP connection is released when the CN realises that a given signalling
connection is no longer required.
The CN sends a SCCP RELEASED message.
The procedure may be initiated at the Core Network side and the RNC side in
any abnormal release case.
##### 4.5.1.1.4 General SCCP Abnormal Conditions
If a user-out-of-service information or signalling-point-inaccessible
information is received by the RANAP, no new attempt to establish SCCP
connections towards the affected point code will be started until the
corresponding user-in-service information or signalling-point-accessible
information is received.
When a user-out-of-service information or signalling-point-inaccessible is
received by the RNC, an optional timer may be started. When the timer expires,
all the SCCP connections towards the affected point code will be released.
When the user-in-service or signalling-point-accessible is received, the timer
is stopped.
If for any reason an SCCP connection is released, the optional timer expires
or a connection refusal is received while any of the RANAP procedures are
being performed or while a dedicated resource is still allocated, the
following actions are taken:
**At RNC:**
\- Any RNC procedure relating to that connection is abandoned.
\- The UTRAN resources allocated to the connection are released.
**At Core Network:**
\- The resources associated with the SCCP connection are cleared as soon as
possible.
#### 4.5.1.2 Use of MTP3b
\- For a given MSC, the RNC shall be able to access RANAP and ALCAP either
under the same MTP3b (IETF RFC 3332 [18]) destination point code, or under
different point codes;
\- For a given RNC, the MSC shall be able to access RANAP and ALCAP either
under the same MTP3b destination point code, or under different point codes.
### 4.5.2 Use of Transport Network User Plane as User Data Bearer
#### 4.5.2.1 Use of AAL2
In the ATM transport option AAL2 is used as the user data bearer towards the
CS domain.
Q.2630.2 is used as the protocol for dynamically setup AAL-2 connections over
Iu towards the CS domain. Q.2630.2 adds new optional capabilities to Q.2630.1.
#### 4.5.2.2 Use of GTP-U
GTP-U is used as the user data bearer towards the PS domain.
RANAP Signalling is used to establish, modify and release the GTP-U tunnels
towards the PS domain.
#### 4.5.2.3 Use of RTP
RTP/UDP/IP (IETF RFC 1889 [19]/ IETF RFC 768 [20]/ IETF RFC 791[22]) is used
as the user data bearer towards the CS domain in the IP transport option. The
use of RTCP (IETF RFC 1889 [19]) is optional.
RANAP Signalling is used to establish, modify and release RTP sessions towards
the CS domain.
### 4.5.3 Use of Transport Network User Plane on Iu-BC
TCP/IP (IETF RFC 793[21]/ IETF RFC 791[22]) is used as the bearer for the
radio network layer protocol over I~u~-BC.
The TCP connection is normally established by the CN using standard TCP
procedures.
A new TCP connection is established by the RNC only when there is information
(e.g. failure or restart indications) that needs to be sent from RNC to the
CN, and there is no existing TCP connection. The RNC shall establish the
connection using standard TCP procedures.
The node that established the connection shall release the TCP connection.
# 5 Functions of the I~u~ Interface Protocols & Functional Split
## 5.1 General
This subclause defines the functional split between the core network and the
UMTS radio access network. In addition, the possible interaction between the
functions is defined. The functional split is shown in table 5.1.
Table 5.1: Iu interface functional split
* * *
Function UTRAN CN **RAB management functions:**  
RAB establishment, modification and release X X RAB characteristics mapping
I~u~ transmission bearers X  
RAB characteristics mapping Uu bearers X  
RAB queuing, pre-emption and priority X X
**Radio Resource Management functions:**  
Radio Resource admission control X  
Broadcast Information X X
**I~u~ link Management functions:**  
I~u~ signalling link management X X ATM VC management X X AAL2 establish and
release X X AAL5 management X X GTP-U Tunnels management X X TCP Management X
X Buffer Management X
**I~u~ U-plane (RNL) Management:**  
I~u~ U-plane frame protocol management X I~u~ U-plane frame protocol
initialization X
**Mobility management functions:**  
Location information reporting X X Handover and Relocation  
Inter RNC hard HO, Iur not used or not available X X Serving RNS Relocation
(intra/inter MSC) X X Inter system hard HO (UMTS-GSM) X X Inter system Change
(UMTS-GSM) X X Paging Triggering X GERAN System Information Retrieval X X
**Security Functions:**  
Data confidentiality  
Radio interface ciphering X  
Ciphering key management X User identity confidentiality X X Data integrity  
Integrity checking X  
Integrity key management X
**Service and Network Access functions:**  
CN Signalling data X X Data Volume Reporting X  
UE Tracing X X MDT X X Location reporting X X
**I** ~u~ **Co-ordination functions:**  
Paging co-ordination X X NAS Node Selection Function X  
MOCN Rerouting Function X X SIPTO at Iu-PS X X SIPTO at the Local Network with
Standalone GW X X
**MBMS functions** X X MBMS RAB Management X X MBMS UE Linking Function X X
MBMS Registration Control Function X X MBMS Enquiry Function X X
* * *
## 5.2 RAB management Functions
### 5.2.1 RAB establishment, modification and release function
The RAB, Radio Access Bearer, is defined to be set-up between UE and CN.
Depending on subscription, service, requested QoS etc. different types of RABs
will be used. It is the CN that controls towards the UTRAN the establishment,
modification or release of a RAB. Furthermore, the CN selects the type of the
transport bearer, i.e. ATM or IP.
The RAB identity is allocated by CN by mapping the value for the NAS Binding
information (from the actual protocol IE for the respective CN domain) to the
RAB ID as specified in TS 23.110 [3]. The RAB identity is globally significant
on both the radio bearer and on the Iu bearer for a given UE in a particular
CN domain.
RAB establishment, modification and release is a CN initiated function.
RAB establishment, modification and release is a UTRAN executed function.
RAB release request is a UTRAN initiated function, triggered when UTRAN e.g.
fails to keep the RAB established with the UE.
### 5.2.2 RAB characteristics mapping to Uu bearers function
The RAB characteristics mapping function is used to map the radio access
bearers to the Uu bearers. The mapping is performed during the establishment
of the RAB. UTRAN shall perform the mapping between the bearers.
RAB mapping to Uu transmission bearers is a UTRAN function.
### 5.2.3 RAB characteristics mapping to Iu transport bearers
The RAB characteristics mapping function is used to map the radio access
bearers to the Iu interface transport bearers. The mapping is performed during
the establishment of the RAB.
UTRAN shall perform this mapping between the bearers if AAL2 is used, since it
is the UTRAN that establishes the AAL2 connections.
In case of RAB towards the PS domain, UTRAN shall perform the mapping between
the radio access bearers and the IP layer.
RAB characteristics mapping to Iu transport bearers is a UTRAN function.
### 5.2.4 RAB queuing, pre-emption and priority function
The allocation/retention priority level of a RAB is determined by the CN based
on e.g. subscription information, QoS information etc. Accordingly, the CN
shall request RAB establishment or modification with an indication of the
priority level and the pre-emption capability of that RAB and the queuing
vulnerability. Queuing and resource pre-emption shall be performed by UTRAN
accordingly.
RAB queuing, pre-emption and allocation/retention priority handling is a UTRAN
controlled function.
RAB queuing, pre-emption and allocation/retention priority setting is a CN
function.
### 5.3 Radio Resource Management over Iu
### 5.3.1 Radio resource admission control
When UTRAN receives a request to establish or modify a radio access bearer
from the CN, the current radio resource situation is analysed and the
admission control either accepts or rejects the request. This is called
\"Radio resource admission control\" and is handled by the UTRAN. If the
request is queued, it is handled by the RAB queuing, pre-emption and priority
function.
### 5.3.2 Broadcast information management
This function consists in the broadcast from network toward UE of some
information in the coverage area of the whole network or different parts of
the network.
There are two kinds of Broadcast information management. UTRAN broadcast
information, and Cell Broadcast information management. All UTRAN broadcast
information management shall be handled locally within UTRAN. All Cell
Broadcast information is controlled by CN and executed by UTRAN.
## 5.4 I~u~ link Management functions
### 5.4.1 I~u~ Signalling Link Management function
The I~u~ signalling link management function provides a reliable transfer of
the radio network signalling between UTRAN and CN. Both CN and UTRAN manage
the function.
This function is in particular responsible for Iu signalling connection
establishment, which can be established either by the CN or the RNC and for
I~u~ signalling connection release, which is controlled by CN possibly upon
UTRAN request.
### 5.4.2 ATM Virtual Connection Management function
This function refers to handling of ATM Virtual Connections (VCs) between CN
and UTRAN.
This function shall be used to establish, maintain and release the ATM VCs.
For permanent VCs, it is regarded to be an O&M function.
This function also includes the selection of a Virtual Circuit to be used for
a particular RAB. The selection of ATM VC upon an Iu radio access bearer
service request, shall be done by UTRAN. The selected VC shall fulfil the
requirements of the request. The VC may consist of several sublinks: such as
SCCP connections, AAL2 connections or IP flows.
### 5.4.3 AAL2 connection establish and release function
This function is used to establish and release the AAL type 2 connections
between CN and UTRAN upon an Iu radio access bearer service request. Both
UTRAN and CN are taking part in the establishment of AAL2 connection. UTRAN
shall initiate both establishment and release of AAL2 connections. In abnormal
cases, the CN may also initiate release of AAL2 connections. The use of AAL2
for Iu transmission bearers depends on type of CN.
### 5.4.4 AAL5 management function
AAL5 connections between CN and UTRAN shall be pre-configured at system
initialisation. Basic configuration is PVCs. For user data, SVC is possible.
The AAL5 management is a function handled by both the CN and the UTRAN.
### 5.4.5 GTP-U tunnels management function
This function is used to establish and release GTP-U tunnels between CN and
UTRAN upon a radio access bearer service request. This involves assigning a
tunnel identifier for each direction and the creation of a context containing
the tunnel information. The tunnel identifier for the downlink is allocated by
the UTRAN, and the tunnel identifier for the uplink is allocated by the CN.
Both CN and UTRAN should maintain the context. The use of GTP-U for I~u~
transport bearers depends on type of CN.
### 5.4.6 TCP Management Function
This function is used to establish and release the TCP connections between CN
and UTRAN over I~u~-BC.
The TCP management function exists in both UTRAN and CN.
### 5.4.7 Buffer Management
Congestion control shall be performed over the Iu user plane using buffer
management and no flow control.
This function includes buffers to store received packet data units that at
reception can not be processed due to e.g. congestion. In UTRAN, there must be
a buffer management function handling received packets from the peer CN node.
The used mechanism is not in the scope of the present document and not
relevant to be standardised.
Buffer management is a UTRAN function.
### 5.4.8 RTP Session Management Function
This function is used to establish and release RTP sessions between CN and
UTRAN upon a radio access bearer service request. This involves assigning a
RTP session identifier for each direction and the creation of a context
containing the RTP session information. The RTP session identifier for the
downlink is allocated by the UTRAN, and the RTP session identifier for the
uplink is allocated by the CN. Both CN and UTRAN should maintain the RTP
session context. The use of RTP for Iu transport bearers depends on type of
CN.
## 5.5 I~u~ U-plane (RNL) Management Functions
### 5.5.1 I~u~ U-plane frame protocol mode selection function
The I~u~ UP in the Radio Network Layer provides modes of operation that can be
activated on RAB basis. For a given RAB, the I~u~ UP operates either in a
Transparent or in Support mode. I~u~ U-plane frame protocol mode is selected
by the CN. A set of appropriate U-plane version(s) is indicated within RANAP.
The final U-plane version is selected during the Iu UP initiation procedure
among the indicated version(s).
This function is a CN function.
### 5.5.2 I~u~ U-plane frame protocol initialisation
I~u~ U-plane frame protocol is initialised by the UTRAN. In certain cases, as
described in TS 23.153 [15], the I~u~ U-plane frame protocol may be
initialised by the CN.
## 5.6 Mobility Management Functions
### 5.6.1 Location information update function
Some functionality within the CN, needs information about the present location
of an active UE, i.e. a UE with established signalling connection. The
Location information update function is used to transfer this information from
the UTRAN to the CN. It is the UTRAN responsibility to send this information
initially at the signalling connection establishment for a UE and at any
change of the UE location as long as the signalling connection exists. For
this function, the location information shall be at Location and Routing Area
level.
### 5.6.2 Handover and Relocation functions
#### 5.6.2.1 Inter RNC hard HO function, Iur not used or not available
This functionality includes procedures for handover from one RNC to another
RNC when Iur interface is not used or is not available, i.e. soft handover is
not possible. The connection is switched in the CN, so both UTRAN and CN are
involved. Both intra and inter CN entity cases are applicable. This
functionality includes also the moving of the Serving RNS functionality from
one RNC to another RNC.
#### 5.6.2.2 Serving RNS Relocation function
This functionality allows moving the Serving RNS functionality from one RNC to
another RNC, e.g. closer to where the UE has moved during the communication.
The Serving RNS Relocation procedure may be applied when active cell
management functionality has created a suitable situation for it. Both UTRAN
and CN are involved.
#### 5.6.2.3 Inter system Handover (e.g. UMTS-GSM) function
Inter system handover is performed when a mobile hands over between cells
belonging to different systems such as GSM and UMTS. For intersystem handover
between UMTS and GSM, the GSM procedures are used within the GSM network. Both
UTRAN and CN are involved.
NOTE: The GSM BSSMAP procedures are outside the scope of the present document.
### 5.6.2A Inter System Change (e.g. UMTS-GSM) function
Inter system change is performed when a GPRS attached mobile moves from cells
belonging to different systems such as GSM and UMTS. For intersystem change
between UMTS and GSM, the GPRS procedures are used within the GPRS network.
Both UTRAN and CN are involved.
### 5.6.3 Paging Triggering
The Core Network shall, when considered necessary, trigger the
Location/Routing/RNC Area paging in the UTRAN system.
### 5.6.4 Shared Networks Access Control
The Shared Networks Access Control function allows the CN to request the UTRAN
to apply UE specific access control to the UTRAN and the neighbouring networks
on a PLMN or an SNA basis. The Shared Networks Access Control function is
further described in TS 25.401 [1].
### 5.6.5 GERAN System Information Retrieval
In order to provide the UE with system information related to NACC towards a
GERAN system - to be used as an optimisation - the GERAN System Information
Retrieval function allows the source system to request GERAN (via CN) to
provide this system information. The request and subsequent transfer of the
GERAN System Information is performed transparently with the RIM function. The
RIM function is further described in TS 25.401 [1]
## 5.7 Security Functions
### 5.7.1 Data Confidentiality
#### 5.7.1.1 Radio interface ciphering function
The radio interface shall be ciphered upon request of the Core Network. Both
Signalling and user data may be subject to ciphering. The ciphering shall be
done within UTRAN.
#### 5.7.1.2 Ciphering key management function
The ciphering key and the permitted algorithm shall be supplied by the CN.
UTRAN selects the used algorithm.
### 5.7.2 Data integrity
#### 5.7.2.1 Integrity checking
The purpose of the integrity check is to make sure that the signalling
continues between the same elements as by authentication. The integrity check
shall be done within the UTRAN.
#### 5.7.2.2 Integrity key management
The integrity key and the permitted algorithm shall be supplied by the CN.
UTRAN selects the used algorithm.
## 5.8 Service and Network Access Functions
### 5.8.1 Core Network signalling data transfer function
The NAS CN signalling data such as Call Control (CC), Session Management (SM),
Mobility Management (MM), Short Message Services Point to Point and
Supplementary Services (SS) shall be transparently conveyed between the CN and
the UE. Over the Iu interface, the same Iu interface channel that is used for
the UTRAN-CN signalling shall be used.
### 5.8.2 Data Volume Reporting
The data volume reporting function is used to report the volume of
unacknowledged data to the CN. The function shall be in the UTRAN and is
triggered from the CN.
### 5.8.3 UE Tracing
This feature allows tracing of various events related to the UE and its
activities. This is an O&M functionality.
### 5.8.4 Location reporting function
The positioning function performs the determination of the geographical
position and optionally the velocity for an UE. The location reporting
function transfers the positioning information between the UTRAN and the CN
according to CN commands. This function involves UTRAN and CN.
### 5.8.5 MDT
This feature enables the transfer of MDT measurements collected by the UE, as
defined in TS 37.320 [30]. This is an O&M functionality.
## 5.9 Co-ordination Functions
### 5.9.1 Paging Co-ordination function
The two CN domain architecture implies need for a page co-ordination, i.e.
handling of page triggered by one CN node when UE has a signalling connection
to the other CN node. The paging co-ordination is performed by UTRAN and/or
optionally by CN. The Common ID is used for UTRAN paging co-ordination. The CN
provides the UTRAN with the Common ID.
The paging co-ordination is a UTRAN function. Optionally the paging co-
ordination may be performed in the CN.
### 5.9.2 NAS Node Selection Function
The optional NAS Node Selection Function enables the RNC to initially assign
CN resources to serve a UE and subsequently setup a signalling connection to
the assigned CN resource.
The method by which the RNC initially assigns CN resources is implementation
dependent.
The NNSF is described in detail in TS 23.236 [25].
### 5.9.3 Information Transfer Function
The Information Transfer function allows configuration data to be passed from
the CN to the RNC upon CN trigger. This function is operated in acknowledged
mode. It should be used by the CN to maintain alignment between the data as
configured in the CN and the configuration data provided to the UTRAN. This
may be used e.g. to coordinate the SNA geographical definition (LA to SNA
mapping) between CN and UTRAN in order to apply access control on an SNA
basis.
### 5.9.4 MOCN Rerouting Function
Rerouting is a mechanism used as part of the assignment of CN operator in
shared networks with MOCN configuration for network sharing non-supporting UEs
when they perform initial attach /registration. In this case RNC may not know
towards which CN to route the initial UE request message and the latter may be
rerouted to another CN via RNC.
The MOCN Rerouting Function is described in detail in TS 23.251 [26].
### 5.9.5 SIPTO at Iu-PS Function
If supported, SIPTO at Iu-PS Function provides the capability to offload
certain PS RABs from the CN at RAB setup. The SIPTO at Iu-PS is implementation
dependent and may be implemented in a separate entity outside of RNS, for
further information see TS 23.060 [29].
### 5.9.6 SIPTO at the Local Network with Standalone GW
SIPTO\@LN provides access to a defined IP network (e.g. the Internet) without
the user plane traversing the mobile operator\'s core network by using
standalone GW (with S-GW and L-GW collocated) in the local network, as
specified in TS 23.060 [29].
## 5.10 MBMS Functions
### 5.10.1 MBMS RAB Management functions
The MBMS RAB, Radio Access Bearer, is defined to be set-up between the CN and
one or several UEs for MBMS. Depending on the MBMS service characteristics,
different types of MBMS RABs will be used. It is the CN that controls towards
the UTRAN the establishment, update or release of an MBMS RAB. The MBMS RAB is
defined for the PS domain only.
### 5.10.2 MBMS UE Linking Function
This function provides the RNC with the list of MBMS services that a given UE,
with existing dedicated Iu-PS signalling connection, has "joined" or has
"left" TS 23.246 [27].
### 5.10.3 MBMS Registration Control Function
This function allows the RNC to either register or deregister to the PS core
network domain for a specific MBMS bearer service so that it is notified
whenever a session of this service starts.
It also allows the CN to inform the RNC that a given MBMS bearer service is no
longer available.
### 5.10.4 MBMS Enquiry Function
This function allows the RNC to request to the SGSN the list of MBMS bearer
services that a given UE has "joined" TS 23.246 [27] or the IP Multicast
Address and APN defined in TS 23.246 [27] which correspond to a given MBMS
bearer service.
# 6 I~u~ Interface Protocol Structure
## 6.1 General
The Radio Network signalling over Iu consists of the Radio Access Network
Application Part (RANAP). The RANAP protocol consists of mechanisms to handle
all procedures between the CN and UTRAN. It is also capable of conveying
messages transparently between the CN and the UE without interpretation or
processing by the UTRAN.
Over the I~u~ interface the RANAP protocol is, e.g. used for:
\- Facilitate a set of general UTRAN procedures from the Core Network such as
paging -notification as defined by the notification SAP in TS 23.110 [3].
\- Separate each User Equipment (UE) on the protocol level for mobile specific
signalling management as defined by the dedicated SAP in TS 23.110 [3].
\- Transfer of transparent non-access signalling as defined in the dedicated
SAP in TS 23.110 [3].
\- Request of various types of UTRAN Radio Access Bearers through the
dedicated SAP in TS 23.110 [3].
\- Perform the SRNS Relocation function.
\- Perform the various MBMS procedures.
\- Perform SIPTO at Iu-PS (optional).
The Radio Access Bearers are provided by the Access Stratum.
Over Iu-BC, a datagram mechanism is used, so there is no clear separation of
control and user planes, and the SABP protocol is used for data transfer and
signalling.
## 6.2 Iu-CS
Figure 6.1 shows the protocol structure for I~u~-CS, following the structure
described in TS 25.401 [1].
Figure 6.1: I~u~ --Interface Protocol Structure towards CS Domain
## 6.3 I~u~-BC
Figure 6.2 shows the protocol structure for the I~u~-BC.
Figure 6.2: I~u~ Interface Protocol Structure towards Broadcast Domain
## 6.4 I~u~-PS
Figure 6.3 shows the protocol structure for Iu-PS, following the structure
described in TS 25.401 [1].
Figure 6.3: I~u~ Interface Protocol Structure towards PS Domain
# 7 Other I~u~ Interface Specifications
## 7.1 UTRAN I~u~ Interface: Layer 1 (3GPP TS 25.411)
TS 25.411 [4] specifies the range of physical layer technologies that may be
used to support the Iu interface.
## 7.2 UTRAN I~u~ Interface: Signalling Transport (3GPP TS 25.412)
TS 25.412 [5] specifies the signalling bearers for the RANAP and transport
network control plane protocols for both Iu-PS and Iu-CS.
## 7.3 UTRAN I~u~ Interface: RANAP Specification (3GPP TS 25.413)
TS 25.413 [6] specifies the RANAP protocol for radio network control plane
signalling over the Iu interface.
## 7.4 UTRAN I~u~ Interface: Data Transport and Transport Signalling (3GPP TS
25.414)
TS 25.414 [7] specifies the transport bearers for the user plane of the Iu
interface. It also specifies the protocol used to control these transport
bearers.
## 7.5 UTRAN I~u~ Interface: CN-UTRAN User Plane Protocol (3GPP TS 25.415)
TS 25.415 [8] specifies the user plane frame handling protocol for the Iu
interface.
## 7.6 UTRAN I~u~ Interface: Service Area Broadcast Protocol SABP (3GPP TS
25.419)
TS 25.419 [14] specifies the communication requirements over the Iu interface
towards the BC domain.
## 7.7 Summary
The present document, 3GPP TS 25.410, specifies the general aspects and
principles of the I~u~ interface as a whole.
The relationship between the other technical specifications that define the
UTRAN Iu interface is shown in figure 7.1.
Figure 7.1: Summary of Iu Interface Specification Structure
#