# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Small data applications are expected to be a large growth area, with the
potential for billions of connected devices. In many cases, this type of
traffic poses different service requirements compared to conventional traffic
types. For an important segment of applications, the requirements on power
consumption and coverage versus data rate and latency may vary.
The phenomenal success of WCDMA technologies means that up to the 2020
timescale and beyond, WCDMA will be a dominant 3GPP technology with a large
coverage footprint. Furthermore, WCDMA devices are already available at a cost
level that is suitable for the machine oriented communication market. In order
to serve the market opportunities, many operators likely need to provide
enhanced support for small data applications with a coverage footprint that
WCDMA can provide.
The current generation of WCDMA specifications has been optimized for mobile
broadband traffic. To ensure that small data applications are properly
addressed, the specifications should enable requirements on coverage in
challenging device locations, low device power consumption and machine type
data rates to be met.
This Technical Report (TR) contains the investigations performed by the TSG
RAN Working Groups involved in the study of small data transmission
enhancements for UMTS.
# 1 Scope
The study on small data transmissions enhancements for UMTS has as a target to
investigate and provide solutions in the areas of coverage, signalling
optimization, support of massive deployment of devices, and power savings
taking into consideration **minimizing the impact on the physical layer,
legacy terminals, and networks [2]**.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-141711, "Study on Small Data Transmission Enhancements for UMTS"
[3] 3GPP TR 23.887: \"Study on Machine-Type Communications (MTC) and other
mobile data applications communications enhancements\".
[4] R1-145026, "Cell search coverage evaluation", Ericsson.
[5] R1-145027, "System information acquisition (BCH) coverage evaluation",
Ericsson.
[6] R1-145028, "Paging channels (PICH and PCH) coverage evaluation", Ericsson.
[7] R1-145029, "PRACH preamble coverage evaluation", Ericsson.
[8] R1-145030, "Acquisition Indicator Channel (AICH) coverage evaluation",
Ericsson.
[9] R1-145031, "Enhanced uplink (EUL) coverage evaluation", Ericsson.
[10] R1-145032, "HS-SCCH and HSPDSCH coverage evaluation", Ericsson.
[11] R1-145134, "Evaluation results on coverage enhancements", Huawei.
[12] R1-150331, "Uplink coverage evaluation for small data applications",
Ericsson.
[13] Chairman's Notes RAN1 #78bis, Ljubljana, Slovenia, 6^th^ - 10^th^ Oct
2014.
[14] R1-150333, "Analysis on repetitions and power boosting techniques for
enhancing the coverage of the PCH over the S-CCPCH", Ericsson.
[15] R1-145135, "Solutions for coverage enhancement", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[16] Uplink Capacity Maximization based on Random Access Channel (RACH)
Parameters in WCDMA, Kim Sangbum, et al, Vehicular Technology Conference, VTC
2006, IEEE 63^rd^, 2006.
[17] R1-150727, TP on solutions for coverage enhancements, Huawei, Hisilicon
[18] R1-151888, Further considerations on coverage for UMTS SDT, Huawei,
Hisilicon
> [19] R1-152074, "Coverage improvements for EUL based on a time-multiplexed
> E-DPCCH/E-DPDCH operation", Ericsson.
>
> [20] 3GPP TR 25.706: "Downlink enhancements for UMTS"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CC Convolutional Coding
CN Core Network
CPICH Common Pilot Channel
DL Downlink
FBI Feedback Information
ILPC Inner Loop Power Control
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MCL Maximum Coupling Loss
NDI New Data Indicator
NBAP Node-B Application Part
OCNS Orthogonal Channel Noise Simulator
OLPC Outer Loop Power Control
PA Pedestrian A/Paging Attempt/Power Amplifier
PCH Paging Channel
PDP Packet Data Protocol
PI Paging Indicator
PSM Power Save Mode
RSCP Received Signal Code Power
RSN Retransmission Sequence Number
RV Redundancy Version
SDT Small Data Transmissions
SG Serving Grant
SHO Soft Handover
SI Study Item
SIB System Information Block
TB Transport Block
TDM Time Division Multiplexing
TF Transport Format
UL Uplink
# 4 Objectives
**The objective of this study item is to identify any potential problems and
system bottlenecks and also technical solutions for improved support for small
data applications, delay tolerant applications and massive deployment of
devices over HSPA based transport [2].**
**The study should consider the following aspects:**
\- identify the targeted standard related small data applications, delay
tolerant applications, and applications relevant to massive deployment of
devices
\- identify the key traffic characteristics of these applications
\- identify any relevant requirements (e.g. related to latency, power and
coverage*) for these applications
\- identify any potential problems or system bottlenecks relevant to these
applications and requirements
**From the identified requirements, the study should then consider potential
technical solutions, for example:**
\- Device power saving enhancements (for example extended DTX/DRX cycles**)
(RAN1, RAN2)
\- Signalling optimizations to support massive number of devices and/or
optimize small packet transmission (for example control signalling overhead
reduction) (RAN2, RAN1)
\- Optimization of delay tolerant transmissions (RAN2)
\- Investigate mechanisms to enhance coverage for low data transmissions,
including above-mentioned optimizations (and for example time domain
repetition of physical channels or signals) (RAN1, RAN2)
**Minimizing the impact on the physical layer, and on legacy terminals and
networks, are important aspects for any considered technical solutions.
Enhancements possible with existing UE hardware are prioritized.**
* The priority of the coverage extension is to balance the link budget of different channels and signals.
** The study on DTX/DRX cycles should consider the findings in 3GPP TR 23.887
[3]. If necessary, RAN WGs should liaise with SA WGs.
# 5 Scenarios and use cases
The fundamental characteristics of the small data transmissions that are
targeted in this study item refer to improvements for any service with the
characteristics that data bursts in UL/DL are small and rather infrequent with
no strict requirements on delay.
Typical examples of traffic characteristics are captured in Table 1.
**Table 1: Fundamental characteristics of the small data transmissions**
* * *
Traffic parameter Value application packet size 100 bytes (UL); 100 bytes (DL)
latency^1^ 5s to 30min; 1hour for no mobility (static, pedestrian) frequency
every minute and up to monthly NOTE 1: latency is the duration from when the
packet arrives at the buffer until it is completely transmitted (delay
tolerance of the application).
* * *
The study should assume that UEs can be either fully stationary or moving at
pedestrian/vehicular speeds.
Small data transmission enhancements shall be able to coexist with legacy
mixed traffic on the same carrier.
Small data transmission enhancements shall have a limited fundamental cost in
terms of used network resources (power, codes, interference, etc.).
# 6 Study areas
## 6.1 Coverage enhancements
### 6.1.1 Reference scenario
The relative coverage of all the channels considered as relevant for the study
on small data transmission enhancements were investigated by calculating the
maximum coupling loss using the reference scenario outlined in the Table 2.
**Table 2: Reference scenario for coverage enhancements evaluations**
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Assumption | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | TBS | 120 bits (HS, EUL) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE capability | Rel-12, supporting any legacy | | | feature improving coverage | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UE antennas | 1 antenna | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of Node B antennas | 2 antennas (uncorrelated) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum UE carrier transmit | 23 dBm at antenna connector | | power | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum Node B carrier transmit | 43 dBm at antenna connector | | power | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE receiver noise figure | 9 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Node B receiver noise figure | 5 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink common channel power | P-CPICH: -10 dB from max carrier | | settings | power | | | | | | P-SCH: -12 dB\ | | | S-SCH: -13.5 dB\ | | | P-CCPCH (BCH): -12 dB | | | | | | For other channels reasonable | | | power settings can be proposed. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | DL inter-cell interference | No inter-cell interference | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Soft/softer handover | No soft/softer handover | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink OCNS | OCNS added to fill up DL carrier | | | power | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink rise-over-thermal (RoT) | 10 dB | | operation point | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel model | Ped A 1 Hz Doppler spread, AWGN | | | static channel | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2.0 GHz | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Frequency error | 20 kHz, 1 kHz optional, in cell | | | search simulations\ | | | \ | | | 0 otherwise | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Beta values | To be provided with evaluation | | | results | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 6.1.1.1 Evaluation methodology and metrics
Link level simulations should be conducted to evaluate the solutions for
coverage enhancement, considering the following aspects.
  * **For data channels, the fixed TB size simulation is used and** a desired BLER level is targeted for both the potential enhancement and the baseline.
  * Maximum available power is assumed to be used for coverage evaluation. Especially when different channels are simultaneously transmitted, the maximum available power for each channel should be calculated based on a reasonable power ratio setting, which is theoptimum point leading to maximum coverage.
  * ILPC and OLPC are turned off.
To compare solutions on coverage enhancement, the following metrics should be
investigated:
  * Required Rx Ec/No.
  * Average occupied resources for one transport block: for coverage enhancement, different solutions may consume different amount of resources. If more resources are needed, then the supported UE numbers in the system would be different. Hence, the occupied resources should be also evaluated.
  * Effective throughput or transmission delay on physical layer for each transport block.
To compare different solutions on coverage enhancement, one method could be to
align the required Rx Ec/No for different solutions as an identical desired
SNR target, which is calculated from the requirement for coverage. With the
same desired Rx SNR, the solutions can be evaluated by comparing the metrics
of average occupied TTIs and the effective throughput.
### 6.1.2 Baseline evaluation results
#### 6.1.2.1 Coverage evaluation results source I
MCL evaluations for different channels based on the reference scenario
described in section 6.1.1 are summarized in Table 3.
Table 3: Summary of the MCL evaluations
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | * | ** | **Pag | ** |** A | ** | * | ** | | | _Cell | BCH_ _| ing_ _| PRACH | ICH_ _| EUL_ _|_ HS-S | HS-PD | | | sea | | | pream | | | CCH**| SCH** | | | rch**|**( | **(P | ble** | | **(DP | | | | | | P-CCP | ICH,\ | | | CCH,\ | | | | |**(P- | CH)**| S-CCP | | | E-D | | | | | SCH,\ | | CH)** | | | PCCH, | | | | | S-S | | | | | E-DPD | | | | | CH)**| | | | | CH)** | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MCL | 154 | 150 | 143 | | 145 | 141 | 144 | 160 | | [d | | | | | | | | | | B],\ | | | | | | | | | | Ped A | | | | | | | | | | 1 Hz | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MCL | 152 | 152 | 149 | 143 | 152 | 146 | 150 | 158 | | [d | | | | | | | | | | B],\ | | | | | | | | | | AWGN | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**\- Cell search** : For cell search the MCL value can be further improved by
relaxing the initial acquisition time further, which should be possible for
many of the small data transmission use cases. Moreover, the MCL value will be
better if cell search in idle/active mode is considered. Also, the MCL values
increase by 4 dB if 100 ms accumulation is used instead of 10 ms accumulation,
with somewhat higher complexity cost in the UE. See [4] for further details.
**\- System information acquisition (BCH):** For BCH the MCL depends on the
acceptable system information acquisition time, so the value can be a few dB
better or worse depending on the requirement. See [5] for further details.
**\- Paging channels (PICH and PCH):** The MCL for paging procedure is limited
by the S-CCPCH rather than the PICH, and is very dependent on the number of
paging repetitions performed. If more than two repetitions are allowed, the
MCL can improve by a few dB. See [6] for further details.
**\- PRACH preamble:** For the PRACH preamble, the evaluation has been done
assuming an AWGN channel only. The MCL result depends on acceptable false
alarm and detection probability. Clearly also here retransmissions is a useful
tool to improve coverage, but it shall be noted that a fair amount of
retransmissions have already been assumed in the presented MCL values. See [7]
for further details.
**\- Acquisition indicator channel (AICH):** The MCL for AICH also depends
heavily on the acceptable missed detection probability. Given that PRACH
preambles likely will have rather bad detection probability for the users in
worst coverage, it is important to have fairly low missed detection
probability (we have assumed 5-10%). Possibly the AICH detection performance
could be improved by allowing somewhat higher power on AICH, but since it is
difficult to power control AICH one would not like to increase the power too
much considering the capacity cost. See [8] for further details.
**\- Enhanced uplink (EUL):** Also for EUL, both in CELL_DCH and CELL_FACH,
the MCL performance depends heavily on the allowed number of repetitions (HARQ
retransmissions). The MCL values given assumes at least 8 transmission
attempts. See [9] for further details.
**\- HS-SCCH and HS-PDSCH:** Comparing HS-SCCH and HS-PDSCH, more power is
normally available for the HS-PDSCH and also the HS-PDSCH can benefit from
HARQ retransmission, making the HS-SCCH the weaker link. The HS-SCCH
performance can be boosted somewhat by less conservative power setting. See
[10] for further details.
The MCL results in Table 3, seem to clearly indicate that the uplink is the
weakest link, with both PRACH preamble detection and EUL having lower
supported MCL values than other channels. In addition to uplink, the paging
channel (in particular the S-CCPCH) sticks out as a weak link.
The AICH and HS-SCCH channels are somewhere between the best and worst
channels. However, for these channels it could be viable to use somewhat less
conservative power settings to improve the MCL. AICH will still be a low power
channel, and the HS-SCCH can be power controlled such that users in really bad
radio could be given higher HS-SCCH power without causing a large overall
extra HS-SCCH power cost in the cell.
Following the above reasoning, we identify PRACH preamble detection, E-DCH
transmissions (both in CELL_FACH and CELL_DCH) and paging using S-CCPCH as
focus areas for further investigations.
#### 6.1.2.2 Coverage evaluation results source II
MCL evaluations for different channels are summarized in Table 4 and Table 5
based on the reference scenario described in section 6.1.1. See [11] for
further details.
Table 4: MCL evaluation for normal UMTS (AWGN)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Phy | PRACH | DPDCH | E-D | E-D | P- | HS | HS- | | | sical | | | PDCH\ | PCCH\ | CCPCH | -SCCH | PDSCH | | | ch | | | (10ms | (10ms | | | | | | annel | | | TTI) | TTI) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Pre | Me | | | | | | | | | amble | ssage | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Data | | 8. | 12. | 1 | | | | 6 | | rate( | | 4kbps | 2kbps | 2kbps | | | | 0kbps | | kbps) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **Tra | | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | | ter** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (0) | 23 | 23 | 23 | 23 | 23 | 43 | 43 | 43 | | Tx | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (1)A | 23 | 23 | 19.61 | 20.31 | 13.87 | 31 | 33 | 41 | | ctual | | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | | Recei | | | | | | | | | | ver**| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (2) | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | | Th | | | | | | | | | | ermal | | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | | (dB | | | | | | | | | | m/Hz) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (3) | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 9 | 9 | 9 | | Rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (4) | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | In | | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | argin | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (5) | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | | Occ | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | | upied | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | (Hz) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (6) | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | - | - | - | | U | | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | | ri | | | | | | | | | | se-ov | | | | | | | | | | er-th | | | | | | | | | | ermal | | | | | | | | | | (RoT) | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (7) | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Effe | 93.16 | 93.16 | 93.16 | 93.16 | 93.16 | 99.16 | 99.16 | 99.16 | | ctive | | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | =( | | | | | | | | | | 2)+(3 | | | | | | | | | | )+(4) | | | | | | | | | | +10lo | | | | | | | | | | g((5) | | | | | | | | | | )+(6) | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (8) | -21.6 | -23.3 | - | - | - | -21.6 | -19.6 | -15.6 | | Req | | | 26.09 | 25.69 | 33.63 | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | | SINR | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (9) | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | | Rec | 14.76 | 16.46 | 19.25 | 18.85 | 26.79 | 20.76 | 18.76 | 14.76 | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (7) | | | | | | | | | | + (8) | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | *(10) | 37.76 | 39.46 | 38.86 | 39.16 | 40.66 | 51.76 | 51.76 | 55.76 | | MCL** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (1) | | | | | | | | | | -(9) | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 5: MCL evaluation for normal UMTS (PA Channel with 1 Hz Doppler spread)
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Phy | PRACH | DPDCH | E-D | E-D | P- | HS | HS- | | | sical | | | PDCH\ | PCCH\ | CCPCH | -SCCH | PDSCH | | | ch | | | (10ms | (10ms | | | | | | annel | | | TTI) | TTI) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Pre | Me | | | | | | | | | amble | ssage | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Data | | 8. | 12. | 1 | | | | 6 | | rate( | | 4kbps | 2kbps | 2kbps | | | | 0kbps | | kbps) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **Tra | | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | | ter** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (0) | 23 | 23 | 23 | 23 | 23 | 43 | 43 | 43 | | Tx | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (1)A | 23 | 23 | 19.61 | 20.31 | 13.87 | 31 | 33 | 41 | | ctual | | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | | Recei | | | | | | | | | | ver**| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (2) | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | | Th | | | | | | | | | | ermal | | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | | (dB | | | | | | | | | | m/Hz) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (3) | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 9 | 9 | 9 | | Rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (4) | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | In | | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | argin | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (5) | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | 38 | | Occ | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | 40000 | | upied | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | (Hz) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (6) | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | 10 | - | - | - | | U | | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | | ri | | | | | | | | | | se-ov | | | | | | | | | | er-th | | | | | | | | | | ermal | | | | | | | | | | (RoT) | | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | point | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (7) | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | | Effe | 93.16 | 93.16 | 93.16 | 93.16 | 93.16 | 99.16 | 99.16 | 99.16 | | ctive | | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | =( | | | | | | | | | | 2)+(3 | | | | | | | | | | )+(4) | | | | | | | | | | +10lo | | | | | | | | | | g((5) | | | | | | | | | | )+(6) | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (8) | -14.2 | -16.7 | - | - | - | -10 | -7.7 | -7.2 | | Req | | | 17.42 | 21.89 | 26.03 | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | | SINR | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (9) | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | -1 | | Rec | 07.36 | 09.86 | 10.58 | 15.05 | 19.19 | 09.16 | 06.86 | 06.36 | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (7) | | | | | | | | | | + (8) | | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | 1 | | *(10) | 30.36 | 32.86 | 30.19 | 35.36 | 33.06 | 40.16 | 39.86 | 47.36 | | MCL** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (1) | | | | | | | | | | -(9) | | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
The evaluation results for relevant channels are shown in the Table 4 and
Table 5 for AWGN and PA channel (1HZ Doppler spread), respectively. From the
results, the following observations can be made:
\- In both AWGN and PA channel, the uplink is the bottleneck for the coverage.
\- In the downlink, the HS-PDSCH has the best coverage in both AWGN and PA due
to the high Tx power (-2dB). Considering realistic deployments, especially for
massive UE scenarios, it would not be possible to allocate so much power for
only one UE, so we still take the P-CCPCH as the channel with the best
coverage for imbalance evaluation.
\- In the uplink, the PRACH preamble has the worst coverage in both channel
models. However, it is also observed that the imbalance between PRACH, DPDCH
and E-DCH is relatively not large. The imbalance mostly exists between
downlink and uplink.
\- For AWGN channel, the maximum relative coverage imbalance between relevant
channels is about 14 dB, which is between P-CCPCH and PRACH preamble.
\- For PA channel with 1Hz Doppler spread, the maximum relative coverage
imbalance between relevant channels is 10dB, which is between P-CCPCH and
PRACH preamble.
Based on the evaluations performed, we identify PRACH preamble detection,
E-DCH transmissions (both in CELL_FACH and CELL_DCH) and PRACH message as
focus areas for further investigations.
### 6.1.3 Potential solutions
#### 6.1.3.1 Larger TTI
It is known that larger TTI can improve the coverage by decreasing the coding
rate when the wireless channel is fading. Simultaneously, a larger TTI also
leads to more power accumulation, which means that less transmission power is
needed to achieve the same SNR in the receiver for the same amount of data.
Besides the 2ms and 10ms TTI lengths in current specifications, a larger TTI
may be considered in order to achieve a larger coverage, as shown in Figure 1.
A larger TTI would have a substantial impact to the specifications and
implementation. For example, in the channel coding procedure, the data after
rate matching shall also be extended to the corresponding length according to
TTI length.
{width="5.9625in" height="1.3805555555555555in"}
Figure 1: Larger TTI.
#### 6.1.3.2 TTI repetition
TTI repetition can improve the coverage since the receiver can combine
multiple copies of the same data, assuming the same data is transmitted on
consecutive TTIs. The SNR after combining is raised, which means in each
transmission a smaller transmission power is needed to achieve the desired SNR
in the receiver. Consequently the UE can achieve good performance even in a
location with larger distance from the NodeB or when undergoes a larger path
loss.
TTI repetition can be implemented in two ways: including repetition with the
same RV or repetition with different RV, as shown in Figure 2. In Figure 2(b),
the same copy of the chip level signal is repeated in multiple consecutive
TTIs. In Figure 2(c), the same transport block is transmitted in multiple
consecutive TTIs by using different redundancy version.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="3.1791666666666667in"}
Figure 2: TTI repetition.
#### 6.1.3.3 Power boosting
Power boosting can keep the received SNR to fulfil the demodulation
requirement even if a large path loss occurs because more power is used by the
UE on the uplink transmission, as shown in Figure 3. The additional power can
compensate the large path loss. However, if the UE is deployed in the cell
edge and/or its transmission power is close to the maximum power, there would
be no power headroom to increase the coverage.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="2.0597222222222222in"}
Figure 3: Power boosting.
#### 6.1.3.4 Increasing HARQ retransmissions
In current specification HARQ mechanism allows UE to retransmit data if CRC is
wrong. Due to the larger pass loss or penetration loss, the received signal
will be weaker in each HARQ transmission. Increasing the maximum number of
HARQ retransmissions allows UE to transmit the data with lower received power
in each transmission. Even the BLER for each transmission is increased due to
the larger penetration loss, the same BLER target can still be achieved by
using more retransmissions. This leads to coverage enhancement similarly to
TTI repetition. However, increasing the maximum number of HARQ retransmissions
will increase the transmission time which leads to a larger delay, as shown in
Figure 4. Another aspect that should be considered is the coverage improvement
for the ACK/NACK signalling, which would also likely increase the delay.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="2.013888888888889in"}
Figure 4: Increasing HARQ retransmissions.
#### 6.1.3.5 PRACH preamble coverage enhancements
##### 6.1.3.5.1 Solutions of Repetitions with energy accumulation
As far as PRACH coverage is concerned, the major problem is that Node B can
not hear PRACH preamble which has already ramped up to UE maximum power. A
straight forward and efficient solution is repetition i.e. to perform energy
accumulation over longer preamble or more preamble transmissions, which
requires:
1) Deterministic timing. Interval between adjacent preamble transmissions
should be known, preferably regular and fixed. More information about the
timing of the preamble transmission and its repetitions can also improve the
detection performance.
2) Deterministic signatures for repetitions. Signatures used by repetitions
may be pre-known or persistent. For example only one signature is allocated
for small data traffic or the preamble repetitions use the same signature as
the first preamble transmission. If each signature in preamble transmission
and its repetitions are random (unknown), accumulation is still possible but
complexity and false alarm rate will be very high, since very many (16\^N, N
is the number of repetitions) hypotheses have to be made.
Figure 5: Potential solutions for preamble repetition
As in Fig 5, there can be different ways to repeat the preamble (taking 2
repetitions for example):
Solution1: Consecutive extension
Solution2: Per access slot repetition
Solution3: Retransmission making use of the legacy timing
In Solution1, PRACH preamble transmissions can cross access slot borders, and
AICH timing will have to be changed. Preambles in solution2 and solution3 are
time aligned with access slot, while in solution2 UE needs to send preamble
much more frequently and listen to AICH at the same time. In solution3, the
preamble is not only time aligned with access slot but also follows the timing
scheme in current specification.
Potentially, as part of the solution for preamble enhancement, it could be
beneficial to consider signature splitting for isolating small data RACH from
ordinary RACH since they may have very different requirements.
Evaluation results, Source 1:
The reference scenario parameters in [7] are used in the coverage evaluations.
To be consistent with previous discussions, the PRACH preamble detection is
evaluated in AWGN with an oversampling factor of 2. Node B is assumed to use
two receive antennas.
In order to cope with uplink frequency offset, the 4096 chips in the preamble
are split into four parts on each antenna. Each part is coherently combined
using a matched filter, then the resulting 8 parts are non-coherently
combined. The arrival time of the preamble at the Node B depends on the
distance to the UE and is unknown. Hence, the preamble detection needs to be
performed within a window, where the window size depends on the cell radius
which is assumed to be 5 km in this investigation.
The detection of PRACH preambles is based on the solution 3 on non-coherent
accumulation of preambles. Trade-off between performance and complexity leads
to different detection algorithms.
Figure 6 illustrates two example algorithms for preamble detection, based on 8
preambles with known signature (in this example one signature is used through
all the repetitions) and time spacing. The curly brackets denote "accumulation
and decision". The detection algorithm is indicated as _Np x Nd_ , where _Np_
is the number of preambles used in one accumulation, _Nd_ is the number of
independent decisions (based on the _Np_ preamble accumulations) which are
used for obtaining the final detection result. Accumulation length can be 1
preamble (red curly brackets) or 8 preambles (blue curly bracket), or a number
in between. Inputs of "Binary OR" are decision results i.e. 1 (0) indicates
Preamble detected (No preamble detection).
The _Np_ and _Nd_ value used for implementation may be chosen according to
requirement, and it is worth noting that the logic "Binary OR" in Figure 6 is
actually a special case of "double thresholding" approach (the second
threshold is set to 1).
Figure 7 shows detection performance of different preamble detection scheme,
under assumptions described in section 2, with false alarms rate 0.001 and
detection rate 0.95. The baseline scheme is scheme 1xNd, here Nd equals the
total number of preambles.
{width="4.406944444444444in" height="1.8958333333333333in"}
Figure 6: Accumulation schemes for preamble detection (example)
{width="4.625694444444444in" height="3.792361111111111in"}
Figure 7: Performance of accumulation schemes
It can be found from Figure 7 that:
1) For a certain _Nd_ , a doubled _Np_ length results in gains of \~2dB.
2) 8 independent detections can result in gains of \~2dB (as shown by the
baseline performance).
A certain number of preamble transmissions can result in different gains under
different detection schemes (e.g. 8x1 is \~4dB better than 1x8), the
difference is mainly due to cross-preamble accumulation
PRACH is a bottleneck channel of uplink coverage. From the conducted
investigation it was found that the PRACH coverage can be effectively improved
by performing preamble repetitions, where each doubling on the accumulation
length can result in \~2dB gain.
Evaluation results, Source 2:
The evaluation in this section is based on the simulation methodology and
assumption captured in the TR 25.705. Simulations are based on solution 2 and
the coherent combining is used.
In Figure 8, the detection performances are shown for different number of
repetitions for PRACH preamble. The simulation is performed for AWGN channel
and PA channel with 1Hz Doppler spread. The detection threshold is set to
fulfil the false alarm probability of 0.1% for different repetition numbers.
{width="3.275in" height="1.5430555555555556in"} {width="3.28125in"
height="1.5409722222222222in"}
(a) AWGN channel (b) PA channel with 1Hz Doppler spread
Figure 8: Performance for PRACH preamble
From the evaluation results, it is observed that the performance of preamble
repetition is better than that of normal UMTS for both AWGN channel and PA
channel with 1 Hz Doppler spreading. Assuming the misdetection probability of
1%, the coverage of PRACH preamble is improved by 2.7dB when the number of
repetition is 2 in AWGN channel. The coverage of PRACH preamble is improved by
10dB when the number of repetition is 10 in AWGN channel. Correspondingly for
PA 1HZ Channel, the coverage enhancement can reach 3.9 dB for repetition
number of 2 and reach 10.9 dB for repetition number of 10.
##### 6.1.3.5.2 Considerations on the PRACH preamble repetition schemes
In scheme 1 the preamble repetitions are transmitted contiguously. This scheme
requires a new definition of the AICH timing since a longer preamble will not
make AICH transmission at the currently standardized time possible. Since it
does not have any obvious advantage over schemes 2 and 3, which could not take
advantage of the possibility of performing coherent accumulation either (c.f.
section in bullets below), the introduced complexity cannot be motivated. This
scheme is thus not considered as a candidate in the further discussion in this
study.
In scheme 2 the preamble repetitions are transmitted in consecutive access
slots.
In scheme 3 the preamble repetitions are not transmitted in consecutive access
slots. Several possibilities exist. One is that the repetitions are
transmitted in the same way as in the legacy preamble procedure _i.e._ either
3 or 4 access slots apart depending on the AICH transmission timing. Another
is that the preamble repetitions are kept within the same sub-channel. The
repetitions would then be 12 access slots apart. The duration between
subsequent preamble attempts varies.
\- Number of Repetitions and AICH Transmission
Two proposals on potential AICH transmission schemes are defined below.
AICH Scheme 1: The AICH is only transmitted once, after the very last
transmitted preamble repetition. The legacy timing between the very last
transmitted preamble and the AICH is kept. In this scheme the device would
always transmit a pre-defined number of preamble repetitions. This is
applicable to all schemes.
AICH Scheme 2: The AICH can be transmitted after each of the transmitted
preamble repetitions. The legacy timing between the most recent transmitted
preamble repetition and the AICH is kept. In this way the device can abort
preamble repetitions as soon as it gets a response on the AICH. This is
potentially applicable to scheme 3 only.
One advantage of AICH scheme 1 is that it keeps the false detection rate to a
minimum. The node B only has to make one detection decision after the last
repeated preamble in an access attempt and then transmit the AICH. This keeps
the false detection rate low. A false detection may cost more in terms of DL
power for a coverage limited device employing repetition compared with a
legacy device.
Another advantage of AICH scheme 1 over AICH scheme 2 is when the repetition
and the legacy PRACH preamble transmissions reuse the same sub-
channels/signatures. Then the collision risk with legacy AICH transmissions is
lower for AICH scheme 1. In that scheme a collision would only occur if there
is a legacy PRACH preamble transmission on the same signature in the access
slot corresponding to the very last repeated preamble transmission in the
repetition scheme. Then it is likely that both the legacy device and the
device employing repetition start using the resource defined in the AICH
response and a collision occurs.
In AICH scheme 2 (which is more prone to collisions) a collision occurs if
there is a legacy PRACH preamble transmission on the same signature in any of
the access slots corresponding to a repeated preamble transmission. Then it is
likely that both the legacy device and device employing repetition start using
the resource given in the AICH response and a collision occurs.
As discussed earlier, AICH Scheme 2 has the disadvantage of higher false alarm
rate over AICH Scheme 1, because of the larger amount of detections, since
each of them has a risk to be false. The attractiveness on the other hand, is
the potential to repeat only as many preambles as really needed. That
conserves transmission energy and keeps the interference as low as possible in
the system. A way to mitigate the increased false alarm rate in AICH Scheme 2
could be to have a higher threshold for the preambles preceding the last one.
This approach decreases the false detection rate for the decisions made before
all preamble repetitions have been received. AICH Scheme 2 would still however
have an increased collision risk with the legacy transmissions, when reusing
signatures/sub-channels, since the device needs to be listening to the AICH
after each repeated preamble.
\- Time Diversity
Since the separation in time between transmitted preambles is different for
the presented repetition schemes (2 and 3), the receiver performance may
differ due to a different amount of time diversity. For slowly fading channels
like PA1Hz it is, however, expected that the receiver performance for the two
schemes be roughly the same.
\- Impact to implementation on coherent and non coherent combining aspects
a) All of the schemes would have better coverage for coherent combining than
non-coherent combining. The frequency offset and the channel fading would make
coherent accumulation over a time that is longer than the duration of one
preamble destructive. Additional complexity could be introduced to the
receiver for performing coherent combining.
b) For non-coherent combining, coherent accumulation can be performed with
less impact to the implementation. The buffer would need to keep the data for
a certain amount of time depending on the duration of repetition.
\- Coexistence of Legacy and Preamble Repetition Transmissions
Legacy and devices using repetition schemes need to share resources i.e.
signatures and sub-channels, and this can be done in various ways. One
straight forward solution is to let them coexist and not take any measures to
separate them. This is favourable from a standardisation point of view since
there will be no need for signalling of signatures/sub-channels for the
purpose of differentiation. However, during the accumulation over several
preambles, unwanted interaction may occur with legacy transmissions. This
could be handled by assigning disjunctive resources depending on whether there
is a repetition or a legacy scheme employed.
In general about the additional considerations on the 3 proposed schemes, it
seems that scheme 1 does not have any performance advantages over 2 and 3 and
impacts the standard. Schemes 2 and 3 conform to legacy timing and are very
much alike. Depending on the fading environment one scheme may perform better
than the other. To what extent this has any practical relevance needs to be
studied further. Another remaining issue concerns the need for separating
legacy and transmissions when using a repetition scheme.
##### 6.1.3.5.3 Uplink optimization for small data transmission
If a UE is in the CELL_DCH state, then it has dedicated data channels both in
the DL and UL direction thus not requiring a UE to compete for resources.
However, when a UE stays in the CELL_FACH state, then each RRC message
transmitted by a UE requires acquisition of resources involving transmission
of PRACH preamble (followed by the PRACH message part or a common E-DCH
transmission). As an example, if we consider a typical device in the IDLE
state that is moved to the CONNECTED mode because of outgoing or incoming
data, then one can see a noticeable amount of messages exchanged between a UE
and RNC. Without delving into deeper details, there are few big phases which
could be classes as initial attach, security configuration, and the PDP
context activation. Each of the aforementioned stages in turn involves a
number of RRC messages that would trigger PRACH preamble transmissions. Even
if a UE is already in CONNECTED mode and is moved to the CELL_FACH/CELL_PCH
state for lower power consumption, then any data activity in the UL direction
would trigger a request for resources leading to transmission of the PRACH
preamble.
One of the possible optimizations in the uplink direction is to improve the
reception of a random access attempt and battery savings. The random access
scheme starts to become a noticeable overhead in those scenarios where data
plane volumes are marginal when compared to the amount of traffic needed to
acquire resources for data transmission. This may quickly become an issue for
small data transfer applications.
###### 6.1.3.5.3.1 PRACH optimization
Power ramping of the random access preamble is well known in [16] and is
described by Equation 1 below:
**Preamble_Initial_Power = Primary CPICH TX power -- CPICH_RSCP + UL
interference + Constant Value (1)**
The preamble initial power is guided by the above equation where the
difference of the 1^st^ and 2^nd^ term is the pathloss. The 3^rd^ term is the
UL rise over thermal (or UL load which is broadcast in SIB7 periodically) and
the 4^th^ term is the "constant value" as decided by the network. The 1^st^
and 4^th^ parameter is broadcast on the SIB in the PRACH configuration.
{width="4.6090277777777775in" height="3.513888888888889in"}
Figure 8.1: Legacy PRACH preamble transmission procedure
Figure 8.1 describes how a UE would operate the PRACH preamble transmission.
With Equation 1 above it will first determine the initial power for the
preamble and would transmit the random access preamble with this power. If
there is an ACK on the AICH it would continue transmitting the PRACH message
part (with an additional offset for the message part) or would start using the
common E-DCH resource based on legacy rules. If the UE receives no response on
the AICH (i.e. a DTX), the UE would ramp up the preamble transmit power with a
ramp step based on the SIB transmission. This would continue doing it based on
the maximum number of attempts configured in the SIB.
In general, the constant value is selected to a lower value to ensure that the
devices do not choose an unnecessarily high initial power to start with, which
may impact the other real time traffic in the uplink. In case of small data
volumes and/or when a UE moves from IDLE to CONNECTED (whereupon each RRC
level SRB message would trigger a request for a new E-DCH resource), 2-3 PRACH
attempts start to create a noticeable overhead and cause unnecessary delays.
**Proposed solution: Broadcasting an additional "Constant Value"**
Allowing the UE to use a second "Constant Value", which could be additionally
broadcast by the network and/or provided by the network in the dedicated
signalling might bring benefits. Rules to select a particular "Constant Value"
could be based on either device type or traffic class (CCCH, DCCH, and DTCH),
or amount of the UL buffer size, or even use a combination of the
aforementioned approaches.
It must also be noted that the "Constant Value" may itself not be constant and
may change with varying conditions as experienced by typical small data
devices. Hence the network could update this value by updating the system
information or by assigning a different value through the dedicated
signalling.
#### 6.1.3.6 PRACH message coverage enhancements
PRACH message part can be transmitted on 10ms or 20ms in current
specifications. To improve the coverage for small data transmission, a 40ms or
larger message part can be considered. As shown in Figure 9, repetition for
message part can be implemented by two ways. In Figure 9(a), the same data is
transmitted repeatedly in several consecutive TTIs after channel coding. In
Figure 9(b), the data is repeated during the channel coding, which means that
rate matching is done repeatedly for the data after turbo coding with
different rate matching redundancy version, which may increases the complexity
of the channel coding. By this way, the different RV can be selected for each
rate matching.
Figure 9: Repetition for PRACH message
##### 6.1.3.6.1 Evaluation results of repetition for PRACH message
The evaluation is based on the simulation methodology and assumptions in
Section 6.1.1 of TR 25.705. Solution (a) in Section 6.1.3.6 of TR 25.705 is
evaluated. The simulations are performed for PA channel with 1Hz Doppler
spreading. The data rate of 12.2kbps and 20ms TTI are assumed. Typical setting
for the gain factor is used: equals 11/15. Figure 9.1 shows the performance
for PRACH message using repetitions.
{width="3.6125in" height="1.8958333333333333in"}
Figure 9.1 Performance of repetition for PRACH message
From the simulation results, we observe that the solution of repetition is
beneficial to improve the coverage for PRACH message. Assuming the BLER target
is 1% and the power ratio of DPCCH/DPDCH is fixed to 0.733, the Eb/N0 can be
improved by about 2dB when the number of repetition (including the first
transmission) is 2 and it can reach about 10dB when the number of repetition
number is 32. Performance can be further improved by optimizing the gain
factors.
#### 6.1.3.7 Enhanced uplink coverage enhancements
##### 6.1.3.7.1 Analysis on the power cost for the EUL physical channels
This section presents an evaluation for how costly the different EUL physical
channels are in terms of power for a typical SDT coverage limited scenario.
This gives some insight into what can be done in order to enhance the
coverage.
In particular, a TBS size of 120 bits using a 10 ms TTI with varying A~ed~
(_β~ed~_) and A~ec~ (_β~ec~_), maximum of 8 transmissions (7 retransmissions),
inner-loop power control turned off, and realistic E-DPCCH detection have been
assumed (the detailed link level simulation assumptions can be found in [12]).
Figure 10 shows the required Ec/N0 for 1% residual E-DPDCH BLER for different
values of the E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH gain factors. For a fixed A~ec~, the
required Ec/N0 decreases with increased A~ed~ until the 'optimal' A~ed~ value
is reached and thereafter the required Ec/N0 starts to increase with
increasing A~ed~, resulting in a bowl shaped curve. One observation is that
the bottom of the bowl is relatively flat, indicating that the exact power
setting is rather insensitive. Nevertheless, the results still show that it is
very important to distribute the available power in a good way (optimize the
gain value setting) in order to maximize coverage. The optimal gain factor
setting for this example is A~ed~=21/15 and A~ec~=19/15 resulting in a minimum
required Ec/N0 of roughly -23.75 dB, which translates into an MCL of \~140 dB.
A more detailed look at the optimal gain setting from these results can be
found in Table 6. It can be seen that the power cost of the different channels
is rather balanced, i.e. the power consumption for the different channels are
of the same order. This also means that E-DPCCH constitutes a rather
significant part of the total power. In this example, an MCL gain of roughly 2
dB can be achieved by putting the E-DPCCH power on DPCCH and E-DPDCH instead.
Furthermore, using additional retransmissions (e.g. 16 transmissions instead
of 8) would lower the E-DPDCH and potentially DPCCH power further and make the
E-DPCCH even more costly.
{width="4.950694444444444in" height="2.6152777777777776in"}
Figure 10: Required Ec/N0 for 1% residual E-DPDCH BLER as a function of A~ed~
for various A~ec~.
Table 6: Summary of the cost in terms of power for different channels.
* * *
Required Ec/N0 A~ed~ A~ec~ DPCCH power E-DPCCH power E-DPDCH power Gain by
removing E-DPCCH -23.75 dB 21/15 19/15 -30.34 dB -28.29 dB -27.42 dB 1.88 dB
* * *
##### 6.1.3.7.2 Solution 1 to enhance the coverage of the EUL
Repetition for E-DPDCH can also be implemented with the same RV or different
RV. To ensure the requirement of coverage enhancement, the data carried on
E-DPDCH will be transmitted on consecutive TTIs for each HARQ process and the
Node B will decode the combined data and transmit feedback information
(ACK/NACK) after receiving all the data, which is shown in Figure 11.
Figure 11: Repetition for EUL
E-DPCCH can also be repeated in multiple consecutive TTIs. As an example shown
in Figure 11, the E-DPCCH have the same number of repetitions as E-DPDCH.
It should be noted that the requirement of coverage enhancement for E-DPDCH
and E-DPCCH differs and E-DPDCH can be only demodulated and decoded after
E-DPCCH is decoded correctly. Consequently, it would be beneficial for the
power saving to make the E-DPCCH to be able to be decoded before the decoding
of the data channel. The number of repetition for E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH may be
also considered to be different.
Furthermore, it is known that the frequency of inner loop power control (ILPC)
for normal UMTS is 1.5 kHz. However, most of small data transmission devices
are static or moving with very low speed, the fading of wireless channel
changes slowly. Considering overhead introduced by fast power control, it can
be considered to turn off or slow down the power control for small data
transmission devices.
##### 6.1.3.7.3 Solution 2 to enhance the coverage of the EUL
The solution of repetition for EUL channel was captured in the TR to enhance
the coverage for SDT in RAN1#80. In general E-DPDCH, E-DPCCH and DPCCH are
always transmitted simultaneously in Code Multiplexed way. For SDT service,
the control channel consumes significant portion of total transmission power.
If the power consumption of control channel is reduced in each repetition,
more available power can be used in each repetition/transmission. Considering
this, the following solutions are considered to further improve the coverage
for EUL channels.
One method is considering different repetition numbers for E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH
as shown in Figure 11.1. E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH can be started simultaneously but
E-DPCCH can be finished earlier than E-DPDCH because of different requirement
on coverage enhancement. Then the residual resource for E-DPCCH can be used in
two potential ways. Firstly the redundant power for E-DPCCH can be utilized
for E-DPDCH transmission. This means E-DPDCH can be boosted with a larger
power. This is beneficial to improve the coverage for E-DPDCH. Alternatively
the power of E-DPDCH is not boosted. In this way, the uplink control channel
overhead can be reduced to increase the number of UEs in the uplink.
{width="4.583333333333333in" height="1.3958333333333333in"}
Figure 11.1 Different repetition number for E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH
It is known that time multiplexing for E-DPDCH/E-DPCCH can increase the
available power for each channel in each transmission/repetition by not
transmitting the channels simultaneously. Consequently, the TDM transmission
can be used together with repetition to improve the coverage for E-DPDCH and
E-DPCCH.
The TDM of repetitions solution is shown in Figure 11.2. DPCCH is used to
convey the pilot and TPC command and is better to be transmitted continuously
for continuous channel estimations. In each HARQ process, repetitions of
E-DPCCH shall be transmitted first, which are followed by repetitions of
E-DPDCHs. E-DPCCH and E-DPDCHs are transmitted in Time Multiplexed way, and
the repetition number for E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH can be different. For each HARQ
process, the repetitions of E-DPDCHs are combined to do decoding and shall be
acknowledged by E-HICH.
In this solution, the detection performance for E-DPCCH can be improved a lot
due that more power is applied on E-DPCCH. This is important as the
reliability of E-DPCCH is essential to ensure correct E-DPDCH decoding.
Furthermore, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH channels are transmitted consecutively in one
transmission of one HARQ process. This will be beneficial to minimize the
transmission delay.
When the UE is under the coverage limited scenario, the repetition number of
E-DPDCH should be known by both the UE and Node B in advance, which is used as
the assumption to do transmission and reception. It is known that SDT UEs are
usually with no mobility or low mobility [17]. Therefore, the path loss or
penetration loss which needs to be compensated by repetitions shall not be
changed quickly. Considering this, the repetition number in each HARQ
transmission can be pre-defined and pre-determined according to the coverage
level of the UE [18]. By doing this, significant reduction on signalling
overhead for dynamically indicating this repetition number can be avoided.
Furthermore, the bad results caused by incorrect decoding/detection on the
repetition numbers, which has been discussed in RAN1#80, can be also avoided.
Figure 11.2 Repetition with TDM for E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH
Furthermore, as an optimization, channel estimation enhancement like E-DPCCH
power boosting in legacy HSUPA can be also considered for this solution. The
available power of E-DPCCH is boosted due to TDM transmission of E-DPCCH
repetitions and E-DPDCH repetitions. By doing this, before the transmission of
E-DPDCH, E-DPCCH can be detected with high reliability and it can be utilized
as a second pilot channel to enhance the channel estimation. Considering SDT
UEs are usually with no mobility or low mobility, the fading of wireless
channel changes quite slow, e.g. in the simulation assumption 1 HZ Doppler
channel is assumed. For these SDT UEs, the enhanced channel estimation due to
the boosted E-DPCCH can still improve the decoding of E-DPDCHs which is
transmitted in following TTIs.
For the TDM solutions discussed above, there is no HARQ-ACK for E-DPCCH. If
E-DPCCH is missed, then E-DPDCH is missed like the legacy scheme. However, for
the repetition scheme, more TTIs of E-DPDCH are missed compared with the
legacy scheme, where only 1 TTI of E-DPDCH is missed.
Compared to the legacy, the TDM schemes described above require a change in
the number of TTIs per HARQ process, and potentially the number of existing
HARQ processes.
##### 6.1.3.7.4 Solution 3 to enhance the coverage of the EUL
Power is a very limited resource that needs to be handled in a good way for
coverage limited devices. In [12] it was seen that it is important to
distribute the available power in an efficient manner (gain factor
optimization). Operating at very low DPCCH Ec/N0 may affect the channel
estimation quality resulting in poor demodulation performance. For small
E-DPDCH transport block sizes the cost of control channels becomes
significant. Also, increasing the number of E-DPDCH transmissions reduces the
required power for E-DPDCH further and control channels become the bottleneck
in terms of coverage. Consequently, it would be beneficial to focus the
available power on one or a few physical channels at the time instead of
distributing it over all physical channels. For the example considered in
[12], an MCL gain in the order of 2 dB could be achieved by putting the power
spent on E-DPCCH on DPCCH and E-DPDCH instead. Hence, one approach for
increasing coverage is offered by time-multiplexing E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH.
One possible E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH time-multiplexing design is outlined in
Figure 11.3. The main idea is that for each HARQ process, the E-DPCCH is first
transmitted in one subframe, followed by the corresponding E-DPDCH in the next
subframe associated with the HARQ process. This operation can be seen as an
one at time power allocation scheme, where all power is allocated to the
control channels in the first transmission and to data channels (and pilots)
in the next transmission. Allocating all power to control channels implies
that the likelihood of successful detection/decoding increases compared to
when the power is distributed among control and data. Hence, potential error
cases are reduced. Similarly, by allocating all power to data (and pilots) the
success-rate increases and the number of retransmissions decreases. With the
exception of sending E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH time-multiplexed in two consecutive
subframes associated with a HARQ process, which essentially reduces the rate
by two, all existing EUL functionality can be kept. For example, the RSN can
still be used to make SHO operation more robust.
To reduce the delay introduced by the time-multiplexed operation, each E-DPCCH
can be associated with several associated E-DPDCH transmissions. That is, each
E-DPCCH transmission is followed by one or more predetermined associated
E-DPDCH transmissions. The E-DPCCH structure can be kept, or the information
could potentially be re-interpreted. For example, E-TFCIs 1 to 3 correspond
three, two or one E-DPDCH transmissions associated with one E-DPCCH,
respectively. This way, for example, the HARQ process one could use E-TFCI 1
meaning that each E-DPCCH is associated with one E-DPDCH transmissions, HARQ
processes two and three could use E-TFCI 2 meaning that each E-DPCCH is
associated with two E-DPDCH transmissions and HARQ process four could use
E-TFCI 3 meaning that each E-DPCCH is associated with three E-DPDCH
transmissions. The number of E-DPDCH transmissions associated with one E-DPCCH
is a trade-off between delay, overhead, robustness and flexibility, and can
either be fixed or based on the acknowledgment status.
According to Figure 11.3, the E-DPDCH transmission is acknowledged (via
E-HICH) only once after the very last repetition. One question is whether
E-DPCCH transmissions also should be acknowledged, i.e. whether an ACK should
be sent if E-DPCCH is detected. This could potentially help identify
signalling error cases. In particular, without acknowledgment of the E-DPCCH,
it can happen that the Node B does not detect the E-DPCCH which means that all
the associated E-DPDCH transmissions would essentially be wasted. By
acknowledging the E-DPCCH, the UE would know whether the Node B has detected
the E-DPCCH and can therefore decide to "retransmit" the E-DPCCH.
Nevertheless, signalling error cases that need to be handled by higher-layers
will happen, but this is no different compared to legacy operation. In fact,
by allocating all power to either control or data, potential error cases are
minimized.
The time-multiplexed E-DPCCH/E-DPDCH operation can be used without having to
ACK the E-DPCCH. It is possible to accomplish a successful transmission even
if in first instance the E-DPCCH was miss detected or the number of E-DPDCH
transmissions was decoded incorrectly at the Node B (the Node B will continue
trying to decode the E-DPCCH in every subsequent TTI), however the impacts of
those would need to be considered. If the E-DPCCH is decided to be ACK in
order to have a most robust operation, then with the introduction of E-HICH
for E-DPCCH, the criterion at the Node B for sending an E-HICH without CRC on
E-DPCCH may have to be considered (detecting the E-DPCCH may be one criterion
for sending an ACK), as well as the UE's reception threshold for E-HICH for
E-DPCCH.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="1.679861111111111in"}
Figure 11.3 Illustration of E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH time-multiplexed operation. In
this example HARQ processes one, two, three and four use a bundle length of 1,
2, 2, and 3, respectively. The TTI length is 10 ms.
##### 6.1.3.7.5 Solution 4 to enhance the coverage of the EUL
In the Reduced E-DPCCH scheme of the EUL transmission, the E-DPCCH is present
only for the initial E-DPDCH transmission. For the subsequent HARQ re-
transmissions the E-DPCCH is absent. The E-DPCCH and the initial E-DPDCH
transmission can be in mutual code-multiplex (Figure 11.4) or time-multiplex
(Figure 11.5), the latter arrangement allowing the UE to allocate maximal
power for both channels in turn, besides the basic power allocation to the
DPCCH, which is transmitted in parallel always.
Due to the peculiar working point of the EUL with small data transmission, as
elaborated earlier in this section, the E-DPCCH information can be reduced in
this scheme down to a one bit New Data Indicator (NDI). With reducing the
information content of the E-DPCCH the reliability of the detection of the
channel improves and, in the code-multiplex arrangement, more of the available
power can be allocated to the initial E-DPDCH.
The single non-DTX NDI value can be repetition coded to 10 bit wordlength and
exposed to the E-DPCCH channel coding. Alternatively a toggled NDI similar to
HS-SCCH can be used -- subsequent packets get NDI=0 and NDI=1 respectively for
somewhat added robustness against soft buffer corruption. In both cases a
10-time repetition of the NDI bit can be used before E-DPCCH block coding. It
would be possible to also carry some E-TFCI bits or even a HARQ process number
as implicit NDI, if such additional information is deemed useful.
{width="6.497222222222222in" height="0.90625in"}
Figure 11.4 Reduced E-DPCCH scheme -- E-DPCCH transmitted simultaneously with
the initial transmission attempt. The E-DPCCH content can be reduced to a New
Data Indicator only.
The need to assure a proper decoding performance of the E-DPCCH has been
emphasized repeatedly in the study. The time-multiplex scheme of Figure 11.5
seems to fit into this requirement very well. On the other hand, if the
E-DPDCH power is scaled down to zero in the code-multiplex scheme before any
power scaling is applied to E-DPCCH, then the scheme of the Figure 11.4 looks
like the scheme of the Figure 11.5 with the added benefit that when there is
sufficient power to send both E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH the packet reception latency
is reduced by one HARQ RTT. Hence, when coupled with unequal power scaling,
the first scheme may be more flexible in protecting E-DPCCH in the power
limited situation, at the cost of E-DPDCH.
{width="6.497222222222222in" height="1.5444444444444445in"}
Figure 11.5 Reduced E-DPCCH scheme -- E-DPCCH transmitted one HARQ RTT before
the initial transmission attempt, with the E-DPDCH DTXed. The E-DPCCH content
can be reduced to a New Data Indicator only.
In the considered UL coverage limited scenario, this solution can be applied.
For identification of the UL coverage limited scenario there is no need for
one particular method.
##### 6.1.3.7.6 Legacy aspects related to the coverage enhancements for EUL
One key parameter is the number of HARQ processes, which equals four and eight
for 10 and 2 ms TTI in legacy UMTS, respectively. The number of HARQ processes
should match the round-trip time between the UE and Node B, including their
respective processing time, to allow for continuous transmission to a UE.
Using a larger number of processes than motivated by the round-trip time does
not provide any gains but introduces unnecessary delays between
retransmissions. For contiguous TTI retransmissions (Solution 1) the current
number of HARQ processes can either be kept or reduced. Keeping the number of
HARQ processes might simplify the specification impact and could facilitate
relaxed processing requirements. However, to keep the delay low, it seems more
reasonable to decrease the number of HARQ processes and keep current HARQ
timing requirements (see Figure 11.6).
{width="6.2756944444444445in" height="2.8472222222222223in"}
Figure 11.6 Autonomous retransmissions for 10 ms TTI with _bundle size_ equal
to 4 -- (a) Keeping existing number of HARQ processes (b) reducing the number
of HARQ processes.
If the received energy per bit in one TTI is not enough to detect/decode the
control channel (E-DPCCH) even though the gain factor setting is optimized,
one can either re-allocate the power from data to control (as proposed in
[19]) or apply repetition of the E-DPCCH (as proposed by Solution 1). If the
E-DPCCH cannot be detected/decoded in one TTI, then data from several TTIs
needs to be stored or accumulated until the power is enough for successful
detection/decoding.
Another important aspect to consider for contiguous TTI retransmissions
(solution 1) is that both the UE and the network need to have a consistent
view of the transmission scheme. This essentially means that the starting time
of a TTI marking the beginning of a block of autonomous retransmissions needs
to be well-defined.
##### 6.1.3.7.7 HARQ process design for Solution 1 and Solution 2
In Solution1, E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH are transmitted simultaneously. In Solution
2 E-DPDCH and E-DPCCH are transmitted in time multiplexed way. In both
solutions, EUL channels are transmitted consecutively in one transmission of
one HARQ process. Consequently, HARQ process design in this section can be
applied to both solutions. The number of TTIs per process is the repetition
number of E-DPDCH in Solution 1, and is the sum of the repetition number of
E-DPCCH and E-DPDCH in Solution 2.
In UMTS systems, the HARQ round-trip time (RTT) matches the number of HARQ
processes and the TTI length. The number of uplink HARQ processes is four for
10ms TTI. To ensure enough response time for ACK /NACK via E-HICH and maintain
un-interrupted HARQ transmission which means that UE can continue the
retransmission or the new transmission in the next HARQ cycle, an extended
HARQ RTT should be configured for SDT UEs when Solution 1 or Solution 2 is
applied. The number of HARQ processes is derived from the HARQ RTT and the
number of repetitions for EUL channels.
A UE can select the repetition number of EUL channels according to the
coverage class based solution or the rule based solution, and signal the
repetition number to Node B. The coverage class based solution would utilize
the relationships between the range of path loss and the repetition number for
EUL channels to select the number of repetitions. The rule based solution
would use an adaptation rule to select the number of repetitions. So for a
given HARQ RTT the number of HARQ processes can be adjusted according to the
repetition number for EUL channels as illustrated in Figure 11.7. In other
words, the RTT of the ACK/NACK has variable length due to the fact that the
number of HARQ processes for a UE is a function of the HARQ RTT and the
repetition number of EUL channels.
In the example of Figure 11.7, the HARQ RTT is set to 16 TTIs. Although in
Figures 11.7 (a) \~ (c), the RTT lengths are the same. However, it is noted
that the RTT length can be either configurable or fixed. The figures show the
number of HARQ processes with respect to the different repetition number for
EUL channels: (a) the number of HARQ processes is 2 when 8 TTIs of EUL
channels are transmitted in one process; (b) the number of HARQ processes is 4
when 4 TTIs of EUL channels are transmitted in one process; (c) the number of
HARQ processes is 8 when 2 TTIs of EUL channels are transmitted in one
process.
{width="5.183333333333334in" height="3.963888888888889in"}
Figure 11.7 HARQ processes for EUL repetition solutions
##### 6.1.3.7.8 Summary of the solutions for EUL
In this section we discuss some advantages/disadvantages of these different
solutions from several aspects including performance, latency, power
consumption and capacity, etc.
\- Performance
All solutions described in the above sections can improve the coverage of EUL
channels. However, a small repetition number in Solution 2 and Solution 3 is
needed to achieve the same coverage gains compared to Solution 1 since the
power saved when non-transmitting E-DPCCH can be allocated to E-DPDCH when the
two channels are not transmitted simultaneously. Channel estimation
enhancements, for example by allocating the E-DPDCH power to the E-DPCCH,
additional E-DPCCH power may be used for channel estimation, as E-DPCCH
boosting in legacy HSUPA, and this can be considered to improve performance
for solutions 2 and 3.
\- Latency
The latency of the solutions needs to be considered. With more number of
repetitions, the performance would be improved, however increased latency
would occur, considering the possibilities in an increased RTT of ACK/NACK,
number of HARQ process.
\- Power consumption
Power consumptions would be different for the different schemes because of the
different transmission delays. DPCCH shall be transmitted continuously for
continuous channel estimation, and the longer the transmission the more power
is consumed because of the DPCCH transmission. Another factor that impacts the
power consumption is the UE monitoring of the DL channels during repetitions.
For Solution 3, one variation is that the E-DPCCH is to be acknowledged. In
that case, the UE should also monitor ACK/NACK feedback over E-HICH for
E-DPCCH.
\- Capacity
Capacity impact can be considered for these solutions. In CELL_FACH status the
number of common RACH resources is limited, and other UEs may not be able to
have access because of the long time each resource is occupied. Hence it is
important to complete the transmission in a short time for a SDT UE so that
resources can be released to other UEs.
In summary all solutions under considerations are potential solutions to
improve the coverage of EUL channels. However further investigation is needed
to assess the gains.
#### 6.1.3.8 PCH over S-CCPCH coverage enhancements
##### 6.1.3.8.1 Analysis on using smaller transport block size
The energy needed to transmit a PCH transport block depends on the size of the
transport block. The smaller the transport block, the lower the required
transmit power.
Example simulations have been performed for three different PCH mappings. In
all three cases a SF128 S-CCPCH is used, and the TTI is 10 ms. However, two
different transport block sizes have been studied, 240 bits and 80 bits (which
will be used as examples in the following). Note that we assume that rate
matching ensures that both the transport block sizes fill the physical channel
completely, i.e. no DTX is used. This is the result if the PCH is defined to
have only one non-zero transport format, either 1x240 or 1x80. A 16 bit CRC is
added in both cases. For the 240 bit transport block we assume a rate 1/2
convolution code, making the PCH mapping identical to the one defined in TS
34.108. For the smaller transport block size there is room for a lower rate
code, so both rate 1/2 and rate 1/3 have been simulated.
The S-CCPCH transmit power is set to -0.5 dB from P-CPICH, and the rest of the
simulation parameters follows the agreed reference scenario for this SI [13].
The simulation results are shown in Figure 12 below.
{width="4.33125in" height="3.2in"}
Figure 12: S-CCPCH BLER as a function of transport block size and
convolutional coding rate
Figure 12: S-CCPCH BLER as function of transport block size and convolutional
coding rate. As can be seen from the results, the smaller transport block size
results in significantly lower required Ec/Ior, translating into a coverage
gain for a fixed S-CCPCH power. The reduction in Ec/Ior is close to the
reduction in number of coded bits (80+16+8 compared to 240+16+8 corresponds to
-4.0 dB). Using a lower coding rate of 1/3 instead of 1/2 and relying on a bit
less repetition in rate matching provides an additional benefit, but on the
whole this benefit is small in comparison to the major benefit of using a
smaller transport block size.
As stated above, the paging capacity need (transmitted paging records per
second), is fairly high in many deployments. This makes it unrealistic to
statically decrease the PCH transport block size from e.g. 240 bits to 80 bits
to increase the coverage. However, to be able to reach UEs in very bad
coverage (which will be only a limited part of the UE population), it may be
useful to be able to use a smaller transport block size when addressing these
UEs.
The RNC may have prior knowledge of the radio situation in the UE, e.g. from
an earlier CELL_FACH/CELL_DCH session, and use this knowledge to fit fewer
paging records (e.g. only the one targeting the bad coverage UE) than normal
into a smaller transport block to get a coverage benefit.
The RNC could also let the selection of transport block size depend on the
amount of repetition of pages. E.g., the RNC could have a rule that says that
paging records are fitted into the normal (large) transport block size, unless
some paging record has been repeated a number of times already with no
response from the UE, in which case the RNC will make a focused effort on
getting that paging record through by putting the paging record in a smaller
transport block.
Note that the above mentioned methods rely on the RNC having knowledge about a
particular UE's whereabouts and the paging process for a particular UE. This
is possible in URA_PCH, where the RNC is in charge of initiating and running
the paging process (scheduling and repeating the paging records).
It should be noted that the method of using smaller transport block sizes to
increase coverage for new UEs can be combined with the method of increasing
the power of the S-CCPCH carrying the PCH [14]. Further, if the paging
capacity need is low, so RNC only has e.g. one paging record to send in the
current TTI, then this transmission can be done more cheaply if a smaller
transport block size is used and transmission power is adapted to this.
It shall be noted that the new transport block size and old transport block
size are not two different transport formats in the traditional sense. If we
just extend the transport format table with one more transport format, e.g.
TF0 = 0x240\ TF1 = 1x80  new smaller TB\ TF2 = 1x240
the result will not be a transport block that uses less transmit power. The
energy required will be decreased, but the power will remain, since the rate
matching will match the largest transport format 1x240 to fit the S-CCPCH, and
DTX bits will be inserted for the 1x80 transport format.
Moreover, it seems dangerous to assume that legacy UEs would work well with
this new definition of the PCH channel (which is broadcast on the BCH).
Hence, what we would like to achieve is the possibility to run the PCH just as
before (say SF128, CC1/2, TF0=0x240, TF1=1x240), but for new UEs that support
the PCH coverage extension an alternative smaller transport block size is
supported (say SF128, CC1/2, TF=1x80). The rate matching shall be done in such
a way that both the 1x240 and the 1x80 transport formats fill the S-CCPCH
without any DTX.
In order to prevent problems with legacy UEs it is preferred to not change the
S-CCPCH slot format to support TFCI. Hence, a solution where the new UE
supports blind detection of the new alternative transport format is preferred.
A UE would then upon detection of the paging indicator (PI) it is monitoring
on PICH proceed with decoding of the PCH, first trying to decode the "normal"
TF 1x240 and then if the CRC fails proceed to try to decode the 1x80 format.
The order in which the UE tries the two transport format hypothesis is left up
to UE implementation.
As a further possibility, if blind decoding is seen as an additional
complexity in the UE receiver that will cost processing and hence battery
power, it could be possible to provide guidance on the transport format used
on the PICH. The PICH today carries a number of PIs mapped to 288 bits out of
the 300 bits available on the SF256, 10 ms radio frame, see **Figure 1 in
[6].** This leaves 12 bits unused, which are today DTXed. Potentially these 12
bits could be used to instruct the new UEs about the transport format used on
the PCH. E.g., setting all the 12 bits to +1 could mean "use the special small
TF (TF=1x80)", while all 12 bits set to -1 could mean "use the normal TF as
defined in system information (TF=1x240)". ON/OFF keying could also be used,
where DTX means "use the normal TF as defined in system information
(TF=1x240)" and setting all the 12 bits to +1 could mean "use the special
small TF (TF=1x80)".
It needs to be further discussed if the complexity of introducing new
signaling on the 12 free bits on the PICH can be motivated. Maybe the cost of
doing an occasional blind detection of an additional transport format is not
too high.
If a new smaller transport block size is introduced, further discussions are
needed on what transport block size that should be the target. In addition it
needs to be determined if it is only the transport block size that would be
specific for this new format, or if changes to e.g. the convolutional coding
rate is worthwhile.
It is envisioned that the new UEs supporting an alternative transport block
size would be informed via RRC (system information) about the presence of such
a new transport block size. Old UEs would not even be aware of this
possibility, and will continue to monitor the normal PCH format.
Currently, the frame protocol over Iub for PCH DATA FRAMES supports multiple
transport block sizes as part of its support of multiple transport formats
(TFI is signaled in the data frame). Hence, if the new transport block size is
seen as a new transport format (e.g. TF2, extending the already existing TF0
and TF1 formats), it can be supported with no impact on the frame protocol.
However, from an RRC signaling point of view care needs to be taken to not
confuse legacy UEs with this new TF2 transport format. Also from physical
layer point of view some special care needs to be taken if the new transport
block size is just seen as an additional transport format. The rate matching
performed should be made in such a way that all physical channel bits are used
without DTX, which requires the rate matching for the TF2=1x80 to ignore the
larger TF1=1x240 when calculating the rate matching parameters.
In principle the proposed techniques could be used to introduce multiple new
transport block sizes, e.g. by letting UE blindly test even more transport
block size hypothesis, or using the 12 bits on PICH to point to different
transport formats, similar to the role of the TFCI.
##### 6.1.3.8.2 Analysis on repetitions and power boosting techniques
As part of the investigation presented in [6], it was found that performing
repetitions could be seen as a potential solution for extending the coverage,
since for the PA channel a maximum of two repetitions in addition to the
initial transmission attempt results in success rates of 99% or more for MCLs
up to 144 dB. On the other hand, boosting the power has also been proposed in
[15] as a potential solution for enhancing the coverage of the problematic
channels, which could also be applicable in this case.
Therefore, it has been investigated if performing repetitions, boosting the
power, or if a combination of both results to be the most suitable, less
complex, less expensive, and more beneficial technique for improving the
coverage of the PCH over the S-CCPCH.
A schematic representation of the evaluated techniques is depicted in Figure
13.
{width="4.197222222222222in" height="2.4611111111111112in"}
In Figure 13 the legend PA stands for Paging Attempt
Figure 13: Schematic representation of a) Repetitions, b) Power boosting, and
c) Repetitions & power boosting.
One of the points of interest consists in knowing if a high paging success
rate (99% or more) can be achieved by performing less repetitions boosted in
power, or if boosting in power a single paging attempt from the beginning
avoids the need of performing repetitions. This allow us to focus our analysis
in the performance of the legacy with two repetitions ((PA)(PA)(PA)), an
original paging attempt boosted in power by X dB ((PA+XdB)), and an initial
regular paging attempt followed by only one repetition boosted in power by X
dB ((PA)(PA+XdB)). The performance of the above mentioned cases is depicted
from Table 7 to Table 9 for a MCL range between 142-145dB.
**Table 7: PCH over the S-CCPCH, performance comparison trade-off when the
maximum number of repetitions is two and the power is boosted by 1dB.**
+----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | MCL (dB) | PA | (PA+1dB) | (PA)(PA)(PA) | (PA)(PA+1dB) | | | | | | | | | (Reference) | | | | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 142.2000 | 0.9098 | 0.9500 | 0.9993 | 0.9955 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 143.2000 | 0.8714 | 0.9098 | 0.9979 | 0.9884 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 144.2000 | 0.8223 | 0.8714 | 0.9944 | 0.9771 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 145.2000 | 0.7470 | 0.8223 | 0.9838 | 0.9550 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+
From Table 7 is observed that boosting the power by 1dB in the initial
transmission is not enough for delivering a paging message with enough
reliability, while performing a maximum of two repetitions as in the legacy
results in more than 99% success rate for MCLs up to 144 dB. On the other
hand, performing a single repetition boosted in power by 1dB provides success
rates beyond 95% but only for a MCLs up to 142 dB the success rate is beyond
99%.
**Table 8: PCH over the S-CCPCH, performance comparison trade-off when the
maximum number of repetitions is two and the power is boosted by 2dB.**
+----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | MCL (dB) | PA | (PA+2dB) | (PA)(PA)(PA) | (PA)(PA+2dB) | | | | | | | | | (Reference) | | | | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 142.2000 | 0.9098 | 0.9800 | 0.9993 | 0.9982 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 143.2000 | 0.8714 | 0.9500 | 0.9979 | 0.9936 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 144.2000 | 0.8223 | 0.9098 | 0.9944 | 0.9840 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 145.2000 | 0.7470 | 0.8714 | 0.9838 | 0.9675 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+
From Table 8 it can be seen that even if the initial transmission is boosted
in power by 2dB still the paging message can't be delivered reliability. On
the other hand, if a single repetition is performed but boosted in power 2dB,
then it is possible to achieve a success rate beyond 99% for MCLs up to 143dB.
**Table 9: PCH over the S-CCPCH, performance comparison trade-off when the
maximum number of repetitions is two and the power is boosted by 3dB.**
+----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | MCL (dB) | PA | (PA+3dB) | (PA)(PA)(PA) | (PA)(PA+3dB) | | | | | | | | | (Reference) | | | | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 142.2000 | 0.9098 | 1.0000 | 0.9993 | 1.0000 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 143.2000 | 0.8714 | 0.9800 | 0.9979 | 0.9974 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 144.2000 | 0.8223 | 0.9500 | 0.9944 | 0.9911 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+ | 145.2000 | 0.7470 | 0.9098 | 0.9838 | 0.9772 | +----------+-------------+----------+--------------+--------------+
From Table 9 it can be seen that if the initial transmission is boosted in
power by 3dB, the delivery of the paging message can only be guaranteed for
MCLs up to 142dB, while if a single repetition is boosted in power by 3dB,
then it is possible to achieve a success rate beyond 99% for MCLs up to 144dB.
On the other hand, if the intention of the coverage enhancements for the PCH
over the S-CCPCH is to extend the coverage for larger MCLs, for example as
large as 150dBs, then it has to be taken into account that the legacy would
have to perform 15 paging attempts (14 repetitions) in order to guarantee that
the paging message will be delivered with a success rate beyond 99%. On the
other hand, for the technique that combines repetitions with power boosting, a
maximum of seven repetitions boosted in power by 3dBs would have to be
performed in order to have a power consumption compared to one required by the
legacy for achieving a MCL target of 150dBs. From the evaluations performed it
was found that it is possible to achieve MCLs up to 151dBs with paging success
rates beyond 99% with the technique that combines repetitions with power
boosting. The results of the above comparison are summarized in Table 10.
**Table 10: PCH over the S-CCPCH, performance comparison when the maximum
number of repetitions is fourteen for the legacy case, and seven for the
technique that combines repetitions with a power boosting of 3dB.**
+----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | MCL (dB) | PA | 1 PA followed by | 1 PA followed 7 | | | | 14 repetitions | repetitions | | | (Reference) | | boosted each by | | | | (Legacy) | 3dB | | | | | | | | | | (Repetitions | | | | | combined with | | | | | power boosting) | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 142.2000 | 0.9098 | 1.0000 | 1.0000 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 143.2000 | 0.8714 | 1.0000 | 1.0000 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 144.2000 | 0.8223 | 1.0000 | 1.0000 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 145.2000 | 0.7470 | 1.0000 | 1.0000 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 146.2000 | 0.6928 | 1.0000 | 1.0000 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 147.2000 | 0.5721 | 1.0000 | 1.0000 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 148.2000 | 0.4856 | 1.0000 | 1.0000 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 149.2000 | 0.3816 | 0.9993 | 0.9998 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 150.2000 | 0.2919 | 0.9944 | 0.9981 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 151.2000 | 0.2068 | 0.9690 | 0.9924 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+ | 152.2000 | 0.1442 | 0.9033 | 0.9704 | +----------+-------------+--------------------+--------------------+
In the table above can be observed that large MCL targets require a large
amount of repetitions in the legacy, up to 14 repetitions are required in
order to guarantee the correct delivery of the paging message for MCLs as
large of 150dBs. In this regard, while the delay may not be a problem for most
of the small data transmission devices, the capacity of the PCH may be a
serious limitation since the repetitions will use resources that may be needed
for the delivering new paging messages. The above problem can be alleviated by
the technique that combines repetitions with power boosting since half of the
repetitions compared to the ones used in the legacy have to be performed for
achieving not only the same target but one additional dB gain, however it
remains to be seen if it is worth to target MCLs as large as 150dBs given the
resources that have to be invested on it, perhaps extending the coverage up to
144dB by performing three paging attempts (two repetitions) with the legacy,
or performing a single repetition but boosted in power by 3dB results to be
enough as a coverage enhancement for the PCH over the S-CCPCH.
From the performed analysis it has been found that performing two repetitions
(i.e., three paging attempts) as in the legacy results to be enough for
providing paging success rates beyond 99% for MCLs up to 144dB. For the
technique that boosts the power of a single paging attempt by$\text{XdB}$
(i.e., without making use of repetitions) it has been found that even if the
power is boosted by 3dB, a paging success rate beyond 99% can only be
guaranteed for MCLs less or equal to 142dB. Finally, for the technique that
combines repetitions with power boosting we have focused our analysis in
transmitting the initial paging attempt as in the legacy followed by a single
repetition boosted in power by$\text{XdB}$, from the performed analysis it was
observed that boosting the power of a single repetition by 3dB allows to
achieve paging success rates beyond 99% for MCLs up to 144dB, which is
equivalent to the legacy performance with two repetitions.
In general it can be concluded that performing repetitions significantly
improves the success rate of delivering the paging messages because of the
diversity gain that is obtained by transmitting paging attempts at different
time instants, and secondly, it can be useful to additionally incorporate the
advantages of boosting the power (i.e., by a moderate amount of dBs) which
will allow to deliver the paging messages successfully and faster (i.e., less
repetitions are needed), leading to an early release of resources which
certainly will benefit the network since when several repetitions are
performed typically there is a capacity problem in real networks since it is
difficult to find room for both transmitting new paging messages and
performing repetitions.
From the above results, it is observed that repetition and/or power boosting
is beneficial for coverage enhancement of the paging channel. These solutions
are possible in current networks.
##### 6.1.3.8.3 Considerations on coverage enhancements for paging
In principle, the coverage enhancement solutions described in the previous
sections are applicable for all RRC states where paging occurs. Hence, it is
in principle possible to use them for UEs in IDLE, CELL_PCH and URA_PCH
states.
However, there are some special considerations in IDLE state to take into
account. Currently, in IDLE state the paging is initiated from the core
network (CN), which forwards the paging message to the RNC together with the
UE's IMSI. The IMSI is provided so that RNC can calculate the proper time to
transmit the paging message to the UE given its DRX cycle (the time periods
where the UE wakes up to read the PICH depends on the IMSI). A problem with
this is that it is difficult for the RNC to determine if there is a need to
apply a coverage enhancing technique since it has so little information about
the targeted UE, in principle only the IMSI. It could be possible to store an
IMSI history in the RNC and associate knowledge about coverage from previous
attempts with each IMSI. It could also be possible to determine from such an
IMSI memory that the current paging attempt is likely a retry of a previous
attempt to reach the UE, in which case it may make sense to apply e.g. a power
boost. Storing IMSI history at the RNC and making decisions based on that
knowledge are implementation solutions not requiring any further specification
work. Another complication for the reduced TBS solution is that the RNC needs
to know if the UE supports this technique or not when forwarding the page from
CN, and this is not readily seen from the information passed over Iu today. It
shall be noted that specification improvements in this area (i.e. paging in
IDLE state) are strictly not required to benefit from power boosting and/or
reduced TBS solutions. However, such improvements (e.g. forwarding from the CN
to the RNC the release/features the UE supports) would provide further
possibilities to efficiently use the toolbox of paging coverage enhancing
techniques, especially for the IDLE state paging.
For CELL_PCH and URA_PCH states, the RNC has a much clearer picture of the
UE's situation when paging it, since the UE already "is known" within the RNC.
Hence, the RNC can apply solutions like conditional repetition with coverage
enhanced repetitions, i.e. if the RNC does not receive any response to an
initial paging attempt then it can e.g. boost the power of any repetitions.
Further, the RNC is aware of what features the UE supports as the capabilities
have been reported earlier, so the RNC knows if the UE would support a reduced
TBS or not.
\- Capacity Impact
It is understood that the paging coverage enhancing techniques comes at a
capacity cost. Power boosting could lead to increased interference in the
cell, and usage of a reduced TBS reduces the paging capacity in terms of
available number of paging records that can be served per time unit.
Applying power boosting of a PCH transport block to extend coverage for one of
the paging records in this TB leads to unnecessary high transmit power of the
other paging records in the same TB that may target UEs with no coverage
problem. Hence, using a smaller TBS may reduce the negative interference
impact of power boosting. The coverage enhancements for paging are intended to
be used conditionally targeting a UE that has been identified to have coverage
problems. The conditional repetition most likely will carry one paging record
(the one of UE in question) by using the reduced TBS along with a higher
transmit power aiming at increasing the chances of reaching the UE with a
single repetition attempt.
Further, it needs to be understood that not employing any coverage enhancing
solutions may be a capacity waste in itself, if this e.g. leads to multiple
paging attempts where none of the attempts are heard by the UE.
However, it is clear that applying the coverage enhancing techniques all the
time would be a bad idea that would cause an unacceptable capacity impact.
This is why they should be used with some care, and preferably only be applied
whenever needed. Hence, it is important to include functionality in RAN that
enables the RNC in particular to estimate when coverage enhancements may be
needed**.**
\- Determining when to apply coverage enhancements
Determining when to apply coverage enhancement is primarily up to clever
implementation in the RNC. As has been described previously, the RNC can e.g.
use knowledge about radio conditions experienced in previous contacts with the
UE in question, use conditional repetitions with enhancements only for
retransmission attempts etc.
However, in particular for the IDLE state paging originating from the CN,
specification additions on the Iu interface to support more clever handling of
the paging transmission in RAN can be envisioned.
\- Specification impacts
\- Power boosting
While increasing the power of the S-CCPCH and doing (conditional) repetitions
of paging attempts is in principle possible with the current specifications,
it is in fact not possible to have dynamically changing transmit power of the
attempts. The transmit power of the PCH is configured in NBAP signaling, but
there is no signaling included in the PCH frame protocol to enable increased
power for certain transport blocks (something that is possible in the FACH
frame protocol). It is noted that the same dynamic control of transmit power
on a transport block level is missing also for HS-PDSCH based paging. Hence,
currently power boosting would be something to apply all the time, with the
negative capacity impact this brings.
To enable dynamic power boosting, the frame protocol for PCH (and also HS-
DSCH) in TS 25.435 would need to be extended with a power offset to set the
power relative to the statically configured power in NBAP.
\- Reduced TBS
Enabling the reduced TBS solution requires additions in TS 25.331 to configure
and signal the new TBS to UEs that are capable of receiving it. Further, some
special handling of the rate matching to fill out the radio frame without DTX
for the smaller TBS is required, this will impact TS25.212. To enable the use
of a smaller TBS in IDLE state, the RNC would need to know if the UE supports
the use of a smaller TBS, therefore forwarding new information (e.g. the
release/features that the UE supports) from the CN to the RNC would be
required. The exact specification impact of this has not been investigated.
In this section the applicability and capacity impact of the proposed paging
coverage enhancement schemes have been elaborated further. In addition, the
specification impact for the paging coverage enhancement solutions has been
outlined**.**
### 6.1.4 Considerations on selection of repetition number
For the PRACH preamble and message channels, the amount of dB improvement
results to be different depending on the path loss and the MCL required to be
reached. Path loss can be measured at the UE based on CPICH. The required MCL
can be a set of thresholds broadcasted from the network. Different MCL
thresholds can be determined by the network, separating the coverage
requirements into different coverage classes. When the measured path loss at
the UE matches a certain predefined condition of the thresholds, a
corresponding number of repetitions can be determined by the UE. Table 11
illustrates an example on selecting the number of repetitions depending on the
measured path loss and the predefined threshold conditions. In this example, 3
thresholds are signalled to the UE, with X~1~ \ SFN limit):
\- With an extended DRX, i.e. a long sleep time duration, the UE can obtain
the full potential of deep sleep mode. With minor impact on the battery
lifetime the UE can check MIB for any system information changes when waking
up from deep sleep.
RAN2 discussed two options for an eDRX solution (event-based and hyper SFN-
based), which have in common that there is a paging window where the UE can be
reached during the legacy paging occasions. The options differ in the way the
paging window is synchronized between UE and network.
RAN2 discussed the potential impacts on UE measurements with long and extended
DRX. RAN4 may have to evaluate the potential impact on RAN4 requirements. In
the context of DRX enhancements RAN2 also discussed cell (re-)selection,
mobility, negotiation of DRX parameters and DRX parameter values.
RAN2 discussed potential options to enable quick return into PSM mode: UE-
based and NW-based solution.
RAN2 studied the seamless URA_PCH state transition to CELL_FACH and extended
HRNTI, see [20] for the conclusions.
###### ### Annex A: Power consumption model
To assess the potential power savings with a long DRX cycle up to 40.96
seconds the following reference model is used:
Table A.1: Power consumption model
* * *
Aspect Value Unit Battery:  
AA lithium 3.6 V 2.5 Ah Power consumption:  
Rx 50 mA Tx 50 mA Sleep mode (DRX) 0.5 mA Deep sleep mode (PSM) 0.05 (--
0.005) mA Deep sleep mode (smart phone) 0.2 mA Ramp-up/down 25 mA Small Data
Traffic (TS 25.705):  
Packet size UL 100 bytes Packet size DL 100 bytes Frequency (high) 60 seconds
(every minute) Frequency (medium high) 3600 seconds (every hour) Frequency
(medium low) 86400 seconds (every day) Frequency (low) 2628000 seconds (every
month) Durations:  
PICH monitoring 10 msec Ramp-up 14 msec Ramp-down 6 msec Intra-frequency
measurements 10 msec Inter-frequency/iRAT measurements (30% of wake-ups) 10
msec
* * *
Sleep mode is the power consumption level during sleep time in DRX. Deep sleep
mode is the power consumption level during sleep time in PSM mode. The power
consumption during sleep time is dependent on the UE implementation, and not
directly coupled to the sleep duration:
**Sleep mode** : RTC clock is running, synchronization is maintained, memory
is maintained, UE performs \"continuous\" measurements when waking up,
mobility is maintained, etc.
**Deep sleep mode** : Coarse (less accurate) RTC clock is running,
synchronization is lost, UE needs to perform measurements \"from scratch\"
when waking up (potentially making use of stored history information to
improve measurement delays, however the UE may have moved), mobility is not
maintained, RAN4 measurement requirements do not apply/exist, requires longer
time to wake-up, etc.
The power consumption model does not claim to be accurate in every detail, and
variation in modem implementations and use cases do exist. However the model
aims to capture the main components in the correct order of magnitude.
#