# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
WCDMA currently serves as the dominant mobile broadband technique. The number
of connections for WCDMA users and the average user date rate have continued
to increase in the past years and will further increase in the coming years,
which requires WCDMA to evolve further from both uplink and downlink
perspective.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP RP-141657: \"Study on Downlink Enhancements for UMTS\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.331, \"Radio Resource Control (RRC)\".
[4] 3GPP Tdoc R1-145138, \"Evaluation results on downlink aspects of the
solutions\", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[5] 3GPP Tdoc R1-145039, \"DL evaluation of TPC enhancements\", Qualcomm
Incorporated.
[6] 3GPP Tdoc R1-150542, \"DL evaluation of TPC enhancements\", Qualcomm
Incorporated.
[7] 3GPP Tdoc R1-150614, \"Text Proposal on uplink evaluations for downlink
enhancement solutions\", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[8] 3GPP Tdoc R1-150340, \"Uplink impacts of a slower TPC update frequency\",
Ericsson.
[9] 3GPP Tdoc R1-150543, \"UL impact from TPC enhancements\", Qualcomm
Incorporated.
[10] 3GPP TR 25.705: \"Study on Small data transmission enhancements for
UMTS\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AMC Adaptive Modulation and Coding
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
CFN Connection Frame Number
DMCR Deferred Measurement Control Reading
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Channel
E-DPDCH E-DCH Dedicated Physical Data Channel
F-DPCH Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel
HS-DPCCH High Speed Dedicated Physical Control Channel
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
IHR Improved HARQ Retransmission
LHR Legacy HARQ Retransmission
MCI MAC Control Information
SCRI Signalling Connection Release Indication
SHO Soft Handover
# 4 Objectives of the Downlink enhancements for UMTS Study
The objectives of this study are ([2]):
\- Investigate mechanisms to enhance DL control channel performance, for
example: (RAN1)
\- Repeat DL TPC commands in a number of consecutive slots to allow soft
combining at the UE in order to reduce DL TPC transmit power.
\- Investigate mechanisms to enhance downlink signaling performance on
overhead and latency, especially for the case of RRC state transition and
parameter updating. (RAN2)
\- Investigate mechanisms to enhance SRB coverage over HSPA.(RAN2)
**The study shall include considerations to minimize the impact on physical
layer and legacy terminals and networks.**
# 5 Study Areas
## 5.1 Mechanism to enhance downlink signalling performance
### 5.1.1 Solutions
#### 5.1.1.1 Reduced TPC frequency with repetition of TPC commands
In the legacy system, algorithm 1 and algorithm 2 can be configured for TPC
processing. In both legacy TPC processing algorithms, TPC commands are
independently generated at each slot and it is not possible to combine the TPC
commands at the UE from different slots. In order to achieve soft combining
gains, the solution of reduced TPC frequency with repetition of TPC commands
is proposed so that the TPC command is repeated in N consecutive slots. UE can
soft combine those N consecutive TPC commands and get the soft combining gain.
The solution is illustrated in Figure 5.1.1.1-1, with N = 5 as an example.
Transmission power of downlink control channels may be reduced to allow more
power for data transmission thanks to the soft combining gain.
{width="6.49375in" height="1.24375in"}
Figure 5.1.1.1-1: Reduced TPC frequency with repetition of TPC commands
solution, where N = 5
There are two options for generating DL power control command to be
transmitted on the UL DPCCH for the TPC repetition scheme. In one case, the UE
estimates the SIR every slot and transmits independent DL power control
commands across the repeated TPC's. We call this scheme TPC repetition with
fast DL power control. Unless stated otherwise, Reduced TPC frequency with
repetitions scheme assumes fast DL power control. In the other case, the UE
estimates the SIR after soft combining the repeated TPC's and transmits the
same DL power control command across all slots of the repeated TPC's. We call
this scheme TPC repetition with slow DL power control.
#### 5.1.1.2 Compressed mode operation
For the reduced TPC frequency with repetition of TPC commands solution, in the
compressed mode operation, the N consecutive slots may be DTXed partly or
completely, for example M slots (M\ RB identity | | parameters | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | > RLC info | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | > RB mapping info | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL/UL TrCH related | DL TrCH | > DL DCH TFCS | | parameters | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Added or | > Added or | | | Reconfigured TrCH | Reconfigured DL TrCH | | | information list | information | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | UL TrCH | > TFC subset | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | > UL DCH TFCS | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | > TFC subset list | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Added or | > Added or | | | Reconfigured TrCH | Reconfigured UL TrCH | | | information list | information | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Physical channel | | > DTX-DRX | | parameters | | information | | | | | | | | > HS-SCCH less | | | | information | | | | | | | | > MIMO parameters | | | | | | | | > MIMO mode with | | | | four transmit | | | | antennas parameters | | | | | | | | > DCH Enhancements | | | | info FDD | | | | | | | | > Downlink | | | | secondary cell info | | | | FDD | | | | | | | | > Additional | | | | downlink secondary | | | | cell info list FDD | | | | | | | | > Additional | | | | downlink secondary | | | | cell info list FDD 2 | | | | | | | | > E-DCH Info | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Retrievable configurations can be configured for any state, except IDLE state
(upon state transition to IDLE state the UE shall clear the configuration),
and can be used during state transitions and for reconfiguration messages
within the same state.
In case of mobility cases, for example, the UE moves to another cell or
frequency, a retrievable configuration should only contain parameters which
will not change due to mobility, e.g. RB information elements, Transport
channel information elements. When the configuration has been stored by the
UE, only the identity needs to be provided in the RRC messages when changing
from one configuration to another, most information elements can be omitted
which will significantly reduce the RRC message size. Note that the UE stores
the RB and TrCH information elements for all established SRBs and RABs for a
given configuration, also if they have been configured in an earlier message.
Physical channel parameters can be added as part of a retrievable
configuration.
The solution on retrievable configuration is described as:
\- The UE can be pre-configured with a certain number of initial retrievable
configurations (one or more)
\- The network can add new retrievable configurations, or modify existing
ones, during the connection. The UE can be provided with a mix of retrievable
configuration and explicit configuration parameters. The explicit
configuration parameters can be new parameters that are not part of the
retrievable configuration or they can be parameters in the retrievable
configuration that need to be modified.
The UE can be provided with multiple retrievable configurations, and up to 16
retrievable configurations are considered sufficient. Each retrievable
configuration stored in the UE is identified by the \"Retrievable
Configuration identify\". The UE can be indicated by the network which
retrievable configuration the UE should use. The following RRC messages can be
used to provide and/or activate the retrievable configurations:
\- CELL UPDATE CONFIRM
\- RADIO BEARER RECONFIGURATION
\- RADIO BEARER SETUP
\- RADIO BEARER RELEASE
\- TRANSPORT CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
\- PHYSICAL CHANNEL RECONFIGURATION
The intention of the last two messages is that with these messages the
configuration will provide transport channel or physical channel parameters.
##### 5.2.1.3.2 Retrievable configuration in system information
The retrievable configuration can be added to the system information, and
system information should be able to broadcast a list of configurations
associated with identities similar to dedicated signalling. The activation
part can be based on the configuration identity, and there should be no
difference on whether a particular configuration comes from the system
information or dedicated signalling.
The option of using HANDOVER to UTRAN command to signal a retrievable
configuration broadcasted in the SIB is excluded.
Regarding the impact due to this solution, there are some observations in
table 5.2.1.3.2-1.
Table 5.2.1.3.2-1: Observations on retrievable configuration in system
information
+---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | No | Item | Description | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Observation 1 | BCH capacity | Signalling of | | | | retrievable | | | | configurations in | | | | system information will | | | | consume BCH capacity | | | | and it can lead to long | | | | SIB repetition periods. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Observation 2 | Acquisition time and | The UE needs to acquire | | | latency | all SIBs scheduled on | | | | the broadcast channel | | | | before access is | | | | allowed. With a long | | | | SIB repetition period | | | | it can have major | | | | impact on latency. If | | | | the SIB is put under | | | | DMCR (Deferred | | | | Measurement Control | | | | Reading) control, the | | | | UE can access the cell | | | | before the SIB has been | | | | acquired and impact on | | | | latency can be avoided. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Observation 3 | UE-network | UE and network need to | | | synchronization | have the same | | | | understanding of the | | | | retrievable | | | | configurations stored | | | | in the UE, otherwise | | | | the reconfiguration | | | | will fail. | | | | | | | | A UE that has acquired | | | | the SIB in the new cell | | | | will overwrite the | | | | information received | | | | via dedicated | | | | signalling or | | | | information received | | | | from system information | | | | in a previous cell. | | | | However, a UE that has | | | | not yet acquired the | | | | SIB will still apply | | | | the old information. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+ | Observation 4 | UEs with different UE | UEs have different UE | | | capabilities | capabilities and all | | | | UEs do not support all | | | | configurations. When | | | | retrievable | | | | configurations are | | | | signalled in dedicated | | | | signalling the network | | | | is already aware of the | | | | UE capabilities and it | | | | can choose the | | | | configurations | | | | considering the | | | | functionality supported | | | | by the UE. Upon reading | | | | the system information, | | | | the UE may receive some | | | | retrievable | | | | configuration that it | | | | does not support. | +---------------+-------------------------+-------------------------+
#### 5.2.1.4 Conclusions
The solution of signalling a retrievable configuration to the UE is
beneficial. For some configuration information, e.g. Downlink HS-PDSCH
Information, RAN2 has not studied the benefit and use.
If retrievable configurations are going to be provided via system information
a new SIB needs to be defined. There may be some problems:
(a) The SIB should be under DMCR control to make sure that the latency is not
impacted.
(b) Providing retrievable configurations in system information will impact BCH
capacity.
(c) The UE and the network may have different understandings of the
retrievable configurations stored in the UE, and thus reconfiguration failures
may happen. Upon reading the system information, the UE may receive some
retrievable configuration that it does not support.
### 5.2.2 Improved RRC synchronized procedures
#### 5.2.2.1 Background and motivation
In synchronized RRC procedures the RNC sends an activation time to the UE
indicating the exact CFN when the UE should switch to the new configuration.
When defining the CFN the RNC has to add extra margins for various delays to
increase the likelihood that the message has reached the UE and has been
processed before the activation time occurs. The margins taken into account
are e.g. for RLC retransmissions or HARQ retransmissions (in the case of SRB
on HS), transport network delay, long UE processing time etc. These extra
margins are usually set rather conservatively with worst case scenarios in
mind. In many cases they are not needed and the procedure could normally have
been done much faster.
As the RNC has to make a trade-off between time and robustness, there can also
be cases when the needed margins are too large to be practical so that the
ones added by RNC are not enough and the UE may not be ready to activate the
new configuration when the activation time is reached. This could happen e.g.
when there are too many retransmissions. There is then a risk that the Node B
and the UE do not switch to the new configuration at the same time and there
is a misalignment between the UE and the Node B for at least a CFN cycle
adding an additional delay of up to 2.56 seconds and increasing the risk for a
dropped call.
#### 5.2.2.2 Analysis
Figure 5.2.2.2-1 shows the current handling of RRC synchronized procedures. In
the RRC reconfiguration message an exact CFN is sent indicating when the
switch to the new configuration should be done.
{width="4.518055555555556in" height="2.39375in"}
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: The existing RRC synchronized reconfiguration procedure
#### 5.2.2.3 Solutions
For improved RRC synchronized procedures, the network sends a RRC message with
a hand-shake flag and a time offset. The UE determines an enhanced activation
time based on the time offset. When and how the UE determines the activation
time depends on the solutions (described as below). The UE will send a RRC
configuration complete message upon successful completion of the procedure.
The network can also indicate the legacy activation time, and the UE can
perform the configuration or reconfiguration according to the legacy
activation CFN if the handshake for determining the enhanced activation time
has failed.
It is noted that configuration is a general description on any downlink RRC
signalling, and it can be a reconfiguration message.
##### 5.2.2.3.1 Solution 1
After reception of the configuration message from the RNC, the UE sends a MAC
Control element once the UE is ready to switch to the new configuration. Upon
reception of the HARQ ACK, the UE starts a timer related to the time offset.
The Node B starts a timer after transmission of the HARQ ACK, and notifies the
RNC (e.g. activation time).
The UE completes the procedure by sending a RRC configuration complete message
on the new configuration.
{width="5.514583333333333in" height="4.036111111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1: Solution 1
##### 5.2.2.3.3 Solution 2
After reception of the configuration message from the RNC, the UE calculates
the activation time by adding the time offset to the current time. The UE
sends the calculated activation time to the RNC via a RRC message.
When the RNC receives the RRC message from the UE, it can send the calculated
activation time to the serving Node B and non serving Node B.
The UE completes the procedure by sending a RRC configuration complete message
on the new configuration.
{width="5.514583333333333in" height="4.036111111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.2.3.3-1: Solution 2
#### 5.2.2.4 Conclusions
For both solution 1 and solution 2, the time offset needs to consider Iub
delay. In case of soft handover, the activation delay/offset may have to
account for the largest possible delay of links between the RNC and
serving/non-serving Node Bs. This would be the case for procedures where the
participation of the non-serving Node Bs is critical. In that case, the delay
improvements on the interface between a UE and Node B would have less
contribution to the overall performance.
As a comparison, two criteria are considered: signalling saving and latency
reduction.
**[Signalling saving]{.underline}**
With solution 1, a MAC control PDU is sent (followed by HARQ feedback), and
then an Iub indication is sent to the RNC, while solution 2 uses the RRC level
message.
With solution 2, from functional point of view, an RRC message in the uplink
results in the MAC-i/is transmission and the NBAP data frame protocol message,
and the two phases are similar as solution 1.
The difference is that, in solution 2 there is RLC ACK due to the uplink RRC
message.
**[Latency reduction]{.underline}**
With solution 2, it has to account for both MAC and RLC ACK time, while for
solution 1 the handshake is between the UE and the Node B and it only needs to
account for MAC ACK time. Thus, the delay on RRC synchronized procedures is
less for solution 1 than solution 2.
With solution 1, the time offset starts after the MAC layer signalling is
completed, so margins for the signalling delays do not have to be added when
defining the offset. With solution 2, margins for long uplink delays have to
be added and those margins will always be there even if the conditions are
good. So more time can be saved with solution 1 compared with solution 2.
For solution 1, if the MAC PDU will be successfully transmitted, there will be
no delays. However, if there are some failures, the delays will be the same
compared with solution 2. In solution 2, the UE will report the activation
time to the network, and it does not exist in solution 1. So there may be a
mismatch since there is reliability issue.
There is no clear conclusion on the gains of the solutions, and there is no
consensus on the preferred solution.
### 5.2.3 State transition enhancements
#### 5.2.3.1 Background and motivation
Even though the HSPA wireless technology has a feature called enhanced DL/UL
for CELL_FACH, which allows a UE to stay longer in the power efficient
CELL_FACH state, there are still many cases when a UE has to be moved to the
CELL_DCH state. One of the most common reasons is when a mobile phone receives
or sends large volumes of data. It results in constant ping-pongs between
different states, in particular between CELL_DCH / CELL_FACH and CELL_FACH /
CELL_PCH. In turn, it creates signalling problems at the RNC side that resorts
for moving a UE constantly between the aforementioned states.
Here we present some results on how many state transitions a UE could
experience upon receiving the application level data, which was recorded from
RAN. We assume that the operator enables DCH, FACH, and PCH states, and the UE
supports enhanced DL and UL in the FACH state. The network can move a UE
between the aforementioned states; for the sake of simplicity, the direct
transition from DCH to PCH was disabled. The network moves a UE from FACH to
DCH if the buffer size exceeds the threshold of 5 Kbytes. If the UE buffer
stays smaller than 5 Kbyte for at least 5 seconds, then it is moved back to
FACH. The same timeout of 5 seconds is used to move a UE to PCH.
{width="3.248611111111111in"
height="2.279861111111111in"}{width="3.248611111111111in"
height="2.279861111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.3.1-1: Recorded application traffic traces
Figure 5.2.3.1-1 presents two traffic traces we inject into the state
simulator. As can be seen, the first one is a shorter trace with only a few
large bursts of data, whereas the second one represents the longer interaction
with a number of periods of inactivity and bursty data transmissions. Despite
these differences, these two traffic sources share common characteristics, as
summarized in Table 5.2.3.1-1 and Table 5.2.3.1-2. In particular, the share of
the time a UE spends in each state is quite similar. Furthermore, as can be
seen from Table 5.2.3.1-2, the state transition intensity is almost identical
for both sources.
Table 5.2.3.1-1: RRC state summary
* * *
Trace DCH time [%] FACH time [%] PCH time [%] RRC transition time [%] Trace 1
9.6 17.8 71.4 1.3 Trace 2 6.6 27 64.7 1.7
* * *
Table 5.2.3.1-2: RRC state transition summary
* * *
Trace DCH->FACH FACH->DCH FACH->PCH PCH->FACH Total 1/s Trace 1 2 3 10 10 26
0.07 Trace 2 35 35 112 112 294 0.08
* * *
#### 5.2.3.2 Analysis
As it can be observed from the data above, regardless of the traffic profile,
there can be several RRC state transitions during data call; whether they are
mostly between DCH and FACH, or between FACH and PCH, is governed by a
particular application type.
Typically, a RRC state transition is accomplished by exchanging RRC messages
such RADIO BEARER RECONFIGURATION and RADIO BEARER RECONFIGURATION COMPLETE,
each of which also triggers a RLC-ACK exchange. Thus, frequent state
transitions will result in a certain signalling load due to exchange of the
aforementioned messages. It is also worth noting that smart phones can
implement a special indication to the network, called signalling connection
release indication (SCRI), which asks to move a UE to a more power efficient
state. A typical network reaction to such a request is to re-configure a UE
immediately to a more power efficient state. As follows from Figure 5.2.3.2-1,
it results in even more messages exchanged between a UE and RNC.
{width="1.9673611111111111in" height="2.83125in"}
Figure 5.2.3.2-1: State transition with SCRI
In the legacy networks (Rel-8 onward), the network has to send explicitly the
RRC message to move a UE into a more power efficient state, e.g., CELL_FACH or
CELL_PCH.
#### 5.2.3.3 Solutions
The solutions are to address the following state transitions:
\- From CELL_FACH to CELL_PCH/URA_PCH
\- From CELL_DCH to CELL_PCH/URA_PCH
\- From CELL_DCH to CELL_FACH
##### 5.2.3.3.1 Solution 1
The UE indicates to the Node B via MAC Control Element the readiness to
perform state transition, after expiration of the inactivity timer. Upon
reception of HARQ ACK, the UE can perform the state transition.
{width="5.054166666666666in" height="2.441666666666667in"}
Figure 5.2.3.3.1-1: Solution 1 for state transmission enhancements
##### 5.2.3.3.2 Solution 2
The UE indicates to the Node B via MAC Control Element the readiness to
perform state transition, after expiration of the inactivity timer.
After the UE has sent an indication that it is ready for the state transition,
a HS-SCCH order is sent from the network as a go ahead for the state
transition. Upon transmission of HARQ ACK related to the HS-SCCH order, the UE
can perform the state transition.
{width="5.468055555555556in" height="3.359722222222222in"}
Figure 5.2.3.3.2-1: Solution 2 for state transmission enhancements
##### 5.2.3.3.3 Solution 3
The UE indicates to the RNC via RRC message with the intention to perform
state transition. Upon reception of the RLC ACK related to the RRC message, UE
can perform the state transition. It needs to be configurable whether the UE
can perform the state transition enhancement or not.
{width="5.1194444444444445in" height="2.3631944444444444in"}
Figure 5.2.3.3.3-1: Solution 3 for state transmission enhancements
#### 5.2.3.4 Conclusions
As a comparison, two criteria are considered: signalling saving and
robustness.
**[Signalling saving]{.underline}**
From the number of message point of view, both solution 1 and solution 3 have
fewer messages than solution 2. Table 5.2.3.4-1 shows the detailed information
on this comparison.
Table 5.2.3.4-1: signalling comparison for different solutions
+------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Solution | PHY message | MAC message | RRC message | Iub message | +------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Solution 1 | | One uplink | | An Iub | | | | MAC message | | indication | | | | and | | from the | | | | HARQ-ACK | | Node B to | | | | | | the RNC | +------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Solution 2 | HS-SCCH | One uplink | | An Iub | | | order and | MAC message | | indication | | | ACK | and | | from the | | | | HARQ-ACK | | Node B to | | | | | | the RNC; | | | | | | | | | | | | an Iub | | | | | | indication | | | | | | from the | | | | | | RNC to the | | | | | | RNC | | | | | | (Switch); | | | | | | | | | | | | an Iub | | | | | | indication | | | | | | from the | | | | | | Node B to | | | | | | the RNC | | | | | | (Switch); | +------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Solution 3 | | | One uplink | | | | | | RRC message | | | | | | and RLC-ACK | | +------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
For solution 1 and solution 3, the difference is that the MAC level option
does not have the RLC ACK. Since the RLC ACK is a small message sent in the DL
direction, it should not impact the resulting performance. As for the RRC
level SCRI message size, it has only a few IEs that should fit even the
smallest TB size and thus both the MAC control PDU and the RRC message may
need just one TTI. Compared with solution 3, solution 1 and solution 2 might
have a larger specification impact and would require introduction of
additional procedures and handling of error cases.
**[Robustness]{.underline}**
For solution 1 and solution 3, there is no final order from the network to go
ahead with the state transition. After the UE has been preconfigured for an
enhanced state transition, if the network needs to initiate another RRC
procedure towards the UE before the actual state transition takes place,
solution 2 can achieve it. For both solution 1 and solution 3, in this
situation, the UE may fail to act upon the RRC reconfiguration message as it
could have initiated a transition to another state.
Another situation that may occur is that the network has already started an
RRC reconfiguration procedure towards the UE when an SCRI or MCI is triggered.
The specifications needs to state very clearly, case by case, how the UE
should behave in this situation. It is simpler and flexible if the network can
handle enhanced state transitions also by means of a confirmation compared
with solution 1 and solution 3.
For solution 1, 2 and 3, there is no consensus in RAN2 which solution is best
and provides most signalling gains.
### 5.2.4 Seamless URA_PCH state transition to CELL_FACH
#### 5.2.4.1 Background and motivation
In the absence of data activity, but in the case of a need to maintain a data
connection, the network has two major choices with regards to which RRC state
a UE should be assigned to: URA_PCH or CELL_PCH/CELL_FACH state. For the sake
of technical completeness, CELL_DCH state would be possible, but less battery
and resource efficient. Speaking of URA_PCH and CELL_PCH/CELL_FACH state,
there are some pros/cons trade-offs. On the one hand, CELL_PCH/CELL_FACH
provides means for fast reconfiguration to the CELL_DCH state (for PCH,
especially when a UE and the network support HS channels for CELL_PCH).
However, while staying in the CELL_PCH/CELL_FACH state, a UE sends the CELL
UPDATE message every time it re-selects from one cell to another. In the dense
cell environment it can create a noticeable load on the RNC. The URA_PCH state
does not have problems with a storm of CELL UPDATE messages because the latter
is not sent as long as a UE stays within a particular URA area. However, the
drawback of URA_PCH is that the network must always page the whole URA area to
reach a UE. Furthermore, since a UE does not keep the xx-RNTI variables in
URA_PCH, the seamless transition from URA_PCH to CELL_FACH is not feasible
either even when the network supports enhanced DL/UL for CELL_FACH. As a
result, a UE must always first send the CELL UPDATE message.
In rural and sub-urban cell deployments, a choice between the URA_PCH and
CELL_PCH/CELL_FACH state might be less critical because the number of CELL
UPDATE messages sent during cell re-selection is less due to large cell sizes.
In dense deployments, large number of cells poses higher challenges with
regards to the number of transmitted CELL UPDATE messages during the cell
reselection process, thus, URA_PCH may be more suitable.
Similar considerations can be made (regarding the impacts of Cell Updates due
to cell reselection) for the same deployment scenario, but considering
different UE speeds. In particular, low-speed UEs are expected to experience
less cell reselections (than higher-speed UEs).
#### 5.2.4.2 Analysis
CELL_PCH has been enhanced to enable a seamless transition to CELL_FACH
(without need to send Cell Update). But frequent cell update messages are
still possible in case of frequent cell reselections.
For URA_PCH state, the cell update procedures caused by cell reselection are
reduced obviously, but the cell update procedures cannot be avoided when there
is a state transition from URA_PCH to CELL_FACH state, because so far seamless
transition is only valid from CELL_PCH to CELL_FACH.
#### 5.2.4.3 Solutions
##### 5.2.4.3.1 Solution of the URA-wide RNTI
Figure 5.2.4.3.1-1 shows one solution of the URA-wide RNTI on URA_PCH to
CELL_FACH transitions.
Firstly, the network allocates dedicated E-RNTI, H-RNTI and C-RNTI for the UE
in order for seamless URA_PCH to CELL_FACH transitions. Certain RNTIs are used
for URA-wide identities, while certain RNTIs are used for cell specific
identities. The UE keeps the URA-wide RNTIs when transiting to URA_PCH.
Secondly, the UE moves to other cell and the URA is not changed, and later if
the UE triggers a state transition (e.g. due to uplink data transmission), the
UE does not trigger cell update procedure and instead a single RRC message is
sent, e.g. measurement report.
After state transition from URA_PCH to CELL_FACH, the UE could perform HS-DSCH
reception and E-DCH transmission in CELL_FACH.
{width="6.054861111111111in" height="4.330555555555556in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3.1-1: Seamless URA_PCH to CELL_FACH transitions procedure (cell
change case)
In addition, if there is no cell change in URA_PCH state, the UE does not have
to send any RRC message before seamless URA_PCH state transition triggered by
sending data. This is shown in figure 5.2.4.3.1-2.
{width="6.054861111111111in" height="4.330555555555556in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3.1-2: Seamless URA_PCH to CELL_FACH transitions procedure (no
cell change case)
##### 5.2.4.3.2 Solution of the cell-wide RNTI
As one addition solution, the UE maintains the RNTIs (E-RNTI, H-RNTI and
C-RNTI) when transitioning to URA_PCH. The RNTIs are cleared when the UE
changes cell.
In the solution, when UE is reconfigured to the URA_PCH state, it could be
assigned dedicated RNTIs values similar to the legacy CELL_PCH state. Whenever
a UE needs to send data after it has re-selected to another cell, a UE should
clear its dedicated RNTI values and go through the CELL UPDATE procedure.
However, if a UE stays in the same cell, it can seamlessly transition to
CELL_FACH. These two options are presented in figures 5.2.4.3.2-1 and
5.2.4.3.2-2.
{width="3.138888888888889in" height="2.9819444444444443in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3.2-1: UL data arrival to the UE buffer upon reselecting to a
different cell
{width="3.251388888888889in" height="3.09375in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3.2-2: UL data arrival to the UE buffer upon staying in the same
cell
Furthermore, it is worth noting that the URA_PCH enhancement explained above
also helps when there is a DL data coming to the RNC. In figures 5.2.4.3.2-3
and 5.2.4.3.2-4 on the left hand side, one can see a set of actions for the
legacy URA_PCH case. Whenever some DL data arrives, RNC has to page cells to
wake up a UE, after which the latter initiates the CELL UPDATE procedure. If a
UE is sent to the URA_PCH state and is asked to keep dedicated RNTI values (as
depicted on the right hand side), then it can perform a seamless transition to
CELL_FACH upon a reception of a paging indication from the network, assuming
that a UE stays in the same cell. Otherwise, if it moves to a different cell,
the CELL UPDATE procedure will be triggered.
{width="3.38125in" height="2.9743055555555555in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3.2-3: DL data arrival to the RNC buffer upon UE reselecting to a
different cell
{width="3.2555555555555555in" height="2.9340277777777777in"}
Figure 5.2.4.3.2-4: DL data arrival to the RNC buffer upon UE staying in the
same cell
When a UE crosses the URA area, it will send the URA UPDATE message as per
current legacy behaviour. In response, the network can send the URA UPDATE
CONFIRM with an indication to continue and stay in the URA_PCH state. In
addition, the network can also provide new dedicated RNTI values. After that,
the UE would continue with the behaviour explained above.
#### 5.2.4.4 Conclusions
The solution of seamless URA_PCH state transition to CELL_FACH is beneficial.
With cell-wide RNTI solution, RNTIs are applicable to a single cell only
because the RNTIs are cleared when the UE changes cell. With URA-wide RNTI
solution, RNTIs are applicable to all the cells in an URA because the RNTIs
are cleared when the UE changes URA. A comparison of two solutions is shown in
table 5.2.4.4-1.
Table 5.2.4.4-1: Comparison of options between Cell-wide RNTIs and URA-wide
RNTIs
* * *
Aspect Cell-wide RNTIs URA-wide RNTIs Data transmission after cell reselection
CELL UPDATE / CONFIRM over CCCH (followed by UMI CONFIRM / RLC ACK over DCCH)
MEASUREMENT REPORT / RLC ACK over DCCH RNTI blocking H-RNTI/E-RNTI is blocked
only in one particular cell till the next data transmission H-RNTI/E-RNTI is
blocked in all the cells under the same RNC
* * *
The solution of seamless URA_PCH state transition to CELL_FACH can be used
with or without the extended RNTI solution (described in section 5.4.3).
### 5.2.5 Optimization from IDLE to CONNECTED state
#### 5.2.5.1 Background and motivation
If a device in the IDLE state moves to the CONNECTED mode because of outgoing
or incoming data, then a noticeable amount of messages exchanged between a UE
and RNC can be observed. There are a few big phases which could be classified
as initial attach, authentication, attach completion, and the PDP context
activation as illustrated in the Annex B. Each of the aforementioned stages in
turn involves a number of RRC messages.
Being in the CELL_FACH state, each RRC message transmitted by a UE requires
acquisition of resources involving transmission of PRACH preamble followed by
a common E-DCH transmission. With enhanced DL/UL for CELL_FACH a large RRC
message could be transmitted over a common E-DCH resource once it is acquired
by a UE. However, a common E-DCH resource is typically released by a UE after
expiry of the inactivity timer. Referring again to a case of when a UE moves
from IDLE to CONNECTED, it is usually the case that the E-DCH inactivity timer
expires before a UE receives the next message from RNC and generates the next
response message. As a result, a UE has to go through a noticeable number of
requests for the common E-DCH resource. The network can of course configure an
explicit release of the common E-DCH resources, but since this configuration
is the same for all UEs, it is not a desirable solution.
Annex C shows a recorded trace of messages exchanged between a UE and RNC
(exact time stamps were obfuscated leaving 00:00 for hours and minutes, but
seconds were remained unchanged). As can be seen, the whole procedure from the
RRC CONNECTION REQUEST till RADIO BEARER SETUP took around 3 seconds. What
more important is that delays between UL messages are larger than the maximum
common E-DCH backoff timer meaning that each UL message transmission would
trigger a request for a common E-DCH resource.
#### 5.2.5.2 Analysis
In Rel-11, a new feature was introduced called \"NodeB triggered HS-DPCCH
transmission\" that allows the network to ask a UE to acquire the E-DCH
resource and keep it until it is released either explicitly or by means of the
inactivity timer. If a UE supports this feature, then the network can ask a UE
to get the E-DCH resource and keep it during the whole phase of establishing
the PDP context thus avoiding multiple requests for the common E-DCH resource.
It should be separately noted that it is up to the network strategy whether to
perform explicitly both triggering of acquisition of the common E-DCH
resources and its release, or use a timer based approach for releasing the
common E-DCH resource (similar to the Rel-8 functionality). In the latter
case, IE \"HS-DPCCH transmission continuation backoff\" has a value range of
10..800ms. It allows for configuring much larger timer values when compared to
Rel-8, which in turn enables the network to find a good trade-off between not
releasing the E-DCH resource till the next RRC message versus blocking the
E-DCH resource.
Current limitation of the UTRAN side is that a trigger for acquiring the
common E-DCH resource is solely within Node B, which does not take any RRC
related state information into account, such as whether a UE has established
the PDP context or not. There is no mechanism either that allows RNC to
indicate relevant information towards Node B, according to which the latter
could establish and release the E-DCH resource. Thus, one potential
enhancement is to allow RNC to provide hints towards Node B. Of course, at the
end it would be up to the Node B whether to trigger acquisition of the E-DCH
resource based on available common E-DCH resources and other RRM parameters.
#### 5.2.5.3 Solutions
Figure 5.2.5.3-1 illustrates how an additional information from RNC could
facilitate process of transitioning from IDLE to CONNECTED. Once the RNC
receives the RRC CONNECTION REQUEST message, it can assign dedicated RNTI
values in the RRC CONNECTION SETUP response message. When the RNC receives RRC
CONNECTION SETUP COMPLETE, it will know whether a UE supports \"NodeB
triggered HS-DPCCH transmission\" and if the latter does, the RNC can issue
immediately the \"common E-DCH acquisition hint\" towards Node B. If Node B
has spare common E-DCH resources, it can send the corresponding HS-SCCH order
to the UE.
Similarly, when the radio bearer is set up and the PDP context is activated,
the RNC can send the corresponding information to Node B, which can either
immediately release the resource (or wait for the expiry of the backoff timer
if it is configured in SIB5).
{width="3.154166666666667in" height="3.9381944444444446in"}
Figure 5.2.5.3-1: Optimized IDLE to CONNECTED transition with E-DCH
acquisition/release hints from RNC
#### 5.2.5.4 Conclusions
For the solution mentioned in section 5.2.5.3, it is beneficial on transition
time from IDLE to CONNECTED state.
## 5.3 SRB coverage over HSPA enhancements
### 5.3.1 Improved HARQ retransmission
#### 5.3.1.1 Background and motivation
In case of SRB over HSPA (SRBoH for short), there is no downlink transmission
diversity, and the coverage is smaller than SRB over DCH. In poor coverage
area, the RRC signalling transmission failures may increase for SRBoH, so more
call drops may happen.
In addition, if more retransmissions are needed when UE is in cell edge, the
user experience may not be so good for the transmission delay sensitive
service.
#### 5.3.1.2 Analysis
The network can configure multiple HARQ processes for continuous transmission
for HSDPA, and there is a fixed HARQ timing between the HS-PDSCH and HS-DPCCH.
This is legacy HARQ retransmission mechanism (LHR for short).
In figure 5.3.1.2-1, if the network schedules an initial MAC PDU on process#1
and then sends a retransmission also on process#1 in the consequent sub-frame,
the UE may discard the second PDU. Normally the network will transmit a new
MAC PDU or perform retransmission depends on the feedback information from the
UE after at least 5 sub-frames (i.e. 10 ms) from the initial data
transmission.
Figure 5.3.1.2-1: HARQ transmissions for HSDPA
Theoretically, one HARQ retransmission could contribute 3db gain and the AMC
gain could also be expected.
In order for better retransmission performance, it may be an alternative to
consider increasing the power for HS-DSCH transmission(s). For UEs in cell
edge, the reported CQIs are normally bad, so the power limited cases will
happen frequently. In addition, if there are other UEs which are in data
transmission with good radio condition (e.g. in cell centre), the power
efficiency may not be high if the available power is allocated for cell edge
UEs for retransmission(s).
#### 5.3.1.3 Solutions
When the improved HARQ retransmission (IHR for short) is enabled, the network
can schedule a MAC-hs/ehs PDU with the same TSN in less than 5 TTIs after the
initial transmission. This is shown in figure 5.3.1.3-1 and there are 2
retransmissions following the initial transmission.
At the UE side, if the New Data Indicator is identical to the value used in
the previous received transmission in the HARQ process, it combines the
received data with the data in the soft buffer for this HARQ process and
generates feedbacks for them. Since the UE may be required to send the
feedback for continuous sub-frames, the Ack-Nack repetition factor should be
set to 1 correspondingly.
Figure 5.3.1.3-1: HARQ transmissions for HSDPA
Figure 5.3.1.3-2: HARQ transmissions for HSDPA
In figure 5.3.1.3-2, for each initial transmission, the network only schedules
two retransmissions following the initial transmission. If there is no ACK
received after all the three continuous transmissions, the network could
decide to continue the next three continuous HARQ retransmission based on HARQ
timing. Later, if the network receives at least one ACK from the UE, the
network will consider the MAC-hs/ehs PDU had been successful transmitted.
For IHR mechanism, there will be more and earlier HARQ retransmissions
compared to the legacy way within a certain period, so both the robustness and
latency could be improved. In this mode, the user experience is guaranteed if
delay sensitive service is considered.
So far, HSDPA operation with HARQ feedbacks can be available in CELL_DCH state
and CELL_FACH state. For CELL_DCH state, the signalling is seen to be frequent
so that the signalling robustness is important, and it is not exactly aligned
with CELL_FACH state because a user may not stay very long in CELL_FACH state.
So we think the IHR mechanism can be considered only for CELL_DCH state.
#### 5.3.1.4 Evaluation
**In Annex A.2, simulation assumptions and the bursty mode are provided (Table
A.2-1 and Table A.2-2). During the simulation, Call duration is 50s, if UE
call drop during the call duration, it does not initiate new call any more.
The IHR mechanism is only applied to the UE with bad radio condition.**
The system performance evaluation metrics are as below:
\- Call drop ratio: defined as call drop number/call number during the call
duration, and the call duration is 50s. If the UE suffers radio link failure,
a call drop is recorded.
\- 5% DL throughput: defined as the ratio between the data burst size in bits
and the time the burst spent in the system.
\- Average successful transmission time: for a handover message, defined as
the transmission time from the time the Node B has sent the initial
transmission till the time it receives the HARQ-ACK.
**In this simulation, there are two basic modes, the legacy mode and improved
HARQ retransmission mode. For the former mode, LHR is always used; and for the
latter mode, the network can only decide to enable IHR if the UE is bad radio
condition, e.g. based on the reported CQI. In addition, more cases for
improved HARQ retransmission are also provided, e.g. based on different
numbers of retransmissions.**
**As comparison, the results for increased power for HS-DSCH transmission are
also provided. For HS-PDSCH, the power is firstly decided through the method
used in the legacy case, and then there is at most 3 dB power assigned if
there is available power in the cell. This mode is applied to both the initial
transmission and retransmission cases.**
**For all above modes, the HS-SCCH power is allocated based on the CQI
reported by the UE (as shown in simulation assumptions).**
**In table 5.3.1.4-1, it can be seen that the call drop ratio is improved by
IHR, and it applies in both 30 km/h and 60 km/h cases. The average successful
transmission time is also reduced. In addition, for 5% DL throughput, there is
a very small difference between LHR and IHR mechanisms so that there is
limited impact regarding the system capacity.**
Table 5.3.1.4-1: Call drop ratio for 30 and 60 km/h
+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UE speed | HARQ mode | Call drop | Average | 5% DL | | (km/h) | | ratio (%) | successful | throughput | | | | | t | (kbps) | | | | | ransmission | | | | | | time (ms) | | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 30 | LHR (5) | 0.31% | 11.26 | 395 | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | IHR (4) | 0.00% | 8.18 | 382 | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Gains | -0.31% | -27.35% | -3.29% | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 60 | LHR (5) | 4.01% | 16 | 350 | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | IHR (4) | 2.47% | 10.7 | 347 | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Gains | -1.54% | -33.12% | -0.85% | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | the number | | | | | | in LHR or | | | | | | IHR, it can | | | | | | be found in | | | | | | \"Table | | | | | | A.2-1: | | | | | | Simulation | | | | | | as | | | | | | sumptions\" | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | gains on | | | | | | call drop | | | | | | ratio, it | | | | | | is | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | as (call | | | | | | drop ratio | | | | | | for IHR -- | | | | | | call drop | | | | | | ratio for | | | | | | LHR); for | | | | | | gains on | | | | | | average | | | | | | time and 5% | | | | | | DL | | | | | | throughput, | | | | | | it is | | | | | | calculated | | | | | | as (value | | | | | | for IHR -- | | | | | | value for | | | | | | LHR) / | | | | | | value for | | | | | | LHR | | | | | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
**In table 5.3.1.4-2, if the network only perform x transmissions (x is 2, 3
or 4), the call drop ratio will be lower if there are more transmissions. If
the network perform x+y transmissions, the call drop ratio will be further
reduced, e.g. 4.32% for IHR (2) and 2.78 for IHR (2+2).**
**For increased power for HS-DSCH transmission mode, the call drop ratio is
lower than the IHR (2) mode, but higher than all other IHR modes. In the
simulation, most of call drops happen in bad radio condition, and the network
may not have available power for HS-DSCH transmission(s), so the effect is
compromised.**
Table 5.3.1.4-2: Call drop ratio for different HARQ retransmission numbers (60
km/h)
* * *
                                                                                                    IHR (2)   IHR (2+2)   IHR (3)   IHR (3+3)   IHR (4)   Increased power for HS-DSCH transmission (at most 3 dB)
Call drop ratio (%) 4.32% 2.78% 2.48% 2.16% 2.47% 3.70% NOTE: For the number
in LHR or IHR, it can be found in \"Table A.2-1: Simulation assumptions\".
* * *
**Based on the above results, there are the following observations:**
\- The IHR mechanism could improve call drop ratio when UE radio condition
worsens quickly, e.g. serving cell change. The HARQ transmission time can be
also reduced because the retransmission can be early in IHR mechanism
\- For IHR mechanism, there is limited impact to the system capacity
\- If there are more than 2 transmissions for IHR mechanism, the call drop
ratio is better than increasing power for HS-DSCH transmission (at most 3 dB)
For IHR mechanism, call drop ratio varies with different retransmission
number, and basically the drop ratio will be lower if there are more
transmissions.
#### 5.3.1.5 Conclusions
**For the SRB coverage over HSPA enhancements, one solution of the improved
HARQ retransmission (IHR) is identified. Based on the evaluation, the IHR
mechanism can improve call drop ratio in case the radio condition worsens
quickly, and the HARQ transmission time can be also reduced because the
retransmission can be early in IHR mechanism.**
**The benefits on call drop ratio vary depending on the configurations. As the
HARQ retransmission number increased, call drop ratio decreases. However, if
the HARQ retransmission number is more than 3, the gain on call drop ratio is
minimal compared to the case with less HARQ retransmission number. Therefore,
it is beneficial to consider at most 4 continuous HARQ transmissions for a
MAC-hs/ehs PDU.**
## 5.4 Extended RNTI
### 5.4.1 Background and motivation
The increasing growth of smart phones which support enhanced UL/DL in
CELL_FACH state and/or CELL_PCH state with seamless transition, coupled with
the expected mass deployment of Small Data Transmission devices (e.g. smart
meters) in Networks, mean that the existing address space of 65536 for each of
the E-RNTI, H-RNTI and C-RNTI identifiers will not be sufficient.
### 5.4.2 Analysis
In order to address the space issue of RNTIs, some solutions can be
considered, e.g. extended RNTI.
### 5.4.3 Solutions
#### 5.4.3.1 Solution 1
The URA-wide identities can be split into one extension part and one legacy
part:
uE-RNTI = xE-RNTI + E-RNTI\ uH-RNTI = xH-RNTI + H-RNTI
where u stands for URA-wide version and x stands for the extension part.
A 1-bit, 2-bit or 4-bit extension can be achieved within the existing physical
control channel (the UL MAC-i header 0, the E-AGCH and the HS-SCCH)
structures:
**[MAC-i header]{.underline}**
For UEs in CELL_FACH state using Common E-DCH, a specific MAC-i header 0 is
used for collision resolution. The MAC-i header 0 includes a hardcoded LCH-ID
(which indicates that the E-RNTI is attached), the UE's stored E-RNTI (16
bits), and 4 padding bits.
For UEs in URA_PCH state with a URA-wide identity assigned, a similar MAC-i
header can be defined to carry the extended E-RNTI by making use of the
padding bits. This relatively simple change would limit the impact in the MAC
layer to the minimum, as the current headers and procedures could be reused
with minimum changes.
Making use of the padding bits is applicable to all extensions of 1-bit,
2-bits or 4-bits.
**[E-AGCH]{.underline}**
The E-AGCH carries the 6-bit Absolute Grant, which consists of the 5-bit Grant
Value and the 1-bit Grant Scope, in addition to the 16-bit E-RNTI.
For UE's in URA_PCH state with a URA-wide identity assigned, the Grant Value
bits could be redefined to allow signalling of an extended E-RNTI.
Making use of the Grant Value bits is applicable to all extensions of 1-bit,
2-bits or 4-bits.
**[HS-SCCH]{.underline}**
The HS-SCCH carries more fields:
> 7 bit Channelization code set into\ 1 bit Modulation scheme info\ 6 bit TBS
> info\ 3 bit Hybrid-ARQ process info\ 3 bit Redundancy and constellation
> version\ 1 bit New data indicator\ 16 bit UE Identity (H-RNTI)
As described above, the full flexibility provided by these fields are not
needed here, and therefore some of these existing fields could be redefined to
enable the signalling of an extended RNTI.
Some fields could be hard-coded and some could be reduced in size. For
example, the Modulation scheme and the Redundancy and constellation version
could be fixed or the number of channelization codes and TBS can be reduced.
Hardcoding the \"Redundancy and constellation version\" field to Chase
Combining, would free up 3 bits which could be used in the case of 1-bit or
2-bits.
Hardcoding the \"Modulation scheme info\" field to QPSK would free up an extra
bit, giving the bits needed for a 4-bit extension of the RNTI.
#### 5.4.3.2 Solution 2
For extended E-RNTI, the address space for E-RNTI, is split into two parts,
one for URA-wide identities (E-RNTIs scheduled with new E-AGCH) and one for
cell specific identities. The principle is shown in figure 5.4.3.2-1.
Figure 5.4.3.2-1: E-RNTIs shared in URA_PCH
In this figure, the above E-RNTI space is used only for CELL_DCH, CELL_FACH
and CELL_PCH states (legacy case), and the total number is 65536\. The below
E-RNTI space is used only for URA_PCH state in one URA scope, and the total
number is also 65536. As shown in the figure, for different E-RNTI spaces,
different E-AGCHs are used for indication and the E-AGCH information is sent
in system information. The E-RNTI allocation for CELL_DCH, CELL_FACH and
CELL_PCH states is not impacted at all.
For extended H-RNTI, the URA-wide identities are composed of two part: one is
legacy H-RNTI part and another is extension part.
uH-RNTI = xH-RNTI + H-RNTI
The extension part can be included in the MAC-ehs PDU header, and enhanced
URA_PCH state UEs can share the same H-RNTI. Since enhanced URA_PCH state UEs
will be scheduled with the same H-RNTI, they can be differentiated by the
extension part in the MAC-ehs PDU. For example, the extension part of H-RNTI
can be included in the MAC-ehs PDU payload, and fields in the header can be
used for indication.
Figure 5.2.4.3.3.2-2: MAC-ehs PDU
For extended C-RNTI, the current '10' and '11' of UE-Id Type field are
reserved and they can be used to include the extension part of C-RNTI.
### 5.4.4 Conclusions
Extended RNTI solution is beneficial because the network have sufficient RNTIs
that can be allocated to devices, particularly for the expected mass
deployment of Small Data Transmission devices [10].
# 6 Impact on RAN WGs
The following sections provide a high level description of the specification
impact for different Working Groups due to the introduction of the features in
this Technical Report.
## 6.1 Impact on RAN1 specifications
**For both the TPC repetition solution and the TPC decimation solution
(described in section 5.1.1):**
**TS 25.214: for the TPC repetition solution,** the TPC transmission scheme at
the Node B and the soft combining procedure at the UE are required to be
specified. Modifications for compressed mode operation are also required to be
specified. For the TPC decimation solution, the TPC transmission scheme at the
Node B is required to be specified.
[]{.underline}
**For solution 2 of state transition enhancements (described in section
5.2.3.3.2):**
TS 25.21x: use of HS-SCCH orders.
**For solution 1 of extended RNTI (described in section 5.4.3.1):**
TS 25.21x: impacts on HS-SCCH and E-AGCH coding.
## 6.2 Impact on RAN2 specifications
**For both the TPC repetition solution and the TPC decimation solution
(described in section 5.1.1):**
TS 25.331: UE receiver capability is required to be specified.
**For solutions of downlink signalling performance enhancements (described in
section 5.2):**
TS 25.308 / TS 25.300: Functional description of the new features may be
needed (e.g. enhanced signalling on RRC parameters configuration)
TS 25.306: UE capabilities related to the support of the new features
TS 25.321:
\- Evolved UL MAC Control Information and its triggers, regarding solution 1
of improved RRC synchronized procedures (described in section 5.2.2.3.1)
\- Evolved UL MAC Control Information and its triggers, regarding solution 1
and solution 2 of state transition enhancements (described in section
5.2.3.3.1 and section 5.2.3.3.2)
TS 25.331: Potential impacts to RRC signallings for all the new features.
**For solution of improved HARQ retransmission (described in section
5.3.1.3):**
**TS 25.300: Functional description of the new features may be needed**
**TS 25.306: Add a new UE capability bit in order to support the improved HARQ
retransmission**
**TS 25.321: Add a new text in order to describe how the improved HARQ
retransmission works**
**TS 25.331: Include UE capability signalling and network configuration
signalling**
**For solutions of extended RNTI (described in section 5.4.3.1 and section
5.4.3.2):**
TS 25.300: Functional description of the new features may be needed
TS 25.306: UE capabilities related to the support of the new features
TS 25.321: Potential impacts to UL MAC PDU and/or DL MAC PDU
TS 25.331: Potential impacts to RRC signalling for the new features
## 6.3 Impact on RAN3 specifications
**For both the TPC repetition solution and the TPC decimation solution
(described in section 5.1.1):**
TS 25.42x / TS 25.43x: potential signalling is required between the Node B and
the RNC
**For solutions of downlink signalling performance enhancements (described in
section 5.2):**
**TS 25.433 / TS 25.423: RAN3 signalling may be impacted**
**For solution of improved HARQ retransmission (described in section
5.3.1.3):**
**TS 25.433 / TS 25.423: RAN3 signalling may be impacted**
**For solutions of extended RNTI (described in section 5.4.3.1 and section
5.4.3.2):**
TS 25.433 / TS 25.423 / TS 25.435 / TS 25.425: the E-RNTI and H-RNTI are
currently defined in the specifications as 16 bits and thus would be impacted
by the extended RNTIs.
## 6.4 Impact on RAN4 specifications
**For both the TPC repetition solution and the TPC decimation solution
(described in section 5.1.1):**
Potential impact should be considered on the demodulation performance part.
###### ### Annex A: Performance evaluation methodology
## A.1 Link simulation assumptions
The downlink link simulation assumptions of the solutions to enhance downlink
signaling performance are shown in Table A.1-1.
Table A.1-1: Downlink link simulation assumptions of the solutions to enhance
downlink signalling performance
* * *
Parameters Values IorvsIoc [-5, 25] dB Outer loop power control Off Inner loop
power control On Step size for inner loop power control 1dB DL TPC error 0 DL
TPC delay 1slot Propagation condition PA3, Case 4,VA30, VA120 Repeat Factor 1,
3, 5
* * *
The uplink link simulation assumptions of the solutions to enhance downlink
signaling performance are shown in Table A.1-2.
Table A.1-2: Uplink link simulation assumptions of the solutions to enhance
downlink signalling performance
* * *
Parameter Value Physical Channels E-DPDCH, E-DPCCH, DPCCH E-DCH TTI [ms] 10
TBS [bits] 5076 Modulation QPSK Number of physical data channels and spreading
factor 1xSF4 20*log10(βed/βc) [dB] 8.94 20*log10(βec/βc) [dB] -1.94
20*log10(βhs/βc) [dB] OFF Number of H-ARQ Processes 4 Target Number of H-ARQ
Transmissions 2 H-ARQ operating point 1 % Residual BLER Number of Rx Antennas
2 Channel Encoder 3GPP Release 6 Turbo Encoder Turbo Decoder Log MAP Number of
iterations for turbo decoder 8 DPCCH Slot Format 1 (8 Pilot, 2 TPC) Channel
Estimation Realistic Inner Loop Power Control ON Outer Loop Power Control OFF
Inner Loop PC Step Size ±1 dB UL TPC Delay (sent on F-DPCH) 2 slots UL TPC
Error (sent on F-DPCH) 4%, 10% Propagation Channel PA3, Case 4, VA30, VA120
NodeB Receiver Type RAKE Power Control Frequency 300Hz, 1500Hz
* * *
## A.2 System simulation assumptions
Table A.2-1: Simulation assumptions
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameters | Values and comments | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of sites/sectors | 9/27 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of UEs per sector | 6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Inter-site distance | 500 m | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Dropping criteria for UEs | Random | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Scenarios | Outdoor | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Path Loss | L=128.1 + 37.6log10(R), R in | | | kilometres | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Log Normal Fading | Standard Deviation: 8dB | | | | | (outdoor) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna pattern | $\theta_{3\text{dB}}$$A\left( \ | | | theta \right) = - \text{min}\lef | | | t\lbrack \text{12}\left( \frac{\ | | | theta}{\theta_{3\text{dB}}} \rig | | | ht)^{2},A_{m} \right\rbrack$3GPP | | | ant (2D ant) | | | | | | = 70 degrees, Am = 20 dB | | | | | | UE: omni-directional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Model | VA30, VA60 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Penetration loss | 10 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum UE EIRP | 24 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum Tx Power of Node B | 43 dBm | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max BS Antenna Gain | 14 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max UE Antenna Gain | 0 dBi | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE Noise Figure | 9 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HS-DSCH | Up to 15 SF 16 codes per carrier | | | for HS-PDSCH | | | | | | Total available power for | | | HS-PDSCH is dynamic of Node B Tx | | | power, with HS-SCCH transmit | | | power controlled. | | | | | | HS-SCCH power is allocated based | | | on the CQI reported by the UE. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of HARQ processes | 6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Measurement Power Offset | Fixed, 7.5 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum transmission number for | 5 (described as below) | | LHR mechanism | | | | {width="3.3361111111111112in" | | | height="0.6527777777777778in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Transmission number for IHR | 2, 2+2, 3, 3+3, 4 (described as | | mechanism | below) | | | | | | For 2, there are only totally 2 | | | transmissions (including the | | | initial and the following | | | retransmissions), and it is the | | | same for 3 and 4 modes. | | | (described as below) | | | | | | {width="1.7013888888888888in" | | | height="0.63125in"} | | | | | | For 2+2, there are 2 | | | transmissions (including the | | | initial and the following | | | retransmissions), and if there | | | is no ACK received, there will | | | be 2 retransmissions. It is the | | | same for 3+3 case. | | | | | | {width="2.7375in" | | | height="0.6527777777777778in"} | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum RLC retransmission | 32 | | number in the downlink | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE Receiver | Type 3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Max active set size | 3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE speed [km/h] | 30, 60 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE movement | Random | | | | | | (A UE is initially dropped at a | | | random position, and later it | | | selects a direction and moves in | | | a straight line at a constant | | | speed) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Event 1A, 1B Reporting Range | 1A: 3, 1B: 6 | | [dB] | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Event 1A, 1B, 1C,1D Time To | 1A: 320, 1B: 640, 1C: 320, 1D: | | Trigger [ms] | 640 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Event 1A, 1B, 1C, 1D Hysteresis | 1A: 0, 1B: 0, 1C: 2, 1D: 2 | | [dB] | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Event 1A/B/C/D Maximum Network | 100 for SRB over HSPA | | Delay [ms] | | | | (The interval between the time | | | the RNC receives a measurement | | | report for handover till the | | | time the Node B receives the | | | handover message) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Layer3 Filter Parameter K | 3 | | | | | (corresponding to 458ms filter | | | time constant with Tmeasurement | | | period intra =200 ms) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Event 1A, 1B W parameter | 0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Traffic model | Bursty | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Handover signalling size (byte) | 30 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | T313 (s) | 5 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | N313/N315 | 50/5 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Table A.2-2: Downlink bursty traffic model
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Component | Distribution | Parameters | PDF | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | File size (S) | Truncated | Mean = 0.25 | $ | | | Lognormal | Mbytes | \begin{matrix} | | | | | f_{x | | | | Std. Dev. = | } = \frac{1}{\ | | | | 0.0902 Mbytes | sqrt{2\pi}\tex | | | | | t{σx}}\text{ex | | | | Maximum = 1.25 | p}\left\lbrack | | | | Mbytes | \frac{- \left | | | | | ( \text{ln}x - | | | | | \mu \right)^{ | | | | | 2}}{2\sigma^{2 | | | | | }} \right\rbra | | | | | ck,x \geq 0 \ | | | | | \sigma = | | | | | 0\text{.}\tex | | | | | t{35},\mu = \t | | | | | ext{12}\text{. | | | | | }\text{368} \ | | | | | \end{matrix}$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Inter-burst | Exponential | Mean = 5 sec | {wi | | | | | dth="0.8875in" | | | | | he | | | | | ight="0.432638 | | | | | 8888888889in"} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
###### ### Annex B: An example of signalling flows between a UE and network
Figure B-1: An example of signalling flows between a UE and network
###### ### Annex C: A recorded trace of messages exchanged between a UE and
RNC
00:00:00.17 \|--- RRC:RrcConnectionRequest \---------------------->\|
00:00:00.18 \|\\|
00:00:01.05 \|--- RRC:InitialDirectTransfer \--------------------->\|
00:00:01.09 \|\\|
00:00:01.47 \|\\|
00:00:01.65 \|\\|
00:00:02.41 \|\\|
00:00:03.46 \|--- RRC:UplinkDirectTransfer \---------------------->\|
00:00:03.58 \|\\|
00:00:03.86 \|\<\-------------------- RRC:DownlinkDirectTransfer ---\|
Figure C-1: A recorded trace of messages exchanged between a UE and RNC
#