# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document captures the results of the study item on RAN Sharing
Enhancements for UMTS in RP-142284 [2]. It identifies the existing functions
for UTRAN RAN Sharing, the use cases and requirements for enhancements, and
reviews and compares scenarios and techniques for enhancement of RAN
functionality.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-142284: \"Study on RAN Sharing Enhancements for UMTS\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.423: \"UTRAN Iur interface Radio Network Subsystem Application
Part (RNSAP) signalling\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network Sharing; Architecture and functional
description\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Throughput maximisation principle:** A principle stated in TS 22.101
according to which actions that achieve the principal objective to maximize
throughput take priority over and shall not be impacted by load balancing
procedures that take into account the allocation of resources to each
Participating Operator and the load level for each Participating Operator.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 General
The aim of the study is as captured in the SI description document [2]:
\- Study potential impacts on UTRAN signalling over Iu/Iur and other
interfaces.
\- Study possible solutions regarding, e.g., how to monitor RAN resources
usages with differentiation of signalling and user traffic, and how to enhance
the load info exchange to balance the usage per operator.
\- Identify potential solutions for PWS support of shared RAN.
In addition, RAN3 should consider whether co-operation with other groups will
be needed or not.
# 5 Requirements and Solutions
## 5.1 Requirement List: Traffic differentiation, admission control, load
balancing
1) Traffic Differentiation: The requirement consists of supporting
differentiation of traffic associated with individual Participating Operators
and shall be able to limit QoS available for traffic of the UEs of a
Participating Operator (e.g. "best effort" if not enough resources are
available).
2) Admission Control: The requirement consists of allowing a shared UTRAN to
be able to conduct admission control based on the allocated UTRAN resources
for each Participating Operator with a margin of tolerance.
3) Load Balancing: The requirement includes enabling a Hosting RAN Operator to
have the capability to balance the User Traffic load individually for each
Participating Operator within a shared UTRAN.
### 5.1.1 Potential Solutions
In UTRAN a potentially numerous number of cells can be served by the same RNC.
A shared RNC is able to know by means of configuration the resource allocation
for each participating operator. Further, an RNC is able to know by existing
signalling the Selected PLMN Identity for each connected UE, which allows the
RNC to identify the sharing operator to which the UE belongs. The Selected
PLMN ID is provided to the RRC during procedures such as UE RRC connection,
RANAP based relocation and RNSAP based relocation. An RNC is also aware of the
resources that each served UE is using.
#### 5.1.1.1 Intra RNC Legacy Solution
This solution addresses Requirements 1, 2 and 3.
By knowing the resources used by UEs associated to each Participating Operator
and by knowing the resource allocation scheme configured, the serving RNC is
able to monitor resource usage per Participating Operator within its domain
and to perform resource allocation and quota enforcement on a per
Participating Operator basis.
Therefore an RNC can be configured with maximum resource quotas per sharing
operator and can monitor resource utilisation per sharing operator by knowing
the Selected PLMN ID of each served UE.
Additionally, an RNC can perform mobility load balancing across its served
cells as per requirements in TS 22.101 [3] listed above thanks to legacy
mobility procedures and due to the fact that the load per Participating
Operator and per cell is known within an RNC domain.
#### 5.1.1.2 Inter RNC Legacy Solution
This solution addresses Requirement 1, 2 and 3.
In this scenario multiple RNCs are considered and RNC domains overlap in part
or in full. This is considered in Figure 1.
It should be pointed out that in mobility load balancing a UE is relocated not
because of strict radio reasons but because of load reasons. This implies that
failure in performing relocation for load balancing reasons may not
necessarily imply Radio Link Failures.
It has to be noted that the current standard allows for the exchange of cell
load information between RNCs. In fact, such information can be exchanged by
means of
Common Measurements procedures: where the _Load Value_ IE, _RT Load Value_ IE
and _NRT Load Indication Value_ IE are exchanged, indicating the percentage of
load occupied in a cell;
Information Exchange procedures: where the _Cell Capacity Class Value_ IE is
exchanged, indicating the overall capacity of a cell and therefore allowing
for correct interpretation of the load information exchanged via Common
Measurements.
Moreover, relocation procedures (both via RNSAP and RANAP) allow for an
indication of the _Selected PLMN Identifier_ IE for the relocated UEs.
Hence, it would already be possible, according to current standard, to perform
load balancing, resource allocation and admission control across RNCs on a per
sharing operator basis and according to TS 22.101 [3] requirements, as shown
in Figure1.
Figure 1: Example of admission control and load balancing procedures for RAN
Sharing based on current procedures
In Figure 1 RNC1 selects a target cell as offload cell e.g., because the
serving cell is fully saturated. The selection occurs by means of exchanged
cell load information over Iur. Namely, to respect the principle of throughput
maximisation, the source RNC should select the target offload cell as the best
available cell (from a throughput maximisation point of view) for the UE and
as the cell with sufficient available resources to admit the UE.
When triggering the relocation procedures to offload a UE, RNC2 receives the
_Selected PLMN ID_ IE in the RNSAP: ENHANCED RELOCATION REQUEST or RANAP:
RELOCATION REQUIRED.
Target RNC2 is able to run admission control for the relocated UE on the basis
of the received _Selected PLMN ID_ IE. If enough resources are available in
the target cell identified in the Relocation Request message, the target RNC
can admit the UE and respect the principle of throughput maximisation. If
resources in the target cell identified in the Relocation Request message are
not sufficient to admit the UE, the standard allows to adopt implementations
of the target RNC2 that can identify alternative relocation targets on the
basis of the received _Selected PLMN ID_ IE and on the basis of resources
utilised in the target cell by the sharing operator associated with the
_Selected PLMN ID_ IE.
Therefore, the target RNC may select a different available target cell where
the operator identified by the _Selected PLMN ID_ IE has sufficient available
resources. If such a cell is identified, the target RNC can forward such
target cell information to the source RNC as part of the RRC Container in the
RNSAP Enhanced Relocation Response or RANAP Relocation Request
Acknowledge/Relocation Command. The source RNC can therefore send a Physical
Channel Reconfiguration message to the UE, indicating the target cell selected
by RNC2 as the relocation target and the UE can successfully relocate to such
cell.
#### 5.1.1.3 Enhancement to Radio Link Setup Request message of Iur interface
This solution addresses Requirement 1, 2 and 3.
Figure 2 in below is one example, which is used for Hard Handover via Iur (DCH
State).
Figure 2: Hard Handover via Iur (DCH on Iur) -- successful case
As shown in Figure 2, the Radio Link Setup Request procedure via Iur can
follow same mechanism as the legacy Relocation procedure solution. The RNC
target in step1 needs to check the resource enough or not in RAN sharing and
then decide if the new Radio Link setup is admitted. However, in current TS
25.423 [4], the _selected PLMN Identifier_ IE is missing in Radio Link Setup
Request message. So the possible enhancement is to add the _Selected PLMN ID_
IE into the Radio Link Setup Request message of Iur interface.
#### 5.1.1.4 Common Measurements Solution
Currently, the exchange of cell load information between RNCs is permitted and
the load information can be exchanged by means of Common Measurements
procedures and Information Exchange procedures. The RNC is able to report the
load information either periodically or triggered by the event.
In the same coverage, the share of every participating operator may be
different, while the reported cell load is the load brought by more than one
participating operators.
For the purpose of retrieving the load of each participating operator, the
sending RNC should report the cell load of individual operator within one
message. Then the receiving RNC can decide which operators' UE could be
relocated to the sending RNC.
This solution requires reusing the existing load balancing mechanism, and
changing the load information reporting as per PLMN basis. It could be
applicable for fixed allocation cases.
### 5.1.2 Solutions Evaluation
**Solution 1: Intra-RNC/Inter-RNC Legacy Solution**
\- This solution is based on the principle of throughput maximisation;
\- No specification impact is needed for this solution;
\- The solution allows to enforce per sharing operator resource quotas when
resources in an offload target cell are saturated.
**Solution 2: Enhancement to Radio Link Setup Request message of Iur
interface**
\- This solution is based on the principle of throughput maximisation;
\- The impact is to add selected PLMN ID IE to the Radio Link Setup Request
message over Iur;
\- This solution allows the target RNC to understand the selected PLMN for the
UE and to enforce per sharing operator resource quotas in case the target cell
resources are saturated.
**Solution 3: Common Measurements Solution**
\- This solution allows to enforce per sharing operator resource quotas for
static resource allocation scenarios;
\- The impact is to introduce load information per PLMN ID in the Common
Measurement Report message.
### 5.1.3 Conclusions
\- Intra RNC Legacy Solution:
\- According to current standard, an RNC can perform resource allocation and
enforcement of resource quota on a per sharing operator basis as per
requirements in TS 22.101 [3];
\- The requirements in TS 22.101 [3] on load balancing can be fulfilled for
scenarios consisting of one RNC domain.
\- Inter RNC Legacy Solution:
\- It is possible, according to current standard, to perform load balancing,
resource allocation and admission control across RNCs on a per sharing
operator basis and according to TS 22.101 [3] requirements;
\- This solution respects the throughput maximisation principle as per
requirements in TS 22.101 [3], according to which a UE can be admitted into a
shared cell if resources are available in the cell and if such action
maximises cell throughput;
\- For cases where mobility load balancing is performed towards a fully loaded
cell not able to admit the offloading UE and where there are no other
available target cells with sufficient available capacity, the solution
includes the possibility, based on RNC implementations supported in the
standard, to relocate the UE to other available prepared target cells that can
admit the UE.
\- Enhancement to the Radio Link Setup procedure for Iur interface:
\- The _selected PLMN Identifier_ IE can be added in the Radio Link Setup
Request message.
\- Common Measurements Solution:
\- This solution allows to perform load balancing, resource allocation and
admission control across RNCs on a per sharing operator basis and according to
static allocation scenarios in TS 22.101 [3];
\- The solution requires to exchange load information per PLMN basis between
RNCs triggered by per operator load in cases where the static resource
allocation enforcement is applied.
Due to requirements in TS 22.101 [3], the throughput maximisation principle
takes priority over the static resource allocation.
It is therefore concluded that so long as the throughput maximisation
principle shall be respected, Solution 1 is sufficient to fulfil requirements
in TS 22.101 [3]. Solution 2 is a complement to Solution 1 allowing for RAN
sharing load balancing during Radio Link Setup procedures.
Solution 3 is suitable for cases of static resource allocation. Therefore,
this solution may become necessary if static allocation scenarios need to be
addressed.
## 5.2 Requirement on Support for Measurement of traffic volume per
participating CN operator
In a network sharing scenario, an UTRAN should be able to collect measurements
of network resource usage per participating CN operator in the shared network
for inter-operator accounting purposes. The collection of the measurements
should be delivered to each of the Participating CN Operators.
### 5.2.1 Description
Existing standardised mechanisms do not support the Participating CN Operators
to know the actual UTRAN resource usage per participating CN operator in the
shared network.
### 5.2.2 Potential solutions
Following high-level solutions have been identified for (a):
1) Aggregated DL and UL data volume are collected per participating CN
operator. The data volume is collected for the PS traffic. For CS traffic, the
volume of time consumed is collected.
### 5.2.3 Conclusions
A potential solution is Aggregated DL and UL data volume are collected per
participating CN operator. The data volume is collected for the PS traffic.
For CS traffic, the volume of time consumed is collected.
## 5.3 Requirement on PWS support
The requirement includes enabling a Participating RAN Operator is able to
initiate the broadcast of PWS messages within a shared UTRAN.
### 5.3.1 Potential Solutions
#### 5.3.1.1 Legacy Solution for PWS Support
PWS provides a service that allows the network to distribute warning messages
on behalf of public authority. In the scenario of RAN sharing, a Participating
Operator potentially has regulatory obligations to initiate the broadcast of
PWS messages regardless of GERAN or UTRAN Sharing. Therefore it is required
that the Hosting RAN shall be able to broadcast PWS messages originated from
the core networks of all Participating Operators.
The PWS is using CBS procedures and related message structures. The basic
network structure of CBS is depicted in Figure 3.
Figure 3: PWS Architecture in UMTS
The cell broadcast centre (CBC) is part of the core network and connected to a
routing node via the Bc reference point. Therefore the CBC can reach each RNC
via the user plane of the Iu interface. And the RNC should be used as a
concentrator as far as CBS message handling is concerned.
In TS 23.041 [5], it restricts that the BSC/RNC/MME shall interface to only
one CBC. In RAN sharing scenario, the CBC should also be the shared resources
of all the participating operators. Thus it should be noticed that the current
PWS architecture already allows to fulfil the requirement above.
In fact, a shared RNC may receive cell broadcast messages from different
sharing operators by means of a single CBC, which assumes that sharing
operators coordinate PWS procedures via a single CBC. However, this is given
the possibility for the CBC to connect to multiple CBEs as stated in TS 23.041
[5].
Moreover, the assumption that multiple sharing operators in a shared UTRAN
should coordinate procedures for PWS has already been acknowledged and agreed
in TS 23.251 [6].
### 5.3.2 Conclusions
Based on the current standards, the Participating Operator is able to initiate
the broadcast of PWS messages in RAN sharing scenario if the CBC is also
shared.
#