# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The number of subscribers is growing rapidly, creating new demands for higher
capacity. Several techniques are commonly used, such as cell splitting, and
heterogeneous network deployment, etc. However, there are 2 factors that would
limit the capacity that can be achieved by these techniques. Firstly, a lot of
new cell edges would be created. Strong co-channel interference from the
neighbour cells would degrade the downlink performance of cell edges UEs
significantly. Secondly, many lightly loaded cells, or even unused cells,
would be created. Because it is impractical to accurately deploy every cell
right at the hotspot centre, some cells will inevitably be lightly loaded,
while some will be heavily loaded.
The potential of IC capable UE has been observed during the heterogeneous
network work item. Pre-decoding IC, post-decoding IC, and MMSE based IS
(type3i) UE have been studied. According to link simulation results,
significant gain of an IC capable UE over non-IC UE can be observed near the
cell edge, especially when the UE suffers strong co-channel interference.
However, it is also observed that although UE can perform IC alone without
network involvement, the CSI reporting is unstable due to the interference
variation. In addition, it is not clear how the network would identify the UE
with IC capability so that the network can be further benefited from the IC
capable UEs. Furthermore, there may be potential solutions that can improve
UE's IC performance, or reduce UE's IC implementation complexity. As a result,
further study is necessary to explore the potential of the IC capable UEs with
network assistance.
This study item is to investigate how network involvement can assist the
performance of ICS capable UE, as well as system capacity. Both intra-Node B
and inter-Node B are to be considered, assuming ideal backhaul and non-ideal
backhaul. With enhanced network signalling, better cell edge UE's performance
should be achieved. With enhanced cell offloading techniques for ICS capable
UE, the originally lightly loaded cells would be able to serve more UEs,
increasing the overall system capacity.
# 1 Scope
The study on network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression for
UMTS has as a target to investigate the potential solutions in the areas of
mechanisms for offloading, CQI mismatch issue, and signaling of parameters for
UEs with NAICS capability and enhanced techniques , **including considerations
to minimize the impact on physical layer and legacy terminals and networks.**
[**2]**.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-142250: \"Study on Network-Assisted Interference Cancellation and
Suppression for UMTS \".
[3] 3GPP TR 25.800: "Study on UMTS heterogeneous networks".
[4] R1-150629: "Network Assistance for Interference Suppressing Receivers",
Nokia Networks.
[5] R2-151282: "Initial considerations on offloading of NAICS capable UEs",
Ericsson.
[6] 3GPP TS 25.212: "Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)".
[7] R1-151893: "Solution on offloading enhancements for UMTS NAICS", Huawei,
HiSilicon
[8] R1-152084: "On enabling offloading of ICS UEs in a network with NAICS
support", Ericsson
[9] R1-153100: "Offloading solution for NAICS", Qualcomm Incorporated
[10] R1-154694: "Enhanced offloading based on SF-DC UE capability", Huawei,
HiSilicon
[11] R1-153370: "Considerations on signalling for NAICS", Huawei, HiSilicon
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CCS Channelization Code Set
CIO Cell Individual Offset
CQI Channel Quality Indication
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
DIP Dominant Interferer Proportion
F-DPCH Fractional Dedicated Physical Channel
HARQ Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest
HetNet Heterogeneous Network
HomoNet Homogeneous Network
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HS-DPCCH Dedicated Physical Control Channel (uplink) for HS-DSCH
HS-PDSCH High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel
IC Interference Cancellation
IS Interference Suppression
LMMSE Linear Minimum Mean Square Error
LPN Lower Power Node
MIMO Multiple-Input-Multiple-Output
NAICS Network-Assisted Interference Cancellation and Suppression
P-CPICH Primary Common Pilot Channel
PCI Precoding Control Indication
QAM Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
QPSK Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying
RNC Radio Network Controller
RRM Radio Resource Management
RSCP Received Signal Code Power
RV Redundancy Version
SINR Signal-to-Interference-plus-Noise Ratio
S-CPICH Secondary Common Pilot Channel
TA Timing Adjustment
TBS Transport Block Size
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UTRAN Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Objective of network-assisted interference cancellation and suppression
for UMTS
The objectives of the study item are the following:
\- Identify the scenarios of interest and simulation assumptions for network
assisted interference cancellation and suppression (NAICS). Both homogeneous
and heterogeneous networks should be considered (RAN1):
\- The scenarios of interest should consider co-channel intra-Node B and
inter-Node B interference conditions.
\- Both non-MIMO interference and MIMO interference should be considered.
\- Identify the UE receiver types with interference awareness that can be
beneficial in the identified scenarios. Both interference cancellation (IC)
receiver and interference suppression (IS) receivers, e.g., type 3i receiver,
should be considered (RAN1).
\- Investigate the potential NAICS solutions to benefit the receivers with
interference awareness:
\- Identify the parameters to support UE with NAICS capability, for example
semi-static/dynamic, cell-specific/UE-specific parameters. The trade-off
between gains, and additional overhead and implementation complexity, should
be studied (RAN1, RAN2).
\- Study mechanisms for offloading UEs with NAICS capability (RAN1, RAN2).
\- Study solutions to resolve the CSI mismatch issue for UEs with NAICS
capability, e.g., enhanced UE feedback reporting techniques (RAN1).
**The study shall include considerations to minimize the impact on physical
layer and legacy terminals and networks.**
# 5 Target scenarios
The target scenarios for the UMTS NAICS study are:
\- Intra-NodeB scenario: Interference between co-located cells in the HomoNet
(UE1 in Figure 1)
In intra-NodeB scenario, the interfering cell and the serving cell are co-
located at the same NodeB. The percentage of UEs in this scenario depends on
the number of sectors for the NodeB, for example, 3-sector deployment or
6-sector deployment.
\- HetNet scenario: Interference between Macro and LPN in the HetNet (UE2 in
Figure 1)
In HetNet scenario, the communications between Macro and LPN via the RNC can
be either instant or with a certain delay. The percentage of UEs in this
scenario depends on the deployment of LPN as well as the soft handover
parameters.
\- Inter-NodeB scenario: Interference between non co-located cells in the
HomoNet (UE3 in Figure 1)
In inter-NodeB scenario, the interfering and serving cells are not co-located.
It is noted that the percentage of UEs in this scenario depends on the number
of sectors for the NodeB, as well as the soft handover parameters.
It should be noted that for scenarios 1\~3, both non-MIMO and MIMO
interference can be considered.
{width="3.5006944444444446in" height="2.7152777777777777in"}
Figure 1: NAICS scenarios.
# 6 Evaluation methodologies
## 6.1 Assumptions on receiver architectures
Three types of receiver architecture are considered: pre-decoding IC receiver,
post-decoding IC receiver and Type 3i receiver.
### 6.1.1 Pre-decoding IC receiver
The high level block diagram of pre-decoding is shown in Figure 2. A
simplified processing chain can be summarized as follow.
1) The UE receives the radio signal as in the legacy Type 3i frontend, whose
output is the chip sequence after LMMSE.
2) The LMMSE signal passes through the pre-decoding IC block, where
interference demodulation and reconstruction is performed. In order to
demodulate the interference signal, additional information is needed, e.g.,
modulation type, channelization code set. The corresponding information can be
either detected blindly by the UE, or signaled from the NodeB. The pre-
decoding IC block only reconstructs the interference signal at symbol level.
No further decoding is done for the interference signal.
3) Finally the reconstructed interference signal is subtracted from the
received signal. The remaining (Post-IC) signal is used for decoding the
desired signal, as well as for computing other quantities such as serving
cell's CQI and SINR.
Figure 2: Reference receiver architecture for pre-decoding IC
### 6.1.2 Post-decoding IC receiver
The high level block diagram of post-decoding IC receiver is shown in the
Figure 3. A simplified processing chain can be summarized as follow.
1) The UE receives the radio signal as in the legacy Type 3i frontend, whose
output is the chip sequence after LMMSE.
2) The LMMSE signal passes through the pre-decoding IC block, where
interference decoding and reconstruction is performed. The post-decoding IC
block decodes the interference signal. In order to decode the interference
signal, additional information from the interfering cell is needed, e.g., TBS,
RV, channelization code set. Some of the information may be too challenging to
be detected blindly at the UE, so additional signaling may be useful to inform
UE the corresponding information. A CRC check for the interference signal will
be performed after interference signal decoding. If the decoding is correct,
the interference signal will be reconstructed with high accuracy. If the
decoding is not correct, reconstruction at symbol level could be performed, or
no reconstruction is performed.
3) The reconstructed interference signal is subtracted from the received
signal. The remaining (Post-IC) signal is used for decoding the desired
signal, as well as for computing other quantities such as serving cell's CQI
and SINR.
Figure 3: Reference receiver architecture for post-decoding IC
### 6.1.3 Type 3i receiver
The architecture of Type 3i receiver is described in TR25.963. It requires the
estimate of the interfering cell pilot channel and the instantaneous power of
the interfering cell transmit power to suppress the interference. Signalling
from the interfering cell can be considered to improve the performance of type
3i receivers. One example is to send to the victim UE information related to
the instantaneous transmit power of a neighbour interfering cell. This can
help the victim UE to suppress interference.
## 6.2 Evaluations in HetNet scenario
The simplified topology illustrated in Figure 4, which has been used during
the HetNet study, is to be used for the evaluations in HetNet scenario. The
detailed descriptions of the evaluation methodology in HetNet scenario can be
found in TR25.800, Section 7.1.8.3.
{width="3.4680555555555554in" height="3.959722222222222in"}
Figure 4: The simplified topology to analyze the ICS receiver in HetNet
scenario
Table 1: Received signal powers at each UE location
* * *
UE Location LPN Ior / Ioc [dB] Macro Ior / Ioc [dB] Macro2 Ior/Ioc [dB] L1
5.2774 18.555 0.92192 L2 8.3307 18.003 0.66949 L3 12.144 17.59 1.1988 L4
16.951 17.167 1.6937 L5 23.603 16.737 2.1588 L6 34.812 16.302 2.5979
* * *
## 6.3 Evaluations in HomoNet scenario
For the HomoNet scenario study, a simplified topology is used for the
evaluations. A network model with 57 Macros is assumed. As illustrated in
Figure 5, 8 possible UE locations are created and shown in the figure (marked
from L1 to L8). In the following we elaborate the network layout and UE
locations.
Figure 5: The simplified topology to analyze the ICS receiver in HomoNet
scenario
A hexagonal cell structure is assumed with ISD = 500 meters. Cell1, Cell2 and
Cell3 are co-located at NodeB1, whose position is the origin. Cell4 is at
NodeB2, which is located to the left of NodeB1. The selected UE locations
should be able to be served by Cell1 or Cell2. It is assumed that Cell1's RSCP
is stronger than Cell2's RSCP such that RSCP(Cell2) -- RSCP(Cell1) should vary
from -9dB to 0dB. Based on this rule, we assume 8 locations L1, L2, ..., L8
lie near the border of Cell1 and Cell2. The coordinate of the locations are
listed in Table 2.
Table 2: Coordinates of L1\~L8
* * *
UE Location Coordinates L1 [-500/3, 0] L2 [-500/3, 10] L3 [-500/3, 20] L4
[-500/3, 33] L5 [-500/6, 0] L6 [-500/6, 5] L7 [-500/6, 10] L8 [-500/6, 16]
* * *
We assume that all 57 Macro cells transmit with full power and shadow fading
is off. Cell1, Cell2 and Cell4 are modeled in the link-level simulator. All
other 54 Macro cells are considered to be as the part of additive white
Gaussian noise, Ioc. In Table 3, the Ior/Ioc for Cell1, Cell2 and Cell4 is
listed for different UE locations. Note that location L1, L2, ..., L8 can be
served by both Cell1 and Cell2 depending on the CIO.
Table 3: Received signal powers at each UE location
* * *
UE Location Cell1 Ior / Ioc [dB] Cell2 Ior / Ioc [dB] Cell4 Ior / Ioc [dB] L1
0.9284 0.9284 1.3652 L2 2.2069 -0.4839 1.3492 L3 3.3436 -2.0188 1.3011 L4
4.6009 -4.1759 1.1889 L5 7.0488 7.0488 -7.4781 L6 8.3485 5.6575 -7.4589 L7
9.5478 4.1851 -7.4018 L8 10.846 2.3283 -7.2863
* * *
# 7 Study areas
## 7.1 Parameters to support UE with ICS capability
### 7.1.1 Signalling of the parameters to assist pre-decoding IC UE
A pre-decoding IC UE needs to detect some of the interfering signal's
parameters, e.g., modulation type and channelization code set, etc. Currently,
these parameters of the interfering signal can only be detected blindly. For
example, a pre-decoding IC UE needs to detect the interfering signal's
modulation order from 3 hypothesis, QPSK, 16QAM and 64QAM, if no additional
prior knowledge of the parameter is known at the UE. Detection error would
occur from blind detection, and therefore reducing the accuracy of the
reconstructed interfering signal.
If some hypothesis can be excluded in advance, e.g., 64QAM, the parameter
detection performance is expected to be improved, and the complexity for
parameter detection can be potentially reduced. As the scheduling is random to
the UE, it is not favorable to signal the dynamic parameters of the
interfering signal to the UE, especially over physical channels, as the power
consumption would be costly at the NodeB. In the following, we consider the
case for signaling semi-static parameters to the pre-decoding IC UE from the
higher layer signals. The change of these parameters is very infrequent, or no
change at all.
For a pre-decoding IC, the following parameters are to be detected in order to
reconstruct the interfering signal:
1) Modulation type
2) Channelization code set (CCS)
3) Power offset of interference
4) Parameters with Rel-7 MIMO interferer
As it appears to be random to use CCS and power offset for each TTI, we only
discuss the modulation type detection and MIMO parameters detection, where
some deterministic rules could be found in advance. It is possible to signal
semi-static information to help the pre-decoding IC UE to detect modulation
type and parameters with Rel-7 MIMO interferer.
#### 7.1.1.1 Modulation type
Usually, it appears to be random for a NodeB to schedule transmission with a
certain modulation type. However, there are some scenarios that a NodeB will
never, or almost not schedule 64QAM transmissions.
For a NodeB later than Rel-7, it should support all 3 modulation types: QPSK,
16QAM and 64QAM. For a NodeB earlier than Rel-7, however, only QPSK and 16QAM
are supported. For this type of NodeB, 64QAM transmission is never scheduled.
If a pre-decoding IC UE knows that an interfering cell does not support 64QAM,
during the modulation detection procedure, it can exclude the hypothesis of
64QAM in advance.
The other scenario to exclude 64QAM in advance is the following. If a NodeB
later than Rel-7 is deployed in a location that is far from the UEs, the
chance to schedule a 64QAM transmission would be quite rare. In some cases,
the probability of a NodeB to schedule a 64QAM transmission in the HomoNet
scenario can be within 2%, or even 0%. This is because even the SINR of the
nearest UE cannot support a 64QAM transmission. The network would know this
information during the network planning phase. If this information can be
signaled to the UE, it can make use of this information to improve the
modulation type detection performance by excluding the hypothesis of 64QAM in
advance. For example, UE knows that the chance for an interfering cell to
schedule 64QAM transmission is rare, say, 2%. With such prior knowledge, UE
could exclude 64QAM during the first phase of modulation detection. If QPSK or
16QAM is detected, then the modulation detection is done. Only when QPSK or
16QAM is not detected, 64QAM detection will be performed. As a result, for 98%
amount of time, no 64QAM detection is performed at the UE.
As a result, it is possible to introduce a semi-static signaling to notify the
UE whether to exclude the hypothesis of 64QAM for the interfering signal's
modulation type detection. This semi-static signaling can be higher layer
signaling transmitted from the RNC. With such prior knowledge, the UE's
performance of interfering signal's modulation type detection is expected to
be improved, and the UE's complexity can potentially be reduced.
It might be beneficial for some UE implementations to signal to the UE that
the interfering cell would never or rarely schedule 64QAM transmissions, but
but the gains have not been evaluated.
#### 7.1.1.2 Parameters with Rel-7 MIMO interferer
In the current network, not many NodeBs support MIMO. A pre-decoding IC UE can
exclude MIMO interference by default. A UE can know whether a NodeB supports
MIMO according to the S-CPICH configuration. If S-CPICH is configured, then
MIMO is used. UE would need to consider canceling S-CPICH as well as the
signals from the 2^nd^ antenna from the interfering cell. In addition, UE
would need to use S-CPICH to estimate the channel from the 2^nd^ antenna from
the interfering cell. If MIMO is supported by an interfering cell, S-CPICH
channelization code and S-CPICH power offset would need to be detected.
1) S-CPICH channelization code
Currently, only when the interfering cell is in the UE's active set, it is
possible for the UE to know the S-CPICH channelization code. If the cell is
not in the UE's active set, an exhaustive search has to be done for the
S-CPICH channelization code.
2) S-CPICH power offset
The S-CPICH power offset of the interfering cell, however, is not known even
if the interfering cell is in the UE's active set. The UE has to estimate the
power with high accuracy. Otherwise, channel estimation of the 2^nd^
interfering cell's antenna would be inaccurate, especially when QAM is used
for MIMO transmissions.
As the S-CPICH channelization code and S-CPICH power offset are semi-static
parameters, such information could be signaled to the UE in advance via higher
layer signaling. When UE knows this information, it can determine S-CPICH
channelization code and power offset directly and accurately, without
performing blind detection. MIMO interference can therefore be handled with
less implementation complexity.
It might be beneficial for some UE implementations to signal to the UE the
interfering cell's S-CPICH channelization code and S-CPICH power offset but
the gains have not been evaluated.
### 7.1.2 Signaling for network assisted interference cancellation
In order to reconstruct an interferer for cancellation, an IC enable UE may
require / benefit from the knowledge of the set of parameters summarized in
table 4. As mentioned in the HetNet study[3], all the required parameters can
be obtained via the interferer HS-SCCH channel which can itself be decoded
with the knowledge of the UE H-RNTI. On the other hand, blind parameter
estimation is always possible but comes at a cost in term of receiver
complexity.
Table 4: Parameters for Interference Cancellation
* * *
                                                                                               Parameter Name                                HS-SCCH occupancy
                              TFRI: Transport format Related Information (part 1 in HS-SCCH)   Channelization code set                       7bits
                                                                                               Modulation Type                               1bit
                                                                                               S-CPICH parameters and PCI info (MIMO only)   2bits for PCI (code set available via RRC signaling)
                                                                                               HS-DSCH Power offset                          N/A (available via RRC signaling)
For post decoding IC only HARQ related parameters (part 2 in HSSCCH Decoding
parameters) Transport block size 6bits HARQ process number, RV, new data
indicator 7 bits in total
* * *
In the current specification, the reference power offsets for the channel are
signaled via higher layer signaling, while the rest of the parameters are sent
via HS-SCCH. MIMO related parameters are sent either via HS-SCCH (for PCI
information), or higher layer signaling (S-CPICH codes).
As discussed during the HetNet study [3] signaling the information to the
interference cancellation receiver can be done by communicating the UE ID of
the interferer to the victim UE and then let the UE demodulate the interferer
HS-SCCH to obtain the required information. This solution is less costly in
terms of transmitted channel overhead and avoids additional interference in
the cell, nonetheless it may require more power in order to enable the victim
UE to demodulate and decode the interferer control channel. Moreover, in order
to reduce complexity, the UE may choose what parameters are needed to be
decoded. For example, pre-decoding IC UEs may choose to only decode part 1 of
the HS-SCCH message.
## 7.2 CQI mismatch issue
When a more advanced IC receiver, such as pre-decoding IC or post-decoding IC,
is adopted in realistic deployments, besides the geometry and the Dominant
Interferer Proportion (DIP) of the dominant interferers, the transmission
structure also greatly impacts the performance of ICS receivers.
In slow moving channel, e.g., PA3, since the channel is coherent in time,
factors like geometry and DIPs do not change sharply over consecutive TTIs.
The interference structure, however, would change sharply between TTIs,
because the NodeB scheduler is not designed to generate a sequence of TTIs
with few variations on interference structure. An IC UE instantaneous CQI
estimation would have large variations and this would make the reported CQI
inaccurate.
This characteristic of the transmission structures from the dominant
interferers cause the CQI mismatch issue for ICS UEs. Consider the pre-
decoding IC receiver: the receiver instantaneous measured CQI has large
variation due to the change of the interferer modulation. For example, when
the UE reports the CQI to the network, the interferer is QPSK, and IC
efficiency is high. When the UE is scheduled, the interferer is 64 QAM, and
the IC efficiency is low. However, the network can only use the previously
reported CQI to schedule the UE, making the actual scheduled CQI higher than
the CQI the UE should use. This is the CQI mismatch issue and it would
eventually cause performance degradation of the IC UE.
Generally speaking, the CQI mismatch issue cannot be completely eradicated in
practice because is not possible to have instantaneous knowledge of the
channel and interferers. Therefore, at best, any solution in this area may
only help to improve the CQI selection at the expense of introducing extra
complexity at both the UE and the network scheduler.
Since it is impossible (without scheduling coordination) to have knowledge
from other cell interferers at the time of scheduling a given UE, there always
will be a mismatch between the CQI used for a given TTI and the actual
interference situation during that TTI. Moreover, the channel state between
CQI computation and the consequent UE scheduling based on this computed CQI
can greatly vary, contributing to the mismatch between the situation faced by
the UE and the assumption when the UE was scheduled.
### 7.2.1 Performance of ICS UE without CQI mismatch
#### 7.2.1.1 Evaluation methodology
In order to investigate the potential gains introduced by mitigating the CQI
mismatch, an evaluation methodology and simulation assumption is proposed in
this section.
##### 7.2.1.1.1 Triple radio-link simulation to model the serving and
interferer links
Figure 6: Illustration of dual radio-link modelling for evaluation on CQI
mismatch
As shown in Figure 6, a triple radio-link simulation is modelled in the link
level simulations, where:
\- Serving radio link: one radio link models the serving link between the
serving NodeB and the ICS UE;
\- Interferer radio link 1: one radio link models the strongest dominant
interferer link;
\- Interferer radio link 2: one radio link models the second strongest
interferer link.
To investigate the interference structure impact, different structures should
be firstly modelled and defined for different factors impacting the IC
efficiency. As an example, Table 5 gives the potential definition for
interferer structures.
Table 5: Modelling of interferer structure in triple radio-link simulations
* * *
The factors impacting the IC efficiency Interferer's HS-PDSCH modulation type
Interferer's HS-PDSCH TB size Interferer's power on HS-PDSCH Interferer
Structure 1 Interferer structure with low order modulation, such as QPSK
Interferer structure with the TBS which can be decoded by ICS UE correctly
Interferer structure with low power HS-PDSCH transmission Interferer Structure
2 Interferer structure with high order modulation, such as 16QAM and 64QAM
Interferer structure with the TBS which can be decoded by ICS UE incorrectly
Interferer structure with high power HS-PDSCH transmission
* * *
Furthermore, the scheduled sequence of the interferer's structure should be
also modelled in the interferer radio link in the triple radio-link
simulations. Optionally one method is obtaining the distribution of different
interferer structures from the system level simulation results. Another method
is assuming the round robin scheduling.
##### 7.2.1.1.2 Methodology for comparing performance with/without CQI
mismatch
The potential gains of mitigating the CQI mismatch can be obtained by
comparing the performance of the following two cases.
**\- ICS performance with CQI mismatch** : the legacy ICS UE is considered,
which does the CQI evaluation and filering normally regardless the interferer
structures. When the serving NodeB schedules the ICS UE, the reported CQI is
used.
**\- ICS performance with CQI mismatch mitigation** : When the serving Node B
choose the TB size for the ICS UE, the scheduled CQI is obtained by
compensating the CQI mismatch caused by the interferer structure difference.
Regarding the normal ICS performance with CQI Mismatch, the CQI measurement
and the TBS selection/scheduling are the same as the normal operation in
legacy system. If the interferer structure used in the moment CQI measured is
different from the interferer structure used in the moment CQI used, there
exists CQI Mismatch between the current interferer structure and the used CQI
values.
Regarding the ICS performance with CQI mismatch mitigation, for each UE's
location, link simulations are run in advance to obtain the serving CQI value
sequence for each Interferer structure by fixing the interferer structure in
the interferer radio link. For the reason that the Interferer structure is
fixed for each simulation, the obtained CQI value sequences correspond to the
ideal CQI values which can be achieved by mitigating the CQI mismatch.
Simulation 1 and simulation 2 are run separately for obtaining the sequences
of measured CQI for the cases when the interferer radio link has fixed
structure of interferer structure 1 and 2. In order to compare the
performance, the used fading channels of serving and interferer radio links
are set exactly the same for all link level simulations.
After obtaining the CQI value sequence for each interferer structure, another
improved link simulation (e.g. simulation 3) is run to evaluate the potential
performance by mitigating the CQI mismatch issue. A random sequence of
scheduled interferer structure obtained from the system level simulation is
transmitted in the interferer radio link to model the realistic interferer
structure variations. When the TB size of the ICS UE is chosen, the
instantaneous interferer structure on the corresponding TTI is taken as an
input parameter, and the scheduled CQI value is looked up from the CQI value
sequence of the corresponding interferer structure, which is obtained in
advance from simulation 1 and 2\. By doing this, the compensation for
correcting the mismatch due to different interferer structures is modelled in
the link level simulations.
By comparing the performance from the legacy simulation and improved
simulation 3, the potential gain of resolving CQI mismatch issue can be
obtained. It should be noted that the fading channels of both the serving
radio link and the interferer radio link must be set exactly the same for all
simulations to make the performance comparable. Also the produced sequence of
interferer structure from interferer radio link should be also the same for
legacy simulation and improved simulation 3.
Some additional information related to the simulation is listed below:
\- The misalignment effect of TTIs (interference changes within TTIs) was not
considered in the simulation results.
\- Blind detection is performed by the UE.
\- Two interferer cells are modelled.
\- For Type 3i UE, two interferer cells are considered.
\- For pre-decoding IC UE, two interferer cells are considered, however only
the signal from the main interferer cell is reconstructed and then subtracted
from the received signal. The main interferer cell is the strongest interferer
cell.
\- Interferer structures will be different for different receiver.
\- For Type 3i UE, the power of the interference signal will impact the
receiver performance, so the two interferer structures are signal without HS-
PDSCH transmission and signal with full power HS-PDSCH transmission, which
means that the interference is 20% and 100% of the interferer cell's power,
respectively. The occurrence probability of each interferer structure is 50%,
and there is no correlation between TTIs. This interferer structure can be
found when bursty traffic occurs. The Type 3i receiver is aware of the power
level of the interferer as in [4].
\- For pre-decoding IC UE, several factors of interference signal structure
will impact the IC efficiency, such as HS-PDSCH power, modulation type and
number of codes. In our simulations, the interfering cell transmits signals
with different interferer structures as listed in Table 6. There is no
correlation between TTIs. The pre-decoding IC receiver is aware of the
modulation type and number of codes of interferer.
Table 6: Modulation, number of codes and probability of different interference
structures
* * *
# of codes **Modulation** **Probability** 1 QPSK 0.05 5 QPSK 0.20 10 QPSK 0.05
15 QPSK 0.15 4 16QAM 0.20 8 16QAM 0.05 15 16QAM 0.20 3 64QAM 0.05 15 64QAM
0.05
* * *
\- For the CQI feedback it is assumed a delay of 4 TTIs. This assumption holds
for both cases: with and without CQI mismatch. If the upper bound (without CQI
mismatch) is evaluated for the ideal case of no delay for CQI feedback,
clearly the performance gap between with and without CQI mismatch is larger.
##### 7.2.1.1.3 Methodology for evaluations on CQI mismatch for MIMO
interferer
When the interference cell supports Rel-7 MIMO, the interference signal can be
transmitted in non-dual stream mode or dual stream mode, where the non-dual
stream mode including single stream mode and non-MIMO mode.
The interferer in non-dual stream mode is easier to be reconstructed and
cancelled because only one independent stream needs to be detected and
reconstructed. For MIMO interferer in dual stream mode, IC receiver has to
detect and reconstruct two independent streams, and each interfere stream is
transmitted with half power of the stream which is in non-dual stream mode.
Furthermore, the structure of stream of dual stream mode is most likely with
high order modulation and occupies 15 codes, which is hard to detect and
reconstruct.
With the aforementioned reasons, the IC efficiencies are different when the
interferer is transmitted with non-dual stream mode and dual stream mode. When
the interferer structure varies between non-dual stream mode and dual stream
mode, CQI mismatch issue occurs.
The receiver used in this simulation is pre-decoding IC receiver. The serving
cell transmits DPA signal. Two MIMO interferer structures are used, one is in
non-dual stream mode and another is in dual stream mode. Both these
interferers are QPSK modulated, and the code number is 10. There is no
correlation between TTIs. In the simulations, it is assumed that the pre-
decoding IC receiver is aware of the stream mode of interferer. However,
whether the stream mode could be blindly detected or explicitly signalled (in
that case the overhead has not been accounted in the simulation) is to be
further discussed.
#### 7.2.1.2 Simulation results
##### 7.2.1.2.1 Upper bound performance of Type 3i UE
In this section, we look at the gains when the CQI mismatch is removed. It is
considered the average throughput of the UE served by the LPN for the HetNet
case, and the UE served by Cell2 for the HomoNet case. The UE receiver is Type
3i. The gain for the Type 3i receiver without CQI mismatch over the Type 3i
receiver with CQI mismatch is significant, especially in the HetNet scenario,
as shown by the results in Table 6 and 7.
Table 7: Gains from removing the CQI mismatch in HetNet scenario for Type 3i
UE (PA3)
* * *
Type 3i, HetNet  
UE Location Gain L1 27.17% L2 18.41% L3 12.62% L4 10.21% L5 9.04% L6 3.07%
* * *
Table 8: Gains from removing the CQI mismatch in HomoNet scenario for Type 3i
UE (PA3)
* * *
Type 3i, HomoNet  
UE Location Gain L1 6.11% L2 10.06% L3 12.88% L4 17.47% L5 5.63% L6 7.96% L7
11.06% L8 14.78%
* * *
From Table 7 and Table 8, for Type 3i receiver, over 10% gain from CQI
mismatch issue can be observed when the interference_cell_Ior/serving_cell_Ior
is large.
The ratio of the interferer_cell_Ior and the serving_cell_Ior is larger in L2
than in L4 in HetNet scenario, and the gain from CQI mismatch is also bigger
in L2 than in L4. For Type 3i receiver, power of interference signal impacts
the receiver performance. When the interferer_cell_Ior/serving_cell_Ior
increases, the power difference between the interference signal with full HS-
PDSCH power and that without HS-PDSCH power becomes larger, hence the CQI
difference at the serving cell between these two scenarios will increase,
which means the CQI mismatch issue becomes more severe. Thus the gain due to
CQI mismatch becomes large.
Similar observations can be found in HomoNet scenario.
**Observation 1: For Type 3i receiver, the gain from removing the CQI mismatch
becomes larger when the interference_cell_Ior/serving_cell_Ior increases.**
##### 7.2.1.2.2 Upper bound performance of pre-decoding IC UE
In this section, we look at the gains in average UE throughput for pre-
decoding IC UE. Table 8 and Table 9 show the gain of pre-decoding IC receiver
over Type 3i receiver in PA3 channel, both with and without CQI mismatch. The
IC gain is significantly large independently if the CQI mismatch exists or
not.
As illustrated in Section 7.2.1.1, interferer signal used in this simulation
has different modulation type and number of codes, but the same power. For
Type 3i receiver, the interferer signal is transmitting with full power in
this simulation.
Table 9: Pre-decoding IC gains in average LPN UE throughput in HetNet scenario
(PA3)
* * *
UE Location Pre-decoding IC w/ CQI mismatch over Type 3i Pre-decoding IC w/o
CQI mismatch over Type 3i L1 69.15% 82.76% L2 49.45% 60.24% L3 35.27% 45.06%
L4 24.36% 30.45% L5 13.55% 16.37% L6 5.25% 5.34%
* * *
Table 10: Pre-decoding IC gains in average Cell2 UE throughput in HomoNet
scenario (PA3)
* * *
UE Location Pre-decoding IC w/ CQI mismatch over Type 3i Pre-decoding IC w/o
CQI mismatch over Type 3i L1 8.91% 12.43% L2 10.09% 18.55% L3 10.99% 24.70% L4
15.95% 35.99% L5 14.16% 19.82% L6 18.25% 26.28% L7 22.81% 34.24% L8 31.33%
45.51%
* * *
From Table 9 and Table 10, the following observations can be made.
We firstly analyze the pre-decoding IC gains over Type 3i. In HetNet scenario,
for L1\~L4, interference strength is stronger than serving signal strength.
When there is CQI mismatch issue, the IC gain at L1 is 69.15%, much higher
than the IC gain at L4, which is 24.36%. When there is no CQI mismatch issue,
the IC gain at L1 is 82.76% while at L4 it is 30.45%. It can be seen that more
IC gains can be expected with stronger interferer. Similar observations could
be found in HomoNet scenario.
**Observation 2: More IC gain can be obtained in the scenarios with stronger
interference.**
Then, we compare the IC gains w/ CQI mismatch and the gains w/o CQI mismatch.
In HetNet scenario with PA3 channel model, at L3, about 10% more gains could
be observed from the IC gain w/o CQI mismatch issue. At L1, about 13% more
gains could be observed, where the interference strength becomes larger. This
is because when interference strength is large, the CQI difference will also
be large for different interference structures. In this case, the CQI mismatch
issue would become more severe. Thus the gain w/o CQI mismatch is larger at L1
than at L3. Similar observations can be found in HomoNet scenario. As a
result, we have the following observation:
**Observation 3: For pre-decoding IC receiver, an upper bound about 10% more
gain can be obtained by UE w/o CQI mismatch than UE w/ CQI mismatch. Such gain
becomes larger as the interference strength increases.**
##### 7.2.1.2.3 Timing misalignment issue
In the simulations in 7.2.1.2.1 and 7.2.1.2.2, the signals from serving cell
and interference cell are assumed to be aligned at the chip level, which means
that the interference structure doesn't change within TTIs. Timing
misalignment can occur between signals from different cells and the
interference structure maybe change within TTI. This section shows the
simulation results considering the misalignment effect of TTIs.
When considering an intra-NodeB scenario when the interfering cell is co-
located with the serving cell, and a HetNet scenario when an instant
connection is assumed between the Macro and the LPN, the network has the
freedom to configure the value of the timing misalignment using TA adjustment.
It is assumed that the timing misalignment in the case of co-located cells can
be up to 256 chips and we use 256 chips as an example in the evaluation. In
this example, there is 7680 chips in one subframe, so the misalignment just
occupies about 3% (256/7680=1/30) of the whole TTI, which means very little
influence. Furthermore, the difference of IC efficiency between adjacent TTIs
is not always big, depending on the interference structures used.
Table 11 and 12 shows Pre-decoding IC gains with no timing misalignment and
256 chips timing misalignment, both in HetNet scenario and in HomoNet
scenario. For HomoNet scenario, only performance in intra-NodeB scenario is
shown. The reason is that the timing misalignment is difficult to be
maintained within 256 chips in inter-NodeB scenario.
Table 11: Pre-decoding IC gains in average LPN UE throughput in HetNet
scenario (PA3)
* * *
                No Timing Misalignment                         256 chips Timing Misalignment
UE Location Pre-decoding IC w/ CQI mismatch over type 3i Pre-decoding IC w/o
CQI mismatch over type 3i Pre-decoding IC w/ CQI mismatch over type 3i Pre-
decoding IC w/o CQI mismatch over type 3i L1 69.15% 82.76% 67.36% 81.83% L2
49.45% 60.24% 49.59% 59.28% L3 35.27% 45.06% 36.48% 44.52% L4 24.36% 30.45%
24.87% 30.71% L5 13.55% 16.37% 13.95% 16.05% L6 5.25% 5.34% 4.64% 5.52%
* * *
Table 12: Pre-decoding IC gains in average Cell2 UE throughput in HomoNet
scenario (PA3)
* * *
                No Timing Misalignment                        256 chips Timing Misalignment
UE Location Pre-decoding IC w/ CQI mismatch over type3i Pre-decoding IC w/o
CQI mismatch over type3i Pre-decoding IC w/ CQI mismatch over type3i Pre-
decoding IC w/o CQI mismatch over type3i L5 14.16% 19.82% 13.77% 20.31% L6
18.25% 26.28% 18.07% 25.71% L7 22.81% 34.24% 23.71% 34.31% L8 31.33% 45.51%
32.77% 45.83%
* * *
From the simulation results, we can find the pre-decoding IC gains remain
almost unchanged when there exists 256 chips timing misalignment.
In HomoNet scenario, L6 pre-decoding IC gains with CQI mismatch are 18.25% and
18.07%, with no timing misalignment and 256chips timing misalignment
respectively. When the CQI mismatch issue is solved, the gain for L6 is 26.28%
and 25.71%. The decrease in pre-decoding IC gains due to timing misalignment
is very small.
In HetNet scenario, L3 pre-decoding IC gains with CQI mismatch are 35.27% and
36.48%, with no timing misalignment and 256chips timing misalignment
respectively. With 256chips timing misalignment, the gain even increases a
little maybe from the estimation error, such as noise estimation and channel
estimation. However, the difference between the gains is very small, which can
be omitted. When the CQI mismatch issue is solved, the gain for L6 is 45.06%
and 44.52%.
Pre-decoding IC gains remain almost unchanged with 256 chips timing
misalignment in the considered intra-NodeB and HetNet scenarios.
##### 7.2.1.2.4 Simulation results of evaluations on CQI mismatch for Rel-7
MIMO interferer
Table 13 and 14 show the potential gains for pre-decoding IC UE by solving CQI
mismatch issue with Rel-7 MIMO interference as an example, in HetNet scenario
and HomoNet scenario, respectively. The gains shown here can be considered as
the upper bound performance w/o CQI mismatch issue.
Table 13: Upper bound gains of w/o CQI mismatch over w/ CQI mismatch for DPA
UE with MIMO interference (HetNet scenario, PA3)
* * *
pre-decoding IC w/o CQI mismatch over pre-decoding IC w/ CQI mismatch  
UE Location Gain L1 53.68% L2 36.07% L3 24.13% L4 15.93% L5 7.59% L6 1.51%
* * *
Table 14: Upper bound gains of w/o CQI mismatch over w/ CQI mismatch for DPA
UE with MIMO interference (HomoNet scenario, PA3)
* * *
pre-decoding IC w/o CQI mismatch over pre-decoding IC w/ CQI mismatch  
UE Location Gain L1 0.60% L2 0.64% L3 1.34% L4 4.42% L5 5.43% L6 8.64% L7
13.42% L8 20.93%
* * *
As an example, from the results the gains for L3 and L4 in HetNet scenario are
24.13% and 15.93% respectively. The gains for L1 and L2 in HetNet scenario are
53.68% and 36.07% respectively. In HomoNet scenario, the gains are smaller
than what observed in the Hetnet scenario, with the largest gains, from 13% to
20%, obtained when the UE is in L7 or L8 position.
### 7.2.2 A solution for CQI mismatch issue
One potential solution is that the UE maintains and reports different types of
CQI values associated to different types of interferers. The different types
of interferers can be characterized by the interferer transmitting
1) a different modulation type, for example QPSK or 16QAM or 64QAM; or
2) a TBS that can be successfully decoded by the UE that performs interference
cancellation; or
3) at (or above) a certain power level.
Table 15 illustrates examples of different interferer structures. If the CQI
is associated to an interferer type, that CQI is calculated from historical
instantaneous CQI values measured at the UE when the interferer is of that
type. The UE then would filter those instantaneous values over a certain time
interval similarly to the processing done currently for the CQI.
Table 15: Examples of interferer structures with different receiver types
* * *
                                   Pre-decoding IC UE   Post-decoding IC UE                              Type 3i UE
Interferer Type 1 transmission QPSK modulation TBS decoded correctly by post-
decoding IC UE low power Interferer Type 2 transmission 16QAM and/or 64QAM TBS
decoded incorrectly by post-decoding IC UE high power
* * *
Figure 7: Illustration of maintaining different CQI types at the UE
Figure 7 illustrates an example of different CQI types maintained at the UE.
In this example, an IC UE is assumed, and the CQI value is based on the
measurements over several TTIs where a certain type of interference exists.
UE has knowledge of the interferer type by estimating the interferer signal or
by receiving signalling from NodeB. Then UE calculates and maintains different
types of CQI for each interferer type. The different maintained CQI values are
then reported to the serving cell.
When the serving cell has to schedule an IC UE in the incoming TTI, it would
first check the interferer type for that TTI, and then schedule the IC UE with
the CQI whose type is matched to the interferer type. In this way the IC UE is
scheduled with a proper CQI value and the CQI mismatch issue is mitigated.
It is noted that this solution is only applicable to the scenarios when the
serving cell and the interfering cell are co-located in the same NodeB or
there is some communications between them (i.e., Macro and LPN), the serving
cell would be able to obtain the interferer type in the incoming TTI.By using
this solution, the UE is scheduled using the CQI value which is matched to the
interferer type. The CQI mismatch issue is solved and the system performance
will be improved.
#### 7.2.2.1 Solution impact on system performance and UTRAN elements
**Impact on system performance**
The proposal in 7.2.2.1 assumes that the channel is quasi-static. Doing so
allows to have consistency over multiple TTIs in the part of the CQI that is
channel dependent. However, the assumption of long-term channel coherence is
only valid for a small subset of the channels stated in the link simulation
assumption that can be found in the appendix A.1 of this report.
**Requirements on UTRAN elements**
Coordination will let the victim UE's cell scheduler have knowledge of the
interferer type. This is only possible when there is a direct connection
between the two cells, i.e.,, with the two base station are co-located. The
solution proposes to coordinate between two cells so that the interferer be
known in the victim UE cell prior to scheduling the UE. Knowledge of the
interferer modulation type is then used to compute a CQI that takes the
modulation type of the interferer into account and schedule the victim UE
accordingly.
The solution introduces additional complexity to the network scheduler and to
the CQI computation process in the UE. Indeed, the solution introduces the
concept of multiple CQI values signalling different interferer types for the
same channel quality. Doing so will require the network to add steps to the
CQI computation algorithms to take into account the interferer-dependent CQI
values. The NodeB complexity is increased by an additional stage where the
network is required to check the interferer types within a TTI time frame. The
UE's CQI computation process is extended to include the interferer type.
#### 7.2.2.2 Required signaling for mitigating the CQI mismatch issue
The proposed solution used for mitigating the CQI mismatch requires
communication between the co-located NodeBs for sharing scheduling information
regarding the interference type of the interferer. Given the dynamic nature of
the interferer (change every TTI), the signaling frequency for the message may
be required per TTI. The message is sent between co-located base stations
(i.e., intra NodeB).
In the solution presented in Section 7.2.2, one example could be that the UE
signals interferer type corresponding to the measured CQI using a TDD
approach, where type 1 is signaled over a certain HS-DPCCH TTI and a type 2 is
signaled by reporting the CQI in the following HS-DPCCH TTI.
## 7.3 Offloading enhancements
In order to improve the resource utilization of a lightly loaded cell, it is
the legacy offloading mechanism to configure a larger CIO towards the lightly
loaded cell so that more UEs can be offloaded to that cell. One typical
scenario is heterogeneous networks (HetNet), where a larger CIO towards the
LPN is desired to increase the LPN coverage, so that more UEs can be served by
the LPN. Homogeneous networks (HomoNet) deployment is also a typical scenario
when a lightly loaded cell is able to serve more UEs. However, doing this is
at the cost of the link performance of the offloaded UE, because the RSCP of
the lightly loaded cell is generally several dBs worse than that of the
original serving cell. With the introduction of UEs with ICS capability,
although the RSCP of the lightly loaded cell is low, link performance can be
improved with the ICS functionality. As a result, the CIO that can be applied
to a UE with an advanced receiver would be larger. In the following, we
investigate the scenarios when a larger CIO can be beneficial to a UE with or
without ICS capability.
Two factors would be considered when considering the benefit of offloading in
the system:
1) System gain via offloading. If the cell edge UE is offloaded from a heavily
loaded cell to a lightly loaded cell, it is beneficial for the heavily loaded
cell, regardless of the UE performance before or after offloading, because
there will be more resource at the heavily loaded cell after offloading. The
overall performance of the heavily loaded cell will be improved. However, the
gain at the lightly loaded cell depends on the UE performance after
offloading. It is desirable to offload a UE with a more advanced receiver so
that higher throughput can be obtained at the lightly loaded cell and more
gain in the system can be achieved. Otherwise, the 5%-tile performance for the
lightly loaded cell would be poor.
2) UE experience after offloading. The UE link level performance at the
heavily loaded cell would be better than that at the lightly loaded cell.
However, considering the available resource ratio of the heavily loaded cell
and the lightly loaded cell, it is possible for the UE to experience a higher
throughput after offloading. This is also desirable for the system 5%-tile
performance. The overall UE experience in the system can be improved.
In order to motivate a cell change, the network needs, at the bare minimum,
information on the load situation from the source and target cells as well as
the link quality for the to-be-offloaded UE with respect to these source and
target cells.
### 7.3.1 Evaluation
#### 7.3.1.1 Simulation modeling
A 3-cell layout is modeled in this contribution. One cell is the serving cell
and other two cells are the interfering cells. For type 3i UE, two interfering
cells can both be equalized. For pre-decoding IC UE, only the signal from the
main interfering cell is subtracted from the received signal.
#### 7.3.1.2 HetNet scenario
We use the simplified HetNet topology proposed in [3] to evaluate the impact
of CIO to UEs with different receiver capabilities. Figure 8 shows the
topology. It can be seen that for L1\~L6 locations the UEs are located near
the edge of Macro and LPN. The serving cell of a UE at any of the L1\~L6
locations depends on the CIO configuration.
{width="3.4680555555555554in" height="3.959722222222222in"}
Figure 8: Simplified topology for HetNet scenario
Table 16 shows the CIO configurations and the corresponding serving cells.
Since for locations L4\~L6, the UE is always served by the LPN regardless of
the CIO configurations, the evaluations only considers locations L1\~L3, for
which either Macro or LPN can be the UE serving cell, depending on the CIO
configurations.
Table 16: Serving cells of the UE at L1\~L6 with different CIOs
* * *
Serving cell CIO = 12 dB CIO = 9 dB CIO = 6 dB CIO = 3 dB CIO = 0 dB Macro
None L1 L1, L2 L1\~L3 L1\~L3 LPN L1\~L6 L2\~L6 L3\~L6 L4\~L6 L4\~L6
* * *
Table 17 shows the gains of Type 3i over Type 3, and the gains of pre-decoding
IC over Type 3 at L1\~L3 locations when LPN is the serving cell**.** For a
certain receiver type, two link level throughputs are simulated for each of
the locations: one throughput is calculated assuming Macro as the serving
cell, and another throughput assuming LPN as the serving cell. First we
discuss the throughput difference of Type 3, Type 3i and pre-decoding IC when
the UE is served by the LPN. Significant performance difference can be seen
among these UE receivers, especially when the UE is closer to the Macro. Such
difference is caused by the UE capability to handle interference. As Type 3
receiver cannot suppress interference, its performance is only related to the
geometry of the location. Type 3i receiver can perform LMMSE based
interference suppression, and its performance also depends on the IS
efficiency at various locations. As pre-decoding IC receiver handles
interference better than Type 3i receiver, its performance is the best. It is
more desirable for the system to offload a UE to the LPN that can have best
performance when served by the LPN. As shown in Table 16, IC UE performs best
when served by the LPN, so it would be better to offload IC UE to LPN early.
Therefore, it is more desirable for a lightly loaded cell to increase its
coverage by offloading a UE with more advanced receiver**.**
Table 17: Gains when LPN is the serving cell
* * *
                          L2     L3
Gain (Type 3i/Type 3) 345% 202% Gain(IC/Type 3) 564% 309%
* * *
Link throughput results can be regarded as results assuming that the UE is
scheduled with 100% of the Macro or LPN resources and they cannot be
considered as the UE throughput in the system when it is served by Macro or
LPN. In order to emulate the system throughput, in which case the UE is
scheduled with a certain ratio of the available resource we calculate the
system throughput as follows:
System_Tput_Ratio (Macro/LPN) = Available_Resource_Ratio (Macro/LPN) *
Link_Tput_Ratio (Macro/LPN)
where the Available_Resource_Ratio (Macro/LPN) corresponds to the ratio
between the available resource at the Macro and at the LPN: if less than 1, it
means that less resource are available for the UE at the Macro than at the
LPN. In the following evaluations, it is practical to assume that the
available resource ratio of Macro and LPN is always less than 1, because the
Macro needs to serve more UEs than the LPN. It is noted that the
System_Tput_Ratio does not capture the real system throughput as obtained in
system simulations. The actual system throughput of the UE obtained via the
system simulation may differ.
If the system throughput ratio of Macro and LPN is greater than 1, then the UE
throughput in the system at the Macro is higher than that at the LPN.
Otherwise, UE throughput at the LPN is higher than that at the Macro. This
ratio can therefore be a simplified metric to see whether a certain CIO for
offloading can improve the UE experience at a certain location.
Results for Type 3 and IC receivers at L2 and L3 locations are shown as
examples. The curves for the ratio of available resource vs. ratio of system
throughput are depicted in Figure 9.
{width="4.7444444444444445in" height="3.8055555555555554in"}
Figure 9: Available resource ratio and system throughput ratio (Macro/LPN)
Table 18 shows the available resource ratio when system throughput ratio is 1,
meaning that the UE has the same experience before and after offloading.
Table 18: Available resource ratio (Macro/LPN) when system throughput ratio is
1
* * *
                    L2     L3
Type 3 7.7% 25% Pre-decoding IC 41% 63.2%
* * *
From Figure 9, it can be seen that at L2, Type 3 receiver throughput at the
Macro is still much better than that at the LPN even when the available
resource at the Macro is 1/10 of the LPN. It means that a Type 3 receiver can
have almost no chance to have a better experience after offloading. The edge
throughput at the LPN would also be small after offloading a UE with Type 3
receiver. For pre-decoding IC receiver, however, the UE can enjoy a better
experience at the LPN when available resource at the Macro is less than about
41% of that at the LPN, as shown in x2. It means that offloading a UE with
pre-decoding IC receiver would likely improve the UE performance. As a result,
in this scenario 6 dB CIO is not suitable for a Type 3 receiver (since there
is a performance loss with increased offloading), but it is beneficial for a
pre-decoding IC receiver.
At L3, Type 3 receiver can enjoy a higher throughput at the LPN when the
available resource at the Macro is less than about 25% of that at the LPN.
Then increasing the CIO to 3 dB is beneficial for the UE with Type 3 receiver.
Similarly, a pre-decoding IC receiver can also enjoy a much higher throughput
at the LPN at L3 when the available resource at the Macro is 63% of that at
the LPN.
From the evaluations above, it can be seen that it would be beneficial to
consider UE receiver capability when applying the CIO values to the UE to do
the offloading. A CIO value chosen independently of the UE receiver capability
would be harmful for the UE performance.
#### 7.3.1.3 HomoNet scenario
We use the simplified HomoNet topology illustrated in Figure 10. It can be
seen that in L1\~L8 are the UEs are located near the edge of Cell1 and Cell2.
Cell1 is heavily loaded and Cell2 is lightly loaded.
Figure 10: Simplified topology for HomoNet scenario
Table 19 shows the CIO configurations and the corresponding serving cells.
Table 19: Serving cells of the UE at L1\~L8 with different CIOs
+--------------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | Serving cell | CIO = 9 dB | CIO = 6 dB | CIO = 3 dB | CIO = 0 dB | +--------------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | Cell1 | None | L4 | L3, L4 | L2\~L4 | | | | | | | | | | L8 | L7, L8 | L6\~L8 | +--------------+------------+------------+------------+------------+ | Cell2 | L1\~L4 | L1\~L3 | L1, L2 | L1 | | | | | | | | | L5\~L8 | L5\~L7 | L5, L6 | L5 | +--------------+------------+------------+------------+------------+
Table 20: Gains when Cell2 is the serving cell
* * *
                                 L1    L2    L3    L4    L5    L6     L7     L8
Gain (Type 3i/Type 3) 26% 32% 41% 62% 45% 71% 107% 167% Gain(Pre-decoding
IC/Type 3) 38% 45% 57% 88% 66% 102% 154% 251%
* * *
Similar observations from Section 7.3.1.2 can be made, that it is more
desirable for a lightly loaded cell to increase its coverage by offloading a
UE with more advanced receiver.
Then, we consider the system performance of the UE using the following
calculation:
System_Tput_Ratio (Cell1/Cell2) = Available_Resource_Ratio (Cell1/Cell2) *
Link_Tput_Ratio (Cell1/Cell2)
It is assumed that Cell1 load is heavier than Cell2 load, and the available
resource ratio of Cell1 and Cell2 is always smaller than 1. It is noted that
the System_Tput_Ratio does not capture the real system throughput as obtained
in system simulations. The actual system throughput of the UE obtained via the
system simulation may differ.
Type 3 and pre-decoding IC receivers at (L3 and L7), and (L4 and L8) are used
in the evaluations as examples. It is noted that the UE can be offloaded to
Cell2 at L3 and L7 with the same CIO of 6dB, while at L4 and L8, with the same
CIO of 9dB. If the system throughput ratio of Cell1 over Cell2 at the selected
location is smaller than 1, offloading the UE to Cell2 can improve UE
performance.
{width="3.229861111111111in" height="2.222916666666667in"}
{width="3.279861111111111in" height="2.220138888888889in"}
Figure 11: Available resource ratio and system throughput ratio (Cell1/Cell2)
Table 21 shows the available resource ratio when system throughput ratio is 1,
meaning that the UE has the same experience before and after offloading.
Table 21: Available resource ratio (Cell1/Cell2) when system throughput ratio
is 1
* * *
                    L1     L2    L3    L4     L5     L6    L7    L8
Type 3 100% 50% 25% 9.2% 100% 52% 27% 11% Pre-decoding IC 100% 59% 32% 15%
100% 73% 52% 34%
* * *
From Figure 11, it can be seen that the curves for Type 3 receiver at (L3 and
L7), and (L4 and L8), are very similar. If a 6dB CIO is set for a Type 3
receiver, there is some chance for the UE to obtain a higher throughput after
offloading. However, 9dB appears to be not suitable for a Type 3 receiver.
For pre-decoding IC receiver, the curves at these two sets of locations are
very different. At L7, the UE can enjoy a higher throughput after offloading
when Cell1resource is around 52% of Cell2, as shown in x5. At L3, however,
this happens only when Cell1 resource is 32% of Cell2. Similar observations
can be found between L4 and L8, where the ratios are 15% and 34%,
respectively. At L4, even a pre-decoding IC receiver can hardly get any chance
to enjoy a higher throughput after offloading with a 9dB CIO.
This is because the interference environment at L7 or L8 would result in
higher IC efficiency than L3 or L4. At L7 or L8, the dominant interferer
strength is much larger than other interferers. At L3 or L4, however, the
dominant interferer strength is similar to other interferers, resulting in a
low IC efficiency. The RSCP based CIO measurement cannot reflect the IC
efficiency difference. As a result, we can see that to offload a UE with ICS
capability, interference environment should also be considered.
#### 7.3.1.4 Observations
From the above results, it can be observed that:
**Observation 1: A larger CIO can be applied for a UE with higher capability
to handle interference.**
**Observation 2: Whether a UE with ICS capability can achieve better
performance after offloading depends also on the interference environment.**
#### 7.3.1.5 Other factors to be considered
As discussed in the HetNet SI, control channel performance, especially F-DPCH
reception quality, should be considered when determining whether to offload a
UE to the neighbor cell. If F-DPCH reception quality is poor at the serving
cell, out-of-sync will occur, resulting in radio link failure. According to
the conclusion in TR25.800, Section 7.2.1.1.7, it is possible to operate at a
CIO of 9 dB for dual antenna UE. So, the maximum CIO value used for offloading
purpose would be within the range of 9 dB.
In summary, it is beneficial to consider enhanced offloading mechanisms for UE
with ICS capability. The major factors to be considered in the offloading
mechanism design would be UE receiver capability, interference environment and
control channel performance.
### 7.3.2 Solutions for offloading enhancements
#### 7.3.2.1 Solution 1
In order to reflect the link performance of a UE in a cell, SINR of the
P-CPICH after IC/IS can be used instead of RSCP. The SINR can be obtained by
filtering the instantaneous SINRs. As will be shown from the simulation
results, this new measurement can not only distinguish the UE receiver type
but also the interference environment, because these factors can be reflected
in the SINR after IC/IS. Therefore, the introduction of the new measurement
can better assist offloading and achieve higher system capacity and UE
throughput.
The detailed solution is described as below:
When the UE is configured with the SINR quantities, the UE would use the same
legacy formula to trigger the report event:
In the formula, however, M_NotBest and M_Best are from SINR measurements.
Because CIO is the offset based on the measurement quantities, the CIO here is
therefore an SINR offset instead of an RSCP offset. When the formula is
satisfied, a measurement report will be triggered and sent to the network. The
network will then initiate the serving cell change procedure for that UE like
legacy.
As UE is always estimating SINR for the serving cell to generate CQI, the new
requirement at the UE is its capability to estimate SINR for the candidate
serving cell, which can be configured by the network. For example, when the
network has the need to expand its serving region by offloading, it can
initiate the UE for the SINR measurement at the candidate serving cell. In
order to avoid making excessive SINR estimation for all cells, the network can
trigger the UE to start the new measurement to some specific cells that have
the need for range expansion. For example, in HetNet scenario, the new
measurement would be applied to the LPN whose CIO is large. In HomoNet
scenario, the new measurement would be applied to a lightly loaded cell whose
CIO is large.
##### 7.3.2.1.1 Activation and deactivation of the SINR measurements
In order to achieve higher system capacity through offloading improvements,
the principle is to ensure that the UE is offloaded from a high load cell to a
low load cell as early as possible, and from a low load cell to a high load
cell as late as possible. In addition to the legacy measurements the UE
performs the measurement of the SINR of the downlink signal from the serving
cell and the cell to which it will be offloaded to. The new measurements are
reported to the network and used to assist the offloading.
The new measurements should be performed by the UE only when the UE is in
certain areas of the cell and close to the cell-edge. It is important to
carefully design when the UE should start and when stop the new measurements
to minimize the additional power consumption from the new measurements at the
UE as well as the amount of reports from the UE to the network. Additional
signaling from the network to the UE to activate/deactivate the new
measurement can be introduced. Activation of new measurement means that the UE
starts new measurement for certain cells by the network configuration.
Deactivation of new measurement means that the UE stops new measurement for
certain cells by the network configuration. Activation and deactivation of new
measurement operation can be configured by the network according to the legacy
measurement event report. The legacy measurement events can be event 1A and
/or event 1D.
The UE will report a modified event 1D to the network when the new
measurements for cell A and cell B meet some criterion. In the modification,
an additional CIO would be configured for the UE and that CIO would only be
used for the SINR quantities. The additional CIO could be either UE specific
or cell specific. The determination of the additional CIO depends on the load
factors of the serving cell and the candidate serving cell. It is noted that
the legacy CIO is still being used by the UE with legacy RSCP measurements.
The detailed description of the modified event 1D reporting is given as
follows:
The legacy event 1D can be reused, but with the new measurement quantities.
When the following equation is satisfied, the modified event 1D can be
reported to the network:
It is noted that the only modification of event 1D is the introduction of the
new measurement quantity (SINR, or long term CQI), in addition to the legacy
quantities such as RSCP. All other aspects of legacy event 1D remain the same.
In this way the new measurement quantity can be reported to the network
without introducing a new measurement event.
Figure 12: Activation and deactivation new measurement operation from cell A
to cell B
An example is given to illustrate how the network takes advantage of the UE's
new measurement in offloading and minimize power consumption due to new
measurement. Figure 12 is given as an example showing the process how the UE
is offloaded from cell A to cell B. Assume cell A is the high load cell and
cell B is the low load cell. Assume UE moves from cell A to cell B in Figure
12. In order to make sure UE can be offloaded early from cell A to cell B, the
network activates new measurement when cell B is identified by the UE, e.g.,
after a legacy event 1A when cell B is added into the UE's active set or when
a separate configured early event 1A is triggered to identify the potential
candidate cells in the neighborhood. Then UE starts the new measurement, until
the modified event 1D is reported to the network. At the same time, UE could
also report the legacy RSCP to network.
In order to further minimize UE power consumption, the network can deactivate
the UE's new measurement immediately after the UE is offloaded to cell B. If
this is the case, a possible pingpong effect needs to be avoided as discussed
in [5]. In order to avoid the pingpong effect, a reference CIO could be
obtained via the RSCP difference of cell A and cell B right after the UE is
offloaded to the candidate cell. This new reference CIO is larger than the
original legacy CIO that is being used with RSCP and it can be configured to
the UE with handover signalling following the modified event 1D by the
network. Therefore, with the help of the reference CIO, the pingpong effect
would be avoided and the UE will not be offloaded back to cell A. The network
can also choose to deactivate the UE's new measurement according to another
legacy event 1D after offloading.
It is noted that the solutions in Section 7.3.2.2 and Section 7.3.2.3 would
use event 1D suppression to achieve a stable offloading without the
introduction of the modified event 1D.
##### 7.3.2.1.2 Evaluation results
Table 22 shows the SINR difference and the link performance difference with
different receiver types for HetNet scenario. The SINR difference is the
difference between the received SINR of the P-CPICH from the Macro cell and
the received SINR of the P-CPICH from the LPN.
Table 22: SINR and link performance with different receiver types for HetNet
* * *
Type 3 Type 3i Pre-decoding IC  
Location SINR difference（dB） Macro over LPN Link Performance Ratio SINR
difference (dB) Macro over LPN Link Performance Ratio SINR difference (dB)
Macro over LPN Link Performance Ratio L1 21.25 39.27 14.06 6.51 11.81 4.06 L2
15.81 12.98 9.73 3.48 8.08 2.51 L3 8.92 3.96 5.25 1.89 4.36 1.58
* * *
From the simulation results it can be seen that different receiver types
result in very different link performance at the same location, where the RSCP
difference of Macro and LPN is the same. For example, at L2, the SINR
difference is 15.81 dB for Type 3 receiver and the performance different
between macro and LPN is 12.98. But for pre-decoding IC receiver, the SINR
difference at L2 reduces to 8.08 and performance different reduces 2.51. Table
21 shows that the SINR difference can reflect the link performance difference,
even when RSCP difference is the same. Difference receiver types can be
distinguished via SINR difference accordingly.
According to the SINR difference results in Table 22, we are able to derive
the serving cell association in Table 23, with different CIO configurations.
When CIO is 9 dB, a pre-decoding IC UE located at both L2 and L3 can be
offloaded to LPN. For a Type 3i UE, however, only at L3 it can be offloaded to
the LPN. For a Type 3 UE, it cannot be offloaded to the LPN at all locations.
As a result, the new measurement quantity allows the LPN to cover a larger
serving area only with UEs having a more advanced receiver. For the UEs with
less advanced receiver, the LPN would only cover a smaller serving area.
Table 23: UE serving cell association for different CIOs*
* * *
                    Serving cell   CIO=9 dB     CIO=6 dB
Type 3 Macro L1, L2, L3 L1, L2,L3 LPN None None Type 3i Macro L1, L2, L1, L2,
LPN L3 L3 Pre-decoding IC Macro L1 L1, L2, LPN L2, L3 L3
* * *
* The serving cell association results for CIO=0dB are the same as the results in subclause 7.3.1.2, Table 15, CIO=0dB.
Next, we show results for the homogeneous network scenario. Table 24 shows the
SINR difference and link performance difference of different receiver type for
HomoNet scenario. The SINR difference is the difference between the received
SINR of the P-CPICH from the cell1 and the received SINR of the P-CPICH from
the cell2. From the simulation result it can be seen that the UE having same
receiver but with different interference environment has very different SINR
and performance difference. Take L4 and L8 for example, thought their RSCP
differences are 8.8dB and 8.5dB respectively, the link performance ratio are
however 6.62 and 2.98, which is quite large. The link performance difference
is caused by interference environment, because cell2's DIP at L4 is much worse
than at L8. It is obviously more suitable to offload a UE to cell2 at L8 than
at L4. The SINR difference at L4 is 9.79 dB while at L8 is 8.09 dB. The SINR
difference is able to reflect the interference environment differences.
Table 24: SINR and link performance with different receiver types for HomoNet
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | Type 3 | Type 3i | Pre | | | | | | | | -coding | | | | | | | | IC | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L | SINR | Cell1 | SINR | Cell1 | SINR | Cell1 | | ocation | di | over | dif | over | | over | | | fferenc | Cell2 | ference | Cell2 | dif | Cell2 | | | e（dB） | link | (dB) | link | ference | link | | | | Perf | | Perf | (dB) | Perf | | | | ormance | | ormance | | ormance | | | | Ratio | | Ratio | | Ratio | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L2 | 3.41 | 2.01 | 3.14 | 1.81 | 3.09 | 1.76 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L3 | 6.8 | 4.03 | 6.22 | 3.28 | 6.11 | 3.11 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L4 | 11.38 | 10.89 | 10.27 | 7.48 | 9.79 | 6.62 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L5 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0 | 1 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L6 | 4.07 | 1.93 | 2.79 | 1.47 | 2.44 | 1.38 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L7 | 8.14 | 3.78 | 5.54 | 2.18 | 4.97 | 1.93 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | L8 | 12.74 | 8.76 | 9.05 | 3.68 | 8.09 | 2.98 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
According to the SINR differences results in Table 22, we are able to derive
the serving cell association in Table 25 with different CIO configurations.
When CIO is 9 dB, a pre-decoding IC UE at L8 can be offloading to cell2, while
the UE at L4 cannot be offloaded to cell2, though the RSCP differences at L4
and L8 are almost the same. When CIO is 6dB, a pre-decoding IC UE at L7 can be
offloaded to cell2 but not at L3, though the RSCP differences at L3 and L7 are
almost the same. As a result, for IC/IS UE, the new measurement quantity
allows a cell to cover a larger serving area with relatively better
interference environment. .
Table 25: UE serving cell association for different CIOs*
* * *
Serving cell CIO=9 dB CIO=6 dB
Type 3 Cell1 L4, L8 L3\~L4\ L7\~L8
Cell2 L1\~L3\ L1\~L2\ L5\~L7 L5\~L6
Type 3i Cell1 L4, L8 L3\~L4\ L8
Cell2 L1\~L3\ L1\~L2\ L5\~L7 L5\~L7
Pre-decoding IC Cell1 L4 L3\~L4\ L8
Cell2 L1\~L3\ L1\~L2\ L5\~L8 L5\~L7
* * *
* The serving cell association results for CIO=0dB are the same as the results in subclause 7.3.1.3, Table 18, CIO=0dB.
##### 7.3.2.1.3 Summary
As discussed above, it can be seen that new measurement quantity, i.e., SINR
difference not only reflects the difference of receiver types but also the
difference of interference environments. UE can trigger the handover event
more appropriately than the legacy offloading handover based on RSCP
difference.
#### 7.3.2.2 Solution 2
Load information is available in the network in a variety of forms and is not
considered troublesome to obtain. For example, the RNC collects downlink
transmit power CPICH measurements, path-loss estimates information from cells
in the active set and can use this information to estimate whether offloading
will improve the load balance in the network.
Link quality information for HSDPA is typically given by Channel Quality
Information (CQI). Downlink CQI is calculated in the UE based on CPICH
measurement and then forwarded to the network via HS-DPCCH. To enable
offloading, an estimate of the link quality, based on CQI measurements, from
the serving cell as well as other cells in the active set are of interest (at
least the second best cell).
The link quality information provided by CQI is very short term and varies on
a TTI basis. In order to provide a stable offloading mechanism, that
instantaneous measurement should be smoothed over a longer period. This will
avoid creating a scenario where a UE gets offloaded back and forth as soon as
the channel situation worsens.
**Definition of the second best cell**
The cell that is designated as the target of the offloading procedure is
called the second-best cell. In this definition, it is understood that the
cell constitutes the second best choice for the UE from the network point of
view.
The UE is aware of all the cells in its active set and is capable of
performing link quality estimates on each of these cells. In order to define
the second best cell, the UE shall measure CQI on each of the cells in the
active cell and, after filtering of the measurements, reports the CQIs for the
serving cell as well as the best available filtered CQI in the active set
excluding the serving cell. The cell with best CQI in the active set (i.e.
excluding the serving cell) is defined as the second best cell.
Note that it is necessary for the UE to identify the cell corresponding to the
transmitted filtered CQI. This is discussed in "Channels for reporting link
quality estimates".
**Rate of information exchange**
In the current specification, CQI is delivered to the network on a periodic
basis, controlled by the CQI feedback cycle. The link quality estimates used
for offloading information can also be transmitted to the network periodically
under a pre-established pattern, or on a need basis. In that case a mechanism
for transmitting link quality estimates CQI for offloading calculation
purposes should be established.
**Channels for reporting link quality estimates**
The UE produces the link quality information itself (i.e. the UE computes a
filtered CQI measurement) and reports link quality information in the form of
filtered CQI for both the serving cell and the second best cell. The report
can be done using a pre-agreed period between reports, or instead follow a
request from the network.
The serving cell CQI is transmitted on HS-DPCCH along with HARQ and PCI
information. One possibility is to send the new filtered CQI information
associated to the serving and second best cell in the TTI using a format
similar to what HSDPCCH uses when configured with dual carrier HSPA (see 4.7.3
in [6]). The proposal is to adopt a subframe format with slot 0 containing
HARQ for the serving cell, while slot 1 and 2 conveys the link quality
information for the serving cell and the second best cell
The link quality information for both cells can be reported in a number of
different ways. For example, using 1 slot for each cell (10 bits coding) or by
creating a unique codeword for both CQI over the two slots (20 bits coding).
As an example, the 20-bits codeword solution is considered. For implementation
of the encoding, the encoding procedure explained in [6], subclause 4.7.3.2
could be reused.
In order to add second best cell identification, one possibility is, for
example, to introduce a 3-bit pattern corresponding to the cell index of the
second best cell in the active set list. Figure 13 shows an example of the
mapping for the filtered CQIs for both, the serving cell and second best cell
as well as the second best cell ID to a single 20 bits codeword. Several
mapping and coding solutions are possible and an agreed solution should be
discussed at a later stage.
{width="6.2965277777777775in" height="1.8305555555555555in"}
Figure 13: Possible construction of CQI codeword with second best cell
identification
#### 7.3.2.3 Solution 3
Multiflow feature standardized in Rel-11, enables the UE to receive HS-DSCH
from multiple cells, over the same or different frequencies. In particular,
inter-NodeB SF-DC configuration in Multiflow enables simultaneous HS-DSCH
reception from two cells located at different NodeB's on the same frequency.
Note that even though the UE is required to be able to receive HS-DSCH from
two cells, the network always has the option to transmit all the packets from
just one cell. This scenario is depicted in Figure 14 below. Here, the RNC
steers all the traffic to the UE through Cell B. We refer to this as
"simplified" Multiflow operation.
{width="4.086805555555555in" height="3.3520833333333333in"}
Figure 14: Simplified multiflow operation
In this simplified version, since all the data is transmitted from only one
cell, the network is not required to implement multi-link functionality for
flow control or RLC skew management etc at the RNC. The UE would still report
two CQI's as per regular Multiflow operation. If the UE is ICS capable, the
CQI reported for the second best cell would automatically reflect the
interference cancellation/suppression capability of the UE. The network can
use the CQI information to offload the UE to the second best cell if it so
desires by either a) steering all the traffic on the backhaul to the second
best cell and letting the UE remain in "simplified" multiflow operation; or b)
performing a serving cell change to the second best cell and removing the UE
from "simplified" multiflow operation. From the network point of view,
simplified multiflow is used only as a mechanism to obtain the CQI information
for the second best cell from the UE to aid in the offloading decision. In a
typical scenario, the UE would get offloaded from the serving HS-DSCH
(stronger) cell to the assisting serving HS-DSCH (second best) cell.
Note that since the offloading decision is taken at the RNC, the CQI
information may need to be transferred from the NodeB to the RNC to facilitate
the decision making. Also, if the network decides to offload the UE to the
second best cell, some RRM events such as event ID may need to be suppressed
to avoid ping pong effects in this solution.
##### 7.3.2.3.1 Enhanced offloading based on non-MF capable NodeBs
In a system where the network and the UE support similar functionalities
compared to ones that are available in multifow, offloading can be achieved.
For example, the mechanism described in Section 7.3.2.3 re-uses one of the
existing functionalities in the SF-DC multiflow configuration. It is noted
that similar mechanism also works in the multicarrier scenario. However, the
network does not necessarily need to support MF to successfully offload a
multiflow-enabled UE. The network can use the multiflow capability of the UE
to receive CQI reports from both the serving cell and the candidate cell.
If the NodeB does not support MF, it is still possible to enable the enhanced
offloading mechanism with multiflow UE with minimum adaptation at the NodeB.
For MF, joint feedback for HARQ-ACK and CQI is used, so that the UE can
receive data from the serving cell and the assisting serving cell
simultaneously. Specific timing configurations among the serving cell, the
assisting serving cell, and the UE are carefully defined in the multiflow. At
the NodeB side, if the NodeB is a non-reference cell, it needs to adjust its
timing to receive the HS-DPCCH, as well as its HARQ-ACK timing to send data,
though it is in the active set of the UE. Otherwise, it has no CQI to schedule
data for the UE. As a result, the offloading scheme in Section 7.3.2.3 can
only work with NodeBs supporting multiflow.
In this section, we provide a solution to enable the enhanced offloading
scheme to NodeBs that already supports receiving multiple CQIs simultaneously,
e.g., DC capable NodeB, where its HS-DPCCH format is the same as that in
multiflow. For the purpose of brevity, the following text only discusses the
mechanism under single carrier scenario. However, it is worth noting that such
mechanism also works in the multicarrier scenario.
For the enhanced offloading mechanism, we have observed that it is sufficient
to route data from one of the cells only.
Iub signaling to inform the RNC of the status of the CQIs in the serving cell
and the candidate cell as discussed in Section 7.3.2.3 is required to be
introduced. It is noted that it is always desired to reduce amount of Iub
signaling overhead. Alternative ways of sending 2 CQIs to the RNC directly can
also be considered, e.g., by sending only 1 bit reflecting which CQI is
better. In addition, the NodeB shall be able to receive multiple CQIs, e.g.,
(SF-)DC format HS-DPCCH. As the timing requirement in Section 7.3.2.3 is not
supported, when the RNC decides to change the cell to send data, legacy
serving cell change procedure can be applied. This is different from the MF
operation, where RNC can change the cell to send data anytime, or send data
from both cells simultaneously. Figure 15 illustrates the enhanced offloading
based on non-MF capable NodeBs.
Figure 15: Enhanced offloading based on non-MF capable NodeBs
Assume UE is moving from Cell A towards Cell B. Event 1A/Event 1D are used as
indicators to activate/deactivate the CQI reporting with multiflow format, but
not for serving cell change. Both NodeBs do not support MF, but support
receiving CQI reporting with multiflow format and informing the RNC of the
status of the CQIs of Cell A and Cell B. At the red point, SF-DC UE starts to
send both CQIs to Cell A's NodeB. NodeB reports CQI~lt,A~ and CQI~lt,B~ to the
RNC so that RNC can make the decision to offload the UE to Cell B at the
proper occasion. For example, at the green point, serving cell change from
Cell A to Cell B is initiated. At the blue point, Event 1D is reported and the
network would configure the UE to report Cell B's CQI only. In this solution,
UE's timing is adjusted in the legacy serving cell change procedure. Enhanced
offloading is able to work properly when the NodeB does not support MF.
With the introduction of an additional Iub signaling informing the RNC of the
status of the CQIs of the cells, both MF based solution and non-MF based
solution are able to perform the enhanced offloading mechanism with a Rel-11
SF-DC capable UE. For non-MF capable NodeB, additional capability to receive
SF-DC format HS-DPCCH is required. This is already supported for some NodeBs,
e.g., DC capable NodeB. In addition, RNC should be able to indicate a non-MF
NodeB, e.g., a DC NodeB, to receive the feedback from a UE in SF-DC mode.
Otherwise, the NodeB would not treat the CQI reflecting the candidate cell's
link quality properly. It may, for example, treat the other CQI as the one
reflecting secondary serving cell's link quality if it is a DC NodeB.
##### 7.3.2.3.2 Potential optimizations at the UE side
In the enhanced offloading mechanism, data is only sent from one of the cells.
Simplification can be made to an SF-DC capable UE, which is required to
receive data from both cells simultaneously. It is noted that such
optimizations are applicable to both solutions in Section 7.3.2.3 and
7.3.2.3.1.
**1\. HARQ-ACK field**
As an SF-DC UE would feedback HARQ-ACK for the data from both cells
simultaneously, the HARQ-ACK field consists of 2 feedbacks. It is required to
increase the power of HARQ-ACK field by 1dB when compared with the case
consisting of only 1 feedback. If only the enhanced offloading is to be
configured, only the feedback for the serving cell is required. The feedback
for the other cell can be always DTXed. So, the power of HARQ-ACK field in the
enhanced offloading case can be 1dB less than the SF-DC case. The reception
quality at the NodeB will not be degraded, if the NodeB knows that only 1
feedback is sent. This can benefit the uplink transmit power of the UE and the
uplink interference to the network.
**2\. HS-SCCH reception**
An SF-DC UE would detect the HS-SCCH from both cells simultaneously, because
it is required to receive data from both cells simultaneously. For the
enhanced offloading mechanism, however, this is not required. In addition, if
the NodeB does not support multiflow, it would never send HS-SCCH to the UE
when it is not the UE's serving cell. In this case, UE does not need to detect
HS-SCCH from the candidate serving cell. This can reduce the power consumption
for HS-SCCH detection at the UE side.
**3\. CQI reporting**
An SF-DC UE would report the CQIs for both cells with a short cycle, so that
both cells will be able to schedule data to the UE with a proper CQI. However,
this is only required at the serving cell. If a NodeB does not support
multiflow, it will not receive the UE's HS-DPCCH when it is not the serving
cell. As the candidate serving cell's CQI is only useful at the RNC for data
routing, a long term (i.e. filtered) CQI can be reported with a long cycle. In
this way, the UE can report a long term CQI for the candidate serving cell
with a long cycle, while report the legacy CQI for the serving cell with a
short cycle. The transmit power on the CQI field possibly could be reduced by
not reporting two CQIs all the time however the exact power saving would
require further evaluations. It is noted that the solution in Section 7.3.2.2
also proposes using long term CQI reporting.
#### 7.3.2.4 Required signaling for offloading
##### 7.3.2.4.1 Signaling for solution 1
Solution 1 uses Event 1D as the signal to trigger the offloading procedure. In
order to reconfigure the event 1D content, a measurement control message from
the RNC is required to configure the SINR measurement. Moreover, a message for
activation/deactivation of the measurement is required.
##### 7.3.2.4.2 Signaling for solution 2
Link quality for the active cell and the second best cell are reported using
HS-DPCCH. The format of HS-DPCCH is described in Section 7.3.2.2.
Link measurement should be forwarded from the node B to the RNC where the
decision for offloading is performed. The signaling for this message should be
discussed.
Solution 2 uses an event 1D based suppression algorithm in order to avoid
unwanted requests for cell changes during offloading.
##### 7.3.2.4.3 Signaling for solution 3
The signaling for solution 3 (Section 7.3.2.3) is similar to the one used
during multiflow, i.e. CQI is reported using a SF-DC multiflow-based HS-DPCCH
format for mapping both the active cell and the second best cell.
As in solution 2, CQI measurement should be forwarded by the node B to the RNC
where the decision for offloading is performed. The signaling for this message
should be discussed.
### 7.3.3 Summary on the enhanced offloading solutions
With the knowledge of the long term CQI/SINR reflecting link level
performance, the network is able to offload UEs with acceptable link level
performance to the candidate cell. Range extension can then be applied to UE
with advanced receiver according to link level performance after offloading.
Section 7.3.1 contains evaluation results on enhanced offloading.
Due to the benefit of long term CQI/SINR reporting, several solutions have
been proposed to report long term CQI/SINR. It is noted that for all
solutions, the applied scenario also includes multicarrier scenarios. Single
carrier scenario is mentioned below for the purpose of brevity.
\- Solution 1 [7] assumes the RNC acquires long term CQI/SINR information of
the cells through RRC signalling sent from the UE. The impact of Solution 1 to
UE implementation caused by the modification on RRC signalling is not trivial.
\- Solution 2 [8] assumes long term CQI is reported on HS-DPCCH from the UE to
the NodeB, then the NodeB reports the long term CQI to the RNC on Iub
signalling. Minimum amount of impact to HS-DPCCH slot format is desired.
\- Solution 3 [9] assumes legacy CQI is reported to the NodeB, and long term
CQI derivation is done at the NodeB. This solution can be applied in legacy
multiflow capable network. If the network does not support multiflow,
enhancements [10] need to be introduced so that a multiflow capable UE can be
used for enhanced offloading in a network not supporting multiflow.
For Solution 1, the RRC signalling is reported when a pre-determined criterion
is met or reported periodically to the RNC. The SINR is reported from the UE
to the RNC directly. For example, when the SINR of the candidate serving cell
is higher than a certain threshold set by the network, or when the SINR
difference of the serving cell and the candidate serving cell is within a
threshold set by the network. The benefit of Solution 1 with pre-determined
criterion could be the reduced amount of interference in the uplink. However,
extra complexity is introduced due to the modification on RRC signalling.
For Solution 2, long term CQI is firstly reported to the NodeB, then the NodeB
reports the long term CQI to the RNC. The long term CQIs are reported with a
certain reporting cycle. RNC can determine when to offload the UE with various
methods based on the long term CQIs. It is up to the RNC to use any feasible
algorithms, including the two criteria mentioned for Solution 1. The amount of
uplink interference can be controlled by using an extended long term CQI
reporting cycle. However, the Cell ID introduced in the HS-DPCCH would require
additional complexity at the UE. If the second best cell is fixed and known at
both the network and the UE, Cell ID can be indicated implicitly to the NodeB
and the legacy HS-DPCCH slot format can be reused.
Solution 3 is very similar to Solution 2. However, legacy CQI is reported and
long term CQI derivation is done at the NodeB. Similar to Solution 2, the
NodeB sends the long term CQI to the RNC and it is up to the RNC to make
offloading decisions. Legacy HS-DPCCH slot format could be reused.
In addition, as discussed in [10], further optimizations at the UE side to
reduce the amount of uplink interference were also discussed, without
introducing a new slot format of HS-DPCCH.
In summary, all solutions are able to obtain long term CQI/SINR information at
the RNC. It is desired to adopt a solution with minimum impact to
implementation and specifications.
# 8 Impact on legacy terminals
In this section, impacts to implementation of legacy terminals implementations
w.r.t. solutions are provided.
## 8.1 Parameters to support UE with NAICS capability
A higher layer signaling solution is proposed in Section 7.1.1. Interferer's
availability on 64QAM and interferer's S-CPICH information in MIMO mode are
sent to the UE semi-statically. Depending on the UE implementation, the UE
receiver may find useful to be aware of the interferer use of high modulation.
When 64QAM is used, a pre-decoding/post-decoding IC UE could use this message
to exclude the 64QAM hypothesis for modulation order detection. For MIMO
parameters, the UE would use the S-CPICH information to assist the channel
estimation for the secondary antenna.
## 8.2 Mechanisms for offloading
Three solutions have been proposed for offloading enhancements. The first
solution is described in Section 7.3.2.1. UE is required to measure the SINR
for the serving cell and one candidate cell simultaneously, where the
candidate cell is assigned by the network. The SINR measurement should be
performed at the same reference point measuring the CQI, so that the two SINRs
can reflect the link level performance before/after offloading. As CQI value
is usually converted from SINR directly, the SINR value for serving cell can
also be the intermediate value during the derivation of the CQI value. UE only
needs to measure the SINR for candidate cell as the extra work.
The second solution is described in Section 7.3.2.2. UE is required to measure
long term CQI for the serving cell and the second best cell. If the second
best cell is not determined by the network, the UE needs to measure the long
term CQI for multiple cells and determine a second best cell via comparison.
The third solution is described in Section 7.3.2.3. The UE can reuse the
legacy multiflow (single carrier and multicarrier) functionality to derive
legacy CQIs for the serving cell and the assisting serving cell, where the
assisting serving cell is the candidate cell to be offloaded to. No impact on
the legacy terminal is foreseen for this solution.
## 8.3 Solutions to mitigate CQI mismatch issue
A solution identified as being useful in mitigating the CQI mismatch is
proposed in Section 7.2.2. In this solution, the UE is required to filter
different CQIs according to different interference types, where the
interference types are determined by the UE from blind detection. For example,
if there are two different interference types defined by modulation order,
e.g., QPSK and non-QPSK, then CQI~QPSK~ is derived from QPSK interference, and
CQI~nonQPSK~ is derived from non-QPSK interference. In this example, the UE is
required to blindly detect the interference modulation order.
# 9 Impact on specifications
A higher layer signaling solution is proposed in Section 7.1.1. The use of
64QAM by the interferer and the interferer S-CPICH information in MIMO mode
are sent to the UE semi-statically. If the solution is to be standardized, a
new RRC signaling in RAN2 is to be introduced in TS 25.331. No major impact on
RAN1 and RAN3 is foreseen for this solution.
Three solutions have been proposed for offloading enhancements. The first
solution is described in Section 7.3.2.1, where UE measures and reports the
SINR for the serving cell and a candidate cell to the RNC. A new RRC signaling
in RAN2 is to be introduced in TS 25.331. RAN2 specifications, TS **25.308 and
TS 25.321** may be impacted in order to introduce the required signaling for
supporting offloading. Moreover, RAN1 specification **TS 25.214,** may be
impacted in order to introduce the procedures for supporting offloading. The
TS 25.215 specifications may also be required due to new SINR L1 measurement
to be used by the modified measurement report. No impact to RAN3
specifications is expected. Finally, RAN4 specifications, e.g. TS **25.133**
may be impacted in Solution 1 due to the introduction of new measurement
quantities.
The second solution is described in Section 7.3.2.2, where UE measures and
reports long term CQIs for the serving cell and a candidate cell to the NodeB
via HS-DPCCH first, then the NodeB reports the long term CQIs to the RNC via
Iub signaling. For this solution, potential modifications to HS-DPCCH format
would be introduced in RAN1 in TS 25.212 and TS 25.214, as well as additional
Iub signaling in RAN3 in TS 25.433 and TS 25.435. No impact on RAN2 is
foreseen for this solution. Definition of the measurements in RAN1
specification TS 25.215 might be also affected in order to define link
quality. Signaling impact for the event 1D suppression algorithm **in TS
25.331** may be impacted in order to introduce the required signaling for
supporting offloading. Definition and signaling for the RNC-NodeB
communications of link quality measurements may bring impacts to
specifications in TS **25.308, TS 25.321 and TS 25.331.**
The third solution is described in Section 7.3.2.3, where the UE can reuse the
legacy multiflow functionality to derive legacy CQIs for the serving cell and
the assisting serving cell. Specifications of the HS-DPCCH content for
reporting link quality in TS 25.211 and TS 25.214 is already available for
multiflow but they could be required to adapt the specification to add support
for non multiflow NodeB. Encoding for CQI reports in TS 25.212 might also be
affected. Similar to the second solution, additional Iub signaling in RAN3 is
to be introduced in TS 25.433, TS 25.435. If it is to allow multiflow UE to
work properly with a non-MF network, e.g., DC network, additional
configurations in RAN3 is to be introduced in TS 25.433. Potential
optimizations on HS-DPCCH and HS-SCCH are possible at the UE side with changes
in RAN1 in TS 25.214. Offloading signaling may have additional potential
impacts in TS **25.308 and TS 25.321.** Definition and signaling for the RNC-
NodeB communications of link quality measurements may also impact TS **25.308,
25.321 and TS 25.331.**
A solution identified as being useful in mitigating the CQI mismatch issue is
proposed in Section 7.2.2, where the UE is required to filter different CQIs
according to different interference types. RAN1 specifications in TS **25.211,
TS 25.212, TS 25.214, and TS 25.215** may be impacted in order to support the
CQI mismatch solution due to the potential modifications on HS-DPCCH format,
CQI definition, interference types, associated CQIs and CQI reporting. RAN2
specifications in TS **25.308 and TS 25.321** may be impacted in order to
introduce the required signaling for supporting the CQI mismatch solution, as
well as new definitions, e.g., interference types and associated CQIs.
Additional configuration on the new CQI reporting mode is to be configured in
RAN2 in TS 25.331. As the applied scenario in this solution is intra-NodeB, no
RAN3 impact is foreseen. RAN4 specifications, e.g. TS 25.101 and TS 25.133 may
be impacted due to the introduction of multiple CQI reports and identification
of interferer types.
# 10 Conclusions
**Scenarios:** The NAICS study has been targeted on the HetNet scenarios and
HomoNet scenarios with pre-decoding IC and post-decoding IC receivers. The
vast majority of contributions have been focused on link level simulation, or
link-to-system evaluations with PA3 channel modeling and pre-decoding IC
receiver. It is noted that in order to assess accurate system wide capacity
gains, system simulation with proper modeling of the IC receiver would be
desired.
**Signaling** : It was proposed to introduce a higher layer signaling
transmitted by the RNC to notify the UE whether to exclude the hypothesis of
64QAM for the interfering signal modulation type detection [11]. In addition,
signaling of MIMO parameters was also discussed to assist the UE to handle
MIMO interference [11]. With such prior knowledge, UE blind detection
performance on modulation order and MIMO interference might be improved for
some UE implementations, but the gains have not been evaluated.
**CQI mismatch:** CQI mismatch between the measured CQI and the change of
interference experienced by the UE was studied in Section 7.2. Link level
simulations were provided in Section 7.2.1 to show the gain coming from
completely removing the effect of the CQI mismatch issue. However, it is noted
that the CQI mismatch cannot be completely solved because in practice it is
not possible to have instantaneous knowledge of the channel and interferers. A
solution in Section 7.2.2 to partially mitigate such CQI mismatch was proposed
in intra-NodeB scenario. With such CQI selection and under the stated
assumptions, the CQI mismatch issue can be partially mitigated at the cost of
additional UE and NodeB complexity.
**Enhanced offloading:** NAICS can offer benefits to the network in the form
of enabling offloading of IC-capable users to a candidate cell. The offloading
mechanism allows the network to better distribute its capacity when cell
congestion is a problem; thus offering gains in capacity and/or UE
performance. Three main solutions allowing the RNC to acquire information
about the CQI/SINR of the serving cell and the candidate cell have been
discussed.
Solution 1 (Section 7.3.2.1) assumes the RNC acquires long term CQI/SINR
information of the cells through RRC signalling sent from the UE. The impact
of Solution 1 to UE implementation caused by the modification on RRC
signalling is not trivial.
Solution 2 (Section 7.3.2.2) assumes long term CQI is reported on HS-DPCCH
from the UE to the NodeB, then the NodeB reports the long term CQI to the RNC
on Iub signalling. Minimum amount of impact to HS-DPCCH slot format is
desired.
Solution 3 (Section 7.3.2.3) assumes legacy CQI is reported to the NodeB, .
Additional filtering to produce a long term CQI could be done at the NodeB.
This solution can be applied in legacy multiflow capable network. If the
network does not support multiflow, enhancements in Section 7.3.2.4 need to be
introduced so that a multiflow capable UE can be used for enhanced offloading
in a network not supporting multiflow.
Further potential optimizations at the UE side, with the objective of reducing
the amount of uplink interference were also discussed in Section 7.3.2.3.2.
Solutions for enhanced offloading were identified in the NAICS SI. It is
desired to adopt a solution with minimum impact to implementation and
specifications.
###### ### Annex A: Performance evaluation methodology
## A.1 Link simulation assumptions
Table 26: Link level simulation assumptions set-up
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Value | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of cells | 3 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | P-CPICH_Ec/Ior | -10dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HS-PDSCH Ec/Ior | -1dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Common channel cancellation | CPICH, P-CCPCH and SCH from | | | interfering cell are cancelled. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Spreading factor for | 16 | | | | | HS-PDSCH | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CQI Feedback Cycle | 1 TTI | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CQI Feedback Delay | 4 TTI | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | CQI feedback error | 0 % | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | HS-DPCCH ACK/NACK feedback error | 0 % | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum number of HS-DSCH codes | 15 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Number of HARQ Processes | 6 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Maximum Number of HARQ | 4 | | Transmissions | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Propagation Channel Type | PA3, VA30 (VA120 optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Channel Estimation | Realistic | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Noise Estimation | Realistic | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE Receiver Type | Type 3i, Pre-decoding Type IC | | | receivers (Post-decoding Type IC | | | optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
## A.2 System simulation assumptions
Both HetNet and HomoNet types of network are evaluated using the two agreed
receivers, type 3i and NAICS pre-decoding. Optionally NAICS post-decoding can
be evaluated. The traffic models shall account for both full buffer and bursty
traffic.
### A.2.1 Simulation parameters
Parameters for HetNet and HomoNet scenarios are given in Table 27 and 28\.
Details on HetNet parameters can be found in TR25.800 [3].
Table 27: System simulation parameters
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Parameters | Value | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Cell plan | 57 cell hexagonal (19 NodeB, | | | | 3 sectors per Node B with | | | | wrap-around) | | | | | | | | (21 cell hexagonal optional) | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Carrier Frequency | 2000 MHz | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Carrier bandwidth | 5MHz | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Channel Model | PA3, VA3, (VA120 optional) | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Thermal noise density | -174dBm/Hz | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Number of HARQ processes | 6 | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Number of LPNs/LPN deployment | 1, 2, 4; 8 (optional); 16 | | | | (optional) | | | | | | | | Minimum distance between LPN | | | | and macro cell: 75m | | | | | | | | Minimum distance between | | | | LPNs: 40m | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Dropping criteria for LPNs | LPNs are randomly and | | | | uniformly distributed within | | | | a macro cell. | | | | | | | | (Optional) LPNs are deployed | | | | according to the received | | | | CPICH RSCP of the macro cell: | | | | | | | | CPICH RSCP = TxPow_CPICH + | | | | AntGain - PL -- PenLoss | | | | | | | | TxPow_CPICH is the CPICH tx | | | | power of macro cell (33dBm) | | | | | | | | AntGain is the antenna gain | | | | | | | | PL is large scale fading | | | | calculated according to path | | | | loss model | | | | | | | | PenLoss is the penetration | | | | loss | | | | | | | | The deployment of LPNs will | | | | be labelled as _centre_ , | | | | _near_ , _middle_ , _far_ , | | | | _edge_ , from the macro cell | | | | depending on the CPICH RSCP | | | | value, P(dBm). | | | | | | | | P=-46dBm, _centre_ (the min | | | | distance between UE and macro | | | | cell, and UE is in main beam | | | | of antenna); | | | | | | | | P=-66dBm, _near_ (1/3 of | | | | distance centre-edge of the | | | | macro cell) | | | | | | | | P=-74dBm, _middle_ (1/2) | | | | | | | | P=-80dBm, _far_ (2/3) | | | | | | | | P=-88dBm, _edge_ | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Inter-site distance | 500 m | | | | | | | | 1000 m (optional) | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Number of UEs | For full buffer (DL) | | | | | | | | 16, optional 32 for the case | | | | of 16 LPNs | | | | | | | | For full buffer (UL) | | | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | | For bursty traffic model | | | | | | | | variable up to system | | | | stability level | | | | | | | | The minimum distance between | | | | UE and macro cell is 35m | | | | | | | | The minimum distance between | | | | UE and LPN is 10m | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Dropping criteria for UEs | Random: UE randomly and | | | | uniformly distributed within | | | | a macro cell | | | | | | | | Hotspot: Randomly and | | | | uniformly dropping with | | | | P^hotspot^ of the total users | | | | within a radius, _r_ , of LPN | | | | base station, and randomly | | | | and uniformly dropping of the | | | | remaining users in the entire | | | | macro geographical area of | | | | the given macro cell | | | | (including LPN area). | | | | | | | | Type 1: P^hotspot^ = ½ | | | | | | | | Type 2: P^hotspot^ = ¾ | | | | (optional) | | | | | | | | The radius _r_ of the LPN is | | | | equal to 20m, 35m, and 60m | | | | when the LPN power is 24dBm, | | | | 30dBm, and 37dBm, | | | | respectively. | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | RoT | 6dB (both NodeB and LPN | | | | NodeB) | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Path Loss | Macro Node: L=128.1 + | | | | 37.6log10(R), R in kilometres | | | | | | | | LPN: L=140.7 + 36.7log10(R), | | | | R in kilometres | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+ | Log Normal Fading | Standard Deviation: 8dB | | | | (macro cell); 10 dB (LPN) | | | (outdoor) | | | | | Inter-Node B Correlation: 0.5 | | | | | | | | Intra-Node B Correlation :1.0 | | | | | | | | Correlation Distance: 50m | | +-------------------------------+-------------------------------+---+
Table 28: System simulation parameters, cont'd.
+---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Parameters | Value | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Penetration loss | 20dB | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Maximum UE EIRP | 24dBm | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Maximum Tx Power of NodeB | Macro Node: 43dBm | | | | | | LPN: 37 dBm, 30 dBm, 24 dBm | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Max BS Antenna Gain | Macro cell: 14dBi | | | | | | LP cell: 5 dBi | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Max UE Antenna Gain | 0dBi | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | NodeB Noise Figure | Macro Node: 5 dB | | | | | | LPN: 5 dB; 11 dB (optional) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | UE Noise Figure | 9 dB | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Thermal noise density | -174dBm/Hz (reception bandwidth | | | 3.84MHz) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | HS-DSCH | Up to 15 SF 16 codes per carrier for | | | HS-PDSCH | | | | | | Total available power for HS-PDSCH is | | | 80% (SIMO) / 75% (MIMO) of Node B Tx | | | power, with HS-SCCH transmit power | | | being driven by 1% HS-SCCH BLER. | | | | | | HS-PDSCH HARQ: Both chase combining and | | | IR based can be used. Maximum of 4 | | | transmissions with 10% target BLER | | | after the first transmission. | | | Retransmissions are of highest | | | priority. | | | | | | HS-DPCCH decoding is assumed ideal. | | | | | | UL HARQ operating point: 1% residual | | | BLER after 4th transmission | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | HS-SCCH code number | 4 | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Total overhead power | 20% (SIMO) 25% (MIMO, optional) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | UE Receiver | Type 3i (interference suppression | | | receiver) | | | | | | Pre-decoding IC | | | | | | (post-decoding IC , optional) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Soft Handover | Considering Scenarios with SHO | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Soft Handover Parameters | SHO available | | | | | | R1a (reporting range constant) = 4.5dB | | | | | | R1b (reporting range constant) = 4.5dB | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | CIO | 0dB\~9 dB | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Max active set size | 3 | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | harq operation | DL: Based on CQI. No IBLER control | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+ | Network Configuration | SIMO | | | | | | MIMO (optional) | +---------------------------+-----------------------------------------+
Parameters for downlink bursty traffic model are given in Table 29.
Table 29: Downlink bursty traffic model
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Component | Distribution | Parameters | PDF | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | File size (S) | Truncated | Mean = 0.25 | $ | | | Lognormal | Mbytes | \begin{matrix} | | | | | f_{x | | | | Std. Dev. = | } = \frac{1}{\ | | | | 0.0902 Mbytes | sqrt{2\pi}\tex | | | | | t{σx}}\text{ex | | | | Maximum = 1.25 | p}\left\lbrack | | | | Mbytes | \frac{- \left | | | | | ( \text{ln}x - | | | | | \mu \right)^{ | | | | | 2}}{2\sigma^{2 | | | | | }} \right\rbra | | | | | ck,x \geq 0 \ | | | | | \sigma = | | | | | 0\text{.}\tex | | | | | t{35},\mu = \t | | | | | ext{12}\text{. | | | | | }\text{368} \ | | | | | \end{matrix}$ | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Inter-burst | Exponential | Mean = 5 sec | { | | | | | width="1.13888 | | | | | 88888888888in" | | | | | he | | | | | ight="0.555555 | | | | | 5555555556in"} | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### A.2.2 System performance evaluation metrics
#### A.2.2.1 Full buffer traffic
For full buffer traffic, the following performance measures are used for
evaluation:
\- System throughput
\- UE throughput: average, 90%, 50%, and 5%
\- Percentage of UEs served by second best cell
\- Average and CDF of RoT for UL
#### A.2.2.2 Bursty traffic
The burst patterns in a burst traffic model are characterized by the following
measurements:
\- The burst rate, defined as the ratio between the data burst size in bits
and the total time the burst spent in the system.
\- The total time the burst spent in the system is the time difference
measured between the instant the data burst arrives at the Node B and the
instant when the transfer of the burst over the air interface is completed..
The total time the burst spent in the system is equal to the sum of the
transmission time over the air and the queuing delay.
For bursty traffic, the performance metrics described in subclause A.2.2.1 may
be re-used.
#