# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This Technical Specification specifies the stage 2 description of the
Immediate Service Termination (IST) service which provides the means for the
HPLMN to terminate all the activities of an HPLMN subscriber in a VPLMN.
Two implementations of IST are described: an implementation based on CAMEL,
and an implementation based on a new MAP message.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Vocabulary for 3GPP
Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.032: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; Immediate Service Termination
(IST), Service description - Stage 1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Subscriber activities:** subscriber activities that must be terminated.
These can be call related events (e.g. call set-up, call termination) or the
invocation of call related and call independent supplementary services (e.g.
Call Hold, Call Waiting, Call Transfer, Call Forwarding, Unstructured
Supplementary Service Data (USSD)).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following abbreviations apply:
IST Immediate Service Termination
FDS Fraud Detection System
FIGS Fraud Information Gathering System
MO Mobile Originated
MT Mobile Terminated
O-CSI Originating CAMEL Subscription Information
T-CSI Terminating CAMEL Subscription Information
# 4 Information flows
## 4.1 CAMEL implementation
For the Customised Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic (CAMEL)
implementation of Immediate Service Termination (IST) for a particular
subscriber, an \"IST\" command (in reality, the CAMEL message \"ReleaseCall\")
must be sent by the gsmSCF of the home PLMN to the gsmSSF controlling the
call, for all the calls of the subscriber.
Prior to the sending of the IST command, the Mobile Application Part (MAP)
command \"Cancel Location\" should be sent to the VLR at which the subscriber
is registered. This will ensure that the subscriber cannot re-commence service
at that VLR after the IST command has been executed. See Annex A of TS 22.032
[2].
The compilation of the list of MSCs to which the IST command should be sent is
outside the scope of this specification. However, if a PLMN operator wishes to
implement IST using CAMEL, the list of MSCs to which the IST command should be
sent for a subscriber is the list of MSCs with which the CAMEL server has a
relationship for that subscriber. If this data is not available directly from
the CAMEL server, it may be obtained using Fraud Information Gathering System
(FIGS) or an Fraud Detection System (FDS) (if the HPLMN is using CAMEL for IST
then it is likely that it will also be monitoring the subscriber's activities
using FIGS level 2 or 3, which use CAMEL).
## 4.2 Non-CAMEL implementation
For each non-CAMEL-subscriber under IST control, the HLR shall request the
MSCs during location update and routeing information retrieval to report for
each remaining activity periodically at the frequency defined by the IST Alert
timer value about the remaining activity for this subscriber in the node by
sending an IST Alert Message to the HLR, as long as the activity is ongoing.
The IST Alert timer value is set by HPLMN and communicated to VPLMN and IPLMN
on subscriber basis.
The HLR shall be able to request termination of ongoing call activities for a
subscriber by returning a call termination indicator to the MSC in response to
the IST Alert message initiated by this MSC. When this call termination
indicator is received, the MSC shall terminate the call activities for that
subscriber (the MSC shall terminate the call activity that triggered the IST
Alert dialogue, and optionally other call activities in that MSC if the MSC is
able to link the calls related to the subscriber).
As an implementation option the HLR may for each non-CAMEL-subscriber under
IST control maintain a list of MSCs which possibly have ongoing activities for
the subscriber. The HLR may then send at any time (i.e. without waiting for
the IST Alert message) an unsolicited IST Command message to these MSCs in
order to request termination of all ongoing activities for the subscriber. The
HLR should send unsolicited IST Command message only to those MSCs that are
likely to be carrying a call that needs to be terminated.
Before sending of any IST Command message for a subscriber, the HLR should
send the MAP Cancel Location message to the VLR at which the subscriber is
registered. This will ensure that the subscriber cannot re-commence service at
the corresponding MSC after the IST Command message has been executed. See
Annex A of TS 22.032 [2]. The MSC shall be prepared to receive an IST Command
message before and/or after the subscriber record has been removed from the
VLR.
# 5 Functional behaviour - CAMEL implementation
This clause describes the implementation of IST using CAMEL. CAMEL can be used
to terminate all the mobile originated (MO), mobile terminated (MT) and
forwarded (CF) calls of a subscriber, provided there is a control relationship
between the CAMEL server (the gsmSCF) in the HPLMN and the MSC (visited MSC or
GMSC) (the gsmSSF) controlling the call or forwarding leg.
## 5.1 Subscriber settings
The subscriber is marked as a CAMEL subscriber by setting Originating CAMEL
Subscription Information (O‑CSI) and Terminating CAMEL Subscription
Information (T-CSI) in the subscriber data stored in the HLR of the HPLMN. The
O‑CSI is sent to the VPLMN when the subscriber first registers in the VPLMN;
the T-CSI is sent to the GMSC in the response to a request for routeing
information. If the subscriber is being monitored using FIGS, it will already
be marked as a CAMEL subscriber.
If the HPLMN wishes to mark a subscriber as a CAMEL subscriber when the
subscriber is already registered in the VPLMN, it modifies the subscriber data
in the VPLMN using the command _Insert Subscriber Data_.
## 5.2 DP Settings
A call cannot be terminated using CAMEL unless there is a control relationship
between the gsmSCF and the gsmSSF controlling the call. To ensure that the IST
command can be used at any point in the duration of a call, right up to the
end of the call, there must be a control relationship until the end of the
call.
A \"control relationship\" exists where there is at least one armed DP in the
gsmSSF. This can be achieved if the DP _O/T_Disconnect_ (which will trigger
the sending of an _Event_Report_BCSM_ to the gsmSCF) is set for the call.
If the subscriber is being monitored using FIGS level 2 or 3, the subscriber
will already be marked as a CAMEL subscriber and DP _O/T_Disconnect_ will
already have been set.
If the subscriber is not being monitored using FIGS levels 2 or 3 then
_O/T_Disconnect_ is set with command _Request_Report_BCSM_Event_ sent to the
gsmSSF by the gsmSCF after the gsmSCF has received notification of a call
attempt via the _Initial_DP_ message received from the gsmSSF.
_Initial_DP_ notifies the gsmSCF of call attempts. If the gsmSCF wishes to be
notified of the success or failure of a call attempt, and so not be keeping a
register of \"calls\" that may not have commenced, DP _O/T_Answer_ can be set
to inform the gsmSCF when a call is answered by the calling party.
If the **non** -reception of an _Event_Report_BCSM_ indicating call answer is
**not** sufficient indication to the HPLMN of the failure of a call attempt,
DPs _O_Route_Select_Failure, O/T_Busy, O/T_No_Answer, O/T_Abandon,
O/T_Not_Reachable_ can be set to inform the gsmSCF explicitly if the call
attempt fails. If the various failure DPs are not armed, the gsmSCF can still
deduce that the call attempt has failed because the gsmSSF will terminate the
relationship when the call fails by sending message _Abort_ to the gsmSCF.
All these DPs can be set via the _Request_Report_BCSM_Event_ sent to the
gsmSSF by the gsmSCF after receiving the _InitialDP_ message. If all these DPs
are set then the subscriber is in fact being monitored with the equivalent of
FIGS level 2 monitoring.
## 5.3 Call termination
The HPLMN will be informed of the call attempts (MO, MT and CF) of the
subscriber with message _InitialDP_. This message will give the address of the
gsmSSF (=MSC) controlling the call. The call can be terminated by the gsmSSF
at any time by sending message _ReleaseCall_ to the controlling gsmSSF. The
gsmSSF will then terminate the call.
# 6 Functional behaviour - Non-CAMEL implementation
This clause describes the implementation of IST using non-CAMEL
implementation. This mechanism can be used to terminate all the originated
(MO), terminated (MT) Deflected (CD), Transferred (ECT) and forwarded (CF)
calls of a subscriber, provided that this IST mechanism is supported in the
HLR and in the serving MSC/VLRs (visited MSC or GMSC controlling the call or
forwarding leg).
## 6.1 Subscriber Settings
The subscriber is marked as a non-CAMEL IST subscriber by setting an IST Alert
timer value in the subscriber data stored in the HLR. The IST Alert timer
value is sent to the VLR in response to an Update Location request which
indicates that the MSC/VLR supports IST; the IST Alert timer value is sent to
the GMSC in the response to a request for routeing information which indicates
that the GMSC supports IST.
The IST Alert timer value is in a range from 15 to 255 minutes with steps of 1
minute. For the subscribers not marked as IST non-CAMEL subscribers, the IST
Alert timer value is not transmitted to the VLR or to the GMSC. The IST Alert
timer value may be assigned on subscriber basis depending on the risk
associated to the specific subscriber. As a network option the IST Alert timer
value transmitted for a certain subscriber may be different for different
entities (or PLMNs).
If the HLR operator wishes to mark a subscriber as a non-CAMEL IST subscriber
when the subscriber is already registered in a VLR, provided that the VLR
supports IST, the HLR modifies the subscriber data in the VLR using the MAP
Insert Subscriber Data message. Note that this does not affect already ongoing
activities in the MSC. If the subscriber is under IST condition and the HLR
operator decides to remove this condition, the HLR modifies the subscriber
data in the VLR using the MAP Delete Subscriber Data message. Note that this
does not affect the operation of any timer which is currently running.
## 6.2 Periodic reporting mechanism
### 6.2.1 IST Alert timer Settings
The call termination shall be provided based on a \"notification
relationship\". The HLR shall request to the MSCs during location update and
routing information retrieval to report for each remaining activity
periodically at the frequency defined by the IST Alert timer value about the
remaining activity for that subscriber in the node by sending an IST Alert
message to the HLR, as long as the activity is ongoing.
The timer supervision starts in the MSC after initiation of any outgoing call
activity [MO, CD, CF, ECT calls] for that subscriber. A separate timer
supervision shall be initiated per each outgoing call activity for each
subscriber. The notification IST Alert message is then transmitted to the HLR
per call activity whenever the IST Alert timer running for that call expires.
When the HLR receives an IST Alert message from an MSC, it can either return
an empty result component, return a component including the subscribed IST
Alert timer value, return an indication that the IST condition has been
removed for the subscriber or return a call termination indicator. This
returned call termination indicator is used by the MSC to terminate the
outgoing call activities (either the call activity that initiated the IST
Alert dialogue, or optionally to release all outgoing call activities) for
that subscriber in the MSC. Release of all call activities using the returned
call termination indicator is possible only if the MSC is able to link all
call activities related to that subscriber. If the HLR has returned an
indication that the IST condition has been removed from the subscriber, IST
control for that call in the MSC is terminated. The IST Alert timer that
monitors the activity that initiated the IST Alert is restarted when no call
termination indicator has been received in the IST Alert dialogue and the IST
Alert response received does not indicate termination of IST condition; the
IST Alert timer value shall be the same as in the previous count, or the new
value received in the IST Alert response if any.
The timer supervision starts in the GMSC after reception of the response to a
request for routeing information. A separate timer supervision shall be
initiated per each incoming call activity [MT, CF] for each subscriber An IST
Alert message is then transmitted to the HLR per call activity whenever the
IST Alert timer running for that call expires. When the HLR receives an IST
Alert message from a GMSC, it can either return an empty result component,
return a component including the subscribed IST Alert timer value, return an
indication that the IST condition has been withdrawn for the subscriber or
return a call termination indicator. This returned call termination indicator
is used by the GMSC to terminate the incoming call activities (either the call
activity that initiated the IST Alert dialogue, or optionally to release all
incoming call activities) for that subscriber in the GMSC. Release of all
incoming call activities using the returned call termination indicator is
possible only if the GMSC is able to link all call activities related to that
subscriber. If the HLR has returned an indication that IST condition has been
withdrawn from the subscriber, IST control for that call in the GMSC is
terminated. The IST Alert timer that monitors the activity that initiated the
IST Alert is restarted when no call termination indicator has been received in
the IST Alert dialogue and the IST Alert response received does not indicate
termination of IST condition; the timer value shall be the same as in the
previous count, or the new value received in the IST Alert response if any.
### 6.2.2 Call termination
The VMSC (current or previous) will inform the HLR about each of the remaining
outgoing call activities (MO, CD, ECT and CF) of the subscriber with a IST
Alert message. This message contains the IMSI of that subscriber. Each of the
originating, deflected, transferred or forwarded calls for a specific
subscriber can be terminated in the MSC by returning a call termination
indicator from the HLR to the controlling MSC in response to the IST Alert
message. The MSC shall then terminate the call activity that initiated the
alert, or it may also terminate all call activities for that subscriber if
these activities are linked in the MSC.
The GMSC will inform the HLR about each of the remaining incoming call
activities (MT and CF) of the subscriber with a IST Alert message. This
message contains the IMSI of that subscriber. Each of the terminating or
forwarded calls for a specific subscriber can be terminated in the GMSC by
returning a call termination indicator from the HLR to the controlling GMSC in
response to the IST Alert message. The GMSC shall then terminate the call
activity that initiated the alert, or it may also terminate all call
activities for that subscriber if these activities are linked in the GMSC.
### 6.3 IST standalone mechanism
In addition to the periodic reporting mechanism, the IST standalone mechanism
can optionally be supported in the HLR, the VMSC and the GMSC. This mechanism
can be used to immediately terminate all outgoing subscriber activities in a
VMSC and all incoming subscriber activities in the GMSC even when the
subscriber is not under IST condition i.e. the MSC shall be able to terminate
the call activities upon reception of the standalone IST command without
having any previous IST subscriber settings defined.
Provided that the MSC/VLR supports IST standalone mechanism, the HLR may
request the immediate disconnection of the outgoing calls by sending a MAP
Cancel Location message to the current VLR, and afterwards the IST Command
message to the current VMSC without waiting for an IST Alert message.
The HLR may also be able to request the immediate disconnection of outgoing
call activities of a subscriber in previous VMSCs; for this purpose, the HLR
may maintain a list of previous VMSCs with possibly remaining activities, to
which the IST Command message may be sent without waiting for an IST Alert
message. The mechanism used to maintain this list is out of the scope of this
specification. The HLR may also be able to request the immediate disconnection
of incoming call activities of a subscriber in any GMSC that may have
requested routeing info from the HLR; for this purpose, the HLR may maintain a
list of GMSCs with possibly remaining activities to which the IST Command
message may be sent without waiting for an IST Alert message. The mechanism
used to maintain this list is outside the scope of this specification.
The standalone IST Command is used in the MSC to terminate immediately all
outgoing call activities for a subscriber. This is only possible if the MSC is
able to link all the call activities for the same subscriber using the IMSI as
key. Then, when a standalone IST command is received including the IMSI of the
subscriber, the MSC can terminate all the outgoing call activities for that
subscriber. If the MSC does not support IST standalone mechanism, it shall
return an error in response to the HLR.
The standalone IST Command is used in the GMSC to terminate immediately all
incoming call activities for a subscriber. This is only possible if the GMSC
is able to link all the call activities for the same subscriber using the IMSI
as key. Then, when a standalone IST Command is received including the IMSI of
the subscriber, the GMSC can terminate all the incoming call activities for
that subscriber. If the GMSC does not support IST standalone mechanism, it
shall return an error in response to the HLR.
## 6.4 Exception procedure
The MSC/VLR shall inform the HLR about the support of IST function whenever a
subscriber roams into that MSC/VLR area. Information about support of the IST
standalone mechanism shall also be included. This information shall be
included in the Update Location message sent to the HLR. The HLR can use the
absence of any of these information to allow alternative actions in HLR in
case of interworking with MSC/VLRs not supporting IST.
The alternative actions when the MSC/VLR does not support the IST function can
be, as an operator option:
\- Limit the service for the subscriber:
Activating temporarily an Operator Determined barring of Roaming, Incoming or
outgoing calls.
\- Allowing the service assuming associate risk of not having the IST
mechanism available.
The GMSC shall inform the HLR about the support of IST function whenever it
requests routeing information to establish a call. Information about support
of the IST standalone mechanism shall also be included. This information shall
be included in the Send Routeing Information message sent to the HLR. The HLR
can use the absence of any of these information to allow alternative actions
in HLR in case of interworking with GMSCs not supporting IST.
The alternative actions when the GMSC does not support the IST function can
be, as an operator option:
\- Limit the service for the subscriber:
Activating temporarily an Operator Determined barring of incoming calls,
deactivate temporarily the Call forwarding services invoked in the GMSC.
\- Allowing the service assuming associate risk of not having the IST
mechanism available.
Error responses from HLR are also part of the exception procedures. Whenever
the error \"Unknown Subscriber\" is received from the HLR in response to an
IST Alert message, the receiving entity (MSC or GMSC) shall terminate the call
that initiated the alert procedure. Also, if the receiving entity is able to
link the activities for that subscriber (outgoing call activities in the MSC
and incoming call activities in the GMSC), it shall terminate all of them if
an \"Unknown Subscriber\" error is received in response to any IST Alert
message.
# 7 Control of IST
Definition of the method used by a PLMN to decide which subscribers to use IST
upon is outside the scope of this specification. However, it is likely that
the decision will be made by some sort of FDS within the PLMN. The interface
between the FDS and the PLMN node that sends the IST Command message to the
VPLMN (the CAMEL server for a CAMEL implementation of IST) is outside the
scope of this specification.
#