# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 2 description of the Super-Charger
that provides a mechanism to reduce the signalling traffic associated with
mobility.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 21.905: \"3G Vocabulary\".
[2] 3GPP TR 23.912: \"Technical Report on Super-Charger\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration Procedures\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organisation of Subscriber Data\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.012: \"Location Management Procedures\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.016: \"Subscriber Data Management: Stage 2\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical Realisation of the Short Message Service
(SMS); Point-To-Point (PP)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service; Stage 2\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.018: \"Basic call handling; Technical realization\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document the following terms and definitions
apply.
Procedure Calls to stage 2.
**Super-Charged Network:** UMTS network in which the Super-Charger mechanism
is being used to optimise mobility management signalling
**Network Entity:** either an MSC/VLR, SGSN or UMSC
**Serving Network Entity:** network entity to which the mobile station is
attached
**Previous Network Entity:** network entity to which the mobile station was
attached prior to the serving network entity
## 3.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in GSM 01.04.
# 4 Information flows
In a Super-Charged network subscription data is retained by the previous
network entity when the subscriber roams to a new network entity.
When a subscriber performs location updating in a Super-Charged network the
HLR shall only cancel the subscription information at the previous network
entity if it does not support the Super-Charger functionality except in the
conditions described in section 5.2.3.0. If the network entity to which the
subscriber has roamed has retained subscription data from a previous visit
then the HLR shall only send subscription data to the network entity if the
retained subscription data is not consistent with the data stored by the HLR.
If the HLR does not send subscription data to the serving network entity it
shall treat the retained subscription data as valid.
## 4.1 Location Updating in a Super-Charged Network
### 4.1.1 CS-domain Location Updating in a serving network entity that does
not have subscription data
When a Super-Charged network entity receives a request to perform a location
update for a subscriber for whom there is no record, the network entity shall
initiate the location updating procedures as described in 3GPP TS 23.012.
The Super-Charged HLR shall determine whether the previous network entity
supports the Super-Charger functionality:
\- if the previous network entity does not support the Super-Charger
functionality then the HLR shall respond to the location updating request as
described in 3GPP TS 23.012;
\- if the previous network entity supports the Super-Charger functionality
then the HLR shall respond to the location updating request as described in
3GPP TS 23.012 but shall not cancel the location information at the previous
network entity except in the conditions described in section 5.2.3.0.
Figure 1: Information flow for an inter-node location update in a Super-
Charged network for the case when the serving network entity does not have
subscription data for the requesting mobile station
Note 1: If the previous network entity supports the Super-Charger features the
HLR shall not cancel the location information at the previous network entity
unless the Inform Previous Network Entity is included in the Update Location
message, except in the conditions described in section 5.2.3.0.
### 4.1.2 CS-domain Location Updating in a network entity that has retained
subscription data
When a Super-Charged network entity receives a request to perform a location
update for a subscriber for whom subscription data has been retained, the
network entity shall initiate the location updating procedures as described in
3GPP TS 23.012.
The Super-Charged HLR shall determine whether the previous network entity
supports the Super-Charger functionality:
\- if the previous network entity does not support the Super-Charger
functionality then the HLR shall cancel the location information at the
previous network entity as described in 3GPP TS 23.012.
\- if the previous network entity supports the Super-Charger functionality
then the HLR shall not cancel the location information at the previous network
entity except in the conditions described in section 5.2.3.0.
The Super-Charged HLR shall determine whether the subscription data retained
by the serving network entity is consistent with the subscription data stored
in the HLR:
\- if the subscription data is consistent then the HLR shall not send
subscription data to the serving network entity as part of the location
updating;
\- if the subscription data is not consistent then the HLR shall respond to
the location updating request as described in 3GPP TS 23.012.
Figure 2: Information flow for an inter-node location update in a Super-
Charged network for the case when the serving network entity has retained
subscription data for the requesting mobile station
Note 1: If the previous network entity supports the Super-Charger features the
HLR shall not cancel the location information at the previous network entity
unless the Inform Previous Network Entity is included in the Update Location
message, except in the conditions described in section 5.2.3.0.
Note 2: If the subscription data retained by serving network entity is
consistent with the subscription data stored by the HLR, the HLR shall not
send subscription data.
### 4.1.3 PS-domain Location Updating in a network entity that does not have
subscription data
When a Super-Charged network entity receives a request to perform a routeing
area update or attach for a subscriber for whom there is no record, the
network entity shall initiate the location updating procedures as described in
3GPP TS 23.012.
The Super-Charged HLR shall determine whether the previous network entity
supports the Super-Charger functionality:
\- if the previous network entity does not support the Super-Charger
functionality then the HLR shall respond to the location updating request as
described in 3GPP TS 23.012;
\- if the previous network entity supports the Super-Charger functionality
then the HLR shall respond to the location updating request as described in
3GPP TS 23.012 but shall not cancel the location information at the previous
network entity.
Figure 3: Information flow for an inter-node routeing area update or attach in
a Super-Charged network for the case when the serving network entity does not
have subscription data for the requesting mobile station
Note 1: This procedure is optionally performed as part of the Attach
procedures, see 3GPP TS 23.060.
Note 2: This procedure is used to update PDP contexts during a routeing area
update when there is a one or more PDP Contexts established, see 3GPP TS
23.060.
Note 3: If the previous network entity supports the Super-Charger features the
HLR shall not cancel the location information at the previous network entity
unless the Inform Previous Network Entity is included in the Update Location
message.
### 4.1.4 PS-domain Location Updating in a network entity that has retained
subscription data
When a Super-Charged network entity receives a request to perform a routeing
area update or attach for a subscriber for whom subscription data has been
retained, the network entity shall initiate the location updating procedures
as described in 3GPP TS 23.012.
The Super-Charged HLR shall determine whether the previous network entity
supports the Super-Charger functionality:
\- if the previous network entity does not support the Super-Charger
functionality then the HLR shall cancel the location information as described
in 3GPP TS 23.012;
\- if the previous network entity supports the Super-Charger functionality
then the HLR shall not cancel the location information.
The Super-Charged HLR shall determine whether the subscription data retained
by the serving network entity is consistent with the subscription data stored
in the HLR:
\- if the subscription data is consistent then the HLR shall not send
subscription data to the serving network entity as part of the location
updating procedures;
\- if the subscription data is not consistent then the HLR shall respond to
the location updating request as described in 3GPP TS 23.012.
Figure 4: Information flow for an inter-node routeing area update or attach in
a Super-Charged network for the case when the serving network entity has
retained subscription data for the requesting mobile station
Note 1: This procedure is optionally performed as part of the Attach
procedures, see 3GPP TS 23.060.
Note 2: This procedure is used to update PDP contexts during a routeing area
update when there is a one or more PDP Contexts established, see 3GPP TS
23.060.
Note 3: If the previous network entity supports the Super-Charger features the
HLR shall not cancel the location information at the previous network entity
unless the Inform Previous Network Entity is included in the Update Location
message.
Note 4: If the subscription data retained by serving network entity is
consistent with the subscription data stored by the HLR, the HLR shall not
send subscription data.
# 5 Functional behaviour
This clause describes the implementation of Super-Charger feature. This
mechanism can reduce the signalling traffic associated with mobility, provided
the HLR and serving network entity (i.e. MSC/VLR, SGSN, and UMSC) support the
Super-Charger functionality.
## 5.1 Subscriber Settings
The Super-Charger feature requires a mechanism using which the HLR can
determine whether the subscription data retained by the serving network entity
is valid. In this specification this parameter shall be referred to as the age
indicator. The format of the age indicator is implementation specific since it
shall be defined and used by the HPLMN. The HLR shall store the age indicator
and an indication as to whether the previous network entity supported the
Super-Charger functionality on a per subscriber basis.
The serving network entity shall store the age indicator provided by the HLR
and an indication as to whether the HLR supports the Super-Charger
functionality on a per subscriber basis.
## 5.2 Data Consistency
In a Super-Charged Network, subscription data may be retained by a number of
network entities. Each Super-Charged network entity provided with subscription
data will retain this information when the subscriber roams to a different
network entity.
### 5.2.1 Modification of subscription data
If the subscription data is changed in the HLR the copy of the data in each of
the network entities will become outdated. To ensure data consistency:
  * the HLR shall update the age indicator to reflect the change in the subscription data;
  * the subscription data in the serving network entity shall be updated as described in 3GPP TS 23.012. The subscription data provided to the serving network entity shall include the new age indicator.
### 5.2.2 Location Updating
The location updating procedures shall be initiated according to 3GPP TS
23.012.
#### 5.2.2.1 Detailed Procedure in the serving network entity
If the serving network entity has retained subscription data, it shall provide
the age indicator as part of the location updating procedure.
If the serving entity has retained subscription data and does not receive
subscription data as part of a successful location updating procedure, the
serving entity shall treat the retained subscription data as valid and
indicate successful completion of the location updating procedure towards the
mobile station.
If the serving entity has retained subscription data then subscription data
received as part of a successful location updating procedure shall be treated
as described in 3GPP TS 23.012.
The procedure Check_User_Error_In_Serving_Network_Entity is defined for the
case when the serving entity has retained subscription data but receives a
negative response to the location update procedure. In this case, the serving
entity shall not treat the retained subscription data as valid. If the
negative response indicates \"Unknown Subscriber\" or \"Roaming Not Allowed\"
the serving network entity shall delete the retained subscription data.
{width="6.817361111111111in" height="8.238888888888889in"}
Figure 5: Procedure Check_User_Error_In_Serving_Network_Entity
#### 5.2.2.2 Detailed Procedure in the HLR
The procedure Super_Charged_Location_Updating_HLR determines when a Super-
Charged HLR shall send subscription data to the requesting network entity.
If the serving network entity indicates support for Super-Charger and includes
the age indicator, the HLR shall use the age indicator to determine whether
the subscription data retained by the serving network entity is valid i.e. the
same as the subscription data stored in the HLR:
  * If the subscription data retained by serving network entity is invalid, then the HLR shall send subscriber data to the requesting entity including an indication of support for the Super-Charger functionality and the age indicator.
```{=html}
``` \- If the subscription data retained by the serving network entity is
valid, then the HLR shall not send subscription data to the requesting entity.
If the serving network entity indicates support for Super-Charger but includes
a request for subscription data, the HLR shall send subscriber data to the
requesting entity including an indication of support for the Super-Charger
functionality and the age indicator.
If the serving network entity does not indicate support for Super-Charger the
HLR shall send subscriber data to the requesting entity.
{width="6.817361111111111in" height="8.238888888888889in"}
Figure 6: Procedure Super_Charger_Location_Updating_HLR
### 5.2.3 Cancel Location
#### 5.2.3.0 General
The cancel location procedures are normally not used within and between Super-
Charged networks as part of the location update procedure, as described 3GPP
TS 23.012. However, Super-Charged networks shall support the cancel location
procedure to provide interworking for location update procedures with GSM &
UMTS networks that do not support the Super-Charger functionality. The cancel
location procedure shall also be used within a Super-Charged network as a
notification when there is a need to inform the previous network entity that
the connections for the subscriber can be released, due to the fact that the
MS has moved to another network entity. Subscription data should still be kept
in the previous network entities that support Super-Charger.
The mechanisms used to determine which network entities the cancel location
message shall be sent to are outside the scope of this specification. However,
it is recommended that the HLR store an indication if the serving network
entity supports the Super-Charger functionality. It is also recommended that
an HLR supporting the Super-Charger functionality have mechanisms to decide
when a notification as described above needs to be sent against previous
network entity or not. Without such mechanisms, Cancel Location shall always
be sent. The mechanisms are triggered by the indication received from serving
network entity during location update procedure saying that previous network
entity must be notified. These mechanisms are triggered when there is a risk
data inconsistency between nodes in the network, and are detailed in 3GPP TS
23.912.
An HLR supporting the mobile terminating roaming forwarding feature (see 3GPP
TS 23.018 [10]) shall always send a MAP Cancel Location message to the old VLR
upon receipt of the MAP Update Location from the new VLR. This shall also
apply if the HLR and the old VLR support Super-Charger, regardless of whether
the new VLR indicates or not during the location update procedure that the
previous network entity must be notified.
An HLR supporting the mobile terminating roaming retry feature (see 3GPP TS
23.018 [10]) shall always send a MAP Cancel Location message to the old VLR
upon receipt of the MAP Update Location from the new VLR. This shall also
apply if the HLR and the old VLR support Super-Charger, regardless of whether
the new VLR indicates or not during the location update procedure that the
previous network entity must be notified.
#### 5.2.3.1 Detailed procedures in the serving network entity
A Super-Charged serving network entity shall be capable of receiving a cancel
location message as described in 3GPP TS 23.012.
#### 5.2.3.2 Detailed procedures in the HLR
The procedure Super_Charged_Cancel_Location_HLR determines to whether a Super-
Charged HLR shall send the cancel location message to the previous network
entity during location updating as described in 3GPP TS 23.012.
If the previous network entity does support the Super-Charger functionality,
the HLR shall not send the cancel location message during location updating
except in the conditions described in section 5.2.3.0. This is indicated by
the \"Result:= Pass\" exit in Figure 7.
**Figure 7: Procedure Super_Charged_Cancel_Location_HLR**
### 5.2.4 Purge MS
In a Super-Charged network, the subscriber record for an MS may be deleted by
database management procedure to free up capacity in the network entity to
accept new subscribers as described in subclause 5.5.
The procedure Purge_MS_in_Serving_Network_Entity determines whether a Super-
Charged Serving Network Entity shall send the purge MS message to the HLR when
deleting inactive subscription data.
If the HLR does not support the Super-Charger functionality, the deletion of
inactive subscription data shall initiate the purge MS procedure as described
in 3GPP TS 23.012. This is indicated by the \"Result:= Fail\" exit in Figure
8.
For the CS-domain, the restoration procedures for Super-Charged network
entities shall be modified to minimize the number of unnecessary mobile
terminated call and short message attempts.
For the PS-domain, any attempt to establish a network-requested PDP context to
a network entity that has no record for the subscriber shall proceed as
described in 3GPP TS 23.060.
In addition, the Mobile Terminating Short Message Service is modified to
minimize the number of unnecessary mobile terminated calls and short message
attempts.
{width="6.817361111111111in" height="8.238888888888889in"}
Figure 8: Procedure Purge_MS_In_Serving_Network_Entity
#### 5.2.4.1 CS-domain restoration procedures
Upon receipt of a request for a roaming number, if there is no subscriber data
record in the recipient network entity the network entity shall distinguish
two cases:
\- the subscriber data record was lost due to network entity restart;
\- the subscriber data record was removed by the Super-Charger database
management function described in subclause 5.5.
If the subscriber data record was lost due to a network entity restart the
restoration procedure as described in 3GPP TS 29.002 shall be initiated.
The procedure Check_Reason_In_Serving_Network_Entity determines whether the
subscriber data was removed by the Super-Charger database management function
and whether the network entity shall return the Purged MS diagnostic
information to the HLR.
The procedure Super_Charged_SRI_Error_HLR determines whether the HLR shall
mark its data for the MS as purged and maps the Purged_MS diagnostic
information to indicate that the IMSI is detached, in the send routeing
information response. Consequently any request for routeing information for a
mobile terminated call or a mobile terminated short message shall be treated
as if the MS is not reachable.
The means by which the network entity distinguishes the two cases is
implementation dependent and therefore outside the scope of this
specification.
{width="6.817361111111111in" height="8.238888888888889in"}
Figure 9: Procedure Check_Reason_In_Serving_Network_Entity
{width="6.817361111111111in" height="8.238888888888889in"}
Figure 10: Procedure Super_Charged_SRI_Error_HLR
#### 5.2.4.2 Mobile Terminating Short Message Service
The procedure Check_Absent_SubscriberSM_In_HLR determines whether the HLR
shall mark its data for the MS as purged based on the content of the absent
subscriber SM diagnostic information (See 3GPP TS 23.040), if received from
the SMS-GMSC, following a Mobile Terminating Short Message delivery attempt.
{width="6.817361111111111in" height="8.238888888888889in"}
Figure 11: Procedure Check_Absent_SubscriberSM_In_HLR
## 5.3 Subscriber Deactivation
When a subscriber is deactivated, the cancel location message is sent to the
serving network entity and the subscription data shall be deleted in the HLR.
Subsequently, when the subscriber attempts to register in a network entity
that has data for the subscriber, the HLR will return an error of 'Unknown
Subscriber' and the subscription data in the network entity shall be deleted
as described in subclause 5.2.2.1.
## 5.4 TMSI Management
In a Super-Charged network, if the cancel location or purge MS procedures are
not performed the TMSI and P-TMSI values shall be de-allocated by another
mechanism to avoid double allocation of temporary identifiers.
If the send identification procedure as described in 3GPP TS 29.002 is used,
the previous network entity may use this to explicitly de-allocate the
temporary identifier assigned to that subscriber.
In the event that the send identification procedure is not perform or not used
as an explicit de-allocation trigger, it is recommended that an alternative
mechanism is available to de-allocate temporary identifiers. The chosen
mechanism is an implementation detail. De-allocation of TMSI and P-TMSI values
may be achieved by a system of supervision timers or as part of the database
management function, see subclause 5.5. However, other mechanisms may be used
to avoid double allocation.
## 5.5 Database Management
In a Super-Charged network subscription data shall not be deleted in the
previous network entity. The subscription data shall be retained using spare
capacity available in the network entity. This results in a continuous growth
of the database size. If not managed properly, the network entity will
eventually become full and unable to handle newly arrived MSs. A strategy to
manage the capacity of Super-Charged network entities is required.
The database management scheme shall be an implementation option and so
outside the scope of this specification. Example mechanisms are:
\- Utilisation of a larger database.
\- Periodic audit scheme.
\- Implementation of a strategy to make room for new users by removing old
subscriber information from the associated database.
### 5.5.1 Utilisation of a larger database
The implementation of larger databases may be used to limit the need for other
mechanisms to ensure that sufficient database capacity is available to service
new subscribers. However, the need for an alternative mechanism such as
Periodic Audits and Dynamic Subscription Data Deletion is not removed.
Implementing larger databases such that subscription data is retained for an
increased number of subscribers can increase the benefit from a Super-Charged
network. However, the optimal database capacity will be network specific.
The implementation of a larger database is not a requirement for this feature.
### 5.5.2 Periodic Audit
This scheme periodical removes inactive subscription data from the VLR and
SGSN databases. The volume of subscription data deleted should be based on an
estimation of the growth of the database size during the audit cycle.
The criterion for removal of the subscriber is outside the scope of this
specification. Circuit Switched and Packet Service activity of the subscriber
should be checked before any deletion.
### 5.5.3 Dynamic Subscription Data Deletion
This scheme allows the run-time removal of subscription if the associated
database is full. In this case, the oldest subscription data is deleted to
make room for the newly arrived subscriber. This mechanism may be used in
conjunction with the other scheme detailed above or as the only method by
which to create available capacity within a database.
The criterion for removal of the subscriber is outside the scope of this
specification. Circuit Switched and Packet Service activity of the subscriber
should be checked before any deletion.
## 5.6 Enhanced User Identity Confidentiality
If an MS configured to support Enhanced User Identity Confidentiality updates
location at a serving network entity which has retained subscriber data from a
previous visit, the normal procedure of Enhanced User Identity Confidentiality
as defined in 3GPP TS 23.018 shall apply.
The serving network entity shall replace the TEMSI stored in the subscriber
data by the TEMSI received from the UIDN as a result of the Send IMSI
operation.
## 5.7 Exception procedure
A Super-Charged network entity shall inform the HLR about the support of the
Super-Charger functionality whenever a subscriber roams on to that network
entity. This information shall be included in the update location message sent
to the HLR. The HLR shall use this information to determine the most
appropriate action.
If the HLR does not support the Super-Charger functionality the HLR shall
ignore this information and proceed according to 3GPP TS 29.002.
If the serving network entity does not support the Super-Charger functionality
the serving network entity shall ignore information relating to the Super-
Charger feature and proceed according to 3GPP TS 29.002.
# 6 Contents of the messages
This clause contains detailed description of the messages shown in Section 5
of the specification.
## 6.1 Update Location
The contents of this message are specified in 3GPP TS 29.002. In the case when
the originating entity supports the Super-Charger functionality, the following
Super-Charger specific information is defined:
+----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Information element name | Required | Description | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Super-Charger Supported In | C | When included, this | | Serving Network Entity | | parameter indicates that | | | | the originating entity | | | | supports the Super-Charger | | | | functionality. In | | | | addition, this parameter | | | | shall indicate either that | | | | subscription data is | | | | required or the date and | | | | time of the last known | | | | subscriber data | | | | modification. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+ | Inform Previous Network | C | When included, this | | Entity | | parameter indicates that | | | | the previous network | | | | entity needs to be | | | | informed about the update | | | | location.\ | | | | The parameter shall be | | | | included if: | | | | | | | | - Send Identification | | | | has not been sent to | | | | the previous network | | | | entity or | | | | | | | | - the MTRF Supported | | | | flag is included in | | | | the Update Location | | | | message. | +----------------------------+----------+----------------------------+
## 6.2 Update Location ack
The contents of this message are specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.
## 6.3 Update GPRS Location
The contents of this message are specified in 3GPP TS 29.002. In the case when
the originating entity supports the Super-Charger functionality, the following
Super-Charger specific information is defined:
* * *
Information element name Required Description
Super-Charger Supported In Serving Network Entity C When included, this
parameter indicates that the originating entity supports the Super-Charger
functionality. In addition, this parameter shall indicate either that
subscription data is required or the date and time of the last known
subscriber data modification.
Inform Previous Network Entity C When included, this parameter indicates that
the previous network entity needs to be informed about the update location.\
The parameter shall be included only if SGSN Context Request has not been sent
to the previous network entity.
* * *
## 6.4 Update GPRS Location ack
The contents of this message are specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.
## 6.5 Insert Subscriber Data
The contents of this message are specified in 3GPP TS 29.002. In the case when
the originating entity supports the Super-Charger functionality, the following
Super-Charger specific information is defined:
* * *
Information element name Required Description Super-Charger Supported In HLR C
When included, this parameter indicates that the originating entity supports
the Super-Charger functionality. In addition, this parameter is used by the
HLR to indicate the age of the subscription data stored in the HLR.
* * *
## 6.6 Insert Subscriber Data ack
The contents of this message are specified in 3GPP TS 29.002.
#