# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document defines the Stage 2 architecture and specification for the CS
Fallback and for SMS over SGs for EPS or CS Fallback and SMS over S102. The
scope of this document includes the architecture enhancements for
functionality to enable fallback from E-UTRAN access to UTRAN/GERAN CS domain
access and to CDMA 1x RTT CS domain access, and functionality to reuse of
voice and other CS-domain services (e.g. CS UDI video / LCS / USSD) by reuse
of the CS domain. The functionality specified to support SMS over SGs does not
trigger any CS Fallback to UTRAN/GERAN. The functionality specified to support
SMS over S102 does not trigger any CS Fallback to CDMA 1xRTT CS domain.
The architecture enhancements to support CS fallback to CDMA 1x RTT CS domain
access for UEs with single and dual receiver configurations are specified in
Annex B.
In this Release of the specification no mechanisms are specified to support CS
Fallback to both UTRAN/GERAN and CDMA 1xRTT in the same PLMN. So, even when a
UE has the capability to support both CS Fallback to UTRAN/GERAN CS domain and
CS Fallback to CDMA 1xRTT CS domain in a given PLMN, the PLMN implements only
one of the two.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"GPRS Enhancements for E-UTRAN Access\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification Radio
Resource Control (RRC) protocol\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.018: \"Basic call handling; Technical realization\".
[6] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"MSC-BSS interface layer 3 specification; Protocol
specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
[9] Open Mobile Alliance, OMA AD SUPL: \"Secure User Plane Location
Architecture\", http://www.openmobilealliance.org.
[10] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD); Stage
2\".
[11] Void.
[12] 3GPP TS 44.060: \"MS-BSS interface; RLC/MAC protocol \".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Supplementary services specification; General
aspects\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.204: \"Short Message Service (SMS) over generic 3GPP Internet
Protocol (IP) access\".
[16] 3GPP2 A.S0008-C: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with Session Control in the
Access Network\".
[17] 3GPP2 A.S0009-C: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with Session Control in the
Packet Control Function\".
[18] 3GPP2 A.S0013-C: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for cdma2000
Access Network Interfaces -- part 3 Features\".
[19] 3GPP TR 36.938: \"Improved Network Controlled Mobility between E-UTRAN
and 3GPP2/Mobile WiMAX Radio Technologies\".
[20] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC); Stage 2\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
[22] 3GPP2 X.S0042-0: \"Voice Call Continuity between IMS and Circuit Switched
System\".
[23] 3GPP TS 23.236: \"Intra-domain connection of Radio Access Network (RAN)
nodes to multiple Core Network (CN) nodes\".
[24] 3GPP TS 43.055: \"Radio Access Network; Dual Transfer Mode (DTM); Stage
2\".
[25] 3GPP TS 23.292: \"IMS Centralised Services (ICS); Stage 2\".
[26] 3GPP TS 23.221: \"Architectural Requirements\".
[27] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[28] 3GPP TS 24.011: \"Point-to-Point (PP) Short Message Service (SMS) support
on mobile radio interface\".
[29] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"UTRAN Iu interface Radio Access Network Application
Part (RANAP) signalling\".
[30] 3GPP TS 48.018: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); BSS GPRS Protocol
(BSSGP)\".
[31] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services; Stage 2\".
[32] 3GPP2 C.S0005-A: \"Upper Layer (Layer 3) Signaling Standard for cdma2000
Spread Spectrum Systems - Release A, Addendum 2\".
[33] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
Radio Resource Control (RRC)\"
[34] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[35] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\".
[36] 3GPP TS 22.153: \"Multimedia Priority Services\".
[37] 3GPP TS 22.067: \"enhanced Multi Level Precedence and Pre emption service
(eMLPP) - Stage 1\".
[38] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[39] 3GPP2 A.S0008-C: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with Session Control in the
Access Network\".
[40] 3GPP2 A.S0009-C: \"Interoperability Specification (IOS) for High Rate
Packet Data (HRPD) Radio Access Network Interfaces with Session Control in the
Packet Control Function\".
[41] 3GPP TS 23.146: \"Technical realization of facsimile group 3 non-
transparent\".
[42] Telecommunications Industry Association, TIA-917: \"Wireless Priority
Service Enhancements for CDMA Systems\".
[43] 3GPP TR 22.952: \"Priority service guide\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] apply. A term defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
**1xCS:** The 3GPP2 legacy circuit Switched signalling system as defined in
3GPP2 X.S0042-0 [22].
**CSMT flag:** A flag in LA update request message used in CS fallback for MT
call to avoid missing paging in roaming retry.
**CSMO flag:** A flag in CM Service Request and LA Update request message used
in CS fallback for MO calls.
**Service User:** See TS 22.153 [36].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document takes precedence
over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR 21.905 [1].
1xCS IWS Circuit Switched fallback Interworking solution Function for 3GPP2
1xCS.
CSMT Circuit Switched fallback Mobile Terminated call.
CSMO Circuit Switched fallback Mobile Originated call.
eMLPP enhanced Multi Level Precedence and Pre emption
ICS IMS Centralised Services
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
MTRF Mobile Terminating Roaming Forwarding
NEAF Non-EPS Alert Flag.
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
# 4 Overall Description
## 4.1 General Considerations
The CS fallback in EPS enables the provisioning of voice and other CS-domain
services (e.g. CS UDI video/ LCS/ USSD) by reuse of CS infrastructure when the
UE is served by E‑UTRAN. A CS fallback enabled terminal, connected to E‑UTRAN
may use GERAN or UTRAN to connect to the CS‑domain. This function is only
available in case E‑UTRAN coverage is overlapped by either GERAN coverage or
UTRAN coverage.
CS Fallback and IMS‑based services shall be able to co-exist in the same
operator's network.
The ICS architecture as defined in TS 23.292 [25] shall be able to co-exist
with utilising CS Fallback as the CS domain in the same operator\'s network.
This specification also specifies the architecture required for SMS over SGs.
The MO SMS and MT SMS are signalled over SGs and do not cause any CS Fallback
to GERAN/UTRAN RATs, and consequently does not require any overlapped
GERAN/UTRAN coverage.
The support of SMS over SGs is mandatory for UE and MME and MSC supporting CS
fallback, whereas UE and MME and MSC supporting SMS over SGs are not required
to support CS fallback.
NOTE: An MME supporting only SMS over SGs (i.e. not supporting CS fallback)
will either reply with \"SMS-only\" or reject an IMSI attach.
The support of CS fallback (and to a lesser extent SMS over SGs) can impose
some operational constraints on Tracking Area boundary planning and the use of
the \"tracking area list concept\" (see TS 23.401 [2]).
## 4.2 Reference Architecture
The CS fallback and SMS over SGs in EPS function is realized by using the SGs
interface mechanism between the MSC Server and the MME.
The SGs interface functionality is based on the mechanisms specified for the
Gs interface, TS 23.060 [3].
Figure 4.2-1: EPS architecture for CS fallback and SMS over SGs
NOTE 1: The MGW is not shown in the figure 4.2‑1 since neither CS fallback in
EPS nor SMS over SGs has any impacts on the U‑plane handling.
NOTE 2: SGSN and S3 have additional functionality related to ISR and CS
fallback/SMS over SGs. If ISR is not used, this functionality is not required.
### 4.2.1 Reference points
**SGs** : It is the reference point between the MME and MSC server. The SGs
reference point is used for the mobility management and paging procedures
between EPS and CS domain, and is based on the Gs interface procedures. The
SGs reference point is also used for the delivery of both mobile originating
and mobile terminating SMS. Additional procedures for alignment with the Gs
reference point are not precluded.
**S3** : It is defined in TS 23.401 [2] with the additional functionality to
support ISR for CS fallback/SMS over SGs as defined in this specification.
## 4.3 Functional entities
### 4.3.1 UE
The CS fallback capable UE supports access to E-UTRAN/EPC as well as access to
the CS domain over GERAN and/or UTRAN.
The SMS over SGs capable UE supports access to E-UTRAN/EPC and may support
access to the CS domain over GERAN and/or UTRAN.
The support of SMS over SGs is mandatory for a UE that supports CS fallback,
whereas a UE that supports SMS over SGs is not required to support CS
fallback.
These UEs support the following additional functions:
\- Combined procedures specified in this document for EPS/IMSI attach, update
and detach.
\- CS fallback and/or SMS over SGs procedures specified in this document for
using CS domain services.
A UE using CS fallback and/or SMS over SGs supports ISR according to TS 23.401
[2]. In particular a UE deactivates ISR at reception of LAU accept or at
reception of combined RAU/LAU accept response with no ISR indication.
The coexistence with IMS services for voice/SMS is defined in clause 4.5.
There are no other CS fallback/SMS over SGs ISR-specifics for the UE compared
to ISR description in TS 23.401 [2], i.e. if ISR is active the UE can change
between all registered areas and RATs without performing update signalling.
The UE listens for paging on the RAT it is currently camped on.
If the UE is a Service User according to TR 22.952 [43] with subscription to
CS domain priority service, the UE\'s USIM belongs to one of Access Class that
indicates the priority is needed and the UE sets the RRC establishment cause
to \"HighPriorityAccess\" as specified in TS 36.331 [33].
### 4.3.2 MME
The CS fallback and/or SMS over SGs enabled MME supports the following
additional functions:
\- Multiple PLMNs selection for the CS domain.
\- RAT selection for the CS domain.
\- Deriving a VLR number and LAI from the TAI of the current cell and based on
the selected PLMN or the selected RAT for CS domain, or using a default VLR
number and LAI.
\- Deliver the registered PLMN ID for CS domain (included in the LAI) to the
eNodeB.
\- Includes the PLMN ID for the CS domain (included in the LAI provided to the
UE) in the equivalent PLMNs list if it is different compared to the PLMN ID
provided as part of the GUTI.
\- For CS fallback, generating a TAI list such that the UE has a low chance of
\"falling back\" to a cell in a LA different to the derived LAI (e.g. the TAI
list boundary should not cross the LA boundary).
NOTE: Alignment of the TAI list boundary with a LA boundary can prevent the
MME from making effective use of the \"tracking area list\" concept. To
compensate for this, appropriate cell reselection hysteresis may need to be
used within the E-UTRAN.
\- Maintaining of SGs association towards MSC/VLR for EPS/IMSI attached UE.
\- Initiating IMSI or EPS detach.
\- Initiating paging procedure specified in this document towards eNodeB when
MSC pages the UE for CS services.
\- Supporting SMS procedures defined in this document.
\- Rejecting CS Fallback call request (e.g. due to O&M reasons)
An MME that supports CS Fallback uses the LAI and a hash value from the IMSI
to determine the VLR number as defined in TS 23.236 [23] when multiple
MSC/VLRs serve the same LAI. The same hash value/function is used by SGSN to
determine the VLR number. An MME that supports SMS over SGs may use the same
procedure as for CS Fallback. In some networks, the MME may be configured to
select the MSC/VLR for UEs that send low access priority indication with a
different load balance to that used for MSC/VLR selection for other UEs. In
this case the MME maintains a separate hash/value function for UEs that send
low access priority indication.
If the network supports CSFB priority call handling, the MME supports the
following additional functions:
\- For paging message received on the SGs interface with an indication of the
eMLPP priority level, the MME is configured with the priority level(s) for
which it provides preferential treatment to the paging of the UE and also to
the subsequent CS fallback procedure compared to other normal procedures. If
the UE needs to be paged, the MME sets the priority level in the S1 AP paging
request to eNodeB based on the value(s) configured in the MME for CSFB
priority call handling. The MME also sets priority indication, i.e. \"CSFB
High Priority\", in the S1AP UE Context Setup/Modification message to the
eNodeB, so that the eNodeB can initiate the CSFB procedure with priority, as
specified in TS 36.413 [35].
\- For an MO CSFB request, the MME determines that the CSFB request needs CSFB
priority call handling based on the \"HighPriorityAccess\" establishment cause
received from the eNodeB and/or the MPS CS Priority stored in UE\'s EPS
subscription. The MME provides preferential treatment to this request and also
sets priority indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", in the S1AP UE Context
Setup/Modification message to eNodeB to initiate CSFB procedure with priority,
as specified in TS 36.413 [35].
### 4.3.3 MSC
The CS fallback and/or SMS over SGs enabled MSC supports the following
additional functions:
\- Maintaining SGs association towards MME for EPS/IMSI attached UE.
\- Supporting SMS procedures defined in this document.
NOTE 1: The CS Fallback enabled MSC can also be enhanced to support ICS as
defined in TS 23.292 [25] and/or SRVCC as defined in TS 23.216 [20].
NOTE 2: In order to speed up the potential LAU procedure during CS fallback
the MSC may be configured to lower the frequency of Authentication, TMSI
reallocation and Identity check for UEs that are EPS/IMSI attached via the SGs
interface.
NOTE 3: The MSC/VLR uses the CSMO flag in LAU and CM service request message
for CS Fallback statistics.
If the network supports CSFB priority call handling, the MSC maps, depending
on the deployed CS domain priority scheme, the priority indication of the IAM
message to the eMLPP priority level indication of the paging message that is
sent over the SGs interface.
### 4.3.4 E-UTRAN
The CS fallback enabled E-UTRAN supports the following additional functions:
\- Forwarding paging request for CS domain to the UE.
\- Directing the UE to the target CS capable cell considering the registered
PLMN ID and possibly the LAC for CS domain received from the MME.
\- The configuration of appropriate cell reselection hysteresis at Location
Area boundaries (or across the whole E-UTRAN) to reduce Tracking Area Update
traffic.
\- To facilitate the configuration of TA boundaries with LA boundaries, the
E-UTRAN can gather statistics (from the inbound inter-RAT mobility events of
all UEs) of the most common LAs indicated in the RRC signalling.
\- Configuration to permit the operator to choose the target \'fallback\' RAT
and frequency.
For SMS over SGs, no specific E-UTRAN functionality is required.
If the network supports CSFB priority call handling, the E-UTRAN supports the
following additional functions:
\- For paging message received on S1AP with priority indication, the E-UTRAN
should provide preferential treatment to this request compared to other normal
paging requests.
\- For CS fallback S1AP UE Context Setup/Modification message with priority
indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\",the eNodeB should provide preferential
treatment, e.g. in allocating E-UTRAN radio bearer resources compared to other
normal resource requests. When CSFB based on PS handover is employed, the
eNodeB forwards the priority indication to the target GERAN/UTRAN. When CSFB
RRC connection release with redirection is used, the eNodeB sets the \"CS
Fallback High Priority\" indication in the RRC Release message.
### 4.3.5 SGSN
If the SGSN supports ISR, SGSN shall follow the rules and procedures described
in TS 23.401 [2] and TS 23.060 [3] with the following additions and
clarifications:
\- The SGSN shall not send the ISR activated indication at combined RAU/LAU
procedure.
An SGSN that supports Gs uses LAI and a hash value from the IMSI to determine
the VLR number as defined in TS 23.236 [23] when multiple MSC/VLRs serve the
same LAI. The same hash value/function is used by MME to determine the VLR
number.
### 4.3.6 BSS
If the BSS receives indication from the MSC that the CS service (Call, CISS or
LCS) was established as a result of CS fallback the BSS may e.g. select to use
RR Connection Release with Redirect to send the UE back to E-UTRAN at release
of the CS service.
If the network supports ISR, the CS fallback enabled BSS exhibits the
following behaviour:
\- Even if the network is operating in NMO II/III the BSS shall forward Gb
interface paging messages onto the radio interface. The BSS in a network
operating in NMO II/III shall not be configured to use PBCCH.
### 4.3.7 RNS
If the RNS receives indication from the MSC that the CS service (Call, CISS or
LCS) was established as a result of CS fallback the RNS may e.g. select to use
RRC Connection Release with Redirect to send the UE back to E-UTRAN at release
of the CS service.
## 4.4 Control plane
### 4.4.1 MME - MSC Server
**Legend:**
**SGsAP:** This protocol is used to connect an MME to an MSC Server based on
the BSSAP+.
**Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP):** This protocol transfers
signalling messages.
Figure 4.4.1-1: SGs Interface
## 4.5 Co-existence with IMS services
A CS Fallback and IMS capable UE shall follow the procedures for domain
selection for UE originating session/calls according to TS 23.221 [26]
\'Domain selection for UE originating sessions / calls\'.
An IMS capable UE which supports SMS over IP networks shall follow the
procedures for domain selection for UE originating SMS according to TS 23.221
[26] \'Domain selection for UE originating SMS\'.
## 4.6 Emergency Calls
### 4.6.1 General
When UE is performing CS fallback procedure for Mobile Originating Call for
the purpose of emergency call, it shall indicate to the MME that this CS
fallback request is for emergency purpose. MME indicates to the E-UTRAN via
the appropriate S1-AP message that this CS fallback procedure has high
priority. If PS handover is initiated, E‑UTRAN may indicate priority level of
the CS fallback to the target RAT, as specified in TS 25.413 [29], in order to
prepare radio resource at target RAT in appropriate way, e.g. priority
allocation of the RAB resource.
NOTE 1: E-UTRAN may use the CSFB high priority indication for selecting a
particular radio access network (2G or 3G).
Based on local operator policy, if the MSC/VLR is required to handle emergeny
call setup with IMSI, the network may perform the additional procedure defined
in clause 4.6.2.
NOTE 2: When the target RAT for emergency call due to CSFB is selected based
on cell re-selection or redirection by the network and the UE moves to a
different LA then it is possible that the UE continues the emergency call
setup without performing a location updating procedure. In this case, the UE
performs the emergency call setup with IMSI.
### 4.6.2 Procedures to handle emergency call setup with IMSI
This procedure is only invoked when permitted by the operator policy.
When MME detects that the CSFB request is due to emergency call and eNodeB
indicates that the UE is not available for the PS service at the target RAT,
it shall mark the SGs association as not valid (i.e., move to SGs-NULL state)
and shall not send IMSI Detach Indication (IMSI) message to the MSC/VLR. After
that, MME continues with the CSFB procedure. If ISR is active, MME shall
initiate DETACH REQUEST message with the detach type set to \"Local Detach\"
via S3 to the associated SGSN.
The SGSN in NMO I configuration with ISR capability shall support the \"EMM
combined UE Waiting Flag\".
NOTE 1: If the target RAT is operating in NMO-I, the DETACH REQUEST is to
ensure the UE performs combined EPS/IMSI TAU when the UE returns to E-UTRAN as
described in clause 6.5.
When MSC/VLR receives CS emergency call setup with IMSI due to CSFB and this
IMSI is unknown, the MSC/VLR shall perform a Location Update procedure to the
HLR on behalf of the UE after it successfully authenticated the UE.
## 4.6a Interaction with IMS Emergency session
If the MME receives a paging request which is not for SMS and detects that the
UE currently has an ongoing IMS emergency session, the MME shall respond with
a Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS Paging procedure.
NOTE: If the IMS emergency session uses dedicated emergency bearers service
for the media, the MME can detect an ongoing IMS emergency session by the
presence of at least two EPS bearers with ARP value reserved for emergency
services (one bearer for signalling and one for media). If the network allows
media for IMS emergency session without a dedicated bearer, the MME can only
use the presence of PS bearer with ARP value reserved for emergency services
for detection.
## 4.7 CSFB Priority Call Handling
CSFB Priority call handling ensures that, when the network supports eMLPP
service (TS 22.067 [37]) or another CS domain priority scheme (e.g. TIA-917
[42] or TR 22.952 [43]), end-to-end priority handling is provided for both
mobile originated CSFB calls by a user in E-UTRAN which is entitled to this by
a CS domain priority scheme and for mobile terminated CSFB call that is marked
for priority and destined to a user in E-UTRAN. An EPS subscription of an UE
that is subscribed to a CS domain priority scheme may contain an indication of
the users CS domain priority status, i.e. it may contain an MPS CS Priority
indication. If the UE is subscribed to a CS domain priority scheme, the UE\'s
USIM may belong to one of Access Class 11 to 15, e.g. when the UE is a Service
User according to TR 22.952 [43] the UE is assigned to an Access Class in the
range of 11 - 15.
For mobile terminated CS fallback calls belonging to a CS domain priority
scheme, the MSC provides the call\'s eMLPP level to the MME along with the SGs
paging message. Operator configuration in the MME defines which eMLPP level(s)
indicated from MSC to MME require CSFB priority call handling. For CSFB
priority call handling the MME is configured with the corresponding paging
priority level(s) (i.e., mapped from eMLPP level received) that the MME shall
set in the message to the eNodeB when requesting the eNodeB to page the UE if
the UE is idle.
For mobile originated CS fallback calls, the MME determines that the CSFB
request requires priority handling based on the \"HighPriorityAccess\"
establishment cause received from the eNodeB and/or the UE\'s MPS CS Priority.
For both mobile originated and mobile terminated CSFB priority call handling,
the MME shall also provide priority indication to the eNodeB, i.e. \"CSFB High
Priority\", when requesting the eNodeB to execute the CSFB priority procedure
as specified in TS 36.413 [35]. The eNodeB should handle the S1 AP paging
message with the indicated paging priority level. And the eNodeB shall
prioritize the CS fallback procedure to GERAN/UTRAN or 1xRTT according to the
CSFB priority indicated in the S1 AP UE context setup/modification message. If
PS handover to GERAN or UTRAN is initiated, E-UTRAN may forward CS fallback
priority indicator to the target RAT, as specified in TS 25.413 [29], in order
to prepare radio resource at target RAT in appropriate way, e.g. priority
allocation of the RAB resource
NOTE 1: For a Mobile Terminating Call from a normal user to a user entitled by
a CS domain priority scheme to receive priority, no special handling is
required.
NOTE 2: In this release, eNB does not differentiate between high priority CSFB
due to emergency or due to CSFB priority call handling. Therefore, for both
cases any Access and Roaming restriction may be ignored by the eNB when
selecting a target cell, see TS 36.413 [35].
## 4.8 CS services handling in specific cases
### 4.8.1 SGs paging without LAI
If the SGs Paging Request does not contain the LAI, and if the MME can
retrieve the S-TMSI associated to the IMSI, the MME shall temporarily store
this MSC/VLR number and force the UE to re-attach to the non-EPS services
based on:
\- If the UE is in connected mode, the MME shall send a Detach Request (IMSI
Detach) to the UE as described in clause 5.3.2;
\- If the UE is in idle mode, the MME shall send Detach Indication (Local
Detach) message to the SGSN via S3 interface if ISR is active. If the mobile
reachable timer is still running the MME shall page the UE with IMSI and the
CS indicator (for CSFB) or with S‑TMSI and the PS indicator (for SMS). At the
reception of Extended Service Request (for CSFB) or Service Request (for SMS)
from the UE, the MME shall not send a SGs Service Request to the MSC/VLR as it
normally would, but instead shall send a Detach Request (IMSI Detach) to the
UE as described in clause 5.3.2.
The MME shall not send IMSI Detach Indication message to the MSC/VLR in the
above scenarios.
MME shall then wait for the UE to re-attach to non-EPS services via a Tracking
Area Update Request; the MME shall IMSI attach the UE to the MSC/VLR using the
stored MSC/VLR number. After successful IMSI attach, if the paging timer has
not expired, the MSC/VLR shall page the UE again using SGs Paging Request with
LAI.
### 4.8.2 Handling of SGs paging when MME cannot retrieve the S-TMSI
Upon receiving SGs Paging Request, if the MME cannot retrieve the S-TMSI
associated with IMSI, the MME shall page the UE with IMSI and PS indicator to
force the UE to re-attach to EPS and non-EPS services.
# 5 Mobility Management
## 5.1 General
The CS fallback and SMS over SGs in EPS is realized by using the SGs interface
mechanism between the MSC Server and the MME.
The use of the \"pool-area\" concept as specified in TS 23.236 [23] allows to
minimize the occurrence of MSC change at CS fallback.
## 5.1A TAI list and LAI allocation
For CS fallback, the fallback procedure is likely to be faster if the network
can allocate a Location Area to the UE that is the LA of the overlapping
target RAT\'s coverage. For this situation, the MME should avoid allocating
TAI lists that span multiple Location Areas of the target RAT (which may be
contrary to the normal usage of the \"tracking area list\" concept described
in TS 23.401 [2]).
This can be achieved by:
\- configuring the E-UTRAN cell\'s TAI to take into account the LA boundary of
the target RAT;
\- the MME being configured to know which TAIs are within which LA; and
\- the MME using the TAI of the current E-UTRAN cell to derive the LAI.
The operator should be able to configure the MME as to whether it either:
\- provides normal usage of the \"tracking area list\" concept, or,
\- the TAI list allocation is adjusted, for CS fallback mobiles, to provide
\"TAI lists that do not span multiple LAs\".
The MME may use alternative approaches for LAI and TAI list allocation. In
particular, this is appropriate for:
\- the case of SMS over SGs without overlapping GERAN/UTRAN coverage; and
\- the case when not all MSCs in the VPLMN support the SGs interface.
In these situations, one approach is to configure the MME to allocate a
default (e.g. non-broadcast) LAI which is associated with a VLR that supports
the SGs interface.
## 5.2 Attach procedure
The attach procedure for the CS fallback and SMS over SGs in EPS is realized
based on the combined GPRS/IMSI Attach procedure specified in TS 23.060 [3].
Figure 5.2-1: Attach Procedure
1) The UE initiates the attach procedure by the transmission of an Attach
Request (parameters as specified in TS 23.401 [2] including the Attach Type,
old LAI and Mobile Station Classmark 2) message to the MME. The Attach Type
indicates that the UE requests a combined EPS/IMSI attach and informs the
network that the UE is capable and configured to use CS fallback and/or SMS
over SGs. If the UE needs SMS service but not CSFB, the UE shall include an
\"SMS-only\" indication in the combined EPS/IMSI Attach Request. See clause
5.4.4.
2) Step 3 to step 16 of the EPS Attach procedure are performed as specified in
TS 23.401 [2].
If the UE subscribes to the eMLPP (TS 22.067 [37]) service in the CS domain or
to another CS domain priority scheme (e.g. based on TIA-917 [42] or TR 22.952
[43]) and has a priority level that qualifies for CSFB priority call handling,
the UE EPS subscription received from HSS contains the MPS CS Priority
indication.
3) If the Attach Request message includes an Attach Type indicating that the
UE requests a combined EPS/IMSI attach, the MME allocates a LAI for the UE. If
multiple PLMNs are available for the CS domain, the MME performs selection of
the PLMN for CS domain based on selected PLMN information received from the
eNodeB, current TAI, old LAI and operator selection policies on preferred RAT
for CS domain. The PLMN selected for CS should be the same that is used for
this UE as a target PLMN for PS handovers or for any other mobility procedures
related to CSFB. The MME may take any access restrictions provided by the HSS
into account, if the network is using separate location areas for GERAN and
UTRAN cells. The selected PLMN ID is included in the LAI which is sent to
MSC/VLR in step 4 and in Attach Accept to the UE.
The MME derives a VLR number based on the allocated LAI and on an IMSI hash
function defined in TS 23.236 [23]. The MME starts the location update
procedure towards the new MSC/VLR upon receipt of the subscriber data from the
HSS in step 2). This operation marks the MS as EPS-attached in the VLR.
4) The MME sends a Location Update Request (new LAI, IMSI, MME name, Location
Update Type) message to the VLR. MME name is a FQDN string.
5) The VLR creates an association with the MME by storing MME name.
6) The VLR performs the normal subscription checks for CS and if all checks
are successful performs Location Updating procedure in CS domain.
7) The VLR responds with Location Update Accept (VLR TMSI) to the MME.
8) The EPS Attach procedure is completed by performing step 17 to step 26 as
specified in TS 23.401 [2]. Attach Accept message includes the parameters as
specified in TS 23.401 [2]: VLR TMSI and LAI as allocated in step 3 above. The
existence of LAI and VLR TMSI indicates successful attach to CS domain.
If the UE requests combined EPS/IMSI Attach Request without the \"SMS-only\"
indication, and if the network supports only SMS over SGs, the network shall
perform the IMSI attach and the MME shall indicate in the Attach Accept
message that the IMSI attach is for \"SMS-only\". When the network accepts a
combined EPS/IMSI attach without limiting to \"SMS-only\", the network may
provide a \"CSFB Not Preferred\" indication to the UE.
If the UE requests combined EPS/IMSI Attach Request with the \"SMS-only\"
indication, and if the network supports SMS over SGs only or if it supports
CSFB and SMS over SGs, the network shall perform the IMSI attach and the MME
shall indicate in the Attach Accept message that the IMSI attach is for \"SMS-
only\".
The network provides the \"SMS-only\" or \"CSFB Not Preferred\" indications
based on locally configured operator policies based on e.g. roaming agreement.
The UE behaviour upon receiving such indications is described in TS 23.221
[26].
If the PLMN ID for the CS domain (included in the LAI provided to the UE)
differs from the PLMN ID provided as part of the GUTI, the equivalent PLMNs
list includes the PLMN ID for the CS domain.
9) If the VLR has updated the SGs association and if a paging timer is still
running for a MT service for this UE, the VLR shall repeat SGs Paging Request
towards the updated SGs association.
NOTE: The case of unsuccessful attach to CS domain is documented in stage 3
specifications, taking into account reachability for CS services of UEs that
have the user preference to prioritize voice over data services and are not
configured/supporting to use IMS voice services.
## 5.3 Detach procedure
### 5.3.1 UE-initiated Detach procedure
The UE-initiated Detach procedure for the CS fallback and SMS over SGs in EPS
is realized based on the MS-Initiated Detach Procedure specified in TS 23.060
[3].
Figure 5.3.1-1: UE-initiated Detach Procedure
1) The UE initiates the detach procedure by the transmission of a Detach
Request (parameters as specified in TS 23.401 [2], Detach Type) message to the
MME. Detach Type indicates which type of detach is to be performed, i.e., IMSI
Detach only, EPS Detach only or combined EPS and IMSI Detach.
2) The UE-initiated Detach procedure for E-UTRAN is continued as specified in
TS 23.401 [2].
3a) If the detach type indicates \"IMSI Detach only\" or \"combined EPS and
IMSI Detach\", the MME sends an IMSI Detach Indication (IMSI) message to the
MSC/VLR.
3b) If the detach type indicates \"EPS Detach only\", the MME sends an EPS
Detach Indication (IMSI) message to the MSC/VLR.
4) The MSC/VLR removes the association with the MME.
5) The MME sends a Detach Accept message to the UE as specified in TS 23.401
[2]. When the UE receives the Detach Accept message and the Detach Type
indicated \"EPS Detach only\" in step 1, the UE disables E-UTRAN, selects an
appropriate GERAN or UTRAN cell.
6) The UE-initiated Detach procedure for E-UTRAN is completed with step 12 to
step 14 as specified in TS 23.401 [2].
### 5.3.1A UE-initiated Detach procedure for GERAN/UTRAN with ISR activated
When ISR is activated, UE initiates detach procedure as specified in TS 23.401
[2], clause 5.3.8.2.2. The procedure is performed with the exception as
follows:
\- In step 4, the SGSN sends Detach Notification (Cause, Detach type) message
to the associated MME. Cause indicates \"IMSI Detach only\" when UE performs
IMSI Detach only procedure. Otherwise, Cause indicates \"complete detach\",
and Detach type indicates \"PS detach\" in case of UE-initiated GRPS Detach
only procedure, or indicates \"combined PS/CS detach\" in case of UE-initiated
combined GPRS/IMSI detach procedure.
\- When the MME receives the Detach Notification message, it sends an IMSI
Detach Indication (IMSI) message to the MSC/VLR if the cause indicates \"IMSI
Detach only\" or the detach type indicates \"combined PS/CS detach\", or sends
an EPS Detach Indication (IMSI) message to the MSC/VLR if the detach type
indicates \"PS detach\".
\- If Cause indicates \"IMSI Detach only\", the MME shall not deactivate ISR
and steps 5 to 9 shall be skipped.
### 5.3.2 MME-initiated Detach procedure
The MME-initiated detach procedure for the CS fallback and SMS over SGs in EPS
is realized based on the SGSN-Initiated Detach Procedure specified in TS
23.060 [3].
Figure 5.3.2-1: MME-initiated Detach Procedure
1) The MME-initiated Detach procedure is performed as specified in TS 23.401
[2].
2a) If EPS service is not allowed for the UE the MME sends an EPS Detach
Indication (IMSI detach from EPS service) message to the MSC/VLR.
2b) If the UE is required to be IMSI detached, the MME sends an IMSI Detach
Indication (IMSI) message to the MSC/VLR.
3) The MSC/VLR removes the association with the MME.
4) The MME-initiated Detach procedure is completed with step 11 to step 14 as
specified in TS 23.401 [2].
5) If ISR is activated in SGSN and the UE is EMM combined procedures capable,
when SGSN receives Detach Indication message sent from MME with \"Detach
Type\" IE that indicates \"Local Detach\" or Delete Bearer Request message
from SGW for last PDP Context, then the SGSN shall send Detach Request (IMSI
Detach) to the UE. The SGSN turns on \"EMM Combined UE Waiting Flag\". When
SGSN may have the capability to use this flag and how the SGSN uses this flag
is described in clause 5.5.
### 5.3.2A SGSN-initiated Detach procedure with ISR activated
When ISR is activated, SGSN initiates detach procedure as specified in TS
23.401 [2], clause 5.3.8.3A. The procedure is performed with the exception as
follows:
\- In step 4, the SGSN sends Detach Notification (Cause, Detach type) message
to the associated MME. If this detach is local to the SGSN (e.g. implicit
detach), Cause indicates local detach. Otherwise, Cause indicates complete
detach, and Detach type indicates \"PS detach\".
\- When the MME receives the Detach Notification message, it sends an EPS
Detach Indication (IMSI) message to the MSC/VLR if the detach type indicates
\"PS detach\". If the cause indicates local detach, the MME shall not remove
SGs association.
\- If Cause indicates local detach, the MME deactivates ISR and steps 5 to 9
shall be skipped.
### 5.3.3 HSS-initiated Detach procedure
The HSS-initiated detach procedure for the CS fallback and SMS over SGs in EPS
is realized based on the HLR-Initiated Detach Procedure specified in TS 23.060
[3].
Figure 5.3.3-1: HSS-initiated Detach Procedure
1) The HSS-initiated Detach procedure is performed as specified in TS 23.401
[2].
2) The MME sends an EPS Detach Indication (IMSI) message to the MSC/VLR.
3) The MSC/VLR removes the association with the MME.
4) The HSS-initiated Detach procedure is completed with step 8a to step 10a as
specified in TS 23.401 [2].
### 5.3.4 Administration of the MME - MSC/VLR Association
The MME - MSC/VLR association is created at the following occasions:
\- Combined EPS/ IMSI attach in clause 5.2.
\- Combined TA/LA Update in clause 5.4.
The association is updated on the following occasions:
\- When an UE changes MME.
The MME - MSC/VLR association is removed at the following occasions:
\- UE-initiated Detach in clause 5.3.1.
\- MME initiated Detach in clause 5.3.2.
\- HSS initiated Detach in clause 5.3.3.
\- Gs association establishment in 2/3G, see TS 23.060 [3].
\- MSC/VLR receives a LA update via the A or Iu interface.
## 5.4 TA/LA Update procedure
### 5.4.0 General
When a CS fallback and/or SMS over SGs capable UE is EPS/IMSI attached, it
initiates the combined TA/LA procedure based on the triggers specified in TS
23.401 [2].
When a CS fallback and/or SMS over SGs capable UE is not EPS/IMSI attached, it
may initiate a combined TA/LA procedure in order to use CS Fallback or SMS
over SGs services.
### 5.4.1 Combined TA/LA Update Procedure
NOTE: The combined TA/LA Update procedure for the CS fallback and SMS over SGs
in EPS is realized based on the combined RA/LA Update procedure specified in
TS 23.060 [3].
Figure 5.4.1-1: Combined TA / LA Update Procedure
1) The UE detects a change to a new TA by discovering that its current TAI is
not in the list of TAIs that the UE registered with the network or the UE\'s
TIN indicates the need for a TAU when re-selecting to E-UTRAN. The combined
TA/LA Update Procedure is also performed in order to re-establish the SGs
association.
2) The UE initiates the TAU procedure by sending a TAU Request (parameters as
specified in TS 23.401 [2] including the Update Type, old LAI and Mobile
Station Classmark 2) message to the MME. The Update Type indicates that this
is a combined Tracking Area/Location Area Update Request or a combined
Tracking Area/Location Area Update with IMSI attach Request. If the UE needs
SMS service but not CSFB, the UE shall include an \"SMS-only\" indication in
the combined TA/LA Update procedure, see clause 5.4.4.
3) Step 4 to step 19 of the EPS TAU procedure are performed as specified in TS
23.401 [2].
4) If multiple PLMNs are available for CS domain, the MME performs selection
of the PLMN for CS domain based on selected PLMN information received from the
eNodeB, current TAI, old LAI and operator selection policies on preferred RAT
for CS domain. The PLMN selected for CS should be the same that is used for
this UE as a target PLMN for PS handovers or for any other mobility procedures
related to CSFB. The MME may take any access restrictions provided by the HSS
into account, if the network is using separate location areas for GERAN and
UTRAN cells. The selected PLMN ID is included in the LAI. If the association
has to be established or if the LA changed, the new MME sends a Location
Update Request (new LAI, IMSI, MME name, Location Update Type) message to the
VLR. The MME retrieves the corresponding VLR number from the determined LAI.
If multiple MSC/VLRs serve this LAI an IMSI hash function is used to retrieve
the VLR number for the LAI as defined in TS 23.236 [23]. The Location Update
Type shall indicate normal location update. The MME name is a FQDN string.
5) The VLR performs the normal subscription checks for CS and if all checks
are successful performs Location Update procedure in CS domain.
6) The VLR responds with Location Update Accept (VLR TMSI) to the MME.
7) The MME sends a TAU Accept (parameters as specified in TS 23.401 [2], LAI,
VLR TMSI) message to the UE. The VLR TMSI is optional if the VLR has not
changed. LAI is determined in step 4 above. The presence of the LAI indicates
to the UE that it is IMSI attached. If the UE requests combined TA/LA Update
Request without the \"SMS-only\" indication, and if the network supports SGs
for SMS only, the network shall perform the IMSI attach and the MME shall
indicate in the TAU Accept message that the IMSI attach is for \"SMS-only\".
If the UE requests combined TA/LA Update (or combined TA/LA Update with IMSI
attach) without the \"SMS-only\" indication, and if the network supports only
SMS over SGs, the network shall perform the combined TA/LA Update procedure
and the MME shall indicate \"SMS-only\" in the TAU Accept message. However, if
the network supports CSFB and SMS over SGs and accepts a combined TA/LA Update
procedure but does not indicate \"SMS-only\", the MME may provide a \"CSFB Not
Preferred\" indication to the UE.
If the UE requests combined TA/LA Update (or combined TA/LA Update with IMSI
attach) with the \"SMS-only\" indication, and if the network only supports SMS
over SGs or if it supports CSFB and SMS over SGs, the network shall perform
the combined TA/LA Update procedure and the MME shall indicate in the TAU
Accept message that the combined TA/LA Update procedure is for \"SMS-only\".
The network provides the \"SMS-only\" or \"CSFB Not Preferred\" indications
based on locally configured operator policies based on e.g. roaming agreement.
The UE behaviour upon receiving such indications is described in TS 23.221
[26].
If the PLMN ID for the CS domain (included in the LAI provided to the UE)
differs from the PLMN ID provided as part of the GUTI, the equivalent PLMNs
list includes the PLMN ID for the CS domain.
8) The UE may send a TAU complete message as specified in TS 23.401 [2] for
the TAU procedure.
9) If the VLR has updated the SGs association and if a paging timer is still
running for a MT service for this UE, the VLR shall repeat SGs Paging Request
towards the updated SGs association.
### 5.4.2 Periodic TA and LA Update Procedure
When the UE is camped on E-UTRAN, periodic LA updates shall not be performed,
but periodic TA updates shall be performed. In this case, an SGs association
is established and the MSC/VLR shall disable implicit detach for EPS-attached
UEs and instead rely on the MME to receive periodic TA updates.
When a periodic TA update is not received in the MME, the MME clears the PPF.
The lack of periodic TA update may be caused by reselection or handover to
GERAN/UTRAN when ISR is active. To ensure CS paging can reach the EPS/IMSI
attached UE, the UE shall perform combined RA/LA update in NMO I or LAU in NMO
II/III when the periodic TAU timer expires and the UE is in GERAN/UTRAN (or
next returns to coverage in GERAN/UTRAN) and ISR is active.
In addition, when a periodic TA update is not received in the MME, the MME may
implicitly detach the UE as specified in TS 23.401 [2]. This MME implicit
detach does not affect any SGSN attach status. At an implicit detach, the MME
also releases the SGs association with the MSC/VLR. The MSC continues to
maintain the registered LA for the UE. The MSC changes to supervise LA updates
and pages in the still registered LA when mobile terminated services arrive.
When the UE camps on GERAN/UTRAN it may perform combined RA/LA updates. The
combined RA/LA update procedures and the conditions for their usage are
described in TS 23.060 [3].
### 5.4.3 Non-EPS Alert procedure
The MSC/VLR may request an MME to report activity from a specific UE. In this
case, the MSC/VLR shall send a SGsAP Alert Request (IMSI) message to the MME
where the UE is currently EPS-attached.
Upon reception of the SGsAP Alert Request (IMSI) message, the MME shall set
NEAF (Non-EPS Alert Flag). If NEAF is set for an UE, the MME shall inform the
MSC/VLR when the next activity from that UE (and the UE is both IMSI- and EPS
attached) is detected, and shall clear NEAF.
If the activity detected by the MME leads to a procedure towards the MSC/VLR,
the MME shall just follow this procedure. If the activity detected by the MME
does not lead to any procedure towards the MSC/VLR, the MME shall send an UE
Activity Indication (IMSI) message towards the MSC/VLR.
### 5.4.4 Void
## 5.5 Idle Mode Signalling Reduction
In relation with CSFB and/or SMS over SGs, when ISR is activated, the UE
follows regular ISR behaviour. It may reselect between E-UTRAN and GERAN/UTRAN
without a need to update the CN. When a mobile terminated service arrives, the
MSC/VLR sends a paging message via SGs to the MME. The MME pages in the TA(s)
registered for the UE, and, the MME uses the S3 interface to request the SGSN
(i.e. the SGSN that has an ISR relation with the MME for that UE) to page the
UE in the registered RA. When the UE is already connected with the MME, the
MME forwards the paging request only to the UE via the established signalling
connection.
When the UE is IMS registered for voice service, even if the UE is configured
for CSFB or SMS over SGs, it may need to ignore ISR activation based on the
conditions for ISR activation/de-activation for UEs registered for IMS voice
service as defined in TS 23.401 [2].
CSFB and/or SMS over SGs enabled UE includes the \"EMM combined procedures
capability\" indication as part of the \"MS Network Capability\" in the
Attach, RAU or combined RAU/LAU Request message, if the UE has been configured
to use CSFB service or SMS over SGs. SGSN stores the \"EMM combined procedures
capability\" indication for ISR operation. If the UE has not been configured
to use CSFB or SMS over SGs, the CSFB/SMS over SGs capable UE shall not
include the \"EMM combined procedures capability\" indication in the Attach,
RAU or combined RAU/LAU Request message to SGSN.
ISR remains activated until the CSFB/SMS over SGs enabled UE performs a
combined RAU/LAU procedure (e.g. a UE in NMO I moves to a new RA or LA or the
periodic TAU timer expires while the UE is in NMO I of GERAN/UTRAN) or
separate LAU procedure (e.g. a UE moves to a different LA in NMO II or III or
the periodic TAU timer expires while the UE is in NMO II/III of GERAN/UTRAN).
Normal re-selection between registered RA/TA(s) does not cause ISR deactivated
condition. When the UE needs to perform a combined RAU/LAU, the SGSN checks
the \"EMM combined procedures capability\" bit in MS Network Capability and if
it indicates that CSFB and/or SMS over SGs is enabled then SGSN deactivates
ISR by not indicating ISR activated in the combined RAU Accept message, which
is a regular ISR functionality as specified in TS 23.401 [2]. So an SGSN in a
CSFB/SMS over SGs configuration never indicates ISR activated in combined RAU
procedures for CSFB/SMS over SGs enabled UEs. An SGSN with ISR capability in a
CSFB/SMS over SGs configuration shall always maintain ISR by indicating ISR
Activated in Periodic RAU Accept for a CSFB/SMS over SGs enabled UE if the
SGSN has the status that ISR is activated for the UE. After a combined RA/LA
update procedure, the MSC pages via Gs for mobile terminated services. When Gs
is not used, the MSC/VLR pages in the LA via Iu/A for mobile terminated
services.
If ISR is deactivated and the UE re-selects to E-UTRAN with the TIN indicating
\"P-TMSI\", it initiates a TAU procedure, which is a regular ISR functionality
as specified in TS 23.401 [2], and ISR can be activated again. The CS
fallback/SMS over SGs enabled UE shall perform this TAU procedure as a
combined TA/LA Update Procedure.
In case of the detach procedure for E-UTRAN when ISR is activated, the MME
notifies the associated SGSN with indicating detach cause (i.e. local detach
or complete detach) as specified in clause 5.3.1, 5.3.2, 5.3.3 and TS 23.401
[2] except UE-initiated IMSI detach only procedure.
In case of the detach procedure for GERAN/UTRAN when ISR is activated, the
SGSN notifies the associated MME with indicating detach cause (i.e. local
detach, complete detach or IMSI detach only) and detach type (i.e. PS detach
or combined PS/CS detach) in case of complete detach, and the MME sends IMSI
Detach Indication or EPS Detach Indication message to the MSC/VLR accordingly,
which is specified in clause 5.3.1A and 5.3.2A.
When the MME receives a SGs paging for CS service, if ISR is activated and the
mobile reachable timer has expired but the Implicit Detach timer has not
expired, the MME shall not notify the MSC/VLR that the UE is unreachable via
SGs and instead shall page the UE via S3 interface.
When implicit detach timer expires in the MME, the MME shall send EPS Detach
Indication message. .
The SGSN in NMO I configuration with ISR capability shall support the \"EMM
combined UE Waiting Flag\". The \"EMM Combined UE Waiting Flag\" shall be
turned on if SGSN sends Detach Request (IMSI Detach) to the UE as specified in
clause 5.3.2.
If \"EMM Combined UE Waiting Flag\" is turned on in the SGSN, then the SGSN
shall behave as follows:
\- If the SGSN receives Periodic RAU from the UE, the SGSN shall send Detach
Request (IMSI Detach) to the UE.
\- If the SGSN receives Combined RAU from the UE, the SGSN shall continue the
procedure as specified in TS 23.060 [3].
\- If the SGSN receives Service Request from the UE, the SGSN handles the
Service Request normally and shall send Detach Request (IMSI Detach) to the
UE.
\- The SGSN shall turn off the \"EMM Combined UE Waiting Flag\" if the SGSN
receives Combined RAU from the UE.
## 5.6 Mobility Management for SMS over SGs only UEs
UEs that need SMS service but not CSFB indicate this specific condition with
the \"SMS-only\" indication in the EPS/IMSI Attach Request and combined TA/LA
update procedures. This allows an operator to deploy the SGs for SMS delivery
over LTE only without the need for CSFB support. In addition, this allows the
MME to use a dedicated algorithm for the selection of the MSC that supports
those UEs.
NOTE: SMS delivery does not cause the terminal to fallback to the CS-capable
network. It is possible that only certain MSCs in the network (one in minimum)
is configured to support SGs when the network only supports SMS for SGs
operation. However such a minimal configuration can cause inter-MSC location
updates to be performed at every movement into/out of E‑UTRAN coverage.
# 6 Mobile Originating Call
## 6.1 General
This clause describes the mobile originating call procedures for the CS
Fallback in EPS.
## 6.2 Mobile Originating call in Active Mode - PS HO supported
This flow may be executed when the eNodeB knows that both the UE and the
network support PS HO, in the normal case. Clause 6.6 describes the procedure
when the procedure is rejected by the MME.
Figure 6.2-1: CS Call Request in E-UTRAN, Call in GERAN/UTRAN
NOTE 1: DTM is not mandatory for CS Fallback to work and is not linked to PS
HO.
1a. The UE sends an Extended Service Request for mobile originating CS
fallback to MME. Extended Service Request message is encapsulated in RRC and
S1‑AP messages. The UE only transmits this request if it is attached to CS
domain (with a combined EPS/IMSI Attach) and can not initiate an IMS voice
session (because e.g. the UE is not IMS registered or IMS voice services are
not supported by the serving IP‑CAN, home PLMN or UE).
1b. The MME sends an S1‑AP UE Context Modification Request (CS Fallback
Indicator, LAI) message to eNodeB. This message indicates to the eNodeB that
the UE should be moved to UTRAN/GERAN. The registered PLMN for CS domain is
identified by the PLMN ID included in the LAI, which is allocated by the MME.
If MME determines the CS Fallback procedure needs priority handling based on
MPS CS Priority in the UE\'s EPS subscription, it also sets priority
indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", in the S1AP message to the eNodeB as
specified in TS 36.413 [35].
1c. The eNodeB shall reply with S1-AP UE Context Modification Response
message.
2\. The eNodeB may optionally solicit a measurement report from the UE to
determine the target GERAN/UTRAN cell to which PS handover will be performed.
NOTE 2: Based on operator policy, the priority indicator received in step1b
may be used by eNodeB to decide whether to continue CS Fallback procedures
with PS HO, i.e. step3a, or to initiate radio release procedure to redirect
the UE to 2G/3G Circuit Switch as specified in clause 6.3.
3a. The eNodeB triggers PS handover to a GERAN/UTRAN neighbour cell by sending
a Handover Required message to the MME. The eNodeB selects the target PS
handover cell considering the PLMN ID and possibly the LAC for CS domain
provided by the MME in step 1b.
If the eNB is a HeNB, the HeNB should perform step 3 through step 6 of clause
6.3 instead of PS HO if the HeNB detects that the UE has only LIPA PDN
Connections. CSFB will not be completed successfully when PS HO is performed
if the UE has only LIPA PDN Connections as PS HO would result in the MME
detaching the UE.
NOTE 3: For details how the HeNodeB determines whether a PDN connection is a
LIPA PDN connection see TS 23.401 [2], clause 4.3.16.
In the following an inter-RAT handover from E-UTRAN to UTRAN or GERAN as
specified in TS 23.401 [2] begins. The eNodeB indicates in the Source RNC to
Target RNC Transparent container that PS handover was triggered due to CSFB.
The eNodeB also indicates whether CSFB requires priority handling by
forwarding the CSFB high priority indication to the target GERAN/UTRAN in the
Source to Target Transparent Container, and the target GERAN/UTRAN allocates
radio bearer resources taking received priority indication take into account.
As part of this handover, the UE receives a HO from E‑UTRAN Command and tries
to connect to a cell in the target RAT. The HO from E-UTRAN Command may
contain a CS Fallback Indicator which indicates to UE that the handover is
triggered due to a CS fallback request. If the HO from E-UTRAN Command
contains a CS Fallback Indicator and the UE fails to establish connection to
the target RAT, then the UE considers that CS fallback has failed. Service
Request procedure is considered to be successfully completed when PS Handover
procedure is completed successfully.
NOTE 4: During the PS HO the SGSN does not create a Gs association with the
MSC/VLR.
NOTE 5: Service Request procedure supervision timer shall be sufficiently long
considering the optional measurement reporting at step 2.
When the UE arrives at the target cell, if the target RAT is UTRAN, the UE
establishes the radio signalling connection by sending an RRC Initial Direct
Transfer message as specified in TS 25.331 [7] that contains a NAS message.
The CN Domain Indicator is set to \"CS\" in the Initial Direct Transfer
message.
If the target RAT is GERAN A/Gb mode: The UE establishes a radio signalling
connection by using the procedures specified in TS 44.018 [4] (i.e. UE
requests and is assigned a dedicated channel where it sends a SABM containing
a NAS message to the BSS and the BSS responds by sending a UA). Upon receiving
the SABM (containing the NAS message) the BSS sends a COMPLETE LAYER 3
INFORMATION message (containing the NAS message) to the MSC which indicates CS
resources have been allocated in the GERAN cell. If both the UE and the target
cell support enhanced CS establishment in DTM (indicated by GERAN system
information included within the HO from E‑UTRAN Command) a RR connection may
be established while in packet transfer mode without release of the packet
resources, see TS 43.055 [24]. After the establishment of the main signalling
link as described in TS 44.018 [4] the UE enters either Dual Transfer Mode or
Dedicated Mode.
3b. If the target RAT is GERAN and the UE has entered Dedicated Mode, the UE
starts the Suspend procedure (see TS 44.018 [4]) unless both the UE and the
Target cell support DTM in which case TBF re-establishment may be performed.
3c. A Gn/Gp-SGSN that receives the Suspend message from the UE follows the
Suspend procedure specified in TS 23.060 [3], clause 16.2.1.1.1.
An S4-SGSN that receives the Suspend message from the UE follows the Suspend
procedure specified in TS 23.060 [3]. The S4-SGSN deactivates GBR bearers
towards S-GW and P-GW(s) by initiating MS-and SGSN Initiated Bearer
Deactivation procedure as specified in TS 23.060 [3], and starts the
preservation and suspension of non-GBR bearers by sending Suspend Notification
message to the S-GW. The S-GW releases all RNC related information (address
and TEIDs) for the UE if Direct Tunnel is established, and sends Suspend
Notification message to the P-GW(s). The SGSN stores in the UE context that UE
is in suspended status. All the preserved non-GBR bearers are marked as
suspended status in the S-GW and P-GW(s). The P-GW should discard packets if
received for the suspended UE.
4a. If the LA of the new cell is different from the one stored in the UE
(which is received as part of Combined Attach/TAU procedure in E-UTRAN), the
UE shall initiate a Location Area Update procedure as follows:
\- if the network is operating in NMO-I (Network Modes of Operation), the UE
shall initiate a separate Location Area Update before initiating the RAU
procedure instead of a Combined RA/LA Update procedure (to speed up the CSFB
procedure); or
\- if the network is operating in NMO-II or NMO-III, the UE shall initiate a
Location Area Update before initiating the RAU procedure required for PS
handover.
When the UE initiates a Location Area Update the UE shall set the \"follow-on
request\" flag in the LAU Request in order to indicate to the MSC not to
release the Iu/A connection after the LAU procedure completion. The UE shall
indicate to the target MSC that this is an originating call establishment as a
result of CSFB by including the \"CSMO\" flag. Further the UE performs any
Routing Area Update procedure as specified by TS 23.060 [3].
The UE may initiate a Location Area Update procedure immediately when the UE
is handed over to the target cell i.e. before the UE receives e.g. LAI or NMO
information as part of the RAN Mobility Information.
4b. The UE sends a CM Service Request to the MSC. The UE shall indicate to the
MSC that this is an originating call establishment as a result of CSFB by
including the \"CSMO\" flag.
5\. If the UE is not registered in the MSC serving the 2G/3G target cell or
the UE is not allowed in the LA, the MSC shall reject the CM service request,
if implicit location update is not performed. The CM Service Reject shall
trigger the UE to perform a Location Area Update or a Combined RA/LA Update
procedure as specified in TS 23.060 [3] for the different Network Modes of
Operation (NMO).
6\. The UE initiates the CS call establishment procedure and the UE shall
include the CSMO flag in the CM Service Request to the MSC.
7\. The UE performs any remaining steps of the inter-RAT handover from E-UTRAN
to UTRAN or GERAN as specified in TS 23.401 [2].
If the UE remains on UTRAN/GERAN after the CS voice call is terminated the UE
performs normal mobility management procedures as defined in TS 23.060 [3] and
TS 24.008 [21].
## 6.3 Mobile Originating call in Active Mode -- No PS HO support
This procedure is executed when PS HO is not supported, in the normal case.
Clause 6.6 describes the procedure when the procedure is rejected by the MME.
Figure 6.3-1: CS Call Request in E-UTRAN, Call in GERAN/UTRAN without PS HO
1a. The UE sends an Extended Service Request for mobile originating CS
fallback to the MME. Extended Service Request message is encapsulated in RRC
and S1‑AP messages. The UE only transmits this request if it is attached to CS
domain (with a combined EPS/IMSI Attach) and can not initiate an IMS voice
session (because e.g. the UE is not IMS registered or IMS voice services are
not supported by the serving IP‑CAN, home PLMN or UE).
1b. The MME sends an S1‑AP UE Context Modification Request (CS Fallback
Indicator, LAI) message to eNodeB. This message indicates to the eNodeB that
the UE should be moved to UTRAN/GERAN. The registered PLMN for CS domain is
identified by the PLMN ID included in the LAI, which is allocated by the MME.
If MME determines the CS Fallback procedure needs priority handling based on
MPS CS Priority in the UE\'s EPS subscription, it sets priority indication,
i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", in the S1AP message to the eNodeB as specified in
TS 36.413 [35].
1c. The eNodeB shall reply with S1-AP UE Context Modification Response
message.
2\. The eNodeB may optionally solicit a measurement report from the UE to
determine the target GERAN/UTRAN cell to which the redirection procedure will
be performed.
**The network performs one of steps 3a or 3b or 3c.**
3a. If the UE and network support inter-RAT cell change order to GERAN and the
target cell is GERAN:
The eNodeB can trigger an inter‑RAT cell change order (optionally with NACC)
to a GERAN neighbour cell by sending an RRC message to the UE. The inter-RAT
cell change order may contain a CS Fallback Indicator which indicates to UE
that the cell change order is triggered due to a CS fallback request. If the
inter-RAT cell change order contains a CS Fallback Indicator and the UE fails
to establish connection to the target RAT, then the UE considers that CS
fallback has failed. Service Request procedure is considered to be
successfully completed when cell change order procedure is completed
successfully.
The eNodeB selects the target cell considering the PLMN ID and possibly the
LAC for CS domain provided by the MME in step 1b for CCO/NACC purpose.
3b. If the UE or the network does not support inter-RAT PS handover from
E-UTRAN to GERAN/UTRAN nor inter-RAT cell change order to GERAN or the network
does not wish to use these procedures:
The eNodeB can trigger RRC connection release with redirection to GERAN or
UTRAN.
The eNodeB sets the \"CS Fallback High Priority\" indication in the RRC
Release message, if the S1AP message in Step 1b contains the \"CSFB High
Priority\" indication.
NOTE 1: When performing CS Fallback to UTRAN, the RRC connection release with
redirection can be optimized if both the UE and UTRAN support the optional
\"Deferred measurement control reading\" feature specified in TS 25.331 [7].
3c. If the UE and network support \"RRC connection release with redirection
and Multi Cell System Information to GERAN/UTRAN\":
The eNodeB can trigger RRC connection release with redirection to GERAN or
UTRAN and include one or more physical cell identities and their associated
System Information.
In step 3b or step 3c, the eNodeB includes the redirection control information
into the RRC Connection Release message based on the PLMN ID for CS domain and
the RAT/frequency priority configured in the eNodeB, so that the UE registered
PLMN for CS domain can be preferably selected.
The eNodeB sets the \"CS Fallback High Priority\" indication in the RRC
Release message, if the S1AP message in Step 1b contains the \"CSFB High
Priority\" indication.
NOTE 2: Service Request procedure supervision timer shall be sufficiently long
considering the optional measurement reporting at step 2.
4\. The eNodeB sends an S1-AP UE Context Release Request message to the MME.
If the target cell is GERAN and either the target cell or the UE does not
support DTM the message includes an indication that the UE is not available
for the PS service.
5\. The MME releases the UE Context in the eNodeB as well as all eNodeB
related information in the S-GW as specified in TS 23.401 [2].
In case the Cause indicates that RRC was released due to abnormal conditions,
e.g. radio link failure, the MME suspends the EPS bearers (Step 8).
**The UE performs one of steps 6a or 6b or 6c and THEN performs step 6d.**
6a. (Step 6a is performed if step 3a, Cell Change Order to GERAN, was
performed)
The UE moves to the new cell in GERAN. The UE uses the NACC information and/or
the broadcast System Information and when it has all of the necessary
information to access the GERAN cell, establishes a radio signalling
connection.
6b. (Step 6b is performed if step 3b, RRC release with redirection, was
performed).
The UE moves to the target RAT, identifies a suitable cell preferably of the
same PLMN as received in LAI IE of combined EPS/IMSI Attach/TAU Accept
message, receives the broadcast System Information and when it has the
necessary information to access GERAN/UTRAN, establishes a radio signalling
connection.
6c. (Step 6c is performed if step 3c, RRC connection release with redirection
and Multi Cell System Information, was performed).
The UE moves to the target RAT and identifies a suitable cell preferably of
the same PLMN as received in LAI IE of combined EPS/IMSI Attach/TAU Accept
message. The UE uses the Multi Cell System Information and/or the broadcast
System Information and when it has all of the necessary information to access
GERAN/UTRAN, the UE establishes the radio signalling connection.
6d. When the UE arrives at the target cell, if target RAT is UTRAN: The UE
establishes the radio signalling connection by sending an RRC Initial Direct
Transfer message as specified in TS 25.331 [7] that contains a NAS message.
The CN Domain Indicator is set to \"CS\" in the Initial Direct Transfer
message. If the eNodeB indicated UE to go to GERAN in step 3 but the UE
finally camps on an UTRAN cell of the same RA that the UE is registered with
and ISR active, the UE should locally deactivate ISR.
If target RAT is GERAN A/Gb mode: The UE establishes a radio signalling
connection by using the procedures specified in TS 44.018 [4] (i.e. UE
requests and is assigned a dedicated channel where it sends a SABM containing
a NAS message to the BSS and the BSS responds by sending a UA). Upon receiving
the SABM (containing the NAS message) the BSS sends a COMPLETE LAYER 3
INFORMATION message (containing the NAS message) to the MSC which indicates CS
resources have been allocated in the GERAN cell. After the establishment of
the main signalling link as described in TS 44.018 [4] the UE enters either
Dual Transfer Mode or Dedicated Mode.
If the LA of the new cell is different from the one stored in the UE, the UE
(which is received as part of Combined Attach/TAU procedure in E-UTRAN) shall
initiate a Location Area Update regardless of the different Network Modes of
Operation (NMO). The UE shall set the \"follow-on request\" flag in the LAU
Request in order to indicate to the MSC not to release the Iu/A connection
after the LAU procedure is complete. The UE shall indicate to the target MSC
that this is an originating call establishment as a result of CSFB by
including the CSMO flag. Further the UE performs any Routing Area Update
procedure as specified by TS 23.060 [3].
In NMO I a CSFB UE shall perform separate LAU with \"follow-on request\" flag
and \"CSMO\" flag, and RAU procedures instead of a Combined RA/LA Update
procedure to speed up the CSFB procedure.
7\. If the target RAT is GERAN and DTM is not supported or the UE does not
support DTM, the UE starts the Suspend procedure specified in TS 23.060 [3].
This triggers the (serving) SGSN to send a Suspend Request (TLLI, RAI) message
to the old CN node identified by the RAI and TLLI. If ISR is not active, the
RAI and TLLI refer to an MME. The MME returns a Suspend Response to the SGSN
even though the GUTI cannot be derived from the P-TMSI and RAI pair. If ISR is
active, the RAI and TLLI refer to the old S4-SGSN, In this case, if the
serving SGSN is different from the old SGSN which has ISR association with
MME, the old SGSN returns a Suspend Response to the serving SGSN.
NOTE 3: For step 7b and 8, the inter-SGSN suspending procedure of ISR active
case are not shown in the figure.
8\. If the S1-AP UE Context Release Request message, received from the eNodeB
in step 4, indicates that the UE is not available for the PS service in the
target cell, the MME deactivates GBR bearers towards S-GW and P-GW(s) by
initiating MME-initiated Dedicated Bearer Deactivation procedure as specified
in TS 23.401 [2], and starts the preservation and suspension of non-GBR
bearers by sending Suspend Notification message to the S-GW. If ISR is active,
the (old) S4-SGSN deactivates GBR bearers towards S‑GW and P‑GW(s) by
initiating MS-and SGSN initiated Bearer Deactivation procedure as specified in
TS 23.060 [3], and starts the preservation and suspension of non-GBR bearers
by sending the Suspend Notification message to the S-GW, which is all
triggered by the Suspend procedure in step 7. The S-GW sends Suspend
Notification message to the P-GW(s) when it receives the Suspend Notification
message from MME or S4-SGSN. If the S-GW receives two Suspend Notification
messages for the same UE, it ignores the second one except for sending
response. The MME stores in the UE context that UE is suspended status. If ISR
is active, the (old) S4-SGSN stores in the UE context that UE is in suspended
status. All the preserved non-GBR bearers are marked as suspended status in
the S-GW and P-GW(s). The P-GW should discard packets if received for the
suspended UE.
NOTE 4: Step 8 can not be triggered by the Suspend procedure since the full
GUTI can not be derived from the P-TMSI and RAI included in the Suspend
Request message.
9\. The UE continues with the MO call setup procedure with sending CM Service
Request. The UE shall indicate to the MSC that this is an originating call
establishment as a result of CSFB by including the \"CSMO\" flag.
10a. If the UE is not registered in the MSC serving the 2G/3G cell or the UE
is not allowed in the LA, the MSC shall reject the service request, if
implicit location update is not performed.
10b. A UE detecting that the MSC rejected the service request shall perform
the Location Area Update or a Combined RA/LA procedure according to existing
GERAN or UTRAN procedures as specified in TS 23.060 [3] for the different
Network Modes of Operation (NMO).
10c. The UE initiates the CS call establishment procedure and the UE shall
include the CSMO flag in the CM Service Request to the MSC.
11\. After the CS voice call is terminated and if the UE is in GERAN and PS
services are suspended, then the UE shall resume PS services as specified in
TS 23.060 [3]. A Gn/Gp -SGSN will follow TS 23.060 [3] to resume the PDP
Context(s); in addition, the Gn/Gp SGSN sends a Update PDP Context Request
message to the GGSN/P‑GW, the GGSN/P‑GW resumes the PDP Context(s). An S4 SGSN
will follow TS 23.060 [3] to resume the bearers, and informs the S-GW and
P-GW(s) to resume the suspended bearers. If the UE has returned to E-UTRAN
after the CS voice call was terminated, then the UE shall resume PS service by
sending TAU to MME. The MME will in addition inform S-GW and P-GW(s) to resume
the suspended bearers. Resuming the suspended bearers in the S-GW and in the
P-GW should be done by implicit resume using the Modify Bearer request message
if it is triggered by the procedure in operation, e.g. RAU, TAU or Service
Request. The S-GW is aware of the suspend state of the bearers and will
forward the Modify Bearer request to the P-GW. Explicit resume using the
Resume Notification message should be used in cases when Modify Bearer Request
is not triggered by the procedure in operation.
If the UE remains on UTRAN/GERAN after the CS voice call is terminated the UE
performs normal mobility management procedures as defined in TS 23.060 [3] and
TS 24.008 [21].
## 6.4 Mobile Originating call in Idle Mode
Mobile Originating call in Idle Mode procedure is specified by reusing the
Mobile Originating Call in Active mode procedures as specified in clauses 6.2
and 6.3 with Extended Service Request for mobile originating CS fallback to
the MME where the messages S1-AP UE Context Modification Request and Response
are replaced by S1-AP Initial UE Context Request and Response. The LAI is
included in the S1-AP Initial UE Context Request message and sent to the
eNodeB. The UE is transited to ECM-CONNECTED mode by following the applicable
procedures specified in TS 23.401 [2].
NOTE: Even in case both the UE and the network support PS HO, the eNodeB may
choose to use a different inter-RAT mobility procedure.
If UE has only LIPA PDN connection and the cell accessed by the UE does not
link to the L-GW where the UE had the LIPA PDN Connection, the MME shall
reject the Extended Service Request with a reason code which results in the UE
selecting GERAN or UTRAN as specified in TS 24.301 [34].
A UE with a USIM assigned to one of Access Classes 11 to 15, e.g. a UE that is
a Service User according to TR 22.952 [43], sets the RRC establishment cause
to \"HighPriorityAccess\" based on the access class handling as specified in
TS 36.331 [33]. If the network supports CSFB priority call handling, the MME
determines whether the CSFB request requires CSFB priority call handling based
on the \"HighPriorityAccess\" establishment cause forwarded by eNodeB to the
MME and/or MPS CS Priority in the UE\'s EPS subscription. According to
operator policy, the MME may use MPS CS Priority in the UE\'s EPS subscription
to verify the priority handling of the CS Fallback procedure.
If the MME determines to perform CS Fallback priority call handling, it sets
priority indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", in the S1-AP Initial UE
Context Request message to the eNodeB as specified in TS 36.413 [35]. The
eNodeB allocates radio bearer resources to the UE preferentially compared to
other normal calls.
## 6.5 Returning back to E-UTRAN
Once CS service ends in CS domain, existing mechanisms can be used to move the
UE to E‑UTRAN, no specific CS Fallback mechanisms are needed.
During the release of an RR connection the MSC should indicate to GERAN/UTRAN
that the RR connection (for call or CISS or LCS) was established as a result
of CS fallback. GERAN and UTRAN may use the indication to determine which of
the existing mechanisms that should be used to move the UE to E‑UTRAN.
When the UE moves to E‑UTRAN, if the EPS service was suspended during the CS
service, it is resumed according to the procedure shown in the figure 6.5‑1
below.
Figure 6.5-1: Resume Procedure returning from CS fallback no PS HO
1\. The UE sends a TAU Request message, to the MME.
2\. If the UE context in the MME indicates that UE is in suspended status, the
MME informs the S‑GW and P-GW(s) to re-activate the EPS bearers for the UE.
If the procedure triggered by the NAS message in step 1 activates Modify
Bearer Request message to the S-GW, this message should be used as an implicit
resume. The S-GW is aware of the suspend state of the bearers and shall
forward the Modify Bearer request to the P-GW. The P-GW and S-GW shall clear
the suspend state and confirm with Modify Bearer response to the MME.
3\. The NAS message is processed accordingly.
## 6.6 Mobile Originated or Mobile terminated call rejected by the MME
The MME may reject an Extended Service Request either for mobile originated or
mobile terminated CSFB. The following procedure covers this scenario.
Figure 6.6-1: CSFB MO or MT call, rejected by MME
1\. UE is combined EPS/IMSI attached.
2\. UE makes a decision to perform a mobile originated CS call or accepts CS
paging for the CS Fallback to GERAN/UTRAN.
3\. UE sends an Extended Service Request for mobile originating/mobile
terminating CS fallback to the MME.
4\. If the MME decides to reject the Extended Service Request, the MME sends a
Service Reject message to the UE.
Steps 5 -- 8 are executed when Service Reject is sent with a reason code which
results in the UE selecting GERAN or UTRAN, as specified in TS 24.301 [34].
5\. The UE selects GERAN or UTRAN CS Domain without waiting for RRC Release.
6\. The MME releases S1 by sending the S1 UE Context Release Command (Cause)
message to the eNodeB. Cause value indicates that release is triggered due to
CS Fallback procedure.
7\. If the RRC connection is not already released, the E-UTRAN sends a RRC
Connection Release message to the UE.
8\. The E-UTRAN confirms the S1 Release by returning an S1 UE Context Release
Complete message to the MME.
# 7 Mobile Terminating Call
## 7.1 General
This clause describes the mobile terminating call procedures for the CS
Fallback in EPS.
The MSC handles the timers, queuing and retransmission for sending the SGsAP-
PAGING-REQUEST message on the SGs interface in the same way that it handles
the sending of a PAGING message on the A or Iu interface. As a consequence,
the MME and (if ISR is active) the SGSN shall not implement local
retransmission schemes for this paging.
## 7.2 Mobile Terminating call in idle mode
The procedure for Mobile Terminating Call in idle mode is illustrated in
figure 7.2-1, in the normal case. Clause 6.6 describes the procedure when the
procedure is rejected by the MME.
Figure 7.2-1: Mobile Terminating Call in idle mode
1\. G‑MSC receives IAM.
2\. G‑MSC retrieves routing information of the terminating UE by Send Routing
Info procedures as specified in TS 23.018 [5].
3\. G‑MSC sends IAM to the MSC on the terminating side as specified in TS
23.018 [5].
4\. The MME receives a Paging Request (IMSI, VLR TMSI, Location Information,
eMLPP priority level indication) message from the MSC over a SGs interface.
IMSI is used by the MME to find the S‑TMSI. If the TMSI and the LAI are
received from the MSC/VLR, the S-TMSI is used as the paging address on the
radio interface. If the TMSI is not received from the MSC/VLR, the IMSI shall
be used as the paging address on the radio interface. If location information
is reliably known by MME (i.e. MME stores the list of TAs), the MME shall page
the UE in all the TAs. If the MME does not have a stored TA list for the UE,
the MME may use the location information received from the MSC to page the UE.
NOTE 1: The case when LAI is not received from MSC/VLR and the case when
S-TMSI is not available are further described in clause 4.8.
NOTE 2: This procedure takes place before step 3, immediately after MSC
receives MAP_PRN from HSS, if pre-paging is deployed.
If the MME receives a Paging Request message for an UE which is considered as
detach for EPS services, the MME sends the Paging reject message to the MSC
with an appropriate cause value. This rejection triggers the MSC to page the
UE over A or Iu-cs interface.
NOTE 3: In case of a CS fallback capable UE in NMO II or III, there is a case
where, for example, the MME releases the SGs association due to the UE idle
mode mobility while the VLR still maintains the SGs association.
If the MME receives Paging Request with eMLPP priority level indication from
the MSC, then the MME determines based on its configuration whether this
priority level requires CSFB priority call handling.
5\. If the MME did not return an \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during
Attach or Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME sends a Paging (as
specified in TS 23.401 [2]) message to each eNodeB. The Paging message
includes a suitable UE Identity (i.e. S‑TMSI or IMSI) and a CN Domain
Indicator that indicates which domain (CS or PS) initiated the paging message.
In this case it shall be set to \"CS\" by the MME.
If the MME returned the \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during Attach or
Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME shall not send the paging to the
eNodeBs and sends Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS Paging procedure and
this CSFB procedure stops.
If the MME determined in step4 that CSFB priority call handling shall apply,
the MME sets the priority level in the S1 AP Paging message based on the
value(s) configured in the MME for CSFB priority call handling.
6\. The radio resource part of the paging procedure takes place. The message
contains a suitable UE Identity (i.e. S‑TMSI or IMSI) and a CN Domain
indicator. The eNodeB performs the paging procedure according to the priority
level received with the S1 AP Paging Request.
7a. The UE establishes an RRC connection and sends an Extended Service Request
for mobile terminating CS fallback to MME. The UE indicates its S-TMSI in the
RRC signalling. The Extended Service Request message is encapsulated in RRC
and S1‑AP messages. The MME sends the SGs Service Request message to the MSC
containing an indication that the UE was in idle mode (and hence, for example,
that the UE has not received any Calling Line Identification information).
Receipt of the SGs Service Request message stops the MSC retransmitting the
SGs interface Paging message.
NOTE 4: In order to avoid the calling party experiencing a potentially long
period of silence, the MSC may use the SGs Service Request message containing
the idle mode indication as a trigger to inform the calling party that the
call is progressing.
If the MME determined in step 4 that CSFB priority call handling shall apply
and the MME receives subsequent Extended Service Request in Step 7a, it
detects this message is the response to the priority CS Fallback procedure
initiated in step5. In this case, the MME processes this message with priority
and set the priority indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", in step7b as
specified in TS 36.413 [35].
If UE has only LIPA PDN connection and the cell accessed by the UE does not
link to the L-GW where the UE had the LIPA PDN Connection, the MME shall
reject the Extended Service Request with a reason code which results in the UE
selecting GERAN or UTRAN as specified in TS 24.301 [34].
7b. MME sends S1‑AP: Initial UE Context Setup (UE capabilities, CS Fallback
Indicator, LAI and other parameters specified in TS 23.401 [2]) to indicate
the eNodeB to move the UE to UTRAN/GERAN. The registered PLMN for CS domain is
identified by the PLMN ID included in the LAI, which is allocated by the MME.
7c. The eNodeB shall reply with S1-AP: Initial UE Context Setup Response
message.
8a. If the eNodeB knows that both the UE and the network support PS handover:
The information flow may continue as described in clause 7.3 \"Mobile
Terminating call in Active Mode - PS HO supported\" from step 2, in clause
7.3, and onwards.
. If the eNodeB knows that either the UE or the network does not support PS
handover: The information flow shall continue as described in clause 7.4
\"Mobile Terminating call in Active Mode -- No PS HO support\" from step 2, in
clause 7.4, and onwards.
NOTE 5: Even in case both the UE and the network support PS HO, the eNodeB may
choose to use a different inter-RAT mobility procedure.
## 7.3 Mobile Terminating call in Active Mode - PS HO supported
This flow may be executed when the eNodeB knows that both the UE and the
network support PS HO in the normal case. Clause 6.6 describes the procedure
when the procedure is rejected by the MME.
Figure 7.3-1: CS Page in E-UTRAN, Call in GERAN/UTRAN
1a. The MSC receives an incoming voice call and responds by sending a Paging
Request (IMSI or TMSI, optional Caller Line Identification and Connection
Management information, CS call indicator, eMLPP priority level indication) to
the MME over a SGs interface. The MSC only sends a CS Page for an UE that
provides location update information using the SGs interface. In active mode
the MME has an established S1 connection and if the MME did not return the
\"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during Attach or Combined TA/LA Update
procedures, the MME reuses the existing connection to relay the CS Page to the
UE.
If the MME returned the \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during Attach or
Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME shall not send the CS Service
Notification to the UE and shall send Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS
Paging procedure, and this CSFB procedure stops.
The eNodeB forwards the paging message to the UE. The message contains CN
Domain indicator and, if received from the MSC, the Caller Line
Identification.
The MME immediately sends the SGs Service Request message to the MSC
containing an indication that the UE was in connected mode. The MSC uses this
connected mode indication to start the Call Forwarding on No Reply timer for
that UE and the MSC should send an indication of user alerting to the calling
party. Receipt of the SGs Service Request message stops the MSC retransmitting
the SGs interface Paging message.
NOTE 1: The pre‑configured policy may be used by UE to avoid being disturbed
without Caller Line Identification display and the detailed handling is to be
decided by CT1 and CT6.
NOTE 2: This procedure can also take place immediately after MSC receives
MAP_PRN from HSS, if pre-paging is deployed. Caller Line Identification and CS
call indicator are also provided in the case of pre-paging.
NOTE 3: In order to avoid the calling party experiencing a potentially long
period of silence, the MSC may use the SGs Service Request message as a
trigger to inform the calling party that the call is progressing.
If the MME receives paging request message with eMLPP priority level
indication from the MSC, then the MME determines based on its configuration
whether this priority level requires CSFB priority call handling.
1b. UE sends an Extended Service Request (Reject or Accept) message to the MME
for mobile terminating CS fallback. The Extended Service Request message is
encapsulated in RRC and S1‑AP messages. The UE may decide to reject CSFB based
on Caller Line Identification.
1c. Upon receiving the Extended Service Request (Reject) for mobile
terminating CS fallback, the MME sends Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS
Paging procedure and this CSFB procedure stops.
1d. MME sends an S1‑AP UE Context Modification Request (CS Fallback Indicator,
LAI) message to eNodeB. This message: indicates to the eNodeB that the UE
should be moved to UTRAN/GERAN. The registered PLMN for CS domain is
identified by the PLMN ID included in the LAI, which is allocated by the MME.
If MME determined in Step 1a that CSFB priority call handling shall apply, the
MME sends S1-AP UE Context Modification Request message to the eNodeB with
priority indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", as specified in TS 36.413
[35].
1e. The eNodeB shall reply with S1-AP UE Context Modification Response
message.
2\. The eNodeB may optionally solicit a measurement report from the UE to
determine the target GERAN/UTRAN cell to which PS handover will be performed.
NOTE 4: Based on operator policy, the priority indicator received in step1b
may be used by eNodeB to decide whether to continue CS Fallback procedures
with PS HO, i.e. step3a, or to initiate radio release procedure to redirect
the UE to 2G/3G Circuit Switch.
3a. The eNodeB triggers PS handover to a GERAN/UTRAN neighbour cell by sending
a Handover Required message to MME. The eNodeB selects the target PS handover
cell considering the PLMN ID and possibly the LAC for CS domain provided by
the MME in step 1d.
If the eNB is a HeNB, the HeNB should perform step 3 through step 6 of clause
7.4 instead of PS HO if the HeNB detects that the UE has only LIPA PDN
Connections. CSFB will not be completed successfully when PS HO is performed
if the UE has only LIPA PDN Connections as PS HO would result in the MME
detaching the UE.
NOTE 5: For details how the HeNodeB determines whether a PDN connection is a
LIPA PDN connection see TS 23.401 [2], clause 4.3.16.
In the following an inter-RAT handover from E‑UTRAN to UTRAN or GERAN as
specified in TS 23.401 [2] begins. The eNodeB indicates in the Source RNC to
Target RNC Transparent container that PS handover was triggered due to CSFB.
The eNodeB also indicates whether CSFB requires priority handling by
forwarding the CSFB high priority indication to the target GERAN/UTRAN in the
Source to Target Transparent Container, and the target GERAN/UTRAN allocates
radio bearer resources taking received priority indication take into account.
As part of this handover, the UE receives a HO from E‑UTRAN Command and tries
to connect to a cell in the target RAT. The HO from E-UTRAN Command may
contain a CS Fallback Indicator which indicates to UE that the handover was
triggered due to a CS fallback request. If the HO from E-UTRAN Command
contains a CS Fallback Indicator and the UE fails to establish connection to
the target RAT, then the UE considers that CS fallback has failed.
The UE establishes the signalling connection as described in step 4b.
NOTE 6: During the PS HO the SGSN does not create a Gs association with the
MSC/VLR.
3b. If the target RAT is GERAN and the UE has entered Dedicated Mode, the UE
starts the Suspend procedure (see TS 44.018 [4]) unless both the UE and the
Target cell support DTM in which case TBF re-establishment may be performed.
3c. A Gn/Gp-SGSN that receives the Suspend message from the UE follows the
Suspend procedure specified in TS 23.060 [3], clause 16.2.1.1.1.
An S4-SGSN that receives the Suspend message from the UE follows the Suspend
procedure specified in TS 23.060 [3]. The S4-SGSN deactivates GBR bearers
towards S-GW and P-GW(s) by initiating MS-and SGSN Initiated Bearer
Deactivation procedure as specified in TS 23.060 [3], and starts the
preservation and suspension of non-GBR bearers by sending Suspend Notification
message to the S-GW. The S-GW releases all RNC related information (address
and TEIDs) for the UE if Direct Tunnel is established, and sends Suspend
Notification message to the P-GW(s). The SGSN stores in the UE context that UE
is in suspended status. All the preserved non-GBR bearers are marked as
suspended status in the S-GW and P-GW(s). The P-GW should discard packets if
received for the suspended UE.
4a. If the LA of the new cell is different from the one stored in the UE, the
UE shall initiate a Location Area Update procedure as follows:
\- If the network is operating in NMO-I (Network Modes of Operation), the UE
shall initiate a separate Location Area Update before initiating the RAU
procedure instead of a Combined RA/LA Update procedure (to speed up the CSFB
procedure); or
\- if the network is operating in NMO-II or NMO-III the UE shall initiate a
Location Area Update procedure before initiating the RAU procedure required
for PS handover.
The UE shall set the \"CSMT\" flag in the LAU Request. The \"CSMT\" flag is
used to avoid missing MT call in roaming retry case. Further the UE performs
any Routing Area Update procedure as specified in TS 23.060 [3].
The UE may initiate a Location Area Update procedure immediately when the UE
is handed over to the target cell i.e. before the UE receives e.g. LAI or NMO
information as part of the RAN Mobility Information.
When the MSC receives a LA Update Request, it shall check for pending
terminating CS calls and, if the \"CSMT\" flag is set, maintain the CS
signalling connection after the Location Area Update procedure for pending
terminating CS calls.
4b. If the UE does not initiate a LAU procedure, it shall respond with a
Paging Response message to the MSC as follows:
\- If the Target RAT is UTRAN or GERAN Iu mode: The UE establishes a radio
signalling connection and responds to the paging by sending an RRC Paging
Response as specified in TS 25.331 [7]. The CN Domain Indicator is set to
\"CS\" in the Initial Direct Transfer message.
\- If the Target RAT is GERAN A/Gb mode: The UE establishes a radio signalling
connection and responds to paging by using the procedures specified in TS
44.018 [4] (i.e. UE requests and is assigned a dedicated channel where it
sends a SABM containing a Paging Response to the BSS and the BSS responds by
sending a UA). Upon receiving the SABM (containing a Paging Response message)
the BSS sends a COMPLETE LAYER 3 INFORMATION message (containing a Paging
Response message) to the MSC which indicates CS resources have been allocated
in the GERAN cell. If both the UE and the target cell support enhanced CS
establishment in DTM (indicated by GERAN system information included within
the HO from E‑UTRAN Command) an RR connection may be established while in
packet transfer mode without release of the packet resources, see TS 43.055
[24]. After the establishment of the main signalling link as described in TS
44.018 [4] the UE enters either Dual Transfer Mode or Dedicated Mode and the
CS call establishment procedure completes.
NOTE 7: The BSS should be prepared to receive a Paging Response even when the
corresponding Paging Request has not been sent by this BSS.
5a. After performing the LAU procedure or after receiving the Paging Response
the MSC shall establish the CS call if the UE is allowed in the LA.
5b. If the UE is not registered in the MSC that receives the Paging Response
or the UE is not allowed in the LA, the MSC shall reject the Paging Response
message by releasing the A/Iu-CS. The BSC/RNC in turn releases the signalling
connection for UTRAN or GERAN CS domain. The signalling connection release
shall trigger the UE to obtain the LAI, which causes the initiation of a
Location Area Update or a Combined RA/LA procedure as specified in TS 23.060
[3] for the different Network Modes of Operation (NMO).
The Location Area Update triggers the Roaming Retry for CS Fallback procedure
as defined in clause 7.5.
5c. After performing the LAU procedure the MSC shall establish the CS call if
the UE is allowed in the LA.
6\. The UE performs any remaining steps of the inter-RAT handover from E-UTRAN
to UTRAN or GERAN as specified in TS 23.401 [2]
With the exception of steps 1a and 1c, above, Call Forwarding (see TS 23.082
[31]) is performed on the basis of the TS 24.008 [21] signalling received on
the GERAN/UTRAN cell.
If the UE remains on UTRAN/GERAN after the CS voice call is terminated the UE
performs normal mobility management procedures as defined in TS 23.060 [3] and
TS 24.008 [21].
## 7.4 Mobile Terminating call in Active Mode - No PS HO support
This procedure is executed when PS HO is not supported, in the normal case.
Clause 6.6 describes the procedure when the procedure is rejected by the MME.
Figure 7.4-1: CS Page in E-UTRAN, Call in GERAN/UTRAN without PS HO
1a. The MSC receives an incoming voice call and responds by sending a Paging
Request (IMSI or TMSI, optional Caller Line Identification and Connection
Management information, eMLPP priority level indication) to the MME over a SGs
interface. The MSC only sends a CS Page for an UE that provides location
update information using the SGs interface. In active mode the MME has an
established S1 connection and if the MME did not return the \"SMS-only\"
indication to the UE during Attach or Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the
MME reuses the existing connection to relay the CS Service Notification to the
UE.
If the MME returned the \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during Attach or
Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME shall not send the CS Page to the UE
and sends CS Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS Paging procedure, and this
CSFB procedure stops.
The eNodeB forwards the paging message to the UE. The message contains CN
Domain indicator and, if received from the MSC, the Caller Line
Identification.
The MME immediately sends the SGs Service Request message to the MSC
containing an indication that the UE was in connected mode. The MSC uses this
connected mode indication to start the Call Forwarding on No Reply timer for
that UE and the MSC should send an indication of user alerting to the calling
party. Receipt of the SGs Service Request message stops the MSC retransmitting
the SGs interface Paging message.
NOTE 1: The pre‑configured policy may be used by UE to avoid being disturbed
without Caller Line Identification display and the detailed handling is to be
decided by CT WG1 and CT WG6.
NOTE 2: This procedure can also take place immediately after MSC receives
MAP_PRN from HSS, if pre-paging is deployed. Caller Line Identification is
also provided in the case of pre-paging.
If the MME receives paging request message with eMLPP priority level
indication from the MSC, then the MME determines based on its configuration
whether this priority level requires CSFB priority call handling.
1b. UE sends an Extended Service Request (Reject or Accept) message to the MME
for mobile terminating CS fallback. Extended Service Request message is
encapsulated in RRC and S1‑AP messages. The UE may decide to reject CSFB based
on Caller Line Identification.
1c. Upon receiving the Extended Service Request (Reject) for mobile
terminating CS fallback, the MME sends Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS
Paging procedure and this CSFB procedure stops.
1d. The MME sends an S1‑AP UE Context Modification Request (CS Fallback
Indicator, LAI) message to eNodeB. This message indicates to the eNodeB that
the UE should be moved to UTRAN/GERAN. The registered PLMN for CS domain is
identified by the PLMN ID included in the LAI, which is allocated by the MME.
If MME determined in Step 1a that CSFB priority call handling shall apply, the
MME sends S1-AP UE Context Modification Request message to the eNodeB with
priority indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", as specified in TS 36.413
[35].
1e. The eNodeB shall reply with S1-AP UE Context Modification Response
message.
2\. The eNodeB may optionally solicit a measurement report from the UE to
determine the target GERAN/UTRAN cell to which the redirection procedure will
be performed.
**The network performs one of steps 3a or 3b or 3c.**
3a. If the UE and network support inter-RAT cell change order to GERAN and the
target cell is GERAN:
The eNodeB can trigger an inter‑RAT cell change order (optionally with NACC)
to a GERAN neighbour cell by sending an RRC message to the UE. The inter-RAT
cell change order may contain a CS Fallback Indicator which indicates to UE
that the cell change order is triggered due to a CS fallback request. If the
inter-RAT cell change order contains a CS Fallback Indicator and the UE fails
to establish connection to the target RAT, then the UE considers that CS
fallback has failed. Service Request procedure is considered to be
successfully completed when cell change order procedure is completed
successfully.
The eNodeB selects the target cell considering the PLMN ID and possibly the
LAC for CS domain provided by the MME in step 1d for CCO/NACC purpose.
3b. If the UE or the network does not support inter-RAT PS handover from
E-UTRAN to GERAN/UTRAN nor inter-RAT cell change order to GERAN:
The eNodeB can trigger RRC connection release with redirection to GERAN or
UTRAN instead of PS HO or NACC.
NOTE 3: When performing CS Fallback to UTRAN, the RRC connection release with
redirection can be optimized if both the UE and UTRAN support the optional
\"Deferred measurement control reading\" feature specified in TS 25.331 [7].
3c. If the UE and network support \"RRC connection release with redirection
and Multi Cell System Information to GERAN/UTRAN\":
The eNodeB can trigger RRC connection release with redirection to GERAN or
UTRAN and include one or more physical cell identities and their associated
System Information.
In step 3b or step 3c, the eNodeB includes the redirection control information
into the RRC Connection Release message based on the PLMN ID for CS domain and
the RAT/frequency priority configured in the eNodeB, so that the UE registered
PLMN for CS domain can be preferably selected.
Also in Steps 3b or 3c, the eNB sets the \"CS Fallback High Priority\"
indication in the RRC Release message, if the S1AP message in Step 1d contains
the \"CSFB High Priority\" indication.
NOTE 4: Service Request procedure supervision timer shall be sufficiently long
considering the optional measurement reporting at step 2.
4\. The eNodeB sends an S1-AP UE Context Release Request message to the MME.
If the target cell is GERAN and either the target cell or the UE does not
support DTM the message includes an indication that the UE is not available
for PS service.
5\. The MME releases the UE Context in the eNodeB as well as all eNodeB
related information in the S-GW as specified in TS 23.401 [2].
In case the Cause indicates that RRC was released due to abnormal conditions,
e.g. radio link failure, the MME suspends the EPS bearers (Step 8).
**The UE performs one of steps 6a or 6b or 6c and THEN performs step 6d.**
6a. (Step 6a is performed if step 3a, Cell Change Order to GERAN, was
performed).
The UE moves to the new cell in GERAN. The UE uses the NACC information and/or
the broadcast System Information and when it has the necessary information to
access the GERAN cell, establishes a radio signalling connection.
6b. (Step 6b is performed if step 3b, RRC release with redirection, was
performed).
The UE moves to the target RAT, identifies a suitable cell preferably of the
same PLMN as received in LAI IE of combined EPS/IMSI Attach/TAU Accept
message,, receives the broadcast System Information and when it has the
necessary information to access GERAN/UTRAN, establishes a radio signalling
connection.
6c. (Step 6c is performed if step 3c, RRC connection release with redirection
and Multi Cell System Information, was performed)
The UE moves to the target RAT and identifies a suitable cell preferably of
the same PLMN as received in LAI IE of combined EPS/IMSI Attach/TAU Accept
message. The UE uses the Multi Cell System Information and/or the broadcast
System Information and when it has the necessary information to access
GERAN/UTRAN, the UE establishes the radio signalling connection.
If the UE receives the \"CS Fallback High Priority\" indication in the RRC
Release message in Step 3b or 3c and the target is UTRAN, the UE sets the
establishment cause value to \"Terminating High Priority Signalling\" in the
RRC Connection Request in Steps 6b and 6c. If the target is GERAN, no special
establishment cause value is set by the UE.
6d. If the LA of the new cell is different from the one stored in the UE, the
UE shall initiate a Location Area Update regardless of the different Network
Modes of Operation (NMO). The UE shall set the \"CSMT\" flag in the LAU
Request. The \"CSMT\" flag is used to avoid missing MT call in roaming retry
case. In NMO I, the UE in GERAN may perform LA update over the RR connection
instead of combined RA/LA update over the packet access as defined in TS
24.008 [21], clause 4.7.5.2.5, unless enhanced CS establishment in DTM is
supported. Further the UE performs any Routing Area Update procedure as
specified in TS 23.060 [3].
In NMO I a CSFB UE shall perform LAU (and if it does so, shall set the
\"CSMT\" flag) and RAU procedures instead of a Combined RA/LA Update procedure
to speed up the CSFB procedure.
When the MSC receives a LA Update Request, it shall check for pending
terminating CS calls and, if the \"CSMT\" flag is set, maintain the CS
signalling connection after the Location Area Update procedure for pending
terminating CS calls.
If the eNodeB indicated UE to go to GERAN in step 3 but the UE finally camps
on an UTRAN cell of the same RA that the UE is registered with and ISR active,
the UE should locally deactivate ISR.
7\. If the target RAT is GERAN and DTM is not supported or the UE does not
support DTM, the UE starts the Suspend procedure specified in TS 23.060 [3].
This triggers the (serving) SGSN to send a Suspend Request (TLLI, RAI) message
to the old CN node identified by the RAI and TLLI. If ISR is not active, the
RAI and TLLI refer to an MME. The MME returns a Suspend Response to the SGSN
even though GUTI cannot be derived from the P-TMSI and RAI pair. If ISR is
active, the RAI and TLLI refer to the old S4-SGSN, In this case, if the
serving SGSN is different from the old SGSN which has ISR association with
MME, the old SGSN returns a Suspend Response to the serving SGSN.
NOTE 5: For step 7b and 8, the inter-SGSN suspending procedure of ISR active
case are not shown in the figure.
8\. If the S1-AP UE Context Release Request message, received from the eNodeB
in step 4, indicates that the UE is not available for the PS services in the
target cell, the MME deactivates GBR bearers towards S-GW and P-GW(s) by
initiating MME-initiated Dedicated Bearer Deactivation procedure as specified
in TS 23.401 [2], and starts the preservation and suspension of non-GBR
bearers by sending Suspend Notification message to the S-GW. If ISR is active,
the (old) S4-SGSN deactivates GBR bearers towards S‑GW and P‑GW(s) by
initiating MS-and SGSN initiated Bearer Deactivation procedure as specified in
TS 23.060 [3], and starts the preservation and suspension of non-GBR bearers
by sending the Suspend Notification message to the S-GW, which is all
triggered by the Suspend procedure in step 7. The S-GW sends Suspend
Notification message to the P-GW(s) when it receives the Suspend Notification
message from MME or S4-SGSN. If the S-GW receives two Suspend Notification
messages for the same UE, it ignores the second one except for sending
response. The MME stores in the UE context that the UE is in suspended status.
If ISR is active, the (old) S4-SGSN stores in the UE context that UE is in
suspended status. All the preserved non-GBR bearers are marked as suspended
status in the S-GW and P-GW(s). The P-GW should discard packets if received
for the suspended UE.
NOTE 6: Step 8 can not be triggered by the Suspend procedure since the full
GUTI can not be derived from the P‑TMSI and RAI included in the Suspend
Request message.
9\. If the UE does not initiate a LAU procedure, the UE responds to the paging
by sending a Paging Response message as specified in TS 44.018 [4] or TS
25.331 [7]. When received at the BSS/RNS, the Paging Response is forwarded to
the MSC.
NOTE 7: The MSC should be prepared to receive a Paging Response after a
relatively long time from when the CS Paging Request was sent (step 1a).
9a. If UE is registered in the MSC serving the 2G/3G cell and the UE is
allowed in the LA the MSC shall establish the CS call.
9b. If the UE is not registered in the MSC that receives the Paging Response
or the UE is not allowed in the LA, the MSC shall reject the Paging Response
by releasing the A/Iu-cs connection. The BSS/RNS in turn releases the
signalling connection for CS domain.
9c. The signalling connection release shall trigger the UE to obtain the LAI,
which causes the initiation of a Location Area Update or a Combined RA/LA
procedure as specified in TS 23.060 [3] for the different Network Modes of
Operation (NMO).
The Location Area Update triggers the Roaming Retry for CS Fallback procedure
as defined in clause 7.5.
After performing the LAU procedure the MSC shall establish the CS call if the
UE is allowed in the LA.
With the exception of steps 1a and 1c, above, Call Forwarding (see TS 23.082
[31]) is performed on the basis of the TS 24.008 [21] signalling received on
the GERAN/UTRAN cell.
After the CS voice call is terminated and if the UE is still in GERAN and PS
services are suspended, then the UE shall resume PS services as specified in
TS 23.060 [3]. A Gn/Gp- SGSN will follow TS 23.060 [3] to resume the PDP
Context(s), which is done by the Routing Area Update procedure. During the
Routing Area Update procedure in which the Gn/Gp SGSN sends a Update PDP
Context Request message to the GGSN/P‑GW, the GGSN/P‑GW resumes the PDP
Context(s). An S4 SGSN will follow TS 23.060 [3] to resume the bearers, and
informs the S-GW and P-GW(s) to resume the suspended bearers. If the UE has
returned to E-UTRAN after the CS voice call was terminated, then the UE shall
resume PS service by sending TAU to MME. The MME will in addition inform S-GW
and P-GW(s) to resume the suspended bearers. Resuming the suspended bearers in
the S-GW and in the P-GW should be done by implicit resume using the Modify
Bearer request message if it is triggered by the procedure in operation e.g.
RAU, TAU or Service Request. The S-GW is aware of the suspend state of the
bearers and shall forward the Modify Bearer request to the P-GW. Explicit
resume using the Resume Notification message should be used in cases when
Modify Bearer Request is not triggered by the procedure in operation.
If the UE remains on UTRAN/GERAN after the CS voice call is terminated the UE
performs normal mobility management procedures as defined in TS 23.060 [3] and
TS 24.008 [21].
## 7.5 Roaming Retry for CS fallback
The procedure in this section may be applied for mobile terminated calls where
the MSC, to which the UE sends the LAU, is different from the MSC that sent
the paging message to the UE. The procedure is based on the "Mobile
Terminating Roaming Retry Call" procedure defined in TS 23.018 [5] and there
is an only minor adaptation of the procedure to support CS fallback.
Figure 7.5-1: Roaming Retry for CS fallback
There are only 2 differences in this procedure compared to the "Mobile
Terminating Roaming Retry Call" procedure defined in TS 23.018 [5].
\- The first difference is that the paging message in E-UTRAN triggers the CS
fallback which is followed by a location update in the new RAT. This
functionality is already supported in the CS fallback flows for terminating
calls and no additional functionality is needed.
\- The second difference is that the UE includes the \"CSMT\" flag in the
location update request message so that the signalling link is maintained for
longer in case the IAM is delayed by the HLR.
## 7.5a Roaming Forwarding for CS fallback
The procedure in this clause may be applied for mobile terminated calls where
the MSC/VLR, to which the UE sends the LAU, is different from the MSC/VLR that
sent the paging message to the UE. The procedure is based on the \"Mobile
Terminating Roaming Forwarding\" procedure defined in TS 23.018 [5]; the
specific behaviour for CSFB is described in this section. This procedure
avoids impacting all GMSC nodes and can coexist with Mobile Terminating
Roaming Retry procedure described in clause 7.5.
NOTE 1: In order to support Mobile Terminating Roaming Forwarding both the MSC
controlling the target cell, the MSC that sent the paging message to the UE
and the HLR need to support the feature.
NOTE 2: This procedure has smaller call setup delay than Mobile Terminating
Roaming Retry procedure especially in roaming cases.
NOTE 3: If the network does not support this procedure, the Mobile Terminating
Roaming Retry procedure specified in clause 7.5 can be used.
In order to ensure roaming forwarding can be offered in all scenarios (e.g. in
case of IMSI in the LAU Request from UE), HLRs should be updated to support
MTRF. In order to permit Mobile Terminating Roaming Forwarding from the old
VLR if the HLR is not updated to support MTRF but the visited network does
support MTRF, the new VLR may include MTRF supported flag in Send
Identification when it receives a Location Updating Request containing the
\"CSMT\" flag.
Figure 7.5a-1: Roaming Forwarding for CSFB
The main differences compared to the \"Mobile Terminating Roaming Forwarding\"
procedure defined in TS 23.018 [5] are described below:
\- The paging message in E-UTRAN triggers the CS fallback which is followed by
a location update in the new RAT.
NOTE 4: This functionality is already supported in the CS fallback flows for
terminating calls and no additional functionality is needed.
\- The UE includes the \"CSMT\" flag in the location update request message so
that the signalling link is maintained for longer in case the IAM is delayed
by the old MSC/VLR.
\- If the Location Update Request contains the \"CSMT\" flag set and a valid
TMSI/old LAI, the new MSC/VLR may indicate to the old MSC/VLR that it supports
MTRF in the Send Identification message. The new VLR then performs
authentication to the Location update and updates the HSS. If the Location
Update Request contains the IMSI, only HLR-based MTRF procedure can be used.
\- After Cancel Location is received from HSS, if the HLR authorised the MTRF
call between the old and the new terminating MSCs or if the HLR did not
disallow the MTRF call between the old and the new terminating MSCs but the
new MSC/VLR indicated its MTRF support earlier in Send Identification message,
the old MSC/VLR stops paging timer and checks roaming and charging pre-
configured agreements with regards to call routeing to the new MSC/VLR. If
these checks are successful, the old MSC/VLR sends a Provide Roaming Number
request (MTRF Indicator, parameters received from the HLR) to the new MSC/VLR.
## 7.5b Coexistence of Roaming Retry and Roaming Forwarding for CS fallback
If an MSC/VLR supports both the procedures as specified in clause 7.5 and
7.5a, and the GMSC has indicated support roaming retry as specified in clause
7.5, the old MSC/VLR which sends the initial paging request can decide based
on operator policy whether to follow the procedure specified in clause 7.5 or
clause 7.5a.
## 7.6 Returning back to E-UTRAN
Once CS service ends in CS domain, existing mechanisms can be used to move the
UE to E-UTRAN, no specific CS Fallback mechanisms are needed.
During the release of an RR connection the MSC should indicate to GERAN/UTRAN
that the RR connection (for call or CISS or LCS) was established as a result
of CS fallback. GERAN and UTRAN may use the indication to determine which of
the existing mechanisms that should be used to move the UE to E‑UTRAN.
When the UE moves to E-UTRAN, if the EPS service was suspended during the CS
service, it is resumed as specified in clause 6.5.
## 7.7 Interaction with ISR
### 7.7.1 Void
### 7.7.2 Mobile Terminating Call when ISR is active and SGs is active between
MSC/VLR and MME
Figure 7.7.2-1: Mobile Terminating Call when ISR is active and SGs is active
between MSC/VLR and MME
1) G-MSC receives IAM.
2) G-MSC retrieves routing information of the terminating UE by Send Routing
Info procedures as specified in TS 23.018 [5].
3) G-MSC sends IAM to the MSC/VLR on the terminating side as specified in TS
23.018 [5].
4) The MSC/VLR sends a Page message to the MME via SGs (details on the Page
message can be found in clauses 7.2 or 7.3).
5a) The MME receives the Page message from the MSC/VLR. If the UE is in
ECM‑IDLE state, the MME sends a Paging (as specified in TS 23.401 [2], and CN
Domain Indicator) message to each eNodeB serving the TA list the UE is
registered to as specified in clause 7.2. If the UE is in ECM-CONNECTED, the
MME relays the CS Page message to the serving eNodeB over the S1 interface as
specified in clause 7.3.
5b) The eNodeBs receive CS paging messages from the MME, and the procedures
take place as specified in clause 7.2.
6a As ISR is active and the UE is in ECM_IDLE state, the MME forwards the CS
paging message received from the MSC/VLR to the associated SGSN. The MME gets
the SGSN information in the regular ISR activation process. If MME received
the eMLPP priority level in step 4, it forwards the CS paging message with the
eMLPP priority level to the SGSN.
6b) The SGSN receives the CS paging message from the MME, the SGSN sends
paging messages to RNS/BSSs, which is described in detail in TS 23.060 [3].
The SGSN shall not implement a local retransmission scheme for the Iu/Gb
paging messages.
6c) When RNS/BSS nodes receive paging message from the SGSN, paging is
initiated as described in detail in TS 23.060 [3].
NOTE: If ISR is not active or the UE is in ECM-CONNECTED state, the MME does
not send the CS paging message to the SGSN. That means, the steps of 6a, 6b,
6c are not needed in the MT call procedure.
7) Upon receipt of a Paging Request message for a circuit-switched service,
the CS Fallback (as defined in this specification) or Cell Reselection (as
defined in TS 23.060 [3]) take place, and the UE accesses CS domain from
UMTS/GSM.
8) When the CS Fallback or Cell Reselection completes, the UE responds to the
CS paging request and returns the CS paging response as described in detail in
this specification and TS 23.060 [3] to the RNS/BSS.
9) When received at the RNS/BSS, the CS Paging Response message is sent to the
MSC/VLR as described in detail in TS 23.060 [3]. The MSC/VLR receives CS
paging response contained in corresponding message which shall then stop the
paging response timer and establish the CS connection, then the MT call
process as described in detail in TS 23.018 [5].
### 7.7.3 Void
## 7.8 Mobile Terminating Call when SGs is not active
Regular pre-Release 8 MSC procedures are performed without any ISR or SGs
specifics.
# 8 Other CS Services
## 8.1 General
The MSC handles the timers, queuing and retransmission for sending the SGsAP-
PAGING-REQUEST message on the SGs interface in the same way that it handles
the sending of a PAGING message on the A or Iu interface. As a consequence,
the MME and (if ISR is active) the SGSN shall not implement local
retransmission schemes for this paging.
## 8.2 Short Message Service (SMS)
### 8.2.1 General
The procedures for SMS in this specification apply only if the UE is EPS/IMSI
attached and the CS access domain is chosen by the UE and/or the home PLMN for
delivering short messages.
This clause describes both the mobile originating and mobile terminating SMS
over SGs procedures in EPS. SMS support is based on the connectionless SGs
reference point between the MME and the MSC Server and use of NAS signalling
between the UE and the MME, i.e. no CS Fallback is performed for SMS.
The SMS protocol entities are reused from the existing MS/UE and MSC
implementations. This means that the SMS over SGs procedures reuse the
different protocol layers as defined in TS 23.040 [14].
NOTE. With SMS over SGs, the MSC/VLR produces the Call Detail Record. The
stage 3 changes to the CDR for SMS over SGs were made in a manner that should
permit an unmodified Release 7 entity to receive the CDR. However, for correct
operation of, e.g. customer care services, when using an unmodified Release 7
entity to receive the CDR, the VPLMN should ensure that the TAC values do not
overlap with the LAC values.
### 8.2.2 Mobile originating SMS in Idle Mode
The following sequence flow shows the delivery of mobile originating SMS in
idle mode. The message flows between the ME/UE and MSC/VLR are also broadly
applicable to the Memory Available Notification.
Figure 8.2.2-1: Mobile originating SMS in idle mode
1\. The combined EPS/IMSI attach procedure as described in clause 5.2 has been
performed earlier.
2\. A mobile originating SMS is triggered and the MS/UE is in idle mode. The
MS/UE initiates the UE triggered Service Request procedure, which is defined
in TS 23.401 [2]. The UE indicates its S‑TMSI in the RRC signalling.
3\. The MS/UE builds the SMS message to be sent as defined in TS 23.040 [14]
(i.e. the SMS message consists of CP-DATA/RP-DATA/TPDU/SMS-SUBMIT parts).
Following the activation of the Radio Bearers, the SMS message is encapsulated
in an NAS message and sent to the MME.
4\. The MME forwards the SMS message to the MSC/VLR in an Uplink Unitdata
message. In order to permit the MSC to create an accurate charging record, the
MME adds the IMEISV, the local time zone, the Mobile Station Classmark 2, and
the UE\'s current TAI and E‑CGI.
4a. The MSC/VLR acknowledges receipt of the SMS to the UE.
5.-8. These steps are performed as defined in TS 23.040 [14]. The SMS message
is forwarded to the SC that returns a delivery report message.
9\. The MSC/VLR forwards the received delivery report to the MME associated
with the MS/UE in a Downlink Unitdata message.
10\. The MME encapsulates the received delivery report in an NAS message and
sends the message to the MS/UE.
11, 12. The UE acknowledges receipt of the delivery report to the MSC/VLR.
13\. The MSC/VLR indicates to the MME that no more NAS messages need to be
tunnelled.
The MME should not use the SGs Release Request message as a trigger for the
release of S1 resources.
NOTE: This is because the MME does not know whether the Service Request
performed in step 2 was solely for the purpose of SMS, or, was for SMS and
user plane data, or, whether or not the mobile has additional SMSs to send.
### 8.2.3 Mobile originating SMS in Active Mode
Mobile Originating SMS in active Mode procedure is specified by reusing the
Mobile Originating SMS in Idle Mode with the following modification:
\- The established signalling connection between the MS/UE and the MME is
reused for the transport of the SMS message and the delivery report (i.e. the
UE triggered Service Request procedure defined in step 2 is skipped).
### 8.2.3a Multiple Mobile originating SMSs
In clause 3.2 of TS 24.011 [28], the simultaneous transmission of more than
one MO SMS/notification per domain is prohibited.
If the UE has more than one SMS/notification to send, the subsequent
SMS/notification is sent at step 11 of clause 8.2.2 and the acknowledgement of
the delivery report for the previous SMS/notification is not sent.
### 8.2.4 Mobile terminating SMS in idle mode
The following sequence flow shows the delivery of mobile terminating SMS in
idle mode.
Figure 8.2.4-1: Mobile terminating SMS in idle mode
1\. The combined EPS/IMSI attach procedure as described in clause 5.2 has been
performed.
2‑4. The SC initiates transfer of mobile terminating SMS. The HLR is requested
for routing number for SMS services and the SMS message is forwarded to the
MSC/VLR where the MS/UE is CS attached.
5\. The MSC/VLR sends a Paging (IMSI, VLR TMSI, Location Information, SMS
indicator) message to the MME.
6\. The MME initiates the paging procedure by sending the Paging (as specified
in TS 23.401 [2]) message to each eNodeB with cells belonging to the tracking
area(s) in which the UE is registered. The UE is paged with its S‑TMSI.
7\. The MS/UE is paged by the eNodeBs.
8\. The UE sends a Service Request message to the MME. The UE indicates its
S‑TMSI in the RRC signalling. The MME sends the S1-AP Initial Context Setup
Request message to the eNodeB and the eNodeB establishes the Radio Bearers.
8a. The MME sends a Service Request message to the MSC. In order to permit the
MSC to create an accurate charging record, the MME adds the IMEISV, the local
time zone, the Mobile Station Classmark 2, and the UE\'s current TAI and
E‑CGI.
9a. The MSC/VLR builds the SMS message to be sent as defined in TS 23.040 [14]
(i.e. the SMS message consists of CP‑DATA/RP‑DATA/TPDU/SMS‑DELIVER parts). The
MSC/VLR forwards the SMS message to the MME in a Downlink Unitdata message.
9b. The MME encapsulates the SMS message in a NAS message and sends the
message to the MS/UE.
9c, 9d. The MS/UE acknowledges receipt of the SMS message to the MSC/VLR.
10\. The MS/UE returns a delivery report as defined in TS 23.040 [14]. The
delivery report is encapsulated in an NAS message and sent to the MME.
11\. The MME forwards the delivery report to the MSC/VLR in an Uplink Unitdata
message.
12‑13. These steps are performed as defined in TS 23.040 [14]. The delivery
report is forwarded to the SC.
14-15. In parallel to steps 12-13, the MSC/VLR acknowledges receipt of the
delivery report to the MS/UE.
16\. The MSC/VLR indicates to the MME that no more NAS messages need to be
tunnelled.
The MME should not use the SGs Release Request message as a trigger for the
release of S1 resources.
NOTE: Although the MME could use the RRC establishment cause (set to mt-
Access) sent in the S1-AP Initial UE Message in step 8 to deduce that the
MS/UE sent the Service Request solely for receiving the SMS), the MME does not
know whether the MT-SMS might cause the initiation of user plane traffic or an
MO SMS. So, for simplicity of MME implementation, the normal eNodeB procedures
should be used to initiate the release of S1 resources.
### 8.2.5 Mobile terminating SMS in Active Mode
Mobile terminating SMS in Active Mode procedure is specified by reusing the
Mobile Terminating SMS in Idle Mode with the following modification:
\- There is no need for the MME to perform Paging of the MS/UE after step 5.
MME continues with step 8a (i.e. steps 6 to 8 are skipped). The MME
immediately sends a Downlink Unitdata to the UE.
\- The MME also includes the E-CGI and TAI in step 9d.
### 8.2.5a Multiple Mobile terminating SMSs
In clause 3.2 of TS 24.011 [28], the simultaneous transmission of more than
one MT SMS per domain is prohibited.
If the MSC/VLR has more than one SMS to send, the subsequent SMS is sent in a
Downlink Unitdata message after step 14 and instead of the Release Request in
step 16 of clause 8.2.4. i.e. the MSC/VLR does not need to send another SGs
Paging message.
### 8.2.5b Simultaneous Mobile terminating and Mobile originating SMSs
The above sections on mobile originating and mobile terminating SMS handling
in active and idle mode can be reused such that no special treatment is needed
for this case.
### 8.2.5c Unsuccessful Mobile terminating SMS delivery attempt
As specified in clause 3.2.8 of TS 23.040 [14], setting the Mobile Station Not
Reachable Flag (MNRF) in the MSC/VLR is mandatory. However, when using the SGs
interface, the MSC/VLR has delegated the \'implicit detach\' functionality to
the MME (and/or, if Network Mode of Operation 1 is in use in GERAN/UTRAN, to
the SGSN).
If an SGs based MT SMS delivery attempt fails, the MSC/VLR shall set its MNRF
and send an SGs interface Alert Request message to the MME. Upon receipt of
Alert Request message, MME shall set its Non-EPS Alert Flag (NEAF) and if ISR
is activated, the MME shall then send an S3 interface Alert-MME-Request
message to the SGSN. SGSN shall set the S3 SMS Alert Flag (SSAF).
If the MME operator knows (e.g. because it is in the HPLMN) that the receiving
UE\'s HPLMN deploys SMS-Router, and if the receiving UE\'s HPLMN uses both SMS
via MSC and SMS via SGSN, then the MME need not send the Alert-MME-Request
message to the SGSN for that UE.
NOTE: The receiving UE\'s HPLMN should ensure that the SMS-Router in the
receiving UE\'s HPLMN only returns SMS-Router address to the SMS-GMSC of the
sender UE\'s PLMN.
Subsequently, if the UE makes radio contact with the SGSN and SSAF is set, the
SGSN informs the MME with an S3 interface UE-Activity-Indication. Upon receipt
of the S3 interface UE-Activity-Indication, or, if the UE makes radio contact
with the MME, the MME sends an SGs AP UE-Activity-Indication message to the
MSC/VLR. Upon receipt of an SGs AP UE-Activity-Indication message, or
signalling on the A, Iu-cs or Gs interface for that UE, the MSC/VLR shall
inform the HLR.
### 8.2.5d Non-SMS Mobile terminating activity during SMS delivery
While one or more SMS is being transferred, other mobile terminating requests
(e.g. an MT voice call) may arrive in the MSC/VLR. If this happens the MSC/VLR
continues the SMS activities but shall also send the SGs Paging message for
the non-SMS activity to the MME. The MME shall handle this SGs Paging message
as if no SMS transfers are ongoing. Typically this should lead to the MME
invoking the handover/call redirection to GERAN/UTRAN features and it may lead
to disruption of the SMS delivery. The MSC/VLR and UE shall recover from any
such SMS disruption using the normal RP and CP layer retransmission
timers/mechanisms.
### 8.2.5e Non-SMS Mobile originating activity during SMS delivery
While one or more SMS is being transferred, other mobile originating requests
(e.g. an MO voice call or USSD) may be requested by the user. If this happens
the MS/UE continues the SMS activities but shall also send the Extended
Service Request message for the non-SMS activity to the MME. The MME shall
handle this Extended Service Request message as if no SMS transfers are
ongoing. Typically this should lead to the MME invoking the handover/call
redirection to GERAN/UTRAN features and it may lead to disruption of the SMS
delivery. The MSC/VLR and UE shall recover from any such SMS disruption using
the normal RP and CP layer retransmission timers/mechanisms.
### 8.2.5f Mobile Terminating SMS when ISR is active and SGs is active between
MSC/VLR and MME
When the MME receives the SGs Paging message for SMS, and ISR is active, and
the UE is in idle mode, the MME sends the S1 interface paging message to the
E‑UTRAN (using the S-TMSI as temporary identity) and sends a CS paging message
(SMS indicator) to the SGSN using the MSC TMSI as temporary identity (unless
the MSC did not allocate a TMSI, in which case the IMSI is used for paging).
The UE is paged on E‑UTRAN and by the SGSN on GERAN and/or UTRAN. For GERAN
A/Gb mode, the SGSN sends a PAGING CS message to the BSS (see TS 48.018 [30]).
For UTRAN, the SGSN sends a PAGING message to the UTRAN (see TS 25.413 [29])
with the CN Domain Indicator set to \'CS domain\' and the Paging Cause set to
\'Terminating Low Priority Signalling\'. The UE responds on the cell on which
it is camped. When camped on E-UTRAN, the UE responds to the MME. When camped
on GERAN or UTRAN, the UE responds to the MSC.
### 8.2.6 Co-Existence with SMS over generic 3GPP IP access
If the home operator has deployed SMS over generic 3GPP IP access and/or SMS-
Instant Messaging Interworking as defined in TS 23.204 [15], and has
configured the network and the UE for using SMS over IP or SMS-Instant
Messaging Interworking, then an SMS or IM will be delivered over EPS in any
visited network whether or not the visited network supports SMS over generic
3GPP IP access.
If the home operator has not deployed SMS over generic 3GPP IP access and the
UE fails to successfully complete the combined EPS/IMSI attach procedure in
the visited network (i.e. the visited network supports SMS over generic 3GPP
IP access and does not support SGs for SMS capability), then the UE cannot
execute MT or MO SMS procedures in the visited network.
## 8.3 Location Services (LCS)
### 8.3.1 MO-LR procedure
#### 8.3.1.1 General
MO-LR procedure in the CS fallback in EPS is performed as specified in TS
23.271 [8].
When the MO-LR procedure is triggered by the UE\'s application, UE will check
the LCS Support Indication provided by the Attach and TAU procedures as
specified in TS 23.401 [2]:
\- If the LCS Support Indication indicates EPC-MO-LR is supported, and if the
UE supports EPC-MO-LR, the UE stays in LTE and initiates the EPC-MO-LR
procedure.
\- If EPC-MO-LR is not supported by either the network or the UE and if the
LCS Support Indication indicates CS-MO-LR is supported, and the UE supports
CS-MO-LR, the UE assumes CS-MO-LR is provided. Also, if EPC-MO-LR is not
supported by either the network or the UE and if network does not provide
information on whether CS-MO-LR is supported, then UE assumes CS-MO-LR may be
provided. In these cases, if the previous combined EPS/IMSI Attach or Combined
TA/LA Update is accepted with no \"SMS only\" indication, then the UE
initiates CS Fallback to perform CS-MO-LR.
NOTE: Based on UE implementation, UE may avoid initiating CS-MO-LR when an IMS
VoIP session is active.
\- Otherwise, the UE shall not attempt the EPC-MO-LR procedure, i.e. neither
EPC-MO-LR nor CS-MO-LR with CS Fallback.
If the UE decided to initiate the CS Fallback for the LCS based on LCS Support
Indication check, then, the following applies:
\- When the UE is in active mode without an IMS VoIP session, the UE and the
network follow the procedure in clause 6.2 \"Mobile Originating Call in Active
Mode - PS HO supported\" or clause 6.3 \"Mobile Originating call in Active
Mode - No PS HO supported\". After the UE changes its RAT from E-UTRAN to
UTRAN/GERAN, it performs CS-MO-LR procedures as specified in TS 23.271 [8].
\- When the UE is in active mode with an IMS VoIP session and if the UE
supports SRVCC procedures, the UE and the network follow the procedure in
clause 8.3.1.2 \"MO-LR in Active Mode with IMS VoIP session - PS HO
supported\".
\- When the UE is in active mode without an IMS VoIP session but the network
decides not to perform PS-Handover, then the UE and the network follow the
procedure in clause 6.3 \"Mobile Originating Call in Active Mode - No PS HO
Support\". After the UE changes its RAT from E-UTRAN to UTRAN/GERAN, it
performs CS-MO-LR procedure as specified in TS 23.271 [8].
\- When the UE is in active mode with an IMS VoIP session and if the UE
supports SRVCC procedures but the network decides not to perform PS-Handover,
then the UE and the network follow the procedure in clause 8.3.1.3 \"MO-LR in
Active Mode with IMS VoIP session -- No PS HO supported\".
\- When UE is in idle mode, UE follows the procedure in clause 6.4 \"Mobile
Originating Call in Idle Mode\". After UE changes its RAT from E-UTRAN to
UTRAN/GERAN, it performs CS-MO-LR procedure as specified in TS 23.271 [8].
#### 8.3.1.2 MO-LR in Active Mode with IMS VoIP session - PS HO supported
Figure 8.3.1.2-1: MO-LR Request in E-UTRAN while UE is in IMS VoIP session
1a.-2. These steps are performed as defined in clause 6.2.
3\. Based on UE measurement reports and CS Fallback Indicator in step 1b, the
source E‑UTRAN decides to trigger an SRVCC handover to UTRAN/GERAN. Continuous
SRVCC procedures are continued as specified in TS 23.216 [20], clause 6.2.2.2.
4\. After sending a Handover Complete message via the RNS/BSS to the MSC in
step 3, the UE sends a CM Service Request to the MSC indicating a request for
location services. After the HLR is updated and the subscriber data are
downloaded from the HLR, the MSC sends a CM Service Accept to the UE. Then the
UE sends a NAS MO-LR Request to the MSC.
5\. Continuation of MO-LR procedures as specified in TS 23.271 [8], clause
9.2.6.
When SRVCC capable UE is in active mode with an IMS VoIP session but the
network does not support SRVCC, MME sends Extended Service Reject in response
to step 1a based on EPS bearer information, i.e. MME rejects the request if UE
has EPS bearer with QCI=1, i.e. IMS VoIP session.
#### 8.3.1.3 MO-LR in Active Mode with IMS VoIP session - No PS HO supported
The same procedure as described in clause 8.3.1.2 applies for \"MO-LR in
Active Mode with IMS VoIP session - No PS HO supported\" case except that the
SRVCC procedure in step 3 follows TS 23.216 [20], clause 6.2.2.1a.
### 8.3.2 MT-LR procedure
#### 8.3.2.1 MT-LR procedure if UE is not in IMS VoIP session
Figure 8.3.2.1-1: MT-LR procedure if UE is not in IMS VoIP session
1\. MSC receives a PROVIDE_SUBSCRIBER_LOCATION message due to CS‑MT‑LR (TS
23.271 [8], clause 9.1.2).
2\. MSC sends Paging (LCS Client Identity, LCS indicator) message to MME.
3\. If the MME did not return the \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during
Attach or Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME sends Paging (parameters
as specified in TS 23.401 [2], CN Domain Indicator, LCS Client Identity, LCS
indicator) message to UE. LCS indicator is used to inform the UE that this
paging if for MT-LR request. LCS Client Identity and LCS indicator are only
included in CS Page if UE is in active mode.
If the MME returned the \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during Attach or
Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME shall not send Paging to the UE, and
the MME sends CS Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS Paging procedure and
this CSFB procedure stops.
4\. UE responds with Paging_Resp message in UMTS/GERAN. Service based
redirection/reselection or PS Handover may take place as specified in clause
7.
5\. MSC continues with the CS‑MT‑LR procedure as defined in TS 23.271 [8],
clause 9.1.2.
#### 8.3.2.2 MT-LR procedure while UE is in IMS VoIP session
Figure 8.3.2.2-1: MT-LR procedure while UE is in IMS VoIP session
1\. MSC receives a PROVIDE_SUBSCRIBER_LOCATION message due to CS MT LR (TS
23.271 [8], clause 9.1.2).
1a. The MSC responds by sending a Paging Request (LCS Client Identity, LCS
indicator) to the MME over a SGs interface. The MSC only sends a CS Page for
an UE that provides location update information using the SGs interface. The
MME has an established S1 connection for IMS VoIP session.
If the MME did not return the \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during Attach
or Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME sends Paging (parameters as
specified in TS 23.401 [2], CN Domain Indicator, LCS Client Identity, LCS
indicator) message to UE. LCS indicator is used to inform the UE that this
paging is for MT-LR request.
If the MME returned the \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during Attach or
Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME shall not send Paging to the UE, and
the MME sends CS Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS Paging procedure and
this CSFB procedure stops.
The eNodeB forwards the paging message to the UE.
1b. UE sends an Extended Service Request (Reject or Accept) message to the MME
for mobile terminating CS Fallback. The Extended Service Request message is
encapsulated in RRC and S1-AP messages. The UE may decide to reject CSFB based
on LCS Client Identity.
1c. Upon receiving the Extended Service Request (Reject) for mobile
terminating CS Fallback, the MME sends Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS
Paging procedure and this CSFB procedure stops. Corresponding error handling
is returned to the GMLC as specified in TS 23.271 [8].
1d. MME sends an S1-AP Request message to eNodeB that includes the UE Radio
Capabilities and a CS Fallback Indicator. This message: indicates to the
eNodeB that the UE should be moved to UTRAN/GERAN.
1e. The eNodeB shall reply with S1-AP Response message.
2\. These steps are performed as defined in clause 7.3 for PS handover
supported case and clause 7.4 for No PS handover supported case.
3\. Based on UE measurement reports and CS Fallback Indicator in step 1d, the
source E‑UTRAN decides to trigger an SRVCC handover to UTRAN/GERAN. Continuous
SRVCC procedures as specified in TS 23.216 [20], clause 6.2.2.2 for PS
handover supported case and clause 6.2.2.1a for No PS HO supported case are
performed.
4\. After receiving Relocation/Handover Complete message from the RNS/BSS in
step 3, MSC sends LCS Location Notification Invoke to the UE.
5\. Continuation of CS-MT-LR procedures as specified in TS 23.271 [8], clause
9.1.2.
When SRVCC capable UE is in active mode with an IMS VoIP session but the
network does not support SRVCC, MME sends Paging Reject towards MSC and this
CSFB procedure stops. This is based on the bearer information at MME
indicating UE has IMS VoIP session, i.e. EPS bearer with QCI=1.Corresponding
error handling is returned to the GMLC as specified in TS 23.271 [8].
### 8.3.3 NI-LR procedure
NI-LR procedure takes place during emergency calls, and is thus performed in
GERAN/UTRAN during the Mobile Originating call procedure.
### 8.3.4 Returning back to E-UTRAN
Once CS service ends in CS domain, existing mechanisms as specified in TS
23.401 [2] can be used to move the UE to E-UTRAN, no specific CS Fallback
mechanisms are needed.
During the release of an RR connection the MSC should indicate to GERAN/UTRAN
that the RR connection (for call or CISS or LCS) was established as a result
of CS fallback. GERAN and UTRAN may use the indication to determine which of
the existing mechanisms that should be used to move the UE to E‑UTRAN.
### 8.3.5 Co-Existence with Other Location Services
#### 8.3.5.1 Co-Existence with SUPL
There is no race condition between OMA AD SUPL [9] and CS Fallback for LCS.
When network initiated SUPL procedure takes place, the paging message does not
contain CN Domain Indicator by default. This prevents CS Fallback for LCS to
take place. For SET initiated SUPL procedure, changing of RAT does not take
place.
## 8.4 Other CS Services
### 8.4.0 General
The procedures specified in this clause apply when the UE is EPS/IMSI attached
and the CS domain is chosen by the UE and/or the home PLMN to deliver other
types of CS services, i.e. services not covered explicitly in previous
sections, such as Call Independent Supplementary Services, real time end-to-
end facsimile group 3 services, TS 23.146 [41], etc.
### 8.4.1 Mobile-Initiated CS Services
When UE is in active mode, UE and the network follow the procedure in clause
6.2 \"Mobile Originating Call in Active‑Mode\". After UE changes its RAT from
E‑UTRAN to UTRAN/GERAN, it performs Mobile‑Initiated CS procedures relevant to
the initiated CS service, e.g. Call Independent Supplementary Service
procedure as specified in TS 24.010 [13], real time end-to-end facsimile group
3 procedure as specified in TS 23.146 [41], etc.
When UE is in active mode and network initiates NACC procedure, then UE and
the network follow the procedure in clause 6.3 \"Mobile Originating Call in
Active Mode ‑ No PS HO Support in GERAN\". After UE changes its RAT from
E‑UTRAN to UTRAN/GERAN, it performs Mobile-Initiated CS procedures relevant to
the initiated CS service, e.g. Supplementary Service procedure as specified in
TS 24.010 [13], real time end-to-end facsimile group 3 procedure as specified
in TS 23.146 [41], etc.
When UE is in idle mode, UE and the network follows the procedure in clause
6.4. After UE changes its RAT from E‑UTRAN to UTRAN/GERAN, it performs Mobile-
Initiated CS procedures relevant to the initiated CS service, e.g.
Supplementary Services procedure as specified in specifications such as TS
23.090 [10], real time end-to-end facsimile group 3 procedure as specified in
TS 23.146 [41], etc.
### 8.4.2 NW-Initiated CS Services
Figure 8.4.2-1: NW-Initiated CS Service procedure
1\. MSC/VLR receives a trigger for a NW-Initiated CS procedure.
2\. MSC/VLR sends Paging message to MME. For call independent supplementary
service, the Paging message may include the SS service ID.
3\. If the MME did not return the \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during
Attach or Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME sends Paging (parameters
as specified in TS 23.401 [2], CN Domain Indicator) message to UE. For call
independent supplementary service the Paging message may include the SS
service ID. SS service ID is used to indicate the type of the supplementary
service (e.g. USSD) to the UE. The SS service ID is only included in CS Page
if UE is in active mode.
If the MME returned the \"SMS-only\" indication to the UE during Attach or
Combined TA/LA Update procedures, the MME shall not send the Paging to the UE,
and the MME sends CS Paging Reject towards MSC to stop CS Paging procedure and
this CSFB procedure stops.
4\. The mobile terminating call procedure then takes place as specified in
clause 7 \"Mobile Terminating Call Procedure\".
5\. Once the paging is successfully returned to MSC, the applicable CS
procedures continues, e.g. for Supplementary Service as specified in
specifications such as TS 23.090 [10].
### 8.4.3 Returning back to E-UTRAN
Once CS service ends in CS domain, existing mechanisms as specified in TS
23.401 [2] can be used to move the UE to E‑UTRAN, no specific CS Fallback
mechanisms are needed.
During the release of an RR connection the MSC should indicate to GERAN/UTRAN
that the RR connection (for call or CISS or LCS) was established as a result
of CS fallback. GERAN and UTRAN may use the indication to determine which of
the existing mechanisms that should be used to move the UE to E‑UTRAN.
###### ### Annex A: Void
###### ## Annex B (normative): CS Fallback to 1xRTT
This annex describes a CS Fallback to 1xRTT and an SMS solution for dual mode
1xRTT/E-UTRAN terminals.
CS Fallback to 1xRTT is supported for UEs with both single Rx and dual Rx
configuration (see TS 36.331 [33]). UEs with single Rx configuration are not
able to camp in 1xRTT when they are active in E-UTRAN. The network therefore
provides mechanisms for the UE to perform registration to 1xRTT, receive 1xRTT
paging, SMS etc. while the UE is in E-UTRAN. UEs with dual Rx configuration
can camp in 1xRTT while they are active in E-UTRAN, they may however not be
able to stay in E-UTRAN when they handle a CS call and/or perform registration
signalling, and/or sending or receiving SMS in 1xRTT.
Clause B.1 and B.2 describes the architecture and procedures for CS Fallback
(and enhanced CS Fallback) to 1xRTT when the UE has single Rx, dual Rx, or
dual Rx/Tx configuration. In this scenario the network need to support the
S102 interface between the MME and 1xCS system in order to support CS Fallback
(this is indicated by the presence of CSFB registration parameters on E-UTRAN
broadcast channel, TS 36.331 [33]).
Clause B.3 describes the procedures for CS Fallback when the UE has dual Rx
configuration. In this scenario the network needs to support the Extended
Service Request procedure in order to support CS Fallback (this is indicated
by either the presence of CSFB registration parameters or indication of
support for dual rx CSFB on E-UTRAN broadcast channel, TS 36.331 [33]).
If the UE has a dual Rx configuration and indicates support for enhanced CS
fallback to 1xRTT in the UE radio capabilities, the principles and procedures
in clauses B.1 and B.2 are followed when the network indicates support for
S102.
# B.1 Overall Description
## B.1.1 General Considerations
The CS fallback for 1xRTT in EPS enables the delivery of CS-domain services
(e.g. CS voice) by reuse of the 1xCS infrastructure when the UE is served by
E-UTRAN. A CS fallback enabled terminal, while connected to E-UTRAN may
register in the 1x RTT CS domain in order to be able to use 1xRTT access to
establish one or more CS services in the CS domain. The CS Fallback function
is only available where E-UTRAN coverage overlaps with 1xRTT coverage.
This specification also specifies the architecture required for SMS over S102
in EPS. The MO SMS and MT SMS are tunnelled in EPS and over S102 and do not
cause any CS Fallback to CDMA 1xRTT, and consequently does not require any
overlapped CDMA 1xRTT coverage.
CS Fallback to 1xRTT and IMS-based services shall be able to co-exist in the
same operator\'s network.
CS Fallback to 1xRTT with PS Handover procedure to HRPD access for Optimised
HO, non-Optimised HO, and Optimised Idle mode mobility as defined in TS 23.402
[27] shall be able to co-exist in the same operator\'s network.
## B.1.2 Reference Architecture
The CS fallback to 1xRTT and SMS over S102 in EPS function is realised by
reusing the S102 reference point between the MME and the 1xCS IWS. The
reference architecture described in figure B.1.2‑1 is similar to the SRVCC
architecture for E‑UTRAN to 3GPP2 1xCS described in TS 23.216 [20], with the
additional aspect that the S102 session is long‑lived (similar to
pre‑registration for S101).
Figure B.1.2-1: Reference architecture for CS fallback to 1xRTT CS
Reference architecture for PS handover procedure between E-UTRAN and HRPD
access is defined in TS 23.402 [27].
### B.1.2.1 Reference points
**S102** : It is the reference point between the MME and the 1xCS IWS. The
S102 reference point provides a tunnel between MME and 3GPP2 1xCS IWS to relay
3GPP2 1xCS signalling messages. 1x CS signalling messages are those messages
that are defined for A21 interface as described in 3GPP2 A.S0008-C [16] and
3GPP2 A.S0009 [17].
## B.1.3 Functional entities
### B.1.3.1 UE
The UE capable of CS fallback to 1xRTT and SMS over S102 supports access to
E-UTRAN/EPC as well as access to the 1xCS domain over 1xRTT. It supports the
following additional functions:
\- 1xRTT CS registration over the EPS after the UE has completed the E-UTRAN
attachment;
\- 1xRTT CS re-registration due to mobility;
\- CS fallback procedures specified for 1xRTT CS domain voice service;
\- Procedures for mobile originated and mobile terminated SMS tunnelled over
EPS and S102;
\- Includes enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT capability indication as part of the
UE radio capabilities;
\- Includes concurrent 1xRTT and HRPD capability indication as part of the UE
radio capabilities if supported by the enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT capable
UE.
If the UE is service user with subscription to CS domain priority service, the
UE\'s USIM belongs to one of the special Access Classes as specified in TS
22.011 [38] and the UE shall set the RRC establishment cause to
\"HighPriorityAccess\" as specified in TS 36.331 [33].
### B.1.3.2 MME
The MME enabled for CS fallback to 1xRTT supports the following additional
functions:
\- It serves as a signalling tunnelling end point towards the 3GPP2 1xCS IWS
via S102 interface for sending/receiving encapsulated 3GPP2 1xCS signalling
messages to/from the UE, which are encapsulated in S1-MME S1 Information
Transfer messages, as defined in TR 36.938 [19];
\- 1xCS-IWS (terminating S102 reference point) selection for CSFB procedures;
\- Handling of S102 tunnel redirection in case of MME relocation;
\- Buffering of messages received via S102 for UEs in idle state.
If the network supports CSFB priority call handling, the MME supports the
following additional functions:
\- For page message received on the S102 interface with priority indication,
the MME provides preferential treatment to this message and also the
subsequent CS fallback procedure compared to other normal transactions. If UE
needs to be paged, the MME sets priority indication on the paging request to
eNodeB. The MME also sets priority indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", in
S1AP message to the eNodeB, so that eNodeB may initiate the CSFB procedure
with priority, as specified in TS 36.413 [35].
\- For a CSFB request from service user, the MME determines that the CSFB
request need priority handling based on the UE\'s EPS subscription
information. The MME in congestion situation provides preferential treatment
to this request and also sets priority indication, i.e. \"CSFB High
Priority\", in S1AP message to eNodeB to initiate CSFB procedure, as specified
in TS 36.413 [35].
### B.1.3.3 E-UTRAN
The E‑UTRAN enabled for CS fallback to 1xRTT supports the following additional
functions:
\- Provision of control information that causes the UE to trigger 1xCS
registration;
\- Forwarding 1x RTT CS paging request to the UE;
\- Forwarding 1x RTT CS related messages between MME and UE;
\- Release of E-UTRAN resources after UE leaves E-UTRAN coverage subsequent to
a page for CS fallback to 1xRTT CS if PS handover procedure is not performed
in conjunction with 1xCS fallback;
\- Invoking the optimised or non-optimised PS handover procedure concurrently
with enhanced 1xCS fallback procedure when supported by the network and UE,
and based on network configuration.
If the network supports CSFB priority call handling, the E-UTRAN supports the
following additional functions:
\- For page message received on S1AP with priority indication, the E-UTRAN
should provide preferential treatment to this request compared to other normal
paging requests.
\- For CS fallback S1AP message with priority indication and if the UE is
idle, the E-UTRAN should provide preferential treatment in allocating E-UTRAN
radio bearer resources compared to other normal resource requests. Also,
E-UTRAN shall not trigger enhanced 1xCSFB with concurrent optimized PS
handover to HRPD access.
## B.1.4 Co-existence with IMS services
Clause 4.4 of this specification also applies here.
## B.1.5 CSFB Priority Call Handling
Priority call handling support for CSFB ensures that end-to-end priority
handling is provided for both mobile originated CSFB calls by a service user
in E-UTRAN and for mobile terminated CSFB call from a service user to a normal
or service user in E-UTRAN. A service user\'s EPS subscription information
contains an indication of the users 1xRTT CS domain priority status, i.e. a
MPS CS priority. If the UE is subscribed to CS domain priority, the UE\'s USIM
shall belong to one of special Access Classes as specified in TS 22.011 [38].
For mobile terminated CS fallback calls from a service user, the 1x MSC via
the 1xCS IWS provides a priority indication to the MME along with a page
message. The MME shall set a priority indication to the eNodeB when requesting
the eNodeB to page the UE if the UE is idle. If the MME, while waiting for a
UE response to the paging request sent without priority indication, receives a
message with priority indication from the 1xMSC via 1xCS IWS, the MME should
send another paging request with priority indication. For mobile originated CS
fallback calls from a service user in E-UTRAN, the MME determines that the
CSFB requires priority handling based on the MPS CS priority in the UE\'s EPS
subscription. For both mobile originated and mobile terminated CSFB, the MME
shall also provide priority indication, i.e. \"CSFB High Priority\", when
requesting the eNodeB to execute the CSFB priority procedure. The eNodeB
should handle the page message with priority and also prioritize the
subsequent CS fallback procedure to 1xRTT as specified in TS 36.413 [35].
# B.2 Procedures
## B.2.1 Mobility Management
### B.2.1.1 1x RTT CS Pre-Registration over EPS Procedure
This clause describes how the UE in an E-UTRAN system establishes and
maintains pre-registration in the 1xCS system.
Figure B.2.1.1-1: 1xRTT CS registration procedure
1\. The UE attaches to E-UTRAN as specified in TS 23.401 [2]. The UE includes
an indication of enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT and may also include concurrent
1xRTT and HRPD PS session handling capabilities as part of the UE radio
capabilities.
If the UE is a service user with subscription to 1x priority service in the
1xRTT CS domain, the UE\'s EPS subscription contains MPS CS priority.
2\. Based on a radio layer trigger (e.g. an indication from the E-UTRAN when
the UE is in connected state or an indication over the broadcast channel), the
UE decides to register with the 1xRTT CS domain.
3\. If the UE is in idle state, in order to create a signalling connection
with the MME, it performs the Service Request procedure.
4\. The UE generates a 1xRTT CS registration request.
4a. The 1xRTT CS message is transferred from the UE to E-UTRAN.
4b. E-UTRAN forwards the 1xRTT CS message to the MME including the CDMA2000
Reference Cell ID.
4c. The MME selects a 1xCS IWS node based on the CDMA2000 Reference Cell ID.
The IMSI is used to distinguish S102 signalling transactions belonging to
different UEs. The MME sends a S102 Direct Transfer message (IMSI, 1xCS
message) to the 1xCS IWS node.
5\. 1xRTT CS registration is then performed by the 1xCS IWS node based on
3GPP2 A.S0008 [16].
6a. 1xRTT CS registration response is tunnelled back to the MME in a S102
Direct Transfer message (IMSI, 1xCS message).
6b. The MME forwards the 1xRTT CS message to the E-UTRAN.
6c. The E-UTRAN forwards the 1xRTT CS message to the UE.
If the triggers for 1xCS registration change over time, the UE (both in idle
or connected state), uses this information to update the 1xCS registration via
the tunnel.
### B.2.1.2 S102 Tunnel Redirection
S102 Tunnel Redirection Procedure is used when the UE perform Tracking Area
Update with MME change while the UE is registered with the 1xRTT CS domain as
described in clause B.2.1.1 and the S102 session exists between the MME and
the 1xCS IWS.
The detail procedure for the idle case is depicted as figure B.2.1.2-1.
Figure B.2.1.2-1: S102 tunnel redirection during TAU with MME change
1\. UE performs 1x-registration over the source MME while in ECM-CONNECTED
state, followed by transition to ECM-IDLE state. The S102 tunnel exists
between the source MME and the 1xCS IWS.
2\. TAU procedure with MME change as described in TS 23.401 [2], figure
5.3.3.1-1, up to and including the step where the target MME receives Update
Location Ack from the HSS, is executed. The 1xCS IWS ID is transferred to the
target MME via the Context Response message.
3\. The target MME sends S102 Redirection Command message to the 1xCS IWS.
After receiving this message, the 1xCS IWS associates the S102 tunnel for this
specific UE with the target MME. Then the 1xCS IWS releases any context
associated with the source MME.
4\. In response to the S102 Redirection Command message, the 1xCS IWS sends a
S102 Redirection Ack message to the target MME.
5\. The TAU procedure is completed.
The detailed procedure for the active case is depicted as figure B.2.1.2-2.
Figure B.2.1.2-2: S102 tunnel redirection during inter-eNodeB handover with
MME relocation
1\. UE performs 1x-registration over the source MME while in ECM-CONNECTED
state. The S102 tunnel exists between the source MME and the 1xCS IWS.
2\. Inter-eNodeB handover with MME relocation procedure as described in TS
23.401 [2], figure 5.5.1.2.2-1, steps prior to TAU, is executed. The 1xCS IWS
ID is transferred to the target MME via the Forward Relocation Request
message.
3\. The target MME sends S102 Redirection Command message to the 1xCS IWS.
After receiving this message, the 1xCS IWS associates the S102 tunnel with the
target MME. Then the 1xCS IWS releases any context associated with the source
MME.
4\. In response to the S102 Redirection Command message, the 1xCS IWS sends a
S102 Redirection Ack message to the target MME.
5\. The TAU procedure occurs.
### B.2.1.3 UE-initiated Detach Procedure
If a 1xRTT CS Fallback UE, pre-registered to the 1xRTT CS system, initiates
the detach procedure in E-UTRAN access due to switch off and the UE is
required to perform a \"power-down registration\" in the 1xRTT CS system (see
C.S0005‑A [32]), the UE shall first perform the \"power-down registration\"
procedure with the 1xRTT CS system via the S102 tunnel, before initiating the
detach procedure in E-UTRAN access as specified in TS 23.401 [2].
A 1xCSF UE, pre-registered to the 1xCS system, performing detach due to
reasons other than switch off is not required to perform \"power-down
registration\" with the 1xCS system prior to performing the detach procedure
in E-UTRAN.
## B.2.2 Mobile Originating Call in Active Mode
This clause describes the mobile originating call procedures for the CS
Fallback to 1xRTT in the normal case. For enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT
procedure, see clause B.2.3a. Clause B.2.3b describes the procedure when the
procedure is rejected by the MME.
Figure B.2.2-1: CS MO call using fallback to CDMA 1x RTT network
1\. UE is E‑UTRAN attached and registered with 1xRTT CS as defined in clause
B.2.1.1.
2\. UE makes a decision to perform a mobile originated CS call.
3\. UE sends an Extended Service Request for mobile originating 1xCS fallback
to the MME.
4\. MME sends UE Context Modification Request (CS Fallback Indicator, priority
indicator) to E-UTRAN. CS Fallback Indicator indicates to the E‑UTRAN to move
the UE to 1xRTT.
If MME determines the CS Fallback procedure needs priority handling based on
the MPS CS priority in the UE\'s EPS subscription, it sets priority indication
in the S1AP message to the E-UTRAN. E-UTRAN responds with UE Context
Modification Response
5\. E-UTRAN may optionally solicit a 1xRTT measurement report from the UE to
determine the target 1xRTT cell to which the CS Fallback will be performed.
6a. The E-UTRAN triggers RRC connection release with redirection to 1xCS and
continue with step 7.
7\. E-UTRAN sends an S1 UE Context Release Request (Cause) message to the MME.
Cause indicates that the S1 UE Context Release was caused by CS fallback to
1xRTT.
In case the Cause indicates that RRC was released due to abnormal conditions,
e.g. radio link failure, the MME should continue with steps 8 -10.
8\. The MME deactivates GBR bearers towards S-GW and P-GW(s) by initiating
MME-initiated Dedicated Bearer Deactivation procedure as specified in TS
23.401 [2], and starts the preservation and suspension of non-GBR bearers by
sending Suspend Notification message to the S-GW. The S-GW releases all eNodeB
related information (address and TEIDs) for the UE, and sends Suspend
Notification message to the P-GW(s).
9\. S-GW and P-GW(s) acknowledges the bearer updates by responding with
Suspend Acknowledge. The MME stores in the UE context that UE is in suspended
status. All the preserved non-GBR bearers are marked as suspended status in
S-GW and P-GW. The P-GW discards downlink data if the UE is marked as
suspended.
10\. S1 UE Context in the E-UTRAN is released as specified in TS 23.401 [2].
11\. UE moves to 1xRTT and performs the procedure for mobile originating call
as specified in 3GPP2 A.S0013 [18].
Once CS service ends in the 1xCS domain, the UE returns to E‑UTRAN by
performing reselection. The EPS service is resumed as described in clause 6.5.
## B.2.2a Mobile Originating call in Idle Mode
Mobile Originating call in Idle Mode procedure is specified by reusing the
Mobile Originating Call in Active mode procedure with Extended Service Request
for mobile originating 1xCS fallback to the MME where the messages S1-AP UE
context Modification Request and Response are replaced by S1-AP Initial UE
Context Request and Response. UE is transited to ECM-CONNECTED mode by
following the applicable procedures specified in TS 23.401 [2].
If UE has only LIPA PDN connection and the cell accessed by the UE does not
link to the L-GW where the UE had the LIPA PDN Connection, the MME shall
reject the Extended Service Request with a reason code which results in the UE
selecting 1xRTT access as specified in TS 24.301 [34].
If the UE is a service user with subscription to CS domain priority service,
the UE\'s USIM shall belong to one of special Access Classes as specified in
TS 22.011 [38] and sets the RRC establishment cause to \"HighPriorityAccess\"
as specified in TS 36.331 [33]. If the network supports a priority call
handling, the MME determines that the Extended Service Request requires
priority handling of CS Fallback based on the \"HighPriorityAccess\"
establishment cause forwarded by eNodeB to the MME and/or MPS CS priority in
the UE\'s EPS subscription. According to operator policy, the MME may use MPS
CS priority to verify the priority handling of the CS Fallback procedure.
If MME decides to perform CS Fallback with priority, it sets priority
indication in the S1-AP Initial UE Context Request message to the eNodeB. The
eNodeB should allocate radio bearer resources to the UE preferentially
compared to other normal calls.
## B.2.3 Mobile Terminating Call
This clause describes the mobile terminating call procedures when the UE
accepts or rejects CS paging for the CS Fallback to 1xRTT, in the normal case.
Clause B.2.3b describes the procedure when the procedure is rejected by the
MME.
When the 1x MSC receives a registration from a UE, it makes note of the RAN
equipment from which it received the registration. Subsequent paging
activities may thus be directed toward that RAN equipment. However, paging
activities by the 1xMSC are not limited to the single RAN equipment from which
the registration was received. The MSC may choose to page a wider area,
including inter‑system paging. If the 1xMSC has direct interfaces to 1xCS IWS,
as well as to 1xRTT access, the MSC may choose to do direct paging activities
to both E‑UTRAN and 1x RAN equipments in its attempts to contact the UE.
The 1x paging request sent by the 1xMSC to the 1xCS IWS is delivered to the UE
via the tunnel. The UE tunes to 1xRTT access, acknowledges the 1x page and
performs the 1xCS procedures for mobile terminated call.
The detailed procedure using RRC connection release with redirection to 1xCS
is described in figure B.2.3‑1. For enhanced 1xRTT CS Fall Back procedure, see
clause B.2.3a.
Figure B.2.3-1: CS MT call using fallback to CDMA 1x RTT network
1\. UE is E-UTRAN attached and pre-registered with 1xRTT CS as defined in
clause B.2.1.1.
2\. 1xMSC sends a paging request to the 1xCS IWS node with Caller Line
Identification if available.
If the call is originated by a priority user or an emergency callback from
PSAP, the paging request message from the 1xRTT MSC to the IWS contains a
priority value or an emergency indicator, respectively, as specified in 3GPP2
specification A.S0008-C v3.0 [39] / A.S0009-C v3.0 [40].
3\. 1xCS IWS node forwards the 1x RTT CS paging request via the S102 tunnel to
the MME.
If a priority value or emergency indication was received in the previous step,
the S102 message also reflects the same.
4\. If the UE is in idle state, the MME performs the network initiated Service
Request procedure in order to bring the UE to active state prior to tunnelling
of the 1x RTT CS paging request toward the UE. The paging is performed using
S-TMSI with CN domain indicator set to \"PS\".
If the S102 message contains a priority value or emergency indication, the MME
also sets priority indication in the S1AP paging request message to the
E-UTRAN. The E-UTRAN handles the paging process with priority.
5\. MME forwards the 1xRTT CS paging request to the UE.
6a. Void.
6b. If the UE accepts CS paging for the CS Fallback to 1xRTT, the UE sends an
Extended Service Request for mobile terminating 1xCS fallback to the MME and
proceeds with step 7 to step 15 below.
7\. MME sends UE Context Modification Request (CS Fallback Indicator) to
indicate the E‑UTRAN to move the UE to 1xRTT.
If priority value or emergency indication was received in Step 3, the MME also
sets priority indication to the E-UTRAN in UE Context Modification Request.
The E-UTRAN provides preferential treatment to this call in the subsequent
steps. E-UTRAN responds with UE Context Modification Response.
8\. E-UTRAN may optionally solicit a 1xRTT measurement report from the UE to
determine the target 1xRTT cell to which the CS Fallback will be performed.
9\. E-UTRAN triggers RRC connection release with redirection to 1xCS.
10\. E-UTRAN sends an S1 UE Context Release Request (Cause) message to the
MME. Cause indicates that the S1 UE Context Release was caused by CS fallback
to 1xRTT.
11\. The MME deactivates GBR bearers towards S-GW and P-GW(s) by initiating
MME-initiated Dedicated Bearer Deactivation procedure as specified in TS
23.401 [2], and starts the preservation and suspension of non-GBR bearers by
sending Suspend Notification message to the S-GW. The S-GW releases all eNodeB
related information (address and TEIDs) for the UE, and sends Suspend
Notification message to the P-GW(s).
12\. S-GW and P-GW(s) acknowledges the bearer updates by responding with
Suspend Acknowledge. The MME stores in the UE context that UE is in suspended
status. All the preserved non-GBR bearers are marked as suspended status in
S-GW and P-GW. The P-GW discards downlink data if the UE is marked as
suspended.
13\. S1 UE Context in the E-UTRAN is released as specified in TS 23.401 [2].
14\. UE tunes to 1xRTT and acknowledges the page by transmitting a 1xRTT
Paging Response message over the 1x Access Channel.
15\. Subsequently UE performs the procedure for mobile terminated call
establishment as specified in 3GPP2 A.S0013 [18].
Once CS service ends in the 1xCS domain the UE returns to E-UTRAN by
performing reselection. The EPS service is resumed as described in clause 6.5.
## B.2.3a Enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT Procedure
#### B.2.3a.1 General
Enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT procedure may be used when the UE indicates its
support of this capability to the network. If in addition, the UE also
indicates its support of concurrent 1xRTT and HRPD PS session handling, this
indication also allows the network to invoke optimised or non-optimised PS
handover procedure concurrently with the enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT
procedure.
A network that advertises support for enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT may also
advertise support for UEs with dual 1xRTT and E-UTRAN receiver/transmitter
configuration. In such networks, UEs that support enhanced CS fallback to
1xRTT for dual receiver/transmitter configuration may switch off their 1xRTT
receiver/transmitter while camped in E-UTRAN and register in the 1xRTT domain
via the S102 tunnel. A network advertising these capabilities does not suspend
the EPS bearers for mobile originated or mobile terminated 1x CS calls for
such UEs. Concurrent enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT and PS handover to HRPD is
not performed for UEs that support enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT for dual
receiver/transmitter configuration.
If enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT procedure is not used by the network (i.e.,
not supported or not configured), the network uses RRC connection release with
redirection as specified in clauses B.2.2 and B.2.3.
NOTE 1. Other 3GPP2 specific procedure (e.g. how UE performs concurrent
operation in 3GPP2 network) is outside the scope of this specification.
NOTE 2. E-UTRAN may invoke concurrent optimised active-mode PS handover
procedure or non-optimised PS handover procedure when it receives S1-AP: UE
Context Modification with CSFB indication, based on UE capability and operator
configuration.
#### B.2.3a.2 Mobile Originating Call without concurrent PS handover, or with
concurrent non-optimised PS handover or optimised idle-mode PS handover
The following figure describes the mobile originating call procedures for the
enhanced CS Fallback to 1xRTT with concurrent non-optimised PS handover or
optimised idle-mode PS handover, or without concurrent PS handover, in the
normal case. Clause B.2.3b describes the procedure when the procedure is
rejected by the MME.
Figure B.2.3a.2-1: Enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT MO Call with no PS handover,
or with concurrent non-optimised PS handover or optimised idle-mode PS
handover
1\. UE is E UTRAN attached and registered with 1xRTT CS as defined in clause
B.2.1.1 with enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT capability indication to E-UTRAN.
The UE may also indicate that it supports concurrent 1xRTT and HRPD
capability. The UE may also be pre-registered with HRPD access using
procedures defined in TS 23.402 [27], clause 9.3.1. The UE may also indicate
support of enhanced CS Fallback to 1xRTT for dual receiver/transmitter
configuration to E-UTRAN.
2\. UE makes a decision to perform a mobile originated CS call.
3\. UE sends an Extended Service Request for mobile originating 1xCS fallback
to the MME.
4\. For a UE in active mode, MME sends UE Context Modification Request (CS
Fallback Indicator) to E-UTRAN. CS Fallback Indicator indicates to the E UTRAN
to move the UE to 1xRTT.\ E-UTRAN responds with UE Context Modification
Response.
For a UE in idle mode, MME sends Initial UE Context Request (CS Fallback
Indicator) to E-UTRAN. CS Fallback Indicator indicates to the E‑UTRAN to move
the UE to 1xRTT. E-UTRAN responds with Initial UE Context Response.
If MME determines the CS Fallback procedure needs priority handling based on
MPS CS priority in the UE\'s EPS subscription and/or the high priority access
indication that the eNodeB includes in the S1AP message in step 3, it sets
priority indication as well as CS Fallback indicator in the S1AP message to
the eNodeB. According to operator policy the MME may use CS priority indicator
to verify the priority handling of the CS Fallback procedure, in the case high
priority access indication is received in the S1-AP message. The E-UTRAN, in
congestion conditions, provides preferential treatment for this call in the
subsequent steps. Also, the E-UTRAN shall not trigger enhanced 1xCSFB with
concurrent optimized PS handover to HRPD access.
5\. E-UTRAN may optionally solicit a 1xRTT measurement report from the UE to
determine the target 1xRTT cell to which the CS Fallback will be performed.
If the network supports PS handover procedure to HRPD then E-UTRAN may
optionally solicit an HRPD measurement report from the UE to determine whether
the target HRPD candidates exist or not.
6\. E-UTRAN sends a HandoverFromE-UTRAPreparation Request message to the UE to
start the enhanced 1xCS fallback procedure. It includes 3G1x Overhead
Parameters and RAND value. This message also includes an indication that
concurrent HRPD handover preparation is not required.
When both the network and the UE support enhanced CS Fallback to 1xRTT for
dual receiver/transmitter configuration, the E-UTRAN may after Step 4 decide,
e.g. due to RF conditions, to direct the UE to turn on its second radio to
1xRTT and retry the 1xCS call directly on the 1xRTT access network. For this
case, the E-UTRAN in the HandoverFromE-UTRAPreparation Request message
includes a redirection indicator along with optional redirection information.
The procedure stops after this step and the UE tunes its 1x radio and retries
its 1x call in 1xRTT while still receiving/transmitting data on E‑UTRAN.
7\. The UE initiates signalling for establishment of the CS access leg by
sending UL HandoverPreparation Transfer message which contains the 1xRTT
Origination message with called party number.
8\. Messages between MME and 1xIWS are tunnelled using the S102 interface. The
1xRTT MSC initiates the call with the called party number carried in the 1xRTT
Origination message.
9\. The E-UTRAN performs either Step 9a or Step 9b. Step 9b is only performed
when both the E-UTRAN and UE support enhanced 1x CS fallback to 1xRTT for dual
receiver/transmitter configuration.
9a. The E UTRAN sends Mobility from EUTRA Command to the UE with indication
that this is for enhanced 1x CS Fallback operation, 1xRTT related information,
and optionally the HRPD redirection information. The 1xRTT information
contains 1xRTT messages related to 1x channel assignment and cause the UE to
tune to and acquire this 1x channel. This is perceived by the UE as a Handover
Command message to 1xRTT.
\- If the network does not support PS handover procedure to HRPD or if no
target HRPD candidates exist then E-UTRAN shall release the S1 UE context (see
step 10a/b) after executing the enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT procedure.
\- For either concurrent non-optimised PS handover procedure or optimised
idle-mode PS handover procedure along with enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT,
E-UTRAN may also redirect the UE to HRPD as part of this procedure. This is
indicated by the HRPD redirection information in the Mobility from EUTRA
Command.
If 1xRTT CS network cannot support this CSFB request (for example due to
resource availability), the DL information transfer message is sent instead,
with an embedded 1x message that indicates failure to the UE. In this case,
steps 10, 11, 12 shall be skipped.
9b. The E‑UTRAN sends DL information transfer message, with the embedded 1x
message indicating 1xRTT preparation success to the UE. Steps 10 and 12 are
not performed in this case.
10a/b/c. If PS handover procedure is not performed then E-UTRAN sends an S1 UE
Context Release Request (Cause) message to the MME. Cause indicates that the
S1 UE Context Release was caused by CS fallback to 1xRTT. The S1-U bearers are
released and the MME starts the preservation and suspension of non-GBR bearers
and the deactivation of GBR bearers towards S-GW and P-GW(s). The MME sets the
UE context to suspended status.
11\. UE tunes to the 1xRTT radio access network and performs 1xchannel
acquisition with the 1xRTT CS access (e.g. 1xRTT BSS). A UE supporting
enhanced 1xCSFB to 1xRTT for dual receiver/transmitter configuration continues
to receive/transmit data on E-UTRAN.
12.UE and Network follow the appropriate procedure for handling non-optimised
PS handover procedure or optimised idle-mode PS handover as defined in TS
23.402 [27] if performed. S1 UE Context release procedure is as specified in
TS 23.402 [27] for non-optimised PS handover (clause 8.2.2) or optimised idle-
mode PS handover (clause 9.4). This step occurs in parallel with step 11.
#### B.2.3a.3 Mobile Originating Call with concurrent optimised PS handover
The following figure describes the mobile originating call procedures for the
enhanced CS Fallback procedure to 1xRTT with concurrent optimised PS handover,
in the normal case. Clause B.2.3b describes the procedure when the procedure
is rejected by the MME. This procedure is not executed for mobile originated
priority 1x CS Fallback. This procedure is not performed when both the network
and the UE support enhanced CS Fallback to 1xRTT for dual receiver/transmitter
configuration.
Figure B.2.3a.3-1: Enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT MO Call with concurrent
optimised PS handover
1-5. Same as steps 1-5 in figure B.2.3a.2-1. The UE indicates that it supports
enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT procedure and concurrent 1xRTT and HRPD
capability.
6\. E-UTRAN sends an Handover From E-UTRA Preparation Request message to the
UE to start the enhanced 1xCS fallback procedure. It includes 3G1x Overhead
Parameters and RAND value. This message also includes an indication that
concurrent HRPD handover preparation is required.
7\. UE starts the enhanced 1xCS fallback and optimised PS handover messages
(7a, 7b) in a sequential manner. Step 7a contains the 1xRTT Origination
message with called party number.
8a, 9a, 10a, and 8b, 9b, 10b.\ MME treats the enhanced 1xCS fallback and HRPD
PS handover procedure independently (i.e. MME does not link the HRPD message
and 1xCS fallback message together).
8a, 9a, 10a is same as shown in step 8 in figure B.2.3a.2-1
8b, 9b, 10b are messages/procedure for optimised E‑UTRAN to HRPD handover
procedure as defined in TS 23.402 [27], clause 9.3.2.
11\. The E-UTRAN sends Mobility from EUTRA Command to the UE with indication
that this is for enhanced 1x CS Fallback operation including the 1xRTT message
and the HRPD message received over the S102 and S101 tunnels.
If handover preparation to HRPD is successful but preparation failure message
in received from the 1xRTT CS network via the S102 tunnel, the message for
1xRTT preparation failure indication is sent to the UE as part of the Mobility
from EUTRA Command. If handover to HRPD is successful and the eNodeB times out
waiting for preparation completion message from 1xRTT, the E-UTRAN sends a
Mobility from EUTRA command with only the HPRD message included. In the case
that the preparation to HRPD failed but 1xRTT is successful, E‑UTRAN may
optionally include HRPD redirection info as part of the Mobility from EUTRA
Command.
In case preparation on 1xRTT and HRPD failed with explicit failure messages
received on S102 and S01 tunnels, the E-UTRAN forwards the received failure
messages as DL Information transfers. In this case, steps 12 and 13 are
skipped.
12\. UE retunes to the 1xRTT radio access network and performs 1x channel
acquisition with the 1xRTT CS access (e.g. 1xRTT BSS), see TS 23.216 [20],
clause 6.1.3.
13\. UE and network follow the optimised E-UTRAN to HRPD handover procedure.
UE context release procedure follows the optimised E-UTRAN to HRPD handover
procedure as defined in TS 23.402 [27], clause 9.3.2. This step occurs in
parallel with step 12.
#### B.2.3a.4 Mobile Terminating Call without PS handover, or with concurrent
non-optimised PS handover or optimised idle-mode PS handover
The following figure describes the mobile terminating call procedures for the
enhanced CS Fallback to 1xRTT with concurrent non-optimised PS handover or
optimised idle-mode PS handover, or without PS handover, in the normal case.
Clause B.2.3b describes the procedure when the procedure is rejected by the
MME.
Figure B.2.3a.4-1: Enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT MT call without PS handover,
or with concurrent non-optimised PS handover or optimised idle-mode PS
handover
1\. UE is E‑UTRAN attached and pre-registered with 1xRTT CS as defined in
clause B.2.1.1 with enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT capability indication to
E-UTRAN. The UE may also indicate that it supports concurrent 1xRTT and HRPD
capability The UE may also be pre-register with HRPD access using procedures
defined in TS 23.402 [27], clause 9.3.1. The UE may also indicate support of
enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT for dual receiver/transmitter configuration to
E-UTRAN.
2-7. Same as step 2-7 in figure B.2.3-1.
If priority indication in included in the S1AP UE Context Setup or
modification message from the MME to the E-UTRAN, the E-UTRAN shall not
initiate enhanced 1xCSFB with concurrent optimized PS handover to HRPD access.
8-17. Same as steps 5 -- 12 of Figure B.2.3a.2-1, with the modifications that
the 1x message in step 7 of Figure B.2.3a.2-1 provided by the UE to the
E-UTRAN is a 1xPage Response message and 1x messages in step 9a of Figure
B.2.3.a.2-1 (step 14a of Figure B.2.3a.4-1) provided by the E-UTRAN to UE may
also contain Alert With Information message to provide caller line
Identification and alerting trigger with 1x channel assignment message.
#### B.2.3a.5 Mobile Terminating Call with concurrent optimised PS handover
The following figure describes the mobile terminating call procedures for the
enhanced CS Fallback to 1xRTT with concurrent optimised PS handover, in the
normal case. Clause B.2.3b describes the procedure when the procedure is
rejected by the MME. This procedure is not executed for mobile terminated
priority 1x CS Fallback. This procedure is not performed when both the network
and the UE support enhanced CS Fallback to 1xRTT for dual receiver/transmitter
configuration.
Figure B.2.3a.5-1: Enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT MT Call with concurrent
optimised PS handover
1-8. Same as steps 1-8 in figure B.2.3a.4-1. The UE indicates that it supports
enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT procedures and concurrent 1xRTT and HRPD
capability. The UE may also be pre-register with HRPD access using procedures
defined in TS 23.402 [27], clause 9.3.1.
9-16. Same as steps 6 -- 13 of Figure B.2.3a.3-1, with the modifications that
the 1x message in step 7 of Figure B.2.3a.2-1 provided by the UE to the
E-UTRAN is a 1xPage Response message and 1x messages in step 9a of Figure
B.2.3.a.2-1 (step 14 of Figure B.2.3a.5-1) provided by the E-UTRAN to UE may
also contain Alert With Information message to provide caller line
Identification and alerting trigger with 1x channel assignment message.
#### B.2.3a.6 Interaction between enhanced CS Fallback to 1xRTT and optimised
PS handover
For regular optimized PS handover procedure, it is possible that the UE
receives 1xRTT CS paging from EPS while optimised PS handover to HRPD is in
progress. In this case, UE shall ignore the 1xRTT CS paging locally.
## B.2.3b Mobile Originated or Mobile terminated call rejected by the MME
The MME may reject an Extended Service Request either for mobile originated or
mobile terminated CSFB. In this case, the following procedure is executed.
Figure B.2.3b-1: 1xCSFB MO or MT call, rejected by MME
1\. UE is E-UTRAN attached and pre-registered with 1xRTT CS as defined in
clause B.2.1.1.
2\. UE makes a decision to perform a mobile originated CS call or accepts CS
paging for the CS Fallback to 1xRTT (Step 6a, Clause 5.2.3).
3\. UE sends an Extended Service Request for mobile originating/mobile
terminating 1xCS fallback to the MME.
4\. If the MME decides to reject the Extended Service Request, the MME sends a
Service Reject message to the UE.
Steps 5 -- 10 are executed when Service Reject is sent with a reason code
which results in the UE selecting 1xRTT access, as specified in TS 24.301
[34].
5\. The UE selects 1xRTT access without waiting for RRC Release.
6\. The MME releases S1 by sending the S1 UE Context Release Command (Cause)
message to the eNodeB. Cause value indicates that the release is triggered by
CS Fallback procedure.
7\. If the RRC connection is not already released, the E-UTRAN sends a RRC
Connection Release message to the UE.
8\. The E-UTRAN confirms the S1 Release by returning an S1 UE Context Release
Complete message to the MME.
9-10. Depending on the reason for rejection, MME may start Suspend
Notification:
\- Suspend Notification: The S1-U bearers are released and the MME starts the
preservation and suspension of non-GBR bearers and the deactivation of GBR
bearers towards S-GW and P-GW(s).
\- S-GW and P-GW(s) acknowledges the bearer updates Suspend Notification and
marks the UE as suspended. The P-GW discards downlink data if the UE is marked
as suspended.
## B.2.4 Short Message Service (SMS)
### B.2.4.1 General
The procedures for SMS in this annex apply only if the UE is 1xRTT CS
Registered and the CS access domain is chosen by the UE and/or the home PLMN
for delivering short messages.
This clause describes both the mobile originating and mobile terminating SMS
over S102 which uses 1xCS procedures in EPS. SMS support is based on the S102
reference point between the MME and the 1xCS IWS, use of RRC Information
Transfer message between the UE and the E-UTRAN, and use of S1 cdma2000
Tunnelling message between the E‑UTRAN and the MME.
### B.2.4.2 Mobile originating SMS
The following sequence flow shows the delivery of mobile originating SMS sent
via the 1xMSC while in E‑UTRAN.
Figure B.2.4.2-1: Mobile originating SMS sent via the 1xMSC while in E-UTRAN
1\. The 1xRTT CS Registration procedure as described in clause B.2.1.1 has
been performed earlier.
2\. A mobile originating short message is triggered. If the UE is in idle
state, the UE performs the UE triggered Service Request procedure, which is
defined in TS 23.401 [2].
3\. The UE builds the SMS message to be sent as defined in 3GPP2 A.S0008 [16]
and 3GPP2 A.S0009 [17].
3a. The 1xRTT SMS message is transferred from the UE to the E-UTRAN.
3b. The E-UTRAN forwards the SMS message to the MME.
4\. The MME forwards the SMS message to the 1xCS IWS in an S102 Direct
Transfer message.
5\. The 1xCS IWS acknowledges the message.
6\. The 1xCS IWS sends an ADDS Transfer message to the 1xMSC containing the
SMS message as defined in 3GPP2 A.S0008 [16] and 3GPP2 A.S0009 [17].
7\. The 1xMSC forwards the SMS message to the Message Centre (MC). If an
acknowledgement was requested by the UE, the MC responds with an
acknowledgement.
8\. The 1xMSC forwards the SMS acknowledgement to the 1xCS IWS in an ADDS Page
message.
9\. The 1xCS IWS forwards the SMS acknowledgement to the MME in an S102 Direct
Transfer message.
10\. The MME forwards the SMS acknowledgement to the UE.
11\. The MME sends an S102 Ack message to the 1xCS IWS. This occurs
immediately after step 9 if the MSC has not requested an acknowledgement from
the 1xCS IWS.
12\. If the MSC requested an acknowledgement, the 1xCS IWS sends an ADDS Page
Ack message to the 1xMSC.
### B.2.4.3 Mobile terminating SMS
The following sequence flow shows the delivery of mobile terminating SMS sent
via the 1xMSC while in E‑UTRAN.
Figure B.2.4.3-1: Mobile terminating SMS sent via the 1xMSC while in E-UTRAN
1\. The UE is E-UTRAN attached and registered with 1xRTT CS as defined in
clause B.2.1.1.
2\. The 1xMSC receives the SMS message from the MC and sends an ADDS Page
message to the 1xCS as defined in 3GPP2 A.S0008 [16] and 3GPP2 A.S0009 [17].
The ADDS Page contains the SMS message.
3\. The 1xCS IWS sends the SMS message in an S102 Direct Transfer message.
4\. If the UE is in idle state, the MME performs the network initiated Service
Request procedure to bring the UE to active state prior to tunnelling of the
SMS message toward the UE.
5\. The MME forwards the SMS message to the UE.
6\. The MME sends an S102 Ack message to the 1xCS IWS. This occurs immediately
after step 3 if the MSC has not requested an acknowledgement from the 1xCS
IWS.
7\. If the MSC requested an acknowledgement, the 1xCS IWS sends an ADDS Page
Ack message to the 1xMSC.
8\. After receiving the SMS message at step 5, the UE sends an SMS
acknowledgement toward the MC.
9\. The MME forwards the SMS acknowledgement in an S102 Direct Transfer
message to the 1xCS IWS.
10\. The 1xCS IWS sends an S102 Ack message to the MME.
11\. The 1xCS IWS forwards the SMS acknowledgement to the 1xMSC. The 1xMSC
then forwards the SMS acknowledgement to the MC.
NOTE: In addition to above MT SMS procedure (Common Channel SMS), 3GPP2 also
defines Traffic Channel SMS delivering method in 3GPP2 A.S0008[16] and A.S0009
[17] that can be used in E-UTRAN-1x interworking architecture. In this method,
the messages between 1xRTT IWS and 1xMSC are different from those messages
specified in this section. There is no additional functional requirement to
EPS.
## B.2.5 Emergency Calls
When UE is performing CS fallback procedure to 1xRTT for the purpose of
emergency call, it shall indicate to the MME that this CS fallback request is
for emergency purpose. MME also indicates to the E-UTRAN via the appropriate
S1-AP message that this CS fallback procedure is for emergency purpose.
Emergency call with enhanced 1xRTT CS fallback procedure shall be executed
without the concurrent PS handover procedure.
# B.3 CS Fallback for UEs with dual Rx configuration
## B.3.1 General Considerations
The following principles are used for supporting CS Fallback for dual receiver
UEs:
\- The UE with dual Rx configuration attaches separately to each RAT (E-UTRAN,
1xRTT) and maintains separate registration and mobility procedure handling to
each RAT. No coordination is required between the E‑UTRAN and 1xRTT network.
\- The UE with dual Rx configuration is able to camp in 1xRTT at the same time
as it is active or idle in E‑UTRAN. Camping in 1xRTT includes performing 1xRTT
cell re-selection, reading broadcast channels, monitoring paging, performing
location updates, etc. according to 3GPP2 specifications.
\- The UE with dual Rx configuration is allowed to leave E-UTRAN in order to
handle a CS call and/or perform registration signalling, and/or sending or
receiving SMS in 1xRTT. The procedures for leaving E-UTRAN is described in
clause B.3.2 and are only allowed if the network indicates that it supports
them (this is indicated by either the presence of CSFB registration parameters
or indication of support for dual Rx CSFB on E‑UTRAN broadcast channel, TS
36.331 [33]).
\- The UE that reports dual Rx configuration to E‑UTRAN does not require
redirection information.
NOTE: Further clarification to the UE behaviour may be needed if the procedure
in clause B.3.2, i.e. time between transmission of Extended Service Request
(3) and reception of RRC Connection Release (5) takes too long.
## B.3.2 Procedures for leaving E-UTRAN
The UE with dual Rx configuration is allowed to leave E-UTRAN in order to
handle a CS call and/or perform registration signalling, and/or perform
location management signalling, and/or sending or receiving SMS in 1xRTT. When
the UE needs to leave E-UTRAN it indicates this to E-UTRAN by using the
Extended Service Request procedure similar to how MT/MO calls are handed in
clauses B.2.2, B.2.2a and B.2.3. The procedure is the same regardless what
activity is performed in the 1xRTT system (e.g. if it is a page response, MO
call, re-registration). The procedure is shown in Figure B.3.2-1.
Figure B.3.2-1: Performing 1xRTT related activity for dual receiver UEs
1\. UE is E‑UTRAN attached the UE may also be registered in 1xRTT CS.
2\. UE makes a decision that it needs to perform some 1xRTT activity (e.g. in
order to respond to an incoming 1xRTT page, setup a MO call, perform location
management signalling, or perform re-registration).
3\. UE sends an Extended Service Request for mobile originating/mobile
terminating 1xCS fallback to the MME. The figure shows the case the UE is in
active state in E-UTRAN but the same principles applies if the UE is in idle
state, TS 23.401 [2].
4\. MME sends UE Context modification Request (CS Fallback Indicator) to
E-UTRAN. CS Fallback Indicator indicates to the E‑UTRAN to move the UE to
1xRTT.\ E-UTRAN responds with UE Context Modification Response.
5\. The E-UTRAN triggers RRC connection release and continues with step 6.
This step may include re-direction information if the E-UTRAN indicates
support for S102. E-UTRAN that indicates support for dual Rx CSFB shall not
include any redirection information towards the UE that indicates dual Rx
configuration but no support for enhanced CS fallback to 1xRTT.
6\. E-UTRAN sends an S1 UE Context Release Request (Cause) message to the MME.
Cause indicates that the S1 UE Context Release was caused by CS fallback to
1xRTT.
7\. The S1-U bearers are released and the MME starts the preservation and
suspension of non-GBR bearers and the deactivation of GBR bearers towards S-GW
and P-GW(s). by sending Suspend Notification to S-GW and P-GW The MME sets the
UE context to suspended status.
8\. The S-GW and P-GW(s) acknowledges the bearer updates by responding with
Suspend Acknowledge and marks the UE as suspended in S-GW and P-GW. When a
downlink data arrives at the P-GW, the P-GW should not send downlink data if
the UE is marked as suspended.
9\. S1 UE Context in the E-UTRAN is released as specified in TS 23.401 [2].
## B.3.3 Procedures for returning to E-UTRAN
The procedure for returning to E-UTRAN is the same as specified in clause 6.5.
#