# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Although network nodes in the IMS Core Network should have a very high
availability, some maintenance downtime and occasional failures are
unavoidable. Communication links although designed with robust protocols
between the network elements are also subject to failures. This document
specifies a set of standardized procedures for automatic restoration after
loss or corruption of data reducing the impact of these problems in order to
improve service to the users. The scenarios covered here for the IMS Domain
are similar to those covered in 3GPP TS 23.007 [2] for the CS and PS Domains.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures required in 3GPP IMS to handle a
S-CSCF service interruption scenario with minimum impact to the service to the
end user.
> NOTE: IMS Restoration Procedures covering service interruption of other
> network elements are not defined in this version of the specification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration procedures\".
[3] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx interfaces;
Signalling flows and message contents\".
[4] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and charging control signalling flows and Quality
of Service (QoS) parameter mapping\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and Charging Control over Gx reference point\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference point\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol (GTP) across the Gn and Gp interface\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"3GPP Evolved Packet System. Evolved GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol for EPS (GTPv2)\".
[11] IETF RFC 3361: \"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP-for-IPv4)
Option for Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Servers\".
[12] IETF RFC 1034: \"Session Initiation Protocol (SIP): Locating SIP
Servers\".
[13] IETF RFC 3319: \"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCPv6) Options for
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Servers\".
[14] IETF RFC 6223: \"Indication of Support for Keep-Alive\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Service Interruption:** A period of time in which one or more network
elements do not respond to requests and do not send any requests to the rest
of the system.
**S-CSCF Restoration Information:** Information required for the S-CSCF to
handle traffic for a registered user. This information is stored in HSS and if
lost, retrieved by the S-CSCF.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
LIR Location Information Request
LIA Location Information Answer
SAR Server Assignment Request
SAA Server Assignment Answer
UAR User Authorization Request
UAA User Authorization Answer
# 4 Restoration of Data in the S-CSCF
## 4.1 General
The following clauses describe the IMS Restoration Procedures for the S-CSCF
service interruption in each of the scenarios where they apply.
## 4.2 Registration Procedure
### 4.2.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS and S-CSCF if they support
the IMS restoration feature.
### 4.2.2 S-CSCF Restoration after Failure
If the UE initiates a SIP REGISTER and the S-CSCF returned by the HSS during
user registration status query procedure fails, the I-CSCF is unable to
contact the S-CSCF. In this case, regardless of this registration is an
initial registration, a re-registration or a de-registration, the I-CSCF shall
send UAR with Authorization Type set to REGISTRATION_AND_CAPABILITIES to the
HSS to explicitly request S-CSCF capabilities. After re-assignment of another
S-CSCF according to the S-CSCF capabilities, the I-CSCF shall forward the
REGISTER to the new S-CSCF _. For registrations and re-registrations, S-CSCF
shall proceed with the registration procedure as for initial registration,
except for the clauses specified in 4.2.3._
_For de-registrations, S-CSCF shall proceed as for user-initiated de-
registration._
### 4.2.3 S-CSCF Restoration during Registration Process
During the registration procedure, the HSS shall send all the registered
Private User Identities sharing the same Public User Identity which is being
registered in the SAA, in addition to the basic user data to the S-CSCF. Then
the S-CSCF compares the registered Private User Identities received from the
HSS with the ones it stores. If there are any registered Private User
Identities the S-CSCF does not have their registration data, the S-CSCF shall
send SAR with Server Assignment Type set to NO_ASSIGNMENT to the HSS to
retrieve the S-CSCF restoration information for the registered Public User
Identity. If there are S-CSCF restoration information related to the Public
User Identity stored in the HSS, the HSS shall send the S-CSCF restoration
information together with the user profile in the SAA to the S-CSCF. The
result code shall be set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS.
If there are more than one group of S-CSCF restoration information related to
the Public User Identity stored in the HSS, which may happen if the Public
User Identity is shared by multiple Private User Identities, the HSS shall
include all of the S-CSCF restoration information in the SAA. One group of
S-CSCF restoration information corresponds to one Private User Identity.
If the S-CSCF receives an initial registration request for a Public User
Identity that does not match any Public User Identity currently registered
with the same Private User Identity as in the request at this S-CSCF, the
S-CSCF shall check whether there is a reg-id parameter in the Contact header
in the SIP REGISTER message and whether there is an \"sos\" SIP URI parameter
in the SIP REGISTER message. Only when a reg-id parameter exists and an
\"sos\" SIP URI parameter does not exist, the S-CSCF shall indicate to the HSS
that the registration is related to a multiple registration.
If the HSS receives an SAR request with multiple registration indication, and
the Public User Identity is stored as registered in the HSS, and there is
restoration information related to the Private User Identity, the HSS shall
not overwrite stored restoration information, instead, it shall send the
stored S-CSCF restoration information together with the user profile in the
SAA. The result code shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE. The
S-CSCF shall send a new SAR with Server-Assignment-Type set to RE_REGISTRATION
and t _he_ User Data Already Available parameter set to
USER_DATA_ALREADY_AVAILABLE to update the restoration information in the HSS
in accordance to the current registration event.
If the S-CSCF receives a user-initiated deregistration request for a Public
User Identity that does not match any Public User Identity currently
registered with the same Private User Identity as in the request at this
S-CSCF, the S-CSCF shall check whether there is a reg-id parameter in the
Contact header in the received SIP REGISTER message,
\- if a reg-id parameter exists, the S-CSCF shall:
  * 1\. Send SAR with Server-Asignment-Type set to NO_ASSIGNMENT to > retrieve the S-CSCF restoration information associated with the > Public User Identity. The Result-Code shall be set to DIAMETER > SUCCESS.
  * 2\. Compare the contact address(es) received in SAA with the contact > address(es) in REGISTER request:
\- If they are not the same, the S-CSCF shall send SAR with Server-Asignment-
Type set to RE_REGISTRATION to update the S-CSCF restoration information in
HSS with the Contact address(es) still associated with the Public User
Identity after the deregistration event.
Otherwise, the S-CSCF shall send SAR with Server-Asignment-Type set to
USER_DEREGISTRATION.
## 4.3 UE Terminating Procedure
### 4.3.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS, I-CSCF and S-CSCF if they
support the IMS Restoration feature.
### 4.3.2 S-CSCF Restoration after Restart
The S-CSCF _lost all user data if it restarts after a failure or_ it is unable
to trust any data after it resumes operation, due to the fact that it may have
lost profile updates from the HSS in the service interruption period. If such
a S-CSCF receives a terminating service request from the I-CSCF, it sends an
SAR to the HSS for unregistered service data. In this case, HSS and S-CSCF
proceed as indicated in 3GPP TS 29.228 [3], except that
  * if the Public User Identity is stored as registered in the HSS, and there are S-CSCF restoration information related to the Public User Identity stored in the HSS, the HSS shall send the S-CSCF restoration information together with the user profile in the SAA. The result code shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE. The S-CSCF shall trigger matched registered services for the Public User Identity.
If there are more than one group of S-CSCF restoration information related to
the Public User Identity, which may happen if the Public User Identity is
shared by multiple Private User Identities, the HSS shall include all of the
S-CSCF restoration information in the SAA. One group of S-CSCF restoration
information corresponds to one Private User Identity.
If the S-CSCF restoration information received includes the UE's subscription
information, the S-CSCF shall construct a NOTIFY message according to the
information and send it to the UE (or UEs if the IMPU is shared between
several IMPIs) to trigger a new registration at anytime after normal
processing of the terminating request.
### 4.3.3 S-CSCF Restoration after Failure
If the S-CSCF returned by the HSS during location query procedure fails, the
I-CSCF is unable to contact the S-CSCF during terminating procedure. In this
case, the I-CSCF shall send LIR to the HSS to explicitly request S-CSCF
capabilities. If the HSS returns the S-CSCF capabilities to the I-CSCF, after
re-selection of another S-CSCF according to the S-CSCF capabilities, the
I-CSCF shall forward the service request to the new S-CSCF _. The HSS and this
new S-CSCF shall behave as described in clause 4.3.2, except that the HSS
shall overwrite the S-CSCF name when receiving the SAR request, only if there
is a previous explicit LIR request for S-CSCF capabilities._
## 4.4 UE Originating Procedure
### 4.4.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS, S-CSCF and P-CSCF if they
support the IMS Restoration feature.
### 4.4.2 S-CSCF Restoration after Restart
The S-CSCF _lost all user data if it restarts after a failure or_ it is unable
to trust any data after it resumes operation, due to the fact that it may have
lost profile updates from the HSS in the service interruption period. If such
a S-CSCF receives an originating request different from SIP REGISTER coming
from the UE, the S-CSCF shall send SAR to the HSS with Server Assignment Type
set to NO_ASSIGNMENT to restore the user data. If the S-CSCF name sent in the
Server-Assignment-Request command and the previously assigned S-CSCF name
stored in the HSS are different, which may happen if S-CSCF reassignment
occurred during a terminating restoration before, the HSS shall not overwrite
the S-CSCF name; instead it shall send a response to the S-CSCF with result
code set to DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY, as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3].
If there are S-CSCF restoration information related to the Public User
Identity stored in the HSS, the HSS shall send the S-CSCF restoration
information together with the user profile in the SAA to the S-CSCF. If the
HSS returns an error DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY to the S-CSCF, the S-CSCF shall
then return a specific error response to the UE to trigger a new registration.
If there are more than one group of S-CSCF restoration information related to
the Public User Identity stored in the HSS, which may happen if the Public
User Identity is shared by multiple Private User Identities, the HSS shall
include all of the S-CSCF restoration information in the SAA. One group of
S-CSCF restoration information corresponds to one Private User Identity.
If the S-CSCF receives SAA with the service profile of the user, the S-CSCF
shall continue the originating service as normal.
If the S-CSCF receives SAA with S-CSCF restoration information and the S-CSCF
restoration information includes the UE's subscription information, the S-CSCF
shall construct a NOTIFY message according to the information and send it to
the UE (or UEs if the IMPU is shared between several IMPIs) to trigger a new
registration at anytime after normal processing of the originating request.
### 4.4.3 S-CSCF Restoration after Failure
If the UE initiates an originating service request different from SIP REGISTER
and the P-CSCF is unable to contact the S-CSCF in the Route, the P-CSCF shall
return a specific error response to the UE to trigger a new registration.
## 4.5 SIP-AS Originating Procedure
### 4.5.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS, I-CSCF and S-CSCF if they
support the IMS Restoration feature.
### 4.5.2 S-CSCF Restoration after Restart
The S-CSCF _lost all user data if it restarts after a failure or_ it is unable
to trust any data after it resumes operation, due to the fact that it may have
lost profile updates from the HSS in the service interruption period. If such
S-CSCF receives an originating request on behalf of a user (i.e. top-most
route header in request contains \"orig\" parameter) coming from an AS, the
S-CSCF shall send SAR to the HSS with Server Assignment Type set to
UNREGISTERED_USER to inform the HSS that the user is unregistered. HSS and
S-CSCF proceed as indicated in 3GPP TS 29.228 [3], except that:
  * if the Public User Identity is stored as registered in the HSS, and there is S-CSCF restoration information related to the Public User Identity stored in the HSS, the HSS shall send the S-CSCF restoration information together with the user profile in the SAA. The result code shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_IN_ASSIGNMENT_TYPE. The S-CSCF shall trigger matched originating services for the Public User Identity.if the Public User Identity is stored as registered in the HSS, and there is no S-CSCF restoration information related to the Public User Identity stored in the HSS, the HSS shall send the user profile in the SAA and set the registration state for the Public Identity to unregistered. The result code shall be set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS. The S-CSCF shall trigger matched originating unregistered services for the Public User Identity.
> \- if the S-CSCF name sent in the Server-Assignment-Request command and the
> previously assigned S-CSCF name stored in the HSS are different, the HSS
> shall not overwrite the S-CSCF name. Result Code will be
> DIAMETER_IDENTITY_ALREADY_REGISTERED. The S-CSCF shall return a specific
> error response to AS. The AS shall resend the request to the I-CSCF.
NOTE: The address of the S-CSCF can be obtained by AS either by querying the
HSS on the Sh interface or during third-party registration. It may happen that
if AS is using third party registration and a reassignment occurred during a
terminating request, AS will have the wrong S-CSCF name.
### 4.5.3 S-CSCF Restoration after Failure
If the application server sends the originating service request on behalf of
the user to the S-CSCF, and the S-CSCF can not be contacted, after timeout,
the application server shall resend the originating service request to the
I-CSCF _._
If the application server sends the originating service request directly to
the I-CSCF, or resends the originating service request to the I-CSCF due to
the S-CSCF can not be contacted, the I-CSCF shall behave as in section 4.3.3.
The S-CSCF and HSS shall behave as in section 4.5.2, except _that the HSS
shall overwrite the S-CSCF name when receiving the SAR request, only if there
is a previous explicit LIR request for S-CSCF capabilities._
## 4.6 S-CSCF Data Restoration Information Backup and Update Procedures
### 4.6.1 Introduction
The following clauses specify the behaviour of HSS and S-CSCF if they support
the IMS Restoration feature.
### 4.6.2 Backup and Update of S-CSCF Restoration Information during
Registration Process
The S-CSCF shall backup the following data in the HSS during the initial
registration process.
  * the list of SIP proxies in the path (normally it would be just the P-CSCF address)
  * the Contact Information (Contact Addresses and Contact Header parameters)
  * the Authentication Information (SIP-Authentication-Scheme)
This is done with an additional information element in the SAR requesting user
information, in addition to the basic set of information required to handle
traffic, as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3]. The information is associated
with the Private User Identity and the Implicit Registration Set that is
affected by the SAR request. The HSS shall store this information.
If any of the above data is changed, the S-CSCF shall update it in the HSS
using SAR request with Server-Assignment-Type set to RE_REGISTRATION and t
_he_ User Data Already Available parameter set to USER_DATA_ALREADY_AVAILABLE,
as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3].
### 4.6.3 Backup and Update of S-CSCF Restoration Information after UE's
Subscription
If the S-CSCF receives the UE's subscription to notification of the reg-event
for the first time, the S-CSCF shall send an SAR to the HSS to store _the
following UE's subscription information._
  * _Call-ID, From, To, Record-Route, Contact_
_To avoid frequent storing of the subscription information in the HSS, the
CSeq should not be included in the S-CSCF restoration information. Instead,
the CSCF shall ensure that subsequent notification after retrieving this data
includes a sufficiently large Cseq value so that the UE is able to accept it._
This is done with _Server Assignment Type set to_ RE_REGISTRATION and t _he_
User Data Already Available parameter set to USER_DATA_ALREADY_AVAILABLE in
the SAR, as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3]. The information is associated
with the Private User Identity affected by the SAR request. The HSS shall
store this information.
If any of the above data is changed, the S-CSCF shall update it in the HSS
using SAR request with Server-Assignment-Type set to RE_REGISTRATION and t
_he_ User Data Already Available parameter set to USER_DATA_ALREADY_AVAILABLE,
as specified in the 3GPP TS 29.228 [3].
The S-CSCF shall send the registration data together with the subscription
data as one S-CSCF restoration information. Each time the HSS receives the
S-CSCF restoration information related to the same Private User Identity in
the SAR with Server-Assignment-Type set to RE_REGISTRATION, the HSS shall
overwrite the previous S-CSCF restoration information.
# 5 Recovery after P-CSCF failure
## 5.0 General
The following clauses show the requirements and information flows of IMS
Restoration Procedures for the P-CSCF service interruption in each of the
scenarios where they apply.
Procedures over S9 between V-PCRF and H-PCRF are not supported in this release
of the specification.
## 5.1 Update PDP context/Bearer at P-CSCF failure
These flows show the procedures performed by the network at P-CSCF failure
after user initiated registration..
### 5.1.1 General requirements
The following points are considered as requirements for the purpose of these
procedures.
  1. P-CSCF discovery is performed by requesting and provisioning P-CSCF address(es) within Protocol Configuration Options (PCO), as specified in 3GPP TS 29.061 [9], subclause 13a.2.1
  2. The UE supports PCO IE, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4], subclause 10.5.6.3.
  3. GTPv1, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.060 [8] or GTPv2, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.274 [10] are supported by the GGSN/PDN-GW.
### 5.1.2 Network recovery information flow - Update PDP context / Bearer
Figure 5.1.2a: P-CSCF failure (new list of P-CSCFs in PCO)
1\. The UE initiates an IP-CAN session.
2\. P-CSCF discovery is performed. A list of P-CSCF addresses is received in
CreatePDPContextResponse / CreateBearerResponse within the PCO IE.
3\. The GGSN/PDN-GW sends CCR to request for PCC rules, as specified in 3GPP
TS 29.212 [6].
4\. The PCRF provides PCC rules to be applied in CCA.
5\. The UE performs an initial registration towards a P-CSCF from the received
list.
6\. The P-CSCF sends Rx Push (see 3GPP TS 29.214 [7]) to provide the PCRF with
the P-CSCF selected by the UE.
7\. The PCRF sends Rx Push reponse.
8\. The PCRF uses a Gx push procedure to provide the GGSN/PDN-GW with the
P-CSCF address.
9\. The GGSN/PDN-GW stores this address for the UE and sends Gx Push Rsp.
Also, the GGSN/PDN-GW starts monitoring the health of the P-CSCF if not
already done.
10\. The P-CSCF sends 200 OK to the UE.
11\. A failure in P-CSCF is detected via Gi/sGi by the GGSN/PDN-GW. The
GGSN/PDN-GW sends a new PCO IE with a new list of P-CSCF addresses (which does
not include the failed P-CSCF) to all UEs associated to the failed P-CSCF
address.
12\. The UEs acknowledge the request.
13\. Upon receiving the new list of P-CSCFs, if the P-CSCF in use is missing,
each UE performs an initial registration towards a new P-CSCF.
## 5.2 Inform UE about P-CSCF failure
These flows show the procedures performed by the network at P-CSCF failure
after user initiated registration..
### 5.2.1 General requirements
The following points are considered as requirements for the purpose of these
procedures.
  1. P-CSCF discovery is performed by requesting P-CSCF address(es) via DHCP method, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.061 [9], subclause 13a.2.1
  2. The UE supports PCO IE, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [4], subclause 10.5.6.3.
  3. GTPv1, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.060 [8] or GTPv2, as specified in 3GPP TS 29.274 [10] are supported by the GGSN/PDN-GW
### 5.2.2 Network recovery information flow -- Inform UE at P-CSCF failure
Figure 5.2.2a: P-CSCF failure for DHCP based scenarios
> 1-2. The UE initiates an IP-CAN session.
>
> 3\. P-CSCF discovery is performed using DHCP based method. The GGSN/PDN-GW
> relays/send the list of P-CSCF addresses in DHCP response.
NOTE: The DHCP response can include either a list of P-CSCF IPv4/IPv6
addresses or a list of FQDNs (see IETF RFC 3361 [11] and IETF RFC 3319 [13]).
If P-CSCF FQDNs were provided, the UE uses DNS SIP server resolution mechanism
(see IETF RFC 3263 [12])
> 4\. The GGSN/PDN-GW sends CCR to request for PCC rules, as specified in 3GPP
> TS 29.212 [6].
>
> 5\. The PCRF provides PCC rules to be applied in CCA.
>
> 6\. The UE performs an initial registration towards the P-CSCF received.
>
> 7\. The P-CSCF sends Rx Push (see 3GPP TS 29.214 [7]) to provide the PCRF
> with the P-CSCF selected by the UE,
>
> 8\. The PCRF sends Rx Push reponse.
>
> 9\. The PCRF uses a Gx push procedure to provide the GGSN/PDN-GW with the
> P-CSCF address.
>
> 10\. The GGSN/PDN-GW stores this address for the UE and sends Gx Push Rsp.
> Also, the GGSN/PDN-GW starts monitoring the health of the P-CSCF if not
> already done.
>
> 11\. The P-CSCF sends 200 OK to the UE.
>
> 12\. A failure in P-CSCF is detected via Gi/sGi by the GGSN/PDN-GW. The
> GGSN/PDN-GW informs to all UEs associated to the failed P-CSCF address that
> the P-CSCF is not available.
>
> 13\. The UEs acknowledge the request.
>
> 14\. The UE requests P-CSCF addresses (if needed) via new DHCP request.
>
> 15\. The UE selects a new P-CSCF and initiates an initial IMS registration.
### 5.3 Network recovery information flow -- UE uses keep alive mechanism
Figure 5.3a: P-CSCF failure detected by UE
1\. After establishment of an IP-CAN session and acquiring P-CSCF addresses,
the UE performs initial registration towards a P-CSCF.
2\. If registration is successful, the UE monitors the P-CSCF health according
to IETF RFC 6223 [14]
3\. When a failure is detected, the UE acquires new P-CSCF addresses (if
needed) and performs an initial registration.
#