# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The importance of policy based service delivery has been recognized within
3GPP and has resulted in following work in the last few releases:
\- QoS and Charging related policies
\- PCRF
\- Non 3GPP access inter-working
\- ANDSF
\- Mobility protocol selection
In addition there has been work done in IMS that defines policies related to
selection of IMS for service delivery vs other mechanisms. 3GPP work in this
area reflects efforts to improve service delivery based on operator policy,
user preferences etc. However the approach so far has been fragmented and a
more comprehensive approach would ensure better policy decisions. Some
examples of what is missing are:
\- Deep Packet Inspection coupled with user privacy policies to improve user
experience. For example, by intelligently identifying service in use and
providing service enhancement via e.g. appropriate QoS for the service,
location related info for use with the service etc.
\- Service based traffic steering e.g. to use different PDNs for different
services. For example issues such as source address selection when the UE is
connected to multiple PDNs.
\- Standardized and extensible ways to implement service policies that go
beyond existing PCC IP flow policies. For example transactional service
policies such as a policy to enforce max limit on SMSIP/month based on user
profile etc. Other example could be service policy such as redirect and
firewall control.
# 1 Scope
The objective is to study an evolved policy solution through enhancement of
3GPP policy framework. One of the aims of the study is to ensure a policy
architecture that provides an extensible framework for easy reuse with new IP
based services by identifying areas where improvement of specifications are
feasible. The study item will look into solutions for the examples in the
section above.
Existing components for consideration in the Policy Study are functions and
interfaces to/from
\- PCRF, PCEF and BBERF;
\- SPR, HSS;
\- ANDSF;
\- IMS policy decision making entities.
The study aims to provide a more comprehensive way (e.g. going beyond existing
3GPP PCC framework) to handle operator policies for all IP / service flows
(IMS and non-IMS) in a coordinated manner and under varying network conditions
while keeping in view aspects such as:
\- user preferences;
\- user subscriptions;
\- service requirements;
\- terminal capabilities (including converged terminals);
\- network capabilities (3GPP and those non 3GPP accesses inter- working with
3GPP);
\- Session transfer and terminating policies;
\- Security policy control, e.g. firewalling and gating.
Roaming scenarios are considered as part of this study. Compatibility with
existing system architecture elements are protected and backward compatibility
is expected. All types of policies i.e. static/pre-provisioned, dynamic,
network based, UE based are considered in the study.
When a key issue is resolved sufficiently to be incorporated into the
specification in an independent manner, the study work may move forward for a
decision for normative specification work on such issue(s) using a new work
item or a TEI.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 41.001: \"GSM Release specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\"..
[4] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Service aspects; Service principles\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC); Technical realization and
information flows\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.198 V9.0.0 : Open Service Access (OSA)
[7] 3GPP TS 32.296: Online Charging System (OCS): Applications and interfaces
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Key issues
## 4.1 Key Issue 1: Policy enhancement for sponsored data connectivity
### 4.1.1 Introduction
The target of this key issue is to study policy enhancement needed for
sponsored data connectivity With sponsored data connectivity, the sponsor has
a business relationship with the operator and compensates the operator for
user's connectivity in order to allow the user access to one or more services
provided by the sponsor, a 3^rd^ party service provider or the the operator.
For example, existing OSA standards, defined in 3GPP TS 3GPP TS 23.198 [6]
provide a comprehensive framework to support 3rd party applications. The
framework supports security, authentication an authorisation of 3rd party
providers, and open APIs to facilitate controlled access to SP's resources,
QoS requests, charging and other capabilities. Whether the user pays the
sponsor for the connectivity or not, in the context of sponsored IP-CAN
connectivity, makes no difference with respect to the handling of end user
charges for the connectivity.
The following actors are involved in a scenario of sponsored connectivity:
> _Sponsor_ \-- the one willing to take the operator\'s charge for
> connectivity.
>
> _Application Service provider_ \-- the one providing the sponsored service.
> May coincide with the sponsor.
>
> _Operator_ \-- the one providing connectivity. May also be service provider.
>
> _End user_ \-- the one using the sponsored service. Is a subscriber at the
> operator.
It is assumed the user has already a subscription for PDN access with a mobile
operator. In particular, the following areas will be studied:
  * Capability for a service provider\'s application functions to authorize IP flows that are subject to a specific sponsorship.
  * Capability to validate dynamic authorizations for sponsored IP flows .
  * Capability to exclude the sponsored IP flows from the monitoring for user's volume cap.
  * Capability to charge the end user, including pre-paid credits users, at a different rate when the service is sponsored (often, but not necessarily, free of charge) compared to non-sponsored usage of the same service.
  * Capability to create accounting and/or usage data records where the usage data associated with sponsorship is separated from other usage data.
### 4.1.2 Alternative solutions
#### 4.1.2.1 Alternative 1
A possible architecture for sponsored data connectivity is shown illustrated
in Figure 4.1.2.1 in the non roaming case. In the roaming case a S9 reference
point is present between the H-PCRF and the V-PCRF.
NOTE: The interface between the AF and Non-SIP ASP which requires sponsored
data connectivity may be based on the OSA standards per 3GPP TS 3GPP TS 23.198
[6] but is out of scope of this specification. A one to one mapping between
the Non-SIP ASP and the AF is not needed as a single AF can be used to serve
multiple Non-SIP ASPs.
Figure 4.1.2.1: Architecture for sponsored data connectivity
There are two scenarios for the Non-SIP ASP possible: the ASP is only involved
in the application level signalling or the ASP is in addition involved in the
user data exchange, i.e. the IP packets carrying the payload of the
application.
In the latter case it is possible to keep the decision about the duration of
the sponsored data connectivity at the ASP so that the interaction with the
PCRF follows the existing Rx procedures. The PCRF does only need to know the
required information to identify the service (e.g. via the AF Application
identifier and the AF Application event identifier) and to describe the
sponsored IP flows that the ASP wants to get authorized. The ASP can initiate
the Rx session termination once the sponsored usage of the ASP service can be
stopped, e.g. if a download is complete.
If the ASP is only involved in the application level signalling, the PCRF
needs to know in addition the information about the duration and/or the volume
which is authorized by the ASP because the ASP does not necessarily know when
the sponsored usage of the ASP service can be stopped. These parameters would
have to be added to the Rx signalling.
Note: Retransmissions should be taken into account in the duration/volume
allowance given by the ASP.
In both scenarios the charging systems and the PCRF need to be configured in
the following way:
  * In case a Sponsor Identity is not used a service specific Charging Key and Monitoring Key has to be used for the sponsored IP flows (that is not shared with any other service of the UE in this PDN connection) so that the PCEF can generate separate accounting and/or usage data records.
  * In case a Sponsor Identity is used to separate accounting and/or usage data records the same Charing Key and Monitoring Key may be used both for sponsored IP flows and for the IP flows that are not sponsored. The Sponsor Identifier will be used to correlate measurements from different users and for different services for accounting purposes.
  * The PCRF needs to know the ASPs that have a business relationship with the operator and the policies that are related to them, primarily the QoS that is to be authorized for the sponsored IP flows.
  * If the AF is in the operator's network and is based on the OSA/Parlay X GW as defined in 3GPP TS 23.198 [6] OSA specification the PCRF is not required to verify that a trust relationship exists the operator and the 3^rd^ party ASP
  * 
##### 4.1.2.1.1 Reference points enhancements
##### AF - PCRF reference point (Rx) {#af---pcrf-reference-point-rx .H6}
The Rx reference point between the AF and the PCRF is described in TS 23.203
[xx]. The Rx reference point is further enhanced to optionally provide service
information related to sponsored data connectivity. The following information
shall be possible to provide over the Rx reference point:
  * Sponsor Identifier;
  * Information identifying the application service provider and application;
  * Optionally allowed volume of the sponsored connectivity and/or a time interval and whether the PCRF reports these events to the AF.
##### 4.1.2.1.1.2 PCEF- PCRF reference point (Gx) {#pcef--pcrf-reference-
point-gx .H6}
The charging part of the PCC rule is augmented with the possibility to include
the Sponsor Identity and Application Service Provider Identity with the rule.
##### 4.1.2.1.1.3 PCEF -- OCS and PCEF -- OFCS reference points (Gy and Rf/Gz)
{#pcef-ocs-and-pcef-ofcs-reference-points-gy-and-rfgz .H6}
The normal usage reporting per user (a.k.a. containers) is augmented with the
Sponsor Identity and Application Service Provider Identity.
Editor's note: This is potentially SA5 domain.
For Gy the quota handling is separate for Charging keys accompanied by a
Sponsor Identity and Application Service Provider Identity.
In the charging domain, reports are extracted and consolidated, possibly from
all users when that applies for the sponsored service, to form the usage data
for a Service Identifier. The Sponsor Identity, The Application Service
Provider Identity, the Service Identifier and the usage data suffice to make
the settlement with the sponsor and Application Service Provider.
###### 4.1.2.1.1.4 PCRF -- SPR reference point (Sp)
The SPR includes profiles for sponsor data connectivity containing Sponsor
Identities and list of applications per Application Service Provider.
##### 4.1.2.1.2 Call flows
##### 4.1.2.1.2.1 General {#general .H6}
This clause contains call flows to demonstrate the PCC interaction for
sponsored data connectivity under various scenarios, including rule
installation when sponsored data connectivity is activated, rule modification
when sponsored data connectivity is extended, usage reporting for sponsored
data connectivity, and rule remove when sponsored data connectivity is
terminated.
##### 4.1.2.1.2.2 Call flow for sponsored data connectivity rule installation
{#call-flow-for-sponsored-data-connectivity-rule-installation .H6}
Figure 4.1.x.1.b.1-1: Call flow for sponsored data connectivity rule
installation
1\. The UE attaches to the IP-CAN following the normal procedures specific to
the IP-CAN.
2\. The PCEF and/or the BBERF establish IP-CAN session and/or gateway control
session toward the PCRF following the procedures described in TS 23.203 [3].
The UE\'s IP connection may have a limited amount of data usage.
3\. The UE connects to the 3rd party ASP server and requests services from the
ASP.
4\. The ASP server decides to sponsor the data connection used to access the
ASP service for the user and provide dynamic sponsoring information, as agreed
with the operator, to the AF within the operator's network. The dynamic
sponsoring information includes the user identity to be sponsored (e.g. the IP
address), the IP flow information to be sponsored, Sponsor Identity,
Application Service Provider Identifier. Optionally the usage amount to be
sponsored and the threshold request related to the sponsored data
connectivity.
5\. For each sponsored service occasion, the AF establishes an Rx session
toward the PCRF as described in TS 23.203 [3] and provides the identity of the
AF, a Sponsor Identity, an Application Identity, the user identity and the
service information optionally including volume allowance and specific-actions
related to the service.
6\. The PCRF authorizes and acknowledges the service information received from
the AF.
7\. The PCRF derives PCC/QoS rules related to the sponsored data connectivity
and may take into account the Sponsor Identity and Application Identifier.
8\. The PCRF provision the rules and event triggers for the sponsored data
connectivity to the PCEF/BBERF within the IP-CAN.
9\. The PCEF/BBERF installs the provisioned rules and event triggers.
10\. The PCEF/BBERF sends acknowledgement to the PCRF.
11\. The UE uses the sponsored connectivity to receive the desired service
from the ASP.
###### 4.1.2.1.2.2. Call flow for sponsored data connectivity usage report
This call flow is only required if the ASP is not involved in the user data
exchange and thus the PCRF needs to manage the information about the duration
and/or the volume which is authorized by the ASP.
Figure 4.1.2.1.2.2-1: Call flow for sponsored data connectivity usage report
1\. At one point of time, the volume allowance set for the sponsored data
connectivity is reached.
2\. The PCEF sends an IP-CAN session modification request toward the PCRF
including an event trigger to indicate that the data usage has reached the
volume threshold.
3\. The PCRF, based on information received from the AF, may update the
threshold or remove the PCC rule and QoS rule related to the sponsored
connectivity; the PCRF may also keep the same rules active but notify the AF
as described in the subsequent steps.
4\. The PCRF sends an notification message to notify the AF that data usage
has reached threshold.
5\. The AF acknowledge the notification from the PCRF. If needed, the AF may
follow the procedures described in subclause 4.1.2.1.2.3 to extend the
sponsorship or the procedures described in subclause 4.1.2.1.2.4 to terminate
the sponsorship.
###### 4.1.2.1.2.3. Call flow for sponsored data connectivity extension
This call flow is only required if the ASP is not involved in the user data
exchange and thus the PCRF needs to manage the information about the duration
and/or the volume which is authorized by the ASP.
Figure 4.1.2.1.2.3-1: Call flow for sponsored data connectivity extension
1\. The AF receives trigger from the ASP to increase volume allowance or
receives report from the PCRF to indicate that previously set threshold has
been met.
2\. The AF sends new allowance information to the PCRF to extend the previous
sponsored connectivity.
3\. The PCRF sends acknowledgement to the AF.
4\. The PCRF updates the corresponding PCC rules with new volume allowance
information received.
5\. The PCEF acknowledges the updated PCC rules.
###### 4.1.2.1.2.4 Call flow for sponsored data connectivity release
When the AF receives a trigger from the ASP or an internal trigger to
terminate the sponsorship, the AF terminates the Rx session as specified in
3GPP 23.203.
## 4.2 Key issue 2: Coherent access to Policy related databases
### 4.2.1 Description
To enable operator policies, currently a number of logical databases have to
be accessed. These include HSS, SPR and possible databases tied to ANDSF
functionality. While implementation of many of these databases will continue
to be deployment specific it is possible to consolidate them logically by
providing a single logical interface to access them.
### 4.2.2 Alternative solutions
#### **4.2.2.1 SPR as an Application Front-End of the UDC Architecture**
In order to provide coherent accesses to operator policy databases, the SPR
shall be part of the 3GPP UDC architecture. According to TS 22.101 [4], the
UDC concept supports a layered architecture, separating the data from the
application logic in the 3GPP system. In that way user data is stored in a
logically unique repository allowing access from core and service layer
entities, named application front-ends
For such purpose, the SPR shall be an Application Front-End according to TS
23.335 [5]. This SPR-FE shall support the Ud reference point for querying,
creating, updating or deleting data from the UDR. The SPR-FE shall make also
use of the Ud reference point for subscribing to and receiving notifications
from the UDR.
The SPR Application Front-End shall interact with the PCRF via Sp reference
point.
Figure 4.3.1: SPR as Application Front-End within the User Data Convergence
architecture
In order to fulfil the requirements that UDC architecture sets into the
Application Front-Ends (clause 4.1 of TS 22.101 [4]), the SPR-FE shall be a
subscriber dataless entity.
#### **4.2.2.2 PCRF as an Application Front-End of the UDC Architecture**
An alternative solution is that the PCRF as an entity without persistent
subscriber data has direct access to the User Data Repository (UDR) which is
part of the 3GPP UDC architecture. Sp reference point and SPR entity would
disappear in such a configuration. PCC related persistent subscriber data are
stored in the UDR while the related application logic is implemented in the
PCRF.
Figure 4.2.1: PCRF as Application Front-End within the User Data Convergence
architecture
CT4 concluded that the PCRF meets the requirements of an application front
end. Consequently, this alternative does fulfil 3GPP UDC requirements as they
are specified in TS 22.101 [4], clause 4.11. While the PCRF is not a
subscriber dataless entity, due to it's managing the user context for IP-CAN
sessions, it only stores user data temporarily while an IP-CAN session for the
user is ongoing. When no IP-CAN session is ongoing for a user, no user data
need to be kept in the PCRF.
In this use case the PCRF shall support the Ud reference point instead of Sp
to access PCC related data stored in the UDR. It shall also use the Ud
reference point for subscribing to and receiving notifications from the UDR.
### 4.2.3 Comparison of alternatives
According to the CT4 evaluation both alternatives describe valid architectures
to integrate PCC related subscriber data into the UDC architecture and to
access these data from the UDR.
As the PCRF can be seen as a network element, which represents pure
application logic with no persistent data storage functionality but with user
data access towards an external database, it may be assumed to perform the
functionality of an application frontend and access the user data via the Ud
interface directly from the UDR.
On the other hand PCC implementations may already exist where the Sp interface
has been implemented in a vendor specific manner. In those cases, without
impacting the existing PCRF implementation, PCC related persistent subscriber
data stored in the SPR can be moved to the UDR with the SPR migrating to a
pure Application Frontend from the UDC point of view that interworks between
Sp and Ud interface.
### 4.2.4 Conclusion
The alternative architecture options as described in chapters 4.2.2.1 and
4.2.2.2 are both valid. Whether the one or other is chosen depends on the
actual network deployment.
If the SPR is used in a network to store the PCC related subscriber data,
introducing the UDC concept (i.e. the UDR as centralized subscriber database)
can be done in an evolutionary step by migrating from the existing SPR
database to a SPR Application Frontend that provides interworking between Sp
and Ud interfaces. This alternative is covered by the general UDC system
architecture that can be found in TS 23.335 [5].
##### NOTE: The SPR information model has to be replaced by an appropriate UDR
information model. {#note-the-spr-information-model-has-to-be-replaced-by-an-
appropriate-udr-information-model. .H6}
Alternatively data stored in the SPR can be moved to the UDR requiring the
PCRF to support the Ud interface in order to fetch PCC related subscriber data
instead of Sp. This architectural option needs to be documented in TS 23.203
[3], introducing the UDR as an alternative to the existing SPR and Ud as
alternative to Sp.
## 4.3 Key issue 3: QoS and gating control based on spending limits
### 4.3.1 Description
The following use case has been identified, which requires the PCRF to perform
QoS and gating control decisions based on information only available in the
OCS:
  * **QoS control based on spending limits** \-- ability to change the QoS level based on spending limits. Example scenario: the subscriber plan allows for high QoS up to \$2 per day and a lower QoS beyond that.
#### 4.3.1.1 Common Principles
These principles apply to all of the proposed alternative solutions.
Signalling may take place directly between OCS and PCRF or via PCEF as
outlined in the alternative solutions.
  * A counter as defined in [7] shall exist in the ABMF within the OCS that tracks a subscriber's spend over a period of time.
  * The OCS may have more than one counter per subscriber. Each counter can track a subscriber's overall spend or that of an individual service. An identification mechanism will be required to differentiate counters.
  * Counter management is the responsibility of the OCS, including any associated threshold value(s) (e.g. \$2).
  * Policy decisions relating to gating and QoS are the responsibility of the PCRF.
  * When the counter value reaches an associated threshold, the OCS notifies the PCRF
Editor's note: Further information being passed from OCS to PCRF is not
excluded by this principle.
  * At least two conditions shall trigger information flow between OCS and PCRF in relation to these use cases:
    * On IP-CAN session establishment, the OCS will inform the PCRF what thresholds have already been reached, allowing the PCRF to make an initial policy decision for the session.
    * When a threshold is reached mid-session, the OCS shall notify the PCRF triggering modification of the subscriber\'s policy appropriately.
### 4.3.2 Alternative solutions
#### 4.3.2.1 Alternative solution 1 - configuration based solution
A QoS control based on spending limits can be realized based on existing PCC
and online charging functionality. This requires however, that the OCS and the
PCRF are configured in the following way:
\- A service specific Charging Key has to be used for the service for the time
the service has not reached its spending limits. This service specific
Charging Key cannot be shared with any other service of the UE in this PDN
connection.- A second Charging Key has to be available for the service after
reaching the spending limit (i.e. the \"out of credit\" event). This Charging
Key can only be shared with other services if the service can remain with the
current setting until the service is terminated. If the service should ever
return to the original setting (e.g. after a certain time interval has been
passed), the second Charging Key cannot be shared with any other service. The
OCS can then instruct the PCRF to return to the original setting by denying
credit for this second Charging Key.
\- The PCRF needs to apply a second QoS authorization after it gets informed
about the \"out of credit\" event.
\- The OCS needs to store the spending limits for the service specific
Charging Key when the credit management interaction for the service is
terminated.
\- The OCS needs to reset the spending limit for the service specific Charging
Key after the corresponding time interval has been passed.
Editor's note: Configuration efforts (e.g. increased number of Charging Keys)
and potential functionality enhancements (e.g. accounting of packets when
applying the termination action) needs to be further analyzed.
If the PCRF and the OCS are configured appropriately, the QoS control based on
spending limits proceeds in the following way:
\- The PCRF applies a service specific Charging Key A for the service (that is
not shared with any other service of the UE in this PDN connection) together
with the QoS that is intended to be used before the spending limit is reached.
In addition, the PCRF sets the \"out of credit\" event trigger.
\- The OCS receives the Charging Key A during the credit management
interaction and starts (or continues) to measure the parameter that is subject
to the spending limit control (i.e. time, volume and/or event) in addition to
the normal charging functionality.
\- Once the OCS detects that the spending limit is reached, it denies any
further credit to the PCEF. In addition, the OCS may set the Termination
Action to \"Allowing the packets to pass through\" to enable the continuation
of the service.
\- The PCEF reports the \"out of credit\" event to the PCRF together with the
corresponding PCC rule.
\- The PCRF can now react and modify the PCC rule according to the operator
configuration. The PCRF would select a different Charging Key B and the QoS
that has to be applied after reaching the spending limit.
\- The PCEF enforces the modifications for the PCC rule and may need to modify
the bearer or even bind the PCC rule to a different bearer. In addition, the
new Charging Key B is used for the credit management.
\- The OCS receives the new Charging Key B and continues to grant credits for
this service.
  * If the OCS wants the service to return to the original QoS (e.g. > after the time interval that is relevant for the spending limit > has been passed), the OCS may apply the very same mechanism (i.e. > denying credit, setting Termination Action). The PCRF would get > informed about it in the very same way and modify the PCC rule > back to the original QoS and the Charging Key A.
#### 4.3.2.2 New reference point (Sy) between PCRF and OCS
##### 4.3.2.2.1 General
A solution is to define a new reference point Sy between the PCRF and the OCS
to enable transport of indications about charging related events from the OCS
to the PCRF.
Figure 4.3.1: Overall PCC architecture (non-roaming) including the Sy
reference point
Figure 4.3.2: Overall PCC architecture including the Sy reference point
roaming with PCEF in visited network (local breakout)
##### 4.3.2.2.2 PCRF contacting the OCS (PCRF-Centric approach)
##### 4.3.2.2.2.1 Session scope {#session-scope .H6}
For efficient communication and to be able to support multiple PDN-connections
of a user the scope of the Sy connection should be organised on a per
subscriber ID and PDN identifier basis, i.e. (at least) all PDN-connections of
a UE to the same APN are bound to the same Sy session. This is possible since
multiple PDN-connections to the same APN are always controlled by the same
PCRF since PCC Rel-8.
##### 4.3.2.2.2.2 Session initiation {#session-initiation .H6}
At IP-CAN session establishment, according to TS 23.203 [3], Gx interactions
take places prior to Gy interactions. For the PCRF to be able to provide
correct policies at IP-CAN session establishment it is necessary for the PCRF
to interact with the OCS prior to sending acknowledge of IP-CAN session
establishment to the PCEF. Additionally it is the PCRF that is aware of if the
policies of an IP-CAN session are dependent on charging related information.
Sy Session Establishment should therefore be initiated by the PCRF.
The Sy reference point allows the PCRF to request and subscribe to indications
about charging related events that affect session and service policies of PDN
connections for different users and PDNs.
The OCS shall support to bind a Sy session with associated Gy sessions and
shall notify the PCRF over the Sy interface whenever there is charging related
event occurring that the PCRF has subscribed to.
##### 4.3.2.2.2.3 Information exchange {#information-exchange .H6}
The Sy reference point shall support to provide the following indications:
\- Provisioning of indication based on credit balance (e.g. when OCS decides
that a prepaid subscriber has reached a balance limit)
\- Provisioning of indication per rating group or per IP-CAN session based on
previously consumed volume or spending limits (e.g. when OCS decides that a
previously consumed volume or spending limit per period has reached a certain
value).
###### 4.3.2.2.2.3.1 Charging Status Reports
Provisioning of Charging Status Reports is based on the assumption that that
the OCS maintains the necessary counter(s) used to track spending between
sessions.
The OCS maintains pre-configured counter(s) with an associated threshold,
which it resets according to a known time schedule. Counters could be
applicable either per subscriber, per subscriber and active PDN or for a group
of services for a certain subscriber..
The identities of the counters that are relevant for a policy decision are
stored in the PCRF or in the SPR. The PCRF is configured with the actions
associated with the counter status that is received from OCS.
The request and provisioning of Charging Status Reports may be used for:
The initial request for counter state at IP-CAN session establishment.
The notification from the OCS to the PCRF of threshold reached by OCS. When
counters that are applicable either for a single service or for a group of
services are referenced over the Sy interface a new identifier called Policy-
Counter-Id shall be used. All services that are mapped to the same Policy-
Counter-Id will share the same counter state and applicable threshold values
in the OCS.
NOTE: The relation between a Policy-Counter-Id and the Charging Key could be
1-1. However it could also be assumed that services that share the same
Charging Key may be associated with different Policy-Counters i.e. although
they are rated in the same way they are subject to different actions regarding
(e.g. QoS and gating) and are therefore counted separately.
When a certain threshold has been reached (e.g. daily spending limit of 2\$
reached) in the OCS and/or when a certain threshold has been increased or the
accumulated usage is reset the OCS shall provide the new Policy Counter Status
to the PCRF for the associated Policy Counter or for the associated UE and
active PDN.
The PCRF shall based on the counter status apply operator defined actions,
e.g. downgrade the QoS, for affected IP-CAN Sessions and/or PCC-rules and
provide this as policy decisions to the PCEF and to the BBERF (if applicable).
##### 4.3.2.2.2.4 Roaming {#roaming .H6}
The Sy reference point should support scenarios where a UE is located in a
HPLMN (4.2.1), roaming with home routed or roaming with visited access (Figure
4.3.2). For roaming with visited access the Sy reference point is defined
between the H-PCRF and the OCS in the HPLMN. With this approach Sy will be a
PLMN internal reference point regardless of if the user is roaming or
accessing via the HPLMN.
##### 4.3.2.2.2.5 Signalling flows
###### 4.3.2.2.2.5.1 General
This clause contains signalling flows to demonstrate the PCC interaction to
request charging status reports and to provide charging status reports over
the Sy reference point. The Sy reference point supports the following
functions:
\- Request from PCRF to OCS on the initial Policy Counter Status for a certain
subscriber or for a certain subscriber and PDN connection.;
\- Reports from the OCS to the PCRF on the Policy Counter Status for a certain
subscriber or for a certain subscriber and PDN connection.
###### 4.3.2.2.2.5.2 Changes to the IP-CAN Session establishment procedure
  1. IP-CAN Session Establishment as per TS 23.203 [x] clause 7.2.
```{=html}
``` 6\. If the subscription data received from the SPR indicated that policy
decisions are dependent on charging related information and if this is the
first IP-CAN session for this subscriber then PCRF sends an Initial Charging
Status Request towards the OCS. The PCRF includes the UE identifier and the
Policy-Counter-Id(s) for which status is requested. The PCRF may optionally
include PDN-id (e.g. APN), the UE IP address and subscribers to changes in the
status of the Policy Counters in the OCS.
> Editor´s note: The possibility for the OCS to report all the Policy-Counter-
> Status or only those relevant for a policy decision is FFS.
  1.   2. The OCS acknowledges the request by sending a Charging Policy Session Acknowledge and may notify whether threshold(s) have already been reached.
    1. Continued IP-CAN Session Establishment as per TS 23.203 [x] > clause 7.2
```{=html}
``` 8\.
  1.   2. .
    1. ###### Changes to the IP CAN Session termination procedures
> 1-6. IP-CAN Session Termination as per TS 23.203 [x] clause 7.3.1 or 7.3.2.
  1. If this is the last IP-CAN session of a subscriber for the PDN-id > the PCRF sends a Final Charging Status Request to cancel the > subscription to changes in the status of the Policy Counters in > the OCS.
  2.   3. The OCS acknowledges to the PCRF that the subscription is cancelled.
9-10 Continued IP-CAN Session Termination as per TS 23.203 [x] clause 7.3.1 or
7.3.2.
###### Provisioning of notifications from OCS to PCRF
  1. The OCS detects that the status of a Policy-Counter-Id(s) has changed and the PCRF requested notifications of changes in the status of the policy counters.
  2. The OCS sends a Charging Status Report to the PCRF. The OCS sends the Policy-Counter-Status(s) per each Policy-Counter-Id(s) that has changed. The Policy-Counter-Status received from the OCS overrides the Policy-Counter-Status stored for a certain Policy-Counter-Id in the PCRF.
  3. The PCRF acknowledges the Charging Policy Report.
  4. A PCRF initiated IP-CAN Session modification procedure may occur as a result from the received report.
    1. ###### 
    2. ###### Intermediate Charging Status Request
```{=html}
``` 1\. The PCRF decides based on interaction with the SPR, AF, BBERF (if
applicable) or the PCEF that the need for Charging Status Reports of a user
has changed.
  1. The PCRF sends an Intermediate Charging Status Request to the OCS, including the applicable Policy-Counter-Id(s).
> Editor´s note: The possibility for the OCS to report all the Policy-Counter-
> Status or only those relevant for a policy decision is FFS
  1. The OCS acknowledges the Intermediate Charging Status Request that includes the Policy-Counter-Status per Policy-Counter-Id provided by the PCRF in the Intermediate Charging Status Request.
  2. The PCRF makes an updated policy decision based on the received report from the OCS. The Policy-Counter-Status received from the OCS overrides the Policy-Counter-Status stored for a certain Policy-Counter-Id in the PCRF.
  3. In case the procedure was triggered by an indication of IP-CAN Session Modification procedure the PCRF concludes this procedure as per TS 23.203 [x] clause 7.4.1 step 10-18.
##### 4.3.2.2.3 OCS contacting the PCRF (OCS-Centric approach)
#### 4.3.2.3 Alternative solution 3 -- enhancing Gy and Gx
A QoS control based on spending limits can be realized by enhancing the Gy and
Gx procedures with additional functionality and parameters.
The solution relies on the following procedures:
[A. OCS threshold/s reached notification on IP-CAN session
establishment]{.underline}
Gy: Credit Request procedure
The Credit Request procedure is initiated by the PCEF in accordance with the
TS 23.203 IP CAN session establishment procedure Session
The OCS includes in the Credit Request Response message and indication that
the value of counter/s associated with spending limits has reached a
threshold.
Gx: IP CAN Session Modification Procedure
When the PCEF receives an indication from the OCS that a threshold/s has been
reached it initiates the IP CAN session Modification request to request PPC
rules re-authorization due to spending threshold/s reached.
The PCC determines the new/modified PCC rules and responds to the PCRF.
Gy: The PCEF may initiate the Credit Request procedure with the OCS
[B. OCS thresholds reached notification in mid-session]{.underline}
Gy: (Credit) Re-Authorization- Request procedure
The OCS initiates the Re-Authorization- Request procedure (per TS 32.299) when
threshold/s has been reached
Gx: IP CAN Session Modification Procedure
When the PCEF receives an indication from the OCS that a threshold/s has been
reached it initiates the IP CAN session Modification request to request PPC
rules re-authorization due to spending threshold/s reached.
The PCC determines the new/modified PCC rules and responds to the PCRF.
Gy: (Credit) Re-Authorization- Request Response
The PCEF sends the new/modified PCC rules to the OCS
NOTE that the Session between the PCEF and the OCS is not impacted by this
solution and it is terminated as part of the TS 23.203 IP CAN Session
termination procedure.
###
###
### 4.3.3 Conclusion
Alternative 2 has the advantage of causing no increase in signalling load at
the PCEF, along with the fact that it allows H-PCRF and H-OCS to communicate
directly in the LBO roaming scenario, simplifying interworking in that case,
The impact of adding the new Sy reference point is therefore seen as lower
than that of the other alternative solutions, both in terms of complexity and
network signalling overhead.
The Sy based solution where PCRF initiates Sy interaction (alternative 2)
shall be used to achieve the aims of the key issue.
NOTE 1: The behaviour of the OCS and PCRF on Sy failure shall be studied
during the resulting normative work.
NOTE 2: No modification to the Gx and Gy reference points is required to
resolve key issue #3 or due to the introduction of the Sy reference point.
## 4.4 Key issue 4: Service Awareness and Privacy Policies
### 4.4.1 Description
The network may have policies related to specific services but currently it
may not always become aware of usage of these services. The service
unawareness can occur when there is no explicit service level signalling and
hence no interaction between the Application Function and PCRF or when filters
related to a service has not been installed in the PCEF. The user experience
can be enhanced if the network becomes service aware and the network is able
to apply service specific policies. Service traffic detection mechanisms helps
achieve service awareness. Traffic detection functionality can be implemented
by a standalone entity as well as be collocated with PCEF. Use of service
traffic detection mechanism however may require user consent and for this
purpose PCC architecture would have to be extended to include user privacy
policies.
### 4.4.2 Actions resulting from service detection
Existing charging and enforcement actions based on PCC rules performed at the
PCEF and defined in 23.203 are still performed. Charging and enforcement
actions based on PCC rules at the PCEF may be influenced by the detected
services. Additionally, the following are examples of actions to be taken on
the detected service:
\- Gating of the detected service traffic (either blocking or permitting
unrestricted the detected service traffic)
\- Traffic shaping of the detected service traffic
\- Redirecting of detected service traffic (for services / protocols that
permit redirection)
### 4.4.3 Alternative solutions
4.4.3.1 Alternative 1
At the time of IP-CAN session establishment, the PCEF contacts the PCRF as per
existing procedures. User privacy policy settings are received from the SPR
together with the other subscriber related information (the management of the
user privacy policy settings is out of scope). The PCRF checks the user
privacy policy settings to see if usage of service traffic detection mechanism
is allowed and for what services. If it is allowed the PCRF can instruct the
Traffic Detection Function (TDF) on what services it should detect and if
detection notification is required. After detecting a service with a service
traffic detection mechanism, the TDF may inform the PCRF about the detected
service, if detection notification is required. The PCRF can then react in the
desired way with regard to the policy and charging control information for the
detected traffic.
A new mechanism/ parameter for instructing the TDF on what service traffic to
detect needs to be defined. While the actual mechanism for the service traffic
detection should not be standardized, TDF has to be able to detect the start
and the end of the respective service and notify the PCRF correspondingly.
Note: The potential mechanisms to enable steering of user traffic either to a
particular TDF or to bypass this TDF are FFS. A key aspect of the evaluation
will be the ability to ensure a subscriber's downlink traffic can be steered
to the same TDF which is handling the uplink traffic.
For a collocated PCEF/TDF, the existing PCC rule concept can be extended to
include the parameters, which form an SDPR rule, that identifies the service
to be detected.
For a standalone TDF, a Service Detection and Policy (SDPR) rule used both to
provide the instruction for service detection and the potential enforcement
actions to be applied for the detected service need to be defined.
It is proposed to use Application Identifier known both to PCRF and to TDF as
a set of characteristics of the service, required for detection. An
Application identifier can be mapped by the TDF to a pre provisioned service
related information e.g. application layer protocol e.g. http, sip, P2P, and
TCP/UDP port number / ranges to be detected.
Note: Application identifier communicated by the PCRF can be mapped to variety
of information pre- provisioned into the TDF, that can allow for expansion of
TDF role to be used with new protocols and services without having to
standardize new parameters across the interface.
Two scenarios are addressed below:
> Solicited service reporting: The TDF is instructed on which services to
> detect, report to the PCRF and the actions to be enforced on a per IP-CAN
> session basis.
>
> Unsolicited service reporting: The TDF is pre-configured on which services
> to detect and report. The enforcement is done in the PCEF. It is assumed
> that user consent is not required.
Figure 4.4.2.1-1: Architecture including TDF
> NOTE: This architecture option can be applied for a stand-alone TDF and a
> TDF that is collocated with the PCEF in the same gateway.
>
> In case of collocated TDF, the Gxd interface doesn't apply.
>
> A new reference point Gxd between standalone TDF and PCRF that enables
> gating, shaping and redirection functions in the TDF is defined.
##### 4.4. 3.1.1 Reference Points
The Gxd reference point enables communication between TDF and PCRF for the
purpose of:
  * Reporting of the start and the stop of a detected services and transfer of service _data flow descriptions for detected services_ from the TDF to the PCRF.
  * Signalling of Service Detection and Policy Rules from the PCRF for the purpose of traffic detection and enforcement at the TDF to the PCRF. Functions are provided to establish a TDF session, to modify a TDF session from the PCRF and to terminate a TDF session.
###### 4.4. 3.1.2 Functional entities
_The TDF performs service detection and reporting of detected service and its
service data flow description to the PCRF._
_For those cases where service data flow description is not possible to be
provided by the TDF to the PCRF,_ the TDF performs gating, redirection and
bandwidth limitation for the detected services. The existing PCEF/BBERF
functionality remains as def _ined in 3GPP TS 23.203._
_For those cases where service data flow description is provided by the TDF to
the PCRF_ _the actions resulting of service detection may be performed by the
PCEF as part of the charging and policy enforcement per service data flow and
by the BBERF for bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 or may be
performed by the TDF as described above._
The PCEF may encompass the TDF functionality.
4.4.3.2 Solicited service detection reporting
To trigger the interaction with the PCRF, the start and the end of a detected
service have to be added as new event triggers. The TDF notifies the PCRF when
it detects the start or the end of a detected service, if detection event
trigger is provisioned. After detecting a service, the TDF shall also apply
the enforcement actions to the detected service, if they were provided by the
corresponding PCC/SDPR rule. The TDF may also inform the PCRF via a Gx/Gxd
interface, by providing an Identifier corresponding to the detected service
(i.e. SD rule identifier), the service start event notification and the
detected filter information, when available. The PCRF may then create/modify
the PCC/SDPR rule in the desired way with regard to the policy and charging
control information.
Note: Charging control applies to PCC rules only.
When the TDF detects the end of the service, it shall notify the PCRF, if
subscribed, with the corresponding SD rule identifier and the service stop
event trigger. This may trigger the PCRF to modify the PCC rule in the desired
way with regard to the policy and charging control information..
The following enforcement actions may be applied by standalone TDF to the
detected traffic:
a. Permit Unrestricted -- the detected service/flow is allowed to continue
without further policy action
b. Block -- the detected service / application flows are blocked (or the
\"gate is closed\")
c. Shape -- apply some regime of traffic shaping to the detected service /
application flows (e.g. to bandwidth limit for P2P file sharing flows)
d. Redirection -- Redirect detected flows to another controlled address (e.g.
redirect to a top-up / service provisioning page). This may not be possible
for all types of detected flows (e.g. this may only be performed on specific
HTTP based flows)
> Note: Additional PCC functions (i.e. credit management, reporting, policy
> control, event reporting, binding mechanisms) besides those listed above are
> always performed by the PCEF as currently described in TS 23.203.
In case the standalone TDF is involved in the communication and required to
apply enforcement actions, it is PCRF\'s responsibility to coordinate the PCC
rules and QoS rules, if applicable, with SDPR rules in order to ensure
consistent service delivery.
Note: The following alignments may be done by PCRF in case the standalone TDF
is involved in the communication:
  1. Gate/redirection enforcement. There shall be no contradiction between PCC rules gate/redirection status and SDPR rules gate/redirection status. Note: This mean that, for example, when a P2P traffic has to be gated (blocked) at the TDF, the P2P traffic shall not get redirected at the PCEF, and traffic shall not get gated (blocked) at the PCEF but rather let through.
  2. The uplink and downlink maximum bit rates for corresponding detected services shall not exceed the Authorized APN-AMBR, for the IP-CAN Session.
The mechanisms covering the issue of charging interface, when standalone TDF
is used, are out of this key issue's scope.
###### 4.4. 3.2.1 Specific functions description
In order to establish the session between PCRF and standalone TDF, the PCEF
may send the IP address of the related standalone TDF to the PCRF in the
request message upon the IP-CAN session establishment.
The PCRF may then establish user related session towards the TDF including the
SDPR rules and event triggers, if required.
For roaming with home routed traffic, PCEF and TDF reside in the HPLMN, while
only BBERF, if applicable, reside in the VPLMN. The S9 interface enables the
H‑PCRF to provide dynamic QoS control policies from the HPLMN, via a V‑PCRF,
to a BBERF in the VPLMN. The functionality is not affected by the introduction
of Service Awareness and Privacy Policies, as all of the involved entities
(H-PCRF, PCEF, TDF) reside in the same network (i.e. HPLMN) and S9 is not
required to transfer any new parameters.
For Local Breakout (i.e. roaming with a visited access), V-PCRF, PCEF, TDF and
BBERF, if applicable, reside in the VPLMN, while H-PCRF and SPR reside in the
HPLMN. One of already defined S9 reference point functionalities in this case
is to enable the H‑PCRF (via the V‑PCRF) to have dynamic PCC control,
including both the PCEF and, if applicable, BBERF, in the VPLMN. In order to
provide Service Awareness and Privacy Policies functionality, S9 is required
additionally:
  * To carry Application Identifier and service detection start/stop detected traffic event triggers report from V-PCRF to H-PCRF, informing on start and stop of service traffic detection.
NOTE: For local breakout, there may be situations where the TDF is not able to
detect the traffic requested by the H-PCRF. Prior agreements could be arranged
to ensure that there is a common understanding of the meaning of Application
Identifiers transferred between PLMNs.
In addition to the existing functionality, the V-PCRF provides functions to
extract SDPR rules from PCC rules provided by the H‑PCRF over the S9 reference
point. The V‑PCRF provides updated PCC rules to the PCEF and SDPR rules to the
standalone TDF, if appropriate.
#### Signalling Flows
> This clause contains signalling flows for:
  * TDF session establishment and Activation of Service Detection and Policy Rules by the PCRF into the TDF based on user privacy rules at IP-CAN Session Establishment.
  * \'Start of Service\' detection notification at service start from the TDF to the PCRF.
  * \'Stop of Service\' detection notification at service stop from the TDF to the PCRF.
  * Activation/deactivation/modification of PCC/SDPR Rules by the PCRF into the TDF. //Note: the external trigger does not have to be necessarily limited to SPR.
  * TDF session termination and deactivation of Service Detection and Policy Rules by the PCRF into the TDF at IP-CAN Session termination.
###### 4.4.3.2.2.1 Changes to IP-CAN session establishment
This clause includes the changes to IP-CAN session establishment signalling
flow to provision of Service Detection and Policy Rules to the TDF, both for
TDF collocated with the PCEF and for the standalone TDF.
Figure 4.4.u: Provisioning of Service Detection Rules to the TDF at IP-CAN
session establishment
  1. IP-CAN Session Establishment as specified in TS 23.203 [y] clause 7.2 steps 1 to 2.
  2. The PCEF determines that the PCC authorization is required, requests the authorization of allowed service(s) and PCC Rules information as specified in TS 23.203 step 3. The PCEF also includes information on whether the TDF is collocated with the PCEF or it is not and standalone TDF IP address, if applicable. The existing Supported Features mechanism (3GPP TS 29.212) may be applied by PCEF and TDF to indicate the detection feature support.
  3. IP-CAN Session Establishment as specified in TS 23.203 [y] clause 7.2 step 4.
  4. IP-CAN Session Establishment as specified in TS 23.203 [y] clause 7.2 step 5, including user privacy policies.
  5. IP-CAN Session Establishment as specified in TS 23.203 [y] clause 7.2 step 6.
  6. The PCRF sends a decision as specified in TS 23.203 [y] step 7. If the TDF is collocated with the PCEF, PCRF checks user privacy policies to traffic detection mechanisms. If user's privacy policies as indicated by the profile, allow for the use of service traffic detection, the PCRF also sends the PCC rules for the service detection and enforcement to the PCEF and may include subscription to the service detection start /stop event trigger. The PCEF provisions the detection requirements to the TDF.
  7. IP-CAN Session Establishment as specified in TS 23.203 [y] clause 7.2 steps 8 to 12.
  8. If the TDF is standalone, steps 8 and-9 take place. If user's privacy policies as indicated by the profile, allow for the use of service traffic detection, the PCRF requests the identified TDF to establish the relevant session towards PCRF and provides Service Detection and Policy Rules to the TDF and may subscribe to the service detection start and service detection stop event triggers..
  9. The TDF acknowledges the request and may indicate policy enforcement actions support in case some of the enforcement actions required by PCRF are not supported.
Note: Steps 8-9 can occur immediately after step 2.
###### 4.4.3.2.2.2 Service Detection notification
This clause describes the provisioning of service information from the TDF at
the start of a service detected by the TDF for both standalone TDF and
collocated TDF.
Figure 4.4.v: Provisioning of service information from the TDF
  1. The standalone or collocated TDF detects the start of a service flow that matches with one of the activated PCC/SDPR Rules. Then, in case the enforcement actions were provided as a part of SDPR rules, TDF shall apply those actions.
NOTE: the detection procedure is out of the scope of this study.
2\. If the service start event trigger request was received, the TDF shall
provide service information to the PCRF, including the SD Rule Identifier,
service detection start event trigger and the flow descriptions, if available.
Note: In case of collocated TDF, the information is provided by TDF through
PCEF-PCRF communication. The interface between TDF and PCEF is out of scope.
3\. Upon receiving the notification, PCRF may modify the PCC/SDPR rule (and
the QoS Rules if they are applicable), based on the received flow descriptions
and operator local policies for the detected service, otherwise step 5 is not
applicable.
4\. If step 2) was initiated by the standalone TDF, then the PCRF sends
acknowledge to the TDF.
5\. The PCRF-Initiated session modification take place as per TS 23.203 clause
7.4.2 steps 4-11.
###### 4.4.3.2.2.3 Notification for stop of service from the TDF
This clause describes the reporting of the stop of a service detected by the
TDF both for standalone TDF and for collocated TDF.
Figure 4.4.w: Notification for stop of service from the TDF
1\. The standalone or collocated TDF detects the stop of a service flow that
matches with one of the activated PCC/SDPR Rules.
2\. If the service stop event trigger was subscribed to, the TDF shall send
stop of service event trigger to the PCRF. The notification shall include the
SDPR Rule Identifier and service detection stop event trigger. It may also
include filters associated with the reported service.
Note: In case of collocated TDF, the information is provided by TDF through
PCEF-PCRF communication. The interface between TDF and PCEF is out of scope.
3\. Upon receiving the notification, the PCRF may modify the PCC/SDPR rule
(and the QoS Rules if they are applicable), as a result of service detection
stop. Then, the step 5 is applicable.
4\. If step 2) was initiated by a standalone TDF, then the PCRF sends
acknowledge to the TDF.
5\. The PCRF-Initiated session modification take place as per TS 23.203 clause
7.4.2 steps 4-11.
###### # 4.4.3.2.2.4 Activation/deactivation of PCC/SDPR Rules in the TDF
Figure 4.4.x: Provisioning/Removal of Service Detection and Policy Rules in
the TDF
  1. The PCRF is notified that the user profile has changed (e.g. by receiving the appropriate request from SPR).
  2. The PCRF acknowledges the user profile change to SPR.
  3. PCRF decides on PCC/SDPR rules change.
> Note; A change of SDPR rules may also happen as a result of internal PCRF
> logic execution; in such a case steps 1-2 are not required.
>
> If the TDF is standalone:
  1. PCRF activates/deactivates/modifies the SDPR rules in the TDF.
  2. TDF acknowledges the SDPR rules' activation/deactivation/modification.
> If the TDF is collocated with the PCEF, then steps 4 and 5 are omitted and:
6\. PCRF provisions PCC Rules to the TDF by applying PCRF-Initiated IP-CAN
session modification procedure per TS 23.203 [x] clause 7.4.2 step 5 to 11.
###### 4.4.3.2.2.5 Changes to IP-CAN session termination
This clause includes the changes to IP-CAN session termination to deactivate
SDPR Rules at the TDF.
Figure 4.4.y: Removal of Service Detection Rules from the TDF at IP-CAN
session termination
1\. IP-CAN Session Termination initial steps as specified in TS 23.203 [y]
clause 7.3.1, steps 1- 2 or clause 7.3.2, steps 1-4.
> 2\. The GW (PCEF) indicates that the IP‑CAN Session is being removed and
> provides relevant information to the PCRF.
>
> 3\. The PCRF finds the PCC Rules that require an AF to be notified and
> removes PCC Rules for the IP‑CAN session.
4\. The PCRF notifies the AF that there are no transmission resources for the
service if this is requested by the AF.
5\. The AF acknowledges the notification of the loss of transmission
resources.
6\. The GW (PCEF) removes all PCC Rules associated with the IP‑CAN session.
7\. The PCRF removes the information related to the terminated IP‑CAN Session
(subscription information etc.), and acknowledges the IP‑CAN Session
termination.
> 8\. If the TDF is standalone, then steps 8-9 take place. The PCRF informs
> TDF about IP-CAN session termination.
>
> 9\. TDF deactivates all SDPR Rules associated with the IP-CAN session and
> acknowledges the termination request from the PCRF.
>
> 10\. IP-CAN Session Termination concluding steps takes place as specified in
> TS 23.203 [y] clause 7.3.1, steps 9-14 or clause 7.3.2, steps 11-15.
>
> 11\. TDF terminates the session with the PCRF.
>
> 12\. PCRF acknowledges the TDF session termination.
4.4.3.3 Unsolicited service detection reporting
##### 4.4.3.3.1 Signalling Flows
This clause contains signalling flows for those cases where the TDF role is
service detection and reporting to the PCRF.
  * Provisioning of service information at service start/modification from the TDF.
  * Revoke service session information at service stop from the TDF.
##### 4.4.3.3.1.1 Provision service information from the TDF
This clause describes the provisioning of service information from the TDF at
the start or modification of a service detected by the TDF. The TDF performs
service detection and reporting functions only.
Figure 4.4.x: Provisioning of service information from the TDF
> 1\. The TDF detects the start or the modification of a service flow that
> matches with one of the SD Rules installed in the TDF, enforces the service
> control for the detected service..
>
> NOTE 1: The detection procedure is out of the scope of this study.
>
> 2\. The TDF provide service information to the PCRF, the TDF includes the
> application identifier and if available the flow descriptions.
>
> 3\. If operator policies indicates that PCC/QoS Rules shall be provisioned
> then the PCRF generates PCC Rules (and the QoS Rules if they are applicable)
> based on the received flow descriptions and operator local policies for the
> detected service, otherwise step 5 is not applicable.
4\. The PCRF sends a confirmation to the TDF.
> 5\. The PCRF- Initiated IP-CAN session modification takes place as per TS
> 23.203 [3] clause 7.4.2 steps 4-11.
>
> NOTE: Step 4 may take place at anytime after step 3.
##### 4.4.3.3.1.2 Revoking service information from the TDF
This clause describes the reporting of the stop of a service detected by the
TDF. The TDF performs service detection functions only.
Figure 4.4.y: Revoke service information to the PCRF
> 1\. The TDF detects the stop of a service flow that matches with one of the
> SD Rules installed in the TDF.
>
> NOTE: the detection procedure is out of the scope of this study.
>
> 2\. The TDF revokes service information to the PCRF.
>
> 3\. If PCC Rules are installed in the PCEF steps 5 applies.
>
> 4\. The PCRF sends a confirmation to the TDF.
>
> 5\. The PCRF- Initiated IP-CAN session modification takes place as per TS
> 23.203 [3] clause 7.4.2 steps 4-11
>
> NOTE: Step 4 may take place at anytime after step 3.
4.4.3.4. Service Detection and Policy rules definition and structure
This section is relevant only in the case of standalone TDF.
###### 4.4.3.4.1 General
The Service Detection and Policy rule (SDPR rule) comprises the information
that is required in order to apply the detection and enforcement actions for
the specified service traffic.
Two different types of SDPR rules exist: dynamic rules and predefined rules.
The dynamic SDPR rules are provisioned by the PCRF via the Gxd reference
point, while the predefined SDPR rules are directly provisioned into the TDF
and only referenced by the PCRF. The pre-defined SDPR rules may be used in a
non-roaming situation.
NOTE 1: The procedure for provisioning predefined SDPR rules is out of scope.
There are defined procedures for activation, modification and deactivation of
SDPR rules (as described in clause 4.4.2.3.2.2). The PCRF may activate, modify
and deactivate a SDPR rule at any time, over the Gxd reference point. The
modification procedure is applicable to dynamic SDPR rules only.
Upon detecting end of service traffic for the corresponding SDPR rule, the TDF
shall notify the PCRF, if originally controlled by the PCRF, of the end of
service traffic.
The operator defines the SDPR rules.
The following table lists the information contained in a SDPR rule, including
the information element name, the description and whether the PCRF may modify
this information in a dynamic SDPR rule which is active in the TDF. The
Category field indicates if a certain piece of information is mandatory or not
for the construction of a SDPR rule, i.e. if it is possible to construct a
SDPR rule without it.
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Information | Description | Category | PCRF permitted | | name | | | to modify for a | | | | | dynamic SDPR | | | | | rule in the TDF | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | SDPR Rule | Uniquely | Mandatory | No | | identifier | identifies the | | | | | SDPR rule, | | | | | within an | | | | | IP‑CAN session. | | | | | | | | | | It is used | | | | | between PCRF | | | | | and standalone | | | | | TDF for | | | | | referencing | | | | | SDPR rules. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Application |** References | Mandatory | No | | identifier**| the | | | | | corresponding | | | | | application | | | | | (i.e. service), | | | | | for which the | | | | | rule applies.** | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | **Enforcement | *Defines how | | | | control** | the standalone | | | | | TDF shall apply | | | | | enforcement | | | | | actions for the | | | | | detected | | | | | service | | | | | traffic.* | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Gate status | The gate status | | Yes | | | indicates | | | | | whether the | | | | | service data | | | | | flow, detected | | | | | by the service | | | | | data flow | | | | | template, may | | | | | pass (Gate is | | | | | open) or shall | | | | | be discarded | | | | | (Gate is | | | | | closed) at the | | | | | TDF. | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | UL-maximum | The uplink | | Yes | | bitrate | maximum bitrate | | | | | authorized for | | | | | the service | | | | | traffic | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | DL-maximum | The downlink | | Yes | | bitrate | maximum bitrate | | | | | authorized for | | | | | the service | | | | | traffic | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | Redirect | Redirect | | Yes | | | detected | | | | | service traffic | | | | | to another | | | | | controlled | | | | | address | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+ | | | | | +-----------------+-----------------+-----------+-----------------+
The _SDPR Rule identifier_ shall be unique for a SDPR rule within an IP‑CAN
session. A dynamically provided SDPR rule that has the same Rule identifier
value as a predefined SDPR rule shall replace the predefined rule within the
same IP‑CAN session.
The **_Application identifier_** **references the corresponding application
(i.e. service), for which the rule applies.**
The _Gate_ _status_ indicates whether the TDF shall let a service traffic
matching the Application identifier, pass through (gate is open) the TDF or
the TDF shall discard (gate is closed) the service traffic.
The _UL maximum-bitrate_ indicates the authorized maximum bitrate for the
uplink component of the detected service traffic.
The _DL maximum-bitrate_ indicates the authorized maximum bitrate for the
downlink component of the detected service traffic.
The _Redirect_ indicates whether the detected service traffic should be
redirected to another controlled address. The target redirect address is
included also.
### 4.4. 3.4.2 Service Detection and Policy rule relevant operations
Service Detection and Policy rule operations consist of activation,
modification and de-activation of SDPR rules.
Activation of a dynamic SDPR rule: The PCRF provides the SDPR rule information
to the TDF via the Gxd reference point.
Activation of a predefined SDPR rule: The PCRF provides an identifier of the
relevant SDPR rule to the TDF via the Gxd reference point.
An active SDPR rule means that the service traffic, matching the corresponding
application (i.e. service), is detected and enforced as per enforcement
control actions, if defined within the SDPR rule.
The PCRF may, at any time, modify an active, dynamic SDPR rule.
The PCRF may, at any time, deactivate an active SDPR rule in the TDF via the
Gxd reference point. At IP‑CAN session termination all active SDPR rules are
deactivated upon information, received from the PCRF about IP‑CAN session
termination.
Upon detecting end of service traffic for the application (i.e. service), TDF
shall deactivate the corresponding SDPR rule.
4.4.3.4.3 PCC rules modifications
The following additional fields should be added to PCC rules\' structure in
order to support service awareness functionality:
  * The **_Application identifier_** **references the corresponding application (i.e. service), for which the rule applies.**
  * The _Redirect_ indicates whether the detected service traffic should be redirected to another controlled address. The target redirect address is included also.
Additionally, Event triggers of start and stop of detected traffic should be
added.
### 4.4.4 Conclusion
The general AF, as part of the PCC architecture defined in TS 23.203, shall
not be enhanced to support enforcement functionality assigned to the PCEF,
according to TS 23.203, for the purpose of service detection / this key issue.
As a consequence the Rx reference shall not be enhanced to carry QoS
enforcement information.
Both solicitied and unsolicitied service detection reporting scenarios as
described in key issue 4 are valid. Whether the one or other is chosen depends
on the actual network deployment. Therefore, it is proposed to cover both of
them in the normative standardization.
## 4.5 Key issue 5: Service Based Traffic Steering
### 4.5.1 Description
In a service aware network it is possible to optimally route the traffic. For
IP services that get identified using service traffic detection mechanism it
may only be possible after the session has been established and the some
traffic has already traversed the network. In order to improve service
experience it should be possible to steer traffic after its establishment for
example from a Home PDN Gateway to a local breakout.
Editor's Note: further changes can be done to this key issue description based
on SA1 feedback.
## 4.6 Key issue 6: Extending Policy Architecture to handle transactional
services
### 4.6.1 Description
Current 3GPP PCC architecture usage is designed around the handling of IP
flows. Many current / legacy (e.g. SMS) and future services (e.g. video
rental) are however of transactional nature. In many scenarios it can be
beneficial if there is a standardized mechanism for handling policies for such
services via the PCC. For transactional services while the PCRF will act as
the policy decision function and authorize requests for such services, the
service logic and enforcement of PCRF authorized decisions will continue to
reside within the service.
Editor's note: The extent of such interaction and enforcement are subject to
3GPP scope and FFS.
#