# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This technical report intends to develop enhancements to Rel-9 IMS Service
Continuity in TS 23.237 [2], specifically in the functional area of Inter-UE
Transfer. The main objective is to provide enhancements to mobility of media
flows of a session between different UEs (Inter-UE Transfer) with respect to
the following aspects:
\- Extension of Inter-UE Transfer and Collaborative Session capabilities
specified in Rel-09 to multiple UEs belonging to different IMS subscriptions
under the same operator.
\- Establishment of a Collaborative Session at session setup.
\- Support for control of media components of a Collaborative Session by more
than one UE simultaneously.
\- Transfer of control of a Collaborative Session.
\- Controller initiated media modification on a Controllee UE (e.g. video
resolution).
\- Discovery of ongoing IMS multimedia sessions on different UEs.
\- Inter-UE Transfer initiated by the target UE when:
\- the target UE belongs to the Collaborative Session but it is not a
Controller UE;
\- the target UE does not belong to the Collaborative Session and wants to
join;
\- Inter-UE Transfer is performed without establishing a Collaborative
Session.
\- Replication of an ongoing multimedia session from one UE on another UE.
\- Inter-UE Transfer between UEs connected to the IMS via an IP-CAN and ICS
entities that provide interworking with UEs in the CS Domain.
\- Execution of MMTEL services for Collaborative Sessions.
This document contains the results of an assessment of alternative
architectures to support Inter-UE Transfer enhancements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: **\"** Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications**\"**.
[2] 3GPP TS 23.237: **\"** IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity;
Stage 2**\"**.
[3] 3GPP TS 23.292: **\"** IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) centralized services;
Stage 2**\"**.
[4] 3GPP TS 22.173: **\"** IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS)
Multimedia Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1**\"**.
[5] 3GPP TS 24.610: \"Communication HOLD (HOLD) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[6] 3GPP TS 24.605: \"Conference (CONF) using IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network
(CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 24.629: \"Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT) using IP
Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol specification\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.647: \"Advice Of Charge (AOC) using IP Multimedia (IM)Core
Network (CN) subsystem; Protocol Specification\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Collaborative Session Control:** The control operations on the Collaborative
Session which can only be performed by the Controller UE, e.g. ability to
release the Collaborative Session, to invoke supplementary services, and to
authorize requests for IUT Media Control Related Procedures from other UEs.
**Controllee UE:** A UE that supports media flows for a Collaborative Session
and may request IUT Media Control Related Procedures but is subordinate to the
Controller UE for authorization of these procedures.
**Controller UE:** The UE that controls a Collaborative Session and whose
service profile determines the services on the remote leg. The Controller UE
may also support media flows for a Collaborative Session and may request IUT
Media Control Related Procedures.
**Hosting SCC AS:** The SCC AS that manages the dialog with the remote party
for a Collaborative Session.
**IUT Media Control Related Procedure:** The control operations on the media
flows of the Collaborative Session which involve multiple UEs or need
Controller UE\'s authorization within the Collaborative Session, e.g. ability
to transfer/add/replicate media flows, to remove/modify media flows on a
different UE.
**Playback Control:** The ability to control the playback (e.g.,
play/pause/rewind/fast forward/stop) of media flows of a Collaborative
Session.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
IUT Inter-UE Transfer
# 4 Scenarios and Operations
## 4.1 Scenarios for Collaborative Session
The following is the list of scenarios that describe the new and enhanced IUT
capabilities for Collaborative Sessions:
1\. Establishment of Collaborative Session at IMS session origination.
2\. Establishment of Collaborative Session on IMS session termination.
3\. Transferring media.
4\. IUT initiated by the target UE.
5\. Adding media.
6\. Deleting media.
7\. Modifying media.
8\. Replicating media.
9\. Transferring Collaborative Session control.
Several of the scenarios in the following clauses are for operations involving
UEs belonging to multiple subscriptions. For these cases the following figure
shows a general representation of some of the IMS network elements involved in
these scenarios.
Figure 4.1-1
### 4.1.1 Establishment of Collaborative Session at IMS session origination
This scenario enables the IMS IUT user to establish a Collaborative Session
without the pre-requisite of having an IMS session already established. The
different UEs to be involved in the Collaborative Session may belong to the
same IMS subscription or to different IMS subscriptions.
In the example of Collaborative Session origination shown in Figure 4.1.1-1, a
user at UE-1 wants to set up a Collaborative Session with audio media flow in
UE-1 and video media flow in UE-2, and wants to control the Collaborative
Session through UE-1. Firstly, UE-1 requests the IMS network to set up with
the remote party an audio media flow at UE-1 and video media flow at UE-2, and
in addition to create a Collaborative Session controlled by UE-1.
Subsequently, the IMS network sets up the session with the remote party for
establishment of the audio and video media flows, thus creating a
Collaborative Session between UE-1 and UE-2 with UE-1 as the Controller UE.
After the successful setup of the Collaborative Session, there is audio media
flow between UE-1 and remote party, video media flow between UE-2 and remote
party, and UE-1 controls the Collaborative Session.
Figure 4.1.1-1: Establishment of Collaborative Session at IMS session
origination
### 4.1.2 Establishment of Collaborative Session at IMS session termination
This scenario enables the IMS IUT user to establish a Collaborative Session
when accepting a terminating IMS session. The different UEs to be involved in
the Collaborative Session may belong to the same IMS subscription or to
different IMS subscriptions.
In the example of Collaborative Session termination shown in Figure 4.1.2-1, a
remote party sets up a session with audio and video media flows to UE-1. The
user at UE-1 accepts incoming session as a Collaborative Session with audio
media flow in UE-1, video media flow in UE-2, and control of the Collaborative
Session in UE-1. After the successful setup of the Collaborative Session,
there is audio media flow between UE-1 and remote party, video media flow
between UE-2 and remote party, and UE-1 controls the Collaborative Session.
Figure 4.1.2-1: Establishment of Collaborative Session at IMS session
termination
### 4.1.3 Transferring media
#### 4.1.3.1 Transferring media to UE of same IMS subscription
Refer to TS 23.237 [2].
#### 4.1.3.2 Transferring media to UE of different IMS subscription
This scenario enables the IMS IUT user to establish a Collaborative Session
and to transfer one or more media flows of an ongoing multimedia session
between different UEs belonging to different IMS subscriptions whilst keeping
Collaborative Session control.
In the example shown in Figure 4.1.3-1, user-1 has a multimedia session with
audio and video media flows between his device UE-1 and remote party, and UE-2
and UE-3 belong to user-2\'s subscription. Subsequently, user-1 transfers the
audio media flow from device UE-1 to device UE-2 and the video media flow from
device UE-1 to device UE-3, thus establishing a Collaborative Session between
the three UEs with control of Collaborative Session at UE-1, which triggered
the multimedia session transfer. After the transfer is completed, only the
control of the Collaborative Session remains with the device UE-1, which is
the Controller UE whereas UE-2 and UE-3 are Controllee UEs.
Figure 4.1.3-1: Transferring media between UE belonging to different IMS
subscriptions
Continuing on the previous example, the user-1 from his device UE-1 can
transfer the voice and video media flows of the Collaborative Session back to
UE-1, thus ending the Collaborative Session between UEs.
### 4.1.4 IUT initiated by the target UE
This scenario enables the IMS IUT user to request the transfer of one or more
media flows of an ongoing multimedia session and/or control of an ongoing
Collaborative Session, by interacting with the target UE, belonging to the
same IMS subscription or to a different IMS subscription.
There is one ongoing session with audio and video media flows between UE-1 and
remote party. UE-2 requests the transfer of an audio media flow from UE-1 to
UE-2 whilst keeping video media flow and Collaborative Session control in
UE-1. After the media transfer is completed, the audio media flow is in UE-2,
and the video media flow and Collaborative Session control remain with the
device UE-1. UE-1 and UE-2 are then involved in a Collaborative Session, for
which UE-1 is the Controller UE and UE-2 is Controllee UE.
As a variation from this example, other kind of supported Inter-UE Transfers
may be requested by the user by interacting with the target UE, e.g. transfer
of media with Collaborative Session control, Inter-UE Transfer without
establishing a Collaborative Session.
Figure 4.1.4-1: Pulling media
### 4.1.5 Adding media
#### 4.1.5.1 Adding media to UE of same IMS subscription
Refer to TS 23.237 [2].
#### 4.1.5.2 Adding media to UE of different IMS subscription
This scenario enables the IMS IUT user to establish a Collaborative Session
and to add one or more media flows of an ongoing multimedia session to
different UEs belonging to different IMS subscriptions whilst keeping
Collaborative Session control.
In the example shown in Figure 4.1.5-1, user-1 has a multimedia session with
audio media flow between his device UE-1 and remote party, and UE-2 belongs to
user-2\'s subscription. Subsequently, user-1 adds a video media flow to UE-2
with remote party. After the adding is completed, the Collaborative Session
control and audio media flow remain with the device UE-1, video media flow of
the Collaborative Session is in UE-2. UE-1 and UE-2 are then involved in a
Collaborative Session, for which UE-1 is the Controller UE whereas UE-2 is
Controllee UE.
Figure 4.1.5-1: Adding media to UE belonging to different IMS subscriptions
### 4.1.6 Deleting media
#### 4.1.6.1 Deleting media from UE of same IMS subscription
Refer to TS 23.237 [2].
#### 4.1.6.2 Deleting media from UE of different IMS subscription
This scenario enables the IMS IUT user to delete one or more media flows of an
ongoing Collaborative Session from UEs belonging to different IMS
subscriptions.
In the example shown in Figure 4.1.6-1, user-1 has a Collaborative Session
with audio media flow between his device UE-1 and remote party, video media
flow between UE-2 and remote part, and UE-2 belongs to user-2\'s subscription.
Subsequently, the user-1 deletes video media flow from UE-2. In this scenario,
after the deleting is completed, there is no longer a Collaborative Session,
however if other UEs other than UE-1 are part of the original Collaborative
Session, the Collaborative Session remains.
Figure 4.1.6-1: Deleting media from UE belonging to different IMS subscription
### 4.1.7 Modifying media
This scenario enables the IMS IUT user to modify the media flow of an ongoing
Collaborative Session.
In the example shown in Figure 4.1.7-1, there is a Collaborative Session with
audio-1 and video-1 media flows between UE-1/UE-2 and remote party for which
UE-1 is the Controller UE whereas UE-2 is Controllee UE. UE-1 and UE-2 may
belong to the same IMS subscription or different IMS subscriptions.
Figure 4.1.7-1: Collaborative Session between UE-1/UE-2 and remote party
UE-1 and UE-2 can re-negotiate media information with remote party to modify
media flow(s) in themselves. UE-1 can initiate re-negotiation of media
information of UE-2 with remote party.
### 4.1.8 Replication controlled by IMS Network
This scenario enables the IMS IUT user to replicate the media flow of an
ongoing multimedia session to different UEs, and to establish one
Collaborative Session.
In the example shown in Figure 4.1.8-1, a user has a multimedia session with
audio-1 and video-1 media flows between his device UE-1 and remote party.
Subsequently, the user requests to replicate the video-1 media flow as video-2
media flow to UE-2, and establishes one Collaborative Session for it. After
the success of replication, the Collaborative Session control is in UE-1,
audio-1 and video-1 media flows remain with UE-1, and IMS network replicates
video-1 to video-2 in UE-2. Video-1 and video-2 media flows are transferring
same downlink video packets from remote party, and only uplink video packets
from UE-1 will be transferred to remote party. UE-1 and UE-2 may belong to the
same IMS subscription or different IMS subscriptions.
Figure 4.1.8-1: Collaborative Session Replicate media
For the above example, either UE-1 or UE-2 could request to replicate video-1
from UE-1 to itself. Only the downlink media of Video-1 will be replicated to
UE-2.
The limitation of replicating downlink data only of the media flow which is
required to be replicated applies to all types of media flows in this release.
### 4.1.9 Transferring Collaborative Session control
In this scenario, UE-1 and UE-2 are in a Collaborative Session, with UE-1
being the controller UE (i.e. has control of the Collaborative Session) with
video media flow, and UE-2 being the controllee UE with voice media flow.
Subsequently UE-1 decides to transfer the Collaborative Session control to
UE-2. In this process, UE-2 becomes the controller UE (i.e. has control of the
Collaborative Session) while UE-1 becomes the controllee UE with video media
flow. UE-1 and UE-2 may belong to the same IMS subscription or different IMS
subscriptions.
{width="3.910416666666667in" height="2.1597222222222223in"}
Figure 4.1-1: An example of Collaborative Session control transfer
## 4.2 Void
## 4.3 Scenarios without establishing a Collaborative Session
### 4.3.1 Replicating media by remote end
This scenario enables the IMS IUT user to replicate all media flows of an
ongoing multimedia session to a different UE, which results in establishing an
IMS session which is independent from the original one. The original
multimedia session is not impacted by the replication procedure.
In the example shown in Figure 4.3.1-1, a user has a multimedia session
consisting of media flows Audio-1 and Video-1 between his device UE-1 and a
remote party, which is likely to be a media flow server in this scenario, e.g.
an IPTV server. Subsequently, the user requests to replicate current media
flows to UE-2. After the success of the replication, a multimedia session with
media flows Audio-2 and Video-2 is established between UE-2 and the remote
party. The original multimedia session between UE-1 and remote party is not
impacted, in other word, audio-1 and video-1 media flows remain on UE-1. These
two sessions are handled independently by the IMS network but may have the
same service characteristics and may be correlated by the remote party. UE-1
and UE-2 may belong to the same IMS subscription or different IMS
subscriptions.
Figure 4.3.1-1: Replicating media by remote end
For the above example, either UE-1 or UE-2 could request to replicate the
session to UE-2.
### 4.3.2 Transfer of entire session
This scenario allows the IMS IUT user to transfer an entire session from an
IUT capable UE to another UE. The IUT does not result in a Collaborative
Session.
In the example shown in Figure 4.3.2-1 a user has a multimedia session with
audio-1 and video-1 media flows between their device UE-1 and remote party.
Subsequently, the user requests to the entire multimedia session to UE-2.
Establishment of a Collaborative Session is not required for this scenario.
After the success of transfer, the session control, and media components
audio-1 and video-1 are transferred to UE2 and UE1 is released from the
session with the remote party. UE2 is not required to be an IUT capable UE.
This scenario may be initiated by UE-1 or alternatively by UE-2. If the IUT is
initiated by UE-2, then UE-2 is required to be IUT capable. UE-1 and UE-2 may
belong to the same IMS subscription or different IMS subscriptions. The
scenario where UE-1 and UE-2 belong to the same IMS subscription is addressed
in TS 23.237 [2].
NOTE: Transfer of a session using IUT without establishing a Collaborative
Session has a similar result to using ECT to transfer a session. Differences
between the two services and their execution of transfer procedures exist.
Editor\'s Note: When IUT occurs between UEs that belong to different
subscriptions, resolving which subscriber\'s services are active in the
signalling path towards the remote leg after IUT without establishing a
Collaborative Session has occurred is FFS.
Figure 4.3.2-1: IUT of an entire multimedia session without establishing a
Collaborative Session
## 4.4 Controller UE and Controllee UE operations
In one Collaborative Session, the roles of the Controller UE and the
Controllee UE are as follows:
\- Only one Controller UE has the Collaborative Session Control. The
Controller UE can also perform **IUT Media Control Related Procedures**. The
Controller UE is associated with the Hosting SCC AS and is the local endpoint
known to the remote party (as in Release 9).
\- The Controllee UE with IUT capabilities is allowed to perform **IUT Media
Control Related Procedures**. And when the Controllee UE with IUT capabilities
initiates **IUT Media Control Related Procedures** , it is subject to the
authorization of the Controller UE or the Hosting SCC AS on behalf of the
Controller UE (e.g. based on the user preferences associated with the
Controller UE).
Table 4.4-1 provides an overview of Controller UE and Controllee UE
operations. The operations of the Controllee UE without IUT capabilities are
the same as those of the Controllee UE in Release 9, and therefore not shown
in Table 4.4‑1.
Table 4.4-1: Controller UE and Controllee UE operations
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Op | Co | Co | Co | Co | | | erations | ntroller | ntroller | ntrollee | ntrollee | | | | UE | UE | UE with | UE with | | | | | Comment | IUT | IUT | | | | | | Capa | Capa | | | | | | bilities | bilities | | | | | | | Comment | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Add | Add | Yes | Standard | Yes | Standard | | media | media | | SC | | SC | | flow | flow by | | pro | | pro | | (local | creating | | cedures. | | cedures. | | end | a new | | | | | | in | Access | | | | | | itiating | Leg on | | | | | | case) | the same | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Add | Yes | Rel-9 | Yes | Rel-10 | | | media | | ca | | New | | | flow by | | pability | | ca | | | creating | | of IUT. | | pability | | | a new | | | | of IUT. | | | Access | | | | | | | Leg on a | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Add | Yes | Standard | Yes | Standard | | | media | | IMS | | IMS | | | flow to | | pro | | pro | | | an | | cedures. | | cedures. | | | existing | | | | | | | Access | | | | | | | Leg on | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Add | Yes | Rel-9 | Yes | Rel-10 | | | media | | ca | | New | | | flow to | | pability | | ca | | | an | | of IUT. | | pability | | | existing | | | | of IUT. | | | Access | | | | | | | Leg on a | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Remove | Remove | Yes | Standard | Yes | Standard | | media | media | | IMS | | IMS | | flow | flow | | pro | | pro | | (local | from an | | cedures. | | cedures. | | end | Access | | | | | | in | Leg on | | | | | | itiating | the same | | | | | | case) | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Remove | Yes | Rel-9 | Yes | Rel-10 | | | media | | ca | | New | | | flow | | pability | | ca | | | from an | | of IUT. | | pability | | | Access | | | | of IUT. | | | Leg on a | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Invoke | MMTEL | Yes | Standard | Yes | Rel-10 | | | service | | IMS | | New | | Supp | control | | pro | | ca | | | with | | cedures. | | pability | | Services | media on | | | | of IUT. | | | the same | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | TS 22.17 | | | | | | | 3 [4]) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | MMTEL | Yes | Rel-9 | No | | | | service | | ca | | | | | control | | pability | | | | | with | | of IUT. | | | | | media on | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | TS 22.17 | | | | | | | 3 [4]) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Colla | | Yes | Rel-9 | No | | | borative | | | ca | | | | Session | | | pability | | | | Release | | | of IUT. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Ren | Update | Yes | Standard | Yes | Standard | | egotiate | of media | | IMS | | IMS | | media | charact | | pro | | pro | | charact | eristics | | cedures. | | cedures. | | eristics | on the | | | | | | | same UE | | | | | | (local | | | | | | | end | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | itiating | | | | | | | side) | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Update | Yes | Rel-10 | Yes | Rel-10 | | | of media | | New | | New | | | charact | | ca | | ca | | | eristics | | pability | | pability | | | on a | | of IUT. | | of IUT. | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Transfer | Transfer | Yes | Rel-9 | Yes | Rel-10 | | of media | media | | ca | | New | | flow | flow | | pability | | ca | | | from the | | of IUT. | | pability | | | same UE | | | | of IUT. | | | to a | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Transfer | Yes | Rel-9 | Yes | Rel-10 | | | media | | ca | | New | | | flow | | pability | | ca | | | from a | | of IUT. | | pability | | | d | | | | of IUT. | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | | another | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Transfer | Yes | Rel-9 | Yes | Rel-10 | | | media | | ca | | New | | | flow | | pability | | ca | | | from a | | of IUT. | | pability | | | d | | | | of IUT. | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Transfer | Transfer | Yes | Rel-10 | No | | | of | Colla | | New | | | | Colla | borative | | ca | | | | borative | Session | | pability | | | | Session | control | | of IUT. | | | | control | from the | | Only | | | | | same UE | | transfer | | | | | to a | | to a | | | | | d | | d | | | | | ifferent | | ifferent | | | | | UE | | UE of | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | profile | | | | | | | and same | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | pported. | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Transfer | No | | Yes | Rel-10 | | | Colla | | | | New | | | borative | | | | ca | | | Session | | | | pability | | | control | | | | of IUT. | | | from a | | | | Only | | | d | | | | transfer | | | ifferent | | | | from a | | | UE to | | | | d | | | the same | | | | ifferent | | | UE | | | | UE of | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | service | | | | | | | profile | | | | | | | and same | | | | | | | subs | | | | | | | cription | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | pported. | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Rep | R | Yes | Rel-10 | Yes | Rel-10 | | lication | eplicate | | New | | New | | of media | media | | ca | | ca | | flow | flow | | pability | | pability | | | from the | | of IUT. | | of IUT. | | | same UE | | | | | | | to a | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | R | Yes | Rel-10 | Yes | Rel-10 | | | eplicate | | New | | New | | | media | | ca | | ca | | | flow | | pability | | pability | | | from a | | of IUT. | | of IUT. | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | | another | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | R | Yes | Rel-10 | Yes | Rel-10 | | | eplicate | | New | | New | | | media | | ca | | ca | | | flow | | pability | | pability | | | from a | | of IUT. | | of IUT. | | | d | | | | | | | ifferent | | | | | | | UE to | | | | | | | the same | | | | | | | UE | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# 5 Architectural Requirements and Assumptions
## 5.1 Assumptions
\- The UEs involved in IUT Media Control Related Procedures can belong to
different IMS subscriptions under the same operator.
\- The Collaborative Session control can be transferred between UEs
registering Public User identities that share the same service profile (and
thus belong to the same IMS subscription).
## 5.2 Architectural Requirements
The solution shall fulfil the following architectural requirements:
\- The Controller UE shall maintain the Collaborative Session Control for the
session until the session is released or until the Collaborative Session
Control is transferred to another Controller capable UE.
\- It shall be possible to apply IUT Media Control Related Procedures between
UEs belonging to different IMS subscriptions.
\- When UEs from different subscriptions are involved in a Collaborative
Session, the SCC ASs shall assure that UEs do not create subsequent
Collaborative Sessions for media belonging to Access Legs of the original
Collaborative Session, and thus only a single Collaborative Session with a
single hosting SCC AS shall be allowed.
\- When an SCC AS creates an access leg towards a UE that is not part of the
same subscription that is currently associated with the Collaborative Session,
it shall include sufficient information indicating that there already exists a
hosting SCC AS.
\- It shall be possible for a UE to indicate that it is capable to become a
Controller UE.
\- It shall be possible for the Controller UE to apply IUT Media Control
Related Procedures when setting up either an originating or terminating
session.
\- It shall be possible, based on the terminating user\'s preferences, to
route incoming IMS session requests to a UE that is capable of becoming a
Controller UE.
\- It shall be possible for a UE to request to replicate one or more media
flow(s) from the Remote End.
\- It shall be possible for the network to replicate media in order to support
the media replication scenarios described in this document.
\- It shall be possible for a UE to determine the information of ongoing
multimedia session(s) in other UEs before or during IUT Media Control Related
Procedures.
\- It shall be possible for the network to mask some or all of the media flows
composing the session from session discovery based on user service
configuration or operator policy.
\- The selection of the media flows to be transferred may be based on the
ongoing multimedia session(s) on the source UE(s) discovered by the target
UE(s) in pull mode.
\- It shall be possible for a UE to request and, when authorized, to pull one
or more media flow(s) from a source UE.
\- It shall be possible for a Controller UE to initiate transfer of
Collaborative Session Control to another Controller capable UE that has
registered a Public User identity and shares the service profile with the
Public User identity used in the Collaborative Session.
\- It shall be possible for a Controller capable UE to request and, when
authorized, to pull Collaborative Session Control from a source UE.
\- It shall be possible for the Controller UE to authorize requests for IUT
Media Control Related Procedures.
\- It shall be possible for the network to authorize requests for IUT Media
Control Related Procedures on behalf of the Controller UE.
\- It shall be possible to perform Inter-UE Transfer between UEs connected to
the IMS via an IP-CAN and ICS entities that provide interworking with UEs in
the CS Domain without impact on the CS domain.
\- The network shall resolve conflicting IUT Media Control Related Procedures
within a Collaborative Session.
\- When the Collaborative Session Control on the Controller UE is lost, the
SCC AS may transfer the Collaborative Session Control to another Controller
capable UE (with a Public User Identity belonging to the same Service Profile)
involved in the Collaborative Session based on the user preferences associated
with the Controller UE.
\- It shall be possible for the SCC AS to initiate Inter-UE Transfer on behalf
of the UE/user as a result of a UE requesting IUT, or due to other stimulus
such as, but not restricted to, IMS signalling received by the SCC AS from
other IMS entities, user preferences, or other service layer triggers.
# 6 Architecture Alternatives
## 6.1 Alternative 1
### 6.1.1 Architecture Reference Model
#### 6.1.1.1 General
This architecture alternative builds on the functionalities of the SCC AS
specified in TS 23.237 [2] to enable the enhanced IUT functionalities in
Rel-10.
Any IUT capable UE can request IUT Media Control Related Procedures. Such
requests are subject to authorization by the SCC AS and/or the Controller UE.
Authorization is based on user and/or operator provided application specific
settings in the SCC AS and/or in the Controller UE. These application specific
settings may be associated with the service profile of the Controller UE in
service specific data in the HSS.
Although any IUT capable UE can request IUT Media Control Related Procedures,
there is only one Controller UE at a time in a Collaborative Session. The UE
that establishes the Collaborative Session and whose service profile is in
effect for the session with the remote end is the initial Controller UE. The
Controller UE role may be transferred to a different Controller capable UE by
using the Controller UE transfer procedure as specified in clause 6.1.3.4.
NOTE: Only transfer of Collaborative Session Control to another Controller
capable UE that has registered a Public User Identity that shares the same
service profile (and thus belongs to the same IMS subscription) is supported
for this release.
#### 6.1.1.2 User authorisation and preferences
There are two different kinds of authorization in the IUT architecture:
**Authorization by the SCC AS. The SCC AS responsibilities includes:**
\- checking that the subscription allows the requested operation.
\- enforcing network based user preferences, e.g. check whether other UEs
shall be allowed to retrieve session information related to the UE.
**Authorization of incoming request by the UE. The UE based authorization
includes:**
\- authorization through end-user interaction, e.g. the end user authorizes
requests for IUT Media Control Related Procedures by pressing a button on the
device.
\- automatic authorization by UE configuration, e.g. the UE automatically
authorizes requests for IUT Media Control Related Procedures from a specific
device.
The UE based authorization is considered to be a local implementation of the
UE.
If the user requires configuring IUT authorisation and preference settings to
the SCC AS, this shall be possible via the Ut interface. The information that
can be configured includes:
\- UEs authorised by the user to perform the IUT Media Control Related
Procedures; and
\- authorisation for the SCC AS to preferentially route incoming session
invitations from the remote party towards Controller capable UE(s). The user
may additionally define criteria to determine whether to preferentially route
incoming session invitations from the remote party towards Controller capable
UE(s). It shall be possible to apply, for example, the following criteria and
combinations of the following criteria to the incoming request:
\- Calling party identity (Public User Identity);
\- Called party identity used;
\- Identification of the Service (Service Identifier); and
\- Media types being offered in the incoming request.
The SCC AS shall take in account operator policy and the above user
preferences when determining:
\- whether the UE is authorised to perform the Controller UE functions, and
\- whether to preferentially route incoming session requests from a remote
party towards Controller capable UE(s).
### 6.1.2 Control and User Plane Paths
Figure 6.1.2-1: Control and User Plane Paths for Collaborative Session between
UEs belonging to different IMS subscriptions
Figure 6.1.2-1 illustrates control and user plane paths for a two-user
scenario in which there is a single Controller UE (UE A1 belonging to User-A).
The Hosting SCC AS is the SCC AS that serves the (initial) Controller UE (SCC
AS-A, that serves User-A in this illustration). It anchors the Remote Leg of
the Collaborative Session (see TS 23.237 [2] for Remote Leg) and thereby
executes service requests towards the remote end during and after setup of the
Collaborative Session. Any other SCC AS involved in the Collaborative Session
(in this illustration, SCC AS-B, that serves User-B) simply relays service
requests associated with the Collaborative Session towards SCC AS-A (with SCC
AS-A acting as remote end for that leg) using standard IMS signalling. Each
SCC AS involved in the Collaborative Session may execute Access Transfer of
the UE that it serves or forward the Access Transfer request to SCC AS-A.
In order for SCC AS-B to determine that it shall simply relay service requests
associated with the Collaborative Session towards the Hosting SCC AS-A rather
than execute them, handling is applied as follows:
  * if an SCC AS acts as a Hosting SCC AS for a Collaborative Session, it shall include a piece of service interaction information in the SIP signalling messages sent to other SCC-ASs, indicating that the Service Feature \"Collaborative Session\" has been performed;
  * if an SCC AS receives a SIP message containing indication that the Service Feature \"Collaborative Session\" has been performed, it shall relay all service requests associated with the Collaborative Session towards the SCC AS that has inserted this indication.
### 6.1.3 Information Flows
#### 6.1.3.1 General
The information flows in this clause that illustrate multiple IMS subscription
scenarios mention network-based authorization of Collaborative Session service
requests. In each such flow, it is understood that, in order to perform
network-based authorization of such requests, the SCC AS can use collaborator-
oriented information as described in clause 6.1.4.
In the following information flows, when initiating **IUT Media Control
Related Procedures** , the Controller UE can be replaced by the Controllee UE
with IUT capabilities, with the difference that the Hosting SCC AS receiving a
media control request from a Controllee UE with IUT capabilities shall send it
to the Controller UE for authorization, or authorize it on behalf of the
Controller UE (e.g. based on the user preferences associated with the
Controller UE).
The scenarios and information flows in this document exemplify IUT initiated
by a UE sending an IUT request received by the SCC AS. Scenarios pertaining to
the SCC AS initiating IUT based on a different stimulus such as user
preferences, other IMS signalling or service layer triggers are not precluded,
but illustrative information flows are not included in this document.
#### 6.1.3.2 Establishment of Collaborative Session upon Originating IMS
Session Setup
##### 6.1.3.2.1 Controller UE and Controllee UE belong to same IMS
subscription
##### 6.1.3.2.1.1 Alternative 1 {#alternative-1-1 .H6}
UE-1 establishes an IMS session with a remote party and establishes a
Collaborative Session with UE2 belonging the same IMS subscription as part of
a single procedure. The Collaborative Session is anchored at the SCC AS. UE-1
may establish the Collaborative Session with one or more media being
established on the Controllee UE and with zero or more media on the Controller
(itself). Following is an information flow for this procedure.
Figure 6.1.3.2.1.1-1: Establish Collaborative Session on IMS session
origination
1\. UE-1 sends a request to the SCC AS to establish a Collaborative Session
with UE2 (with Media Flow-A on UE-1 and Media Flow-B on UE-2), and an IMS
session with a remote party. The IUT request shall include the enough
information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify media flows associated with each UE;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in UE-1.
2\. The SCC AS verifies UE-1 and UE-2 belong to the same subscription and
establishes the Access Leg with UE-1 for Media Flow-A, and the Access Leg with
UE-2 for Media Flow-B.
3\. The SCC AS sends the IMS session establishment request on to the remote
party for a session with Media Flows A and B and completes the setup of the
access legs on UE1 and UE2.
4\. The SCC AS indicates to UE1 that the requested Collaborative and IMS
sessions are established.
A Collaborative Session is established, for which UE-1 becomes the Controller
UE and UE-2 becomes a Controllee UE.
##### 6.1.3.2.1.2 Alternative 2 {#alternative-2 .H6}
The following information flow shows the Collaborative Session establishment
procedure when there is no ongoing IMS session. Concurrent with a normal
session set-up towards a remote party, UE-1 wants to establish a Collaborative
Session, which is anchored at the SCC AS, with a new Media Flow-A on itself
and a new Media Flow-B on another UE-2.
Figure 6.1.3.2.1.2-1: Establishment of Collaborative Session upon Originating
IMS Session Setup: Same IMS subscription: Alternative 2
1\. UE-1 sends a session setup request towards the remote party in order to
set up a Collaborative Session to remote party with Media-A in UE-1, and with
Media-B in UE-2. The session setup request includes enough information for the
network to:
\- identify the remote party of the session setup request;
\- identify that Media-A shall be established in UE-1;
\- identify that Media-B shall be established in UE-2 and the media type
associated with Media-B (e.g., video);
\- keep the Collaborative Session control of Media-A and Media-B in UE-1.
2\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the session setup request to SCC AS-1 according to iFC
configuration.
3\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-1.
4\. SCC AS-1 sends a request to establish an Access Leg at UE-2 for Media-B.
NOTE: In order to obtain the full media description of Media-B, it is
necessary to establish the Access Leg at UE-2 prior to engaging the remote
party so that the SCC AS can send a proper (complete) SDP offer towards the
remote party in step 5.
5\. \~ 6. SCC AS-1 sends session setup request towards the remote party to set
up remote leg, and S-CSCF-1 forwards the session setup request to remote
party.
7\. \~ 8. Remote party sends response with SDP answer of Media-A and Media-B
towards SCC AS-1, and S-CSCF-1 forwards the response to SCC AS-1.
9\. SCC AS-1 sends response with SDP answer of Media-A towards UE-1 to
establish Media-A in UE-1, and the response also carries the information of
Media-B.
10\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the response towards UE-1.
11\. SCC AS-1 sends response with SDP answer of Media-B towards UE-2 to
establish Media-B in UE-2.
12\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the response towards UE-2.
After the above operation, a Collaborative Session has been established
between UE-1 and UE-2 with: UE-1 as the Controller UE, UE-2 as a Controllee
UE, Media-A between UE-1 and the remote party, and Media-B between UE-2 and
the remote party.
##### 6.1.3.2.2 Controller UE and Controllee UE belong to different IMS
subscriptions
The information flow below illustrates a scenario in which a Collaborative
Session is established concurrent with the setup of an originating IMS
session. The Controller UE invites a UE that belongs to a different
subscription to participate in the Collaborative Session.
Figure 6.1.3.2.2-1: Establishment of Collaborative Session upon originating
IMS session setup: Controller UE and Controllee UE belong to different IMS
subscriptions
1\. UE-1 sends a session setup request (can be INVITE message in SIP protocol)
towards the remote party. The session setup request includes enough
information for the network to:
\- identify the remote party of the session setup request;
\- identify that Media-A shall be established in UE-1;
\- identify that Media-B shall be established in UE-2 and the media type
associated with Media-B (e.g., video);
\- keep the Collaborative Session control of Media-A and Media-B in UE-1.
2\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the session setup request to SCC AS-1 according to iFC
configuration.
3\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-1.
4\. SCC AS-1 sends a request towards UE-2 for setting up Media-B in UE-2. The
request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify that the source of the request is UE-1;
\- identify that Media-B shall be established in UE-2 and the media type
associated with Media-B (e.g., video);
\- keep the Collaborative Session control of Media-B in UE-1.
S-CSCF-1 forwards the request towards UE-2.
5\. If UE-2 is an IUT subscriber, the request is routed via SCC AS-2. SCC AS-2
notes that this request relates to the establishment of a Collaborative
Session so that any requests by UE-2 related to this Collaborative Session
will be sent towards SCC AS-1. A Collaborative Session setup request is then
routed on towards UE-2. If UE-2 is not an IUT subscriber, S-CSCF-2 routes the
request according to normal procedures.
6\. The session setup request is forwarded to UE-2. The request includes
enough information for UE-2 to identify that the source of the request is
UE-1.
7\. UE-2 sends a session setup response towards SCC AS-1. This response
contains the full media description of Media-B.
8 - 9. S-CSCF-2 routes the response back towards SCC AS-1, via SCC AS-2 if
UE-2 is an IUT subscriber.
10\. SCC AS-1 sends a session setup request towards the remote party to set up
remote leg.
11\. S-CSCF-1 routes the session setup request to the remote party.
12\. Remote Party sends response with SDP answer of Media-A and Media-B
towards SCC AS-1.
13\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the response to SCC AS-1.
14\. SCC AS-1 sends response with SDP answer of Media-A towards UE-1 to
establish Media-A, and the response also carries the information of Media-B.
15\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the response towards UE-1.
16\. SCC AS-1 sends response with SDP answer of Media-B towards UE-2 to
establish Media-B.
17\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the response towards UE-2.
18\. If UE-2 is an IUT subscriber, S-CSCF-2 routes the response via SCC AS-2.
SCC AS-2 then forwards the response towards S-CSCF-2.
19\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the response towards UE-2.
After the above operations, a Collaborative Session is established, for which
UE-1 becomes the Controller UE and UE‑2 becomes a Controllee UE. Media-A is
established between Controller UE-1 and the remote party, and Media-B is
established between Controllee UE-2 and the remote party.
#### 6.1.3.3 Establishment of Collaborative Session upon Terminating IMS
Session Setup
##### 6.1.3.3.1 Controller UE and Controllee UE belong to same IMS
subscription
##### 6.1.3.3.1.1 Alternative 1 {#alternative-1-2 .H6}
A remote party establishes an IMS session with UE1. UE1 establishes a
Collaborative Session with UE2 belonging to the same IMS subscription as part
of this session set-up procedure. The Collaborative Session is anchored at the
SCC AS. UE-1 may establish the Collaborative Session with one or more media
being established on the Controllee UE and with zero or more media on the
Controller (itself). Following is an information flow for this procedure.
Figure 6.1.3.3.1.1-1: Establish Collaborative Session on IMS session
termination
1\. The remote party sends a session establishment request to UE-1 for Media
Flows A and B. The session is anchored at the SCC AS and the session
establishment request is forwarded to UE-1.
2\. The SCC AS establishes the Access Leg at UE-1 for Media Flow-A.
3\. UE-1 sends an IUT media transfer request to the SCC AS to establish the
session with Media Flow-A on UE-1 and Media Flow-B on UE-2. The IUT media
transfer request shall include the enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the transferred Media Flow is Media Flow-B;
\- identify that the target of the transferred Media Flow is UE-2;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in UE-1.
4\. The SCC AS establishes the Access Leg at UE-2 for Media Flow-B.
5\. The SCC AS sends an IUT media transfer response to UE-1 indicating that
UE-2 accepts the media.
6\. UE-1 sends a successful session establishment response for Media Flow-A.
7\. The SCC AS sends the session establishment response on to the remote party
for a session with Media Flows A and B.
A Collaborative Session is established, for which UE-1 becomes the Controller
UE and UE-2 becomes a Controllee UE.
##### 6.1.3.3.1.2 Alternative 2 {#alternative-2-1 .H6}
The following information flow shows the Collaborative Session establishment
procedure when there is no ongoing IMS session. Concurrent with the response
to a normal session invitation received from a remote party, UE-1 wants to
establish a Collaborative Session, which is anchored at the SCC AS, with the
requested Media Flow-A on itself and the requested Media Flow-B on another
UE-2.
Figure 6.1.3.3.1.2-1: Establishment of Collaborative Session upon Terminating
IMS Session Setup: Same IMS subscription: Alternative 2
1\. Remote Party sends a session setup request towards UE-1 to set up Media-A
and Media-B with UE-1.
2\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the session setup request to SCC-AS-1 according to iFC
configuration.
3\. SCC AS-1 sends the session setup request back to S-CSCF-1.
4\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the session setup request towards UE-1.
5\. UE-1 sends a request towards SCC AS-1 to setup Media-B in UE-2. The
session setup request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify that Media-B shall be established in UE-2 and the requested media
type associated with Media-B (e.g., video);
\- keep the Collaborative Session control in UE-1.
6\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the session setup request to SCC AS-1 according to iFC
configuration.
7\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-1.
8\. SCC AS-1 sends a request to establish an Access Leg at UE-2 for Media-B.
9\. \~ 10. SCC AS-1 sends a response towards the remote party. The response
carries the SDP answer of Media-A in UE-1 and Media-B in UE-2. S-CSCF-1
forwards the successful response towards the remote party.
After the above operation, a Collaborative Session is established, for which
UE-1 becomes the Controller UE and UE-2 becomes a Controllee UE. Media-A is
established between Controller UE-1 and the remote party, and Media-B is
established between Controllee UE-2 and the remote party.
##### 6.1.3.3.2 Controller UE and Controllee UE belong to different IMS
subscriptions
The information flow below illustrates a scenario in which a Collaborative
Session is established concurrent with the setup of a terminating IMS session.
The Controller UE invites a UE that belongs to a second user to participate in
the Collaborative Session.
Figure 6.1.3.3.2-1: Establishment of Collaborative Session upon terminating
IMS Session setup: Controller UE and Controllee UE belong to different IMS
subscriptions
1 \~ 4. The remote party sends a session setup request towards UE-1 to
establish Media-A and Media-B.
5\. UE-1 wants to transfer Media-B to UE-2. UE-1 sends a request towards SCC
AS-1 to set up Media-B in UE-2. The request includes enough information for
the network to:
\- identify that Media-A is accepted and shall be established in UE-1;
\- identify that Media-B shall be established in UE-2 and the media type
associated with Media-B (e.g., video);
\- keep the Collaborative Session control in UE-1.
6\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request to SCC AS-1.
7\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-1.
8\. SCC AS-1 sends a request towards UE-2 for setting up Media-B in UE-2. The
request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify the source of the request as UE-1;
\- identify the remote party;
\- identify that Media-B shall be established in UE-2;
\- keep the Collaborative Session control of Media-B in UE-1.
S-CSCF-1 routes the request towards UE-2.
9\. If UE-2 is an IUT subscriber, the request is routed via SCC AS-2. SCC AS-2
notes that this request relates to the establishment of a Collaborative
Session so that any requests by UE-2 related to this Collaborative Session
will be forwarded back towards SCC AS-1. A Session Setup request is then
routed on towards UE-2. If UE-2 is not an IUT subscriber, S-CSCF-2 routes the
request according to normal procedures.
10\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the Session Setup request towards UE-2.
11\. UE-2 sends the session setup response towards SCC AS-1.
12\. If UE-2 is an IUT subscriber, S-CSCF-2 routes the session setup response
via SCC AS-2..
13\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the session setup response towards SCC AS-1.
14\. SCC AS-1 sends a response with SDP answer of Media-A in UE-1 and Media-B
in UE-2 towards the remote party.
15\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the response towards the remote party.
After the above operation, a Collaborative Session is established, for which
UE-1 becomes the Controller UE and UE-2 becomes a Controllee UE. Media-A is
established between Controller UE-1 and the remote party, and Media-B is
established between Controllee UE-2 and the remote party.
#### 6.1.3.4 Transfer of Collaborative Session Control
##### 6.1.3.4.1 Controller UE transferring Collaborative Session Control to a
Controllee UE (same IMS subscription)
UE-1 and UE-2 are involved in a Collaborative Session with a remote UE. The
Collaborative Session is anchored at the SCC AS. UE-1 is the Controller UE of
the Collaborative Session. UE-1 wishes to transfer the Collaborative Session
Control to UE-2. The media flows to UE-1 and UE-2 from the remote UE remain
unaffected. Following is an information flow for this procedure.
Figure 6.1.3.4.1-1: Controller UE initiated transfer of Collaborative Session
Control
1\. A Collaborative Session is established between UE-1 and UE-2 and a remote
UE with UE-1 acting as the Controller UE and the UE-2 acting as a Controllee
UE. Each UE has a media flow with the remote UE.
2\. UE-1 wishes to transfer the Collaborative Session Control to UE-2.
However, none of the existing media flows are affected. It sends a request to
SCC AS to relinquish Collaborative Session Control. This request includes a
registered Public User Identity or public GRUU of UE-2.
NOTE: If UE-2 has several Public User Identities registered, UE-1 needs to
select a Public User Identity sharing the service profile of the Public User
Identity used by UE-1, in order for this procedure to succeed.
3\. If the SCC AS does not have the list of Public User Identities sharing the
service profile with the Public User Identity used by UE-1 for the
Collaborative Session, it retrieves this information. If the Collaborative
Session Control transfer request indicates that UE-2 has the same Public User
Identity (but different public GRUU) as UE-1, this step is skipped.
4\. The SCC AS ensures that UE-2 can act as the Controller UE for this
Collaborative Session, and that the Public User Identity used by UE-2 shares
the service profile with the Public User Identity used by UE-1 for the
Collaborative Session. Then it sends a message to UE-2 requesting UE-2 to
assume the role of Controller UE for this on-going Collaborative Session.
5\. UE-2 accepts the role of Controller UE for this Collaborative Session and
indicates its acceptance to SCC AS.
6\. SCC AS in turn provides an acknowledgement to UE-1 confirming that UE-2 is
the new Controller UE for the Collaborative Session and removing Collaborative
Session Control from UE-1.
7\. UE-2 has become the Controller UE and UE-1 has become the Controllee UE.
##### 6.1.3.4.2 Controller UE transferring Collaborative Session Control to
another UE with Media Transfer (same IMS subscription)
UE-1 and UE-3 are involved in a collaborative session with a remote party. The
collaborative session is anchored at the SCC AS. UE-1 is the Controller UE of
the Collaborative Session. UE-1 wishes to transfer the Collaborative Session
Control to UE-2 along with the media flow on UE-1. The media flow to UE-3 from
the remote party remains unaffected. Following is an information flow for this
procedure.
Figure 6.1.3.4.2-1: Controller UE initiated transfer of Collaborative Session
Control with transfer of media flow
1\. A Collaborative Session is established between UE-1 and UE-3 and a remote
party with UE-1 acting as the Controller UE and the UE-3 acting as a
Controllee UE. Each UE has a media flow with the remote party.
2\. UE-1 wishes to transfer the Collaborative Session Control along with media
flow A to UE-2. UE-1 sends a request to SCC AS to transfer media flow A and
relinquish Collaborative Session Control. This request includes a registered
Public User Identity or GRUU of UE-2.
3\. If the SCC AS does not have the list of Public User Identities that share
the service profile with the Public User Identity used by UE-1 for the
Collaborative Session, the SCC AS retrieves this information. If the
Collaborative Session Control transfer request indicates that UE-2 has the
same Public User Identity (but different public GRUU) with UE-1, this step is
skipped.
4\. The SCC AS ensures that UE-2 can act as the Controller UE for this
Collaborative Session, and that the Public User Identity used by UE-2 shares
the service profile with the Public User Identity used by UE-1 for the
Collaborative Session. The SCC-AS then sends a message to UE-2 requesting UE-2
to transfer media flow A and assume the role of Controller UE for this on-
going Collaborative Session.
5\. UE-2 accepts transfer of media A and accepts the role of Controller UE for
this collaborative session and indicates its acceptance to the SCC AS.
6 The SCC AS removes Media Flow-A from UE-1, and updates the Remote Leg using
the Remote Leg Update procedure.
7\. SCC AS in turn provides an acknowledgement to UE-1 confirming that UE-2
has accepted the media transfer and is the new Controller UE for the
collaborative session .
8\. UE-2 has become the Controller UE and UE-1 has become the Controllee UE
and Media A is now transferred to UE-2. If there is no media flow remaining on
UE-1, UE-1 is released from the Collaborative Session.
##### 6.1.3.4.3 Session Control Transfer (CS media with Transfer of media)
##### 6.1.3.4.3.1 General {#general-2 .H6}
These subsections show the information flow how to transfer media and control
of a Collaborative Session from UE-1 to UE-2, where the incoming session is
delivered over the Gm or I1 reference point and the media is established via
CS network. It is assumed that UE-1 and UE-2 use Public User Identities that
have the same service profile (and thus belong to the same IMS subscription).
NOTE 1: ICS capabilities are required by UE-2.
NOTE 2: Currently, there are no supporting stage 1 requirements for the
information flows in this clause.
##### 6.1.3.4.3.2 Collaborative Session Control and Media Transfer using Gm
reference point {#collaborative-session-control-and-media-transfer-using-gm-
reference-point .H6}
The following information flow shows how to transfer media and control of a
Collaborative Session from UE-1 to UE‑2, where the incoming session is
delivered over the Gm reference point and the media is established via CS
network. It is assumed that UE-1 and UE-2 belong to the same IMS subscription.
Interworking entities correspond to MSC Server enhanced for ICS, and follows
termination procedures with CS media using Gm reference point shown in TS
23.292 [3].
NOTE 1: When the interworking entities correspond to MSC Server and MGCF the
CS bearer setup procedures follow the steps 11-17 in the Figure 7.4.2.2.2-2 of
the TS 23.292 [3].
Figure 6.1.3.4.3.2-1: Flow for Controller UE initiated media/session control
transfer -- using Gm reference point
1\. UE‑1 decides to transfer the Media-A and Collaborative Session Control to
UE‑2 and sends IMS entities a transfer request indicating that the current
Collaborative Session Control and Media-A is to be transferred to UE‑2. This
request includes a registered Public User Identity or public GRUU of UE-2.
NOTE 2: If UE-2 has several Public User Identities registered, UE-1 needs to
select a Public User Identity sharing the service profile of the Public User
Identity used by UE-1, in order for this procedure to succeed.
2\. The IMS entities forward the transfer request to the SCC AS.
3\. If the SCC AS does not have the list of Public User Identities sharing the
service profile with the Public User Identity used by UE-1 for the
Collaborative Session, it retrieves this information. If the Collaborative
Session Control transfer request indicates that UE-2 has the same Public User
Identity (but different public GRUU) with UE-1, this step is skipped.
4\. The SCC AS performs T-ADS as specified in TS 23.292 [3] and chooses the CS
domain for the setup of the Media-A. If UE-2 is not allowed to act as a
Controller UE or if the transfer request can\'t be performed successfully, the
SCC AS rejects the request with the reason and stops following the steps
below.
5\. The SCC AS generates and sends IMS entities an IUT transfer request
indicating to transfer the Media-A and collaborative session control to UE-2.
6\. The IMS entities forward the received IUT transfer request to the UE-2.
7\. The UE-2 accepts the transferred control of the Collaborative Session and
sends a CS call setup message to the Interworking entities to accept the
transferred media.
8\. The Interworking entities respond with a call proceeding message and
begins to set up the CS Bearer Control Signalling Path.
9-10. The Interworking entities send a session establishment request towards
the SCC AS via IMS entities.
11\. The UE-2 and SCC AS complete the setup of the Collaborative Session
Control Signalling Path. The Collaborative Session Control between UE‑2 and
the SCC AS is established over Gm reference point. UE‑2 becomes the Controller
UE for the Collaborative Session.
12\. Media-A between UE‑2 and remote party is established. The remote leg is
updated accordingly.
13\. After the successful transfer of the Collaborative Session Control and
Media-A onto the UE‑2, the SCC AS sends the IMS entities an IUT transfer
result message.
14\. The IMS entities forward the IUT transfer result message to the UE-1.
15\. The previous Media-A and Collaborative Session Control are released. UE‑1
becomes a Controllee UE.
##### 6.1.3.4.3.3 Collaborative Session Control and Media Transfer using I1
reference point {#collaborative-session-control-and-media-transfer-
using-i1-reference-point .H6}
The following information flow shows how to transfer media and Collaborative
Session Control from UE-1 to UE-2, where the incoming session is delivered
over the I1 reference point and the media is established via CS network. It is
assumed that UE-1 and UE-2 belong to the same IMS subscription. Interworking
entities correspond to MSC enhanced for ICS, and follows termination
procedures with CS media using I1 reference point shown in TS 23.292 [3].
NOTE 1: When the interworking entities correspond to MSC Server and MGCF the
CS bearer setup procedures follow the steps 11-17 in the Figure 7.4.2.2.2-2 of
the TS 23.292 [3].
Figure 6.1.3.4.3.3-1: Flow for Controller UE initiated media/session control
transfer -- using I1 reference point
1\. UE‑1 decides to transfer the Media-A and collaborative session control to
UE‑2 and sends IMS entities a transfer request indicating that the current
collaborative session control and Media-A is to be transferred to UE‑2. This
request includes a registered Public User Identity or public GRUU of UE-2.
NOTE 2: If UE-2 has several Public User Identities registered, UE-1 needs to
select a Public User Identity sharing the service profile of the Public User
Identity used by UE-1, in order for this procedure to succeed.
2\. The IMS entities forward the transfer request to the SCC AS.
3\. If the SCC AS does not have the list of Public User Identities sharing the
service profile with the Public User Identity used by UE-1 for the
Collaborative Session, it retrieves this information. If the Collaborative
Session Control transfer request indicates that UE-2 has the same Public User
Identity (but different public GRUU) with UE-1, this step is skipped.
4\. The SCC AS performs T-ADS as specified in TS 23.292 [3] and chooses the CS
domain for the setup of the Media-A. If UE-2 is not allowed to act as a
Controller UE or if the transfer request can\'t be performed successfully, the
SCC AS rejects the request with the reason and stops following the steps
below.
5\. The SCC AS generates and sends UE-2 an IUT transfer request via I1
reference point to UE-2 indicating to transfer the Media-A and collaborative
session Control to UE-2.
6\. The UE-2 accepts the transferred control of the Collaborative Session and
sends a CS call setup message to the Interworking entities to accept the
transferred media.
7\. The Interworking entities respond with a call proceeding message and
begins to set up the CS Bearer Control Signalling Path.
8-9. The Interworking entities send a session establishment request towards
the SCC AS via IMS entities.
10\. The UE-2, and SCC AS complete the setup of the Collaborative Session
Control Signalling Path. The Collaborative Session Control between UE‑2 and
the SCC AS is established over I1 reference point. UE‑2 becomes the Controller
UE for the Collaborative Session.
11\. Media-A between UE‑2 and remote party is established. The remote leg is
updated accordingly.
12\. After the successful transfer of the Collaborative Session Control and
Media-A onto the UE‑2, the SCC AS sends the IMS entities an IUT transfer
result message.
13\. The IMS entities forward the IUT transfer result message to the UE-1.
14\. The previous Media-A and Collaborative Session Control is released. UE‑1
becomes a Controllee UE.
#### 6.1.3.5 Media flow transfer initiated by the target UE
##### 6.1.3.5.1 Controller UE and Controllee UE belong to same IMS
subscription
##### 6.1.3.5.1.1 Initiated by UE not participating in ongoing Collaborative
Session {#initiated-by-ue-not-participating-in-ongoing-collaborative-session
.H6}
UE-1, UE-2 and UE-3 are under the same IMS subscription. UE-1 and UE-2 are
involved in Collaborative Session with remote party. The figure below shows
media flow transfer from UE-1 to UE-3 requested by UE-3.
Figure 6.1.3.5.1.1-1: Inter UE Transfer initiated by UE not participating in
the collaborative session
1\. UE-3 obtains information about the existing sessions and their media
flows.
2\. UE-3 sends IUT media transfer request to transfer the Media-A from UE-1 to
UE-3. The request shall include the enough information for the network to:
\- identify the targeted Collaborative Session;
\- identify that the transferred media flow is Media-A;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-3;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in UE-1;
\- other information.
3\. The SCC AS requests the Controller UE-1 to authorize the pull request or
the SCC AS authorizes the request on behalf of UE-1(e.g. pre-configured). The
SCC AS will also authorize that the target UE is of the same subscription. If
the request is authorized, SCC AS continues in accordance with step 2 of
clause 6a.3.1 in TS 23.237 [2], i.e. SCC AS establishes a session with UE-3
for the Media-A, removes Media-A from UE-1, and updates the Remote Leg using
the Remote Leg Update procedure. The UE-3 becomes a new Controllee UE.
4\. The SCC AS sends IUT media transfer response to UE-3.
##### 6.1.3.5.1.2 Initiated by UE not participating in the session -- no
Collaborative Session established {#initiated-by-ue-not-participating-in-the-
session-no-collaborative-session-established .H6}
UE-1 and UE-2 are under the same IMS subscription. UE-1 is involved in IMS
session with remote party. The figure below shows session transfer from UE-1
to UE-2 requested by UE-2. Since all the media flow(s) are transferred from
UE-1 to UE-2 simultaneously, the roles of the Controller UE and the Controllee
UE are not applicable.
{width="6.677777777777778in" height="4.447916666666667in"}
Figure 6.1.3.5.1.2-1: Inter UE Transfer initiated by UE not participating in
the session -- no Collaborative Session established
1\. UE-2 obtains information about the existing sessions and their media
flows.
2\. UE-2 sends IUT media and service control transfer request. The request
shall include enough information for the network to:
\- identify the transferred session;
\- identify the target of the transferred session is UE-2;
\- identify access leg of UE-1 to be transferred to UE-2.
3 The SCC AS requests the UE-1 to authorize the pull request or the SCC AS
authorizes the request on behalf of UE-1 (e.g. pre-configured). The SCC AS
will also authorize that the target UE is of the same subscription. If the
request is authorized, SCC AS continues in accordance with step 2 of clause
6a.6 in TS 23.237 [2], i.e. SCC AS establishes a session with UE-2 for the
Media-A, removes Media-A from UE-1, and updates Remote Leg using the Remote
Leg Update procedure.
4 The SCC AS sends IUT media and service control transfer response to UE-2.
##### 6.1.3.5.1.3 Initiated by Controllee UE in ongoing Collaborative Session
{#initiated-by-controllee-ue-in-ongoing-collaborative-session .H6}
UE-1 and UE-2 are under the same IMS subscription. UE-1 and UE-2 are involved
in a Collaborative Session with remote party, in which UE-1 is the Controller
UE and UE-2 is the Controllee UE. The figure below shows media flow transfer
from UE-1 to UE-2 requested by UE-2.
Figure 6.1.3.5.1.3-1: Inter UE Transfer initiated by Controllee UE in ongoing
Collaborative Session
1\. UE-2 obtains the information about the media flows in its current
participating Collaborative Session.
2\. UE-2 sends IUT media transfer request to transfer the Media-A from UE-1 to
UE-2. The request shall include enough information for the network to:
\- identify that the transferred media flow is Media-A;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-2;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in UE-1;
\- other information.
3\. The SCC AS requests the Controller UE-1 to authorize the pull request or
the SCC AS authorizes the request on behalf of UE-1 (e.g. pre-configured). If
the request is authorized, SCC AS continues in accordance with step 2 of
clause 6a.3.1 in TS 23.237 [2] to transfer Media-A to UE-2, removes Media-A
from UE-1, and updates the Remote Leg using the Remote Leg Update procedure.
The UE-1 remains to be the Controller UE and UE-2 remains to be a Controllee
UE.
4 The SCC AS sends IUT media transfer response to UE-2.
##### 6.1.3.5.1.4 IUT solicited by a target UE without prior information about
the existing sessions {#iut-solicited-by-a-target-ue-without-prior-
information-about-the-existing-sessions .H6}
This realization of pull mode is particularly applicable to the cases where
the UE to be target of an IUT operation does not have information about
ongoing sessions, e.g. because of privacy restrictions.
It is based on extending the information provided in the event package used
for the discovery of status and capabilities of potential target UEs, with
information on the wish to be the target of an IUT operation.
The following information flow shows a UE in control of an IMS session or
Collaborative Session, subscribing to a device info event to be notified of
availability and capabilities of potential target UEs, this event package
being extended with additional information on the wish to be the target of an
IUT operation. The end user subsequently requests the transfer of a video to
UE-2 by interacting with UE-2. UE-2 then updates its status to inform the
network that it solicits an IUT to be performed to itself. In this example,
the notification includes the type of media that UE-2 expects to be
transferred. Alternatively, any other kind of IUT could be requested the same
way, e.g. transfer of Collaborative Session control.
Figure 6.1.3.5.1.4-1: IUT solicited by a target UE without prior information
about existing sessions
1\. An IMS session or a Collaborative Session is set-up, involving at least
UE-1 and a remote party. In case of a Collaborative Session, UE-1 is the
Controller UE. Two media are established: audio (Media Flow-A) and video
(Media Flow-B).
2\. UE-1 performs IUT target discovery and discovers UE-2 as specified in TS
23.237 [2], clause 6a.8.
3\. By interacting with UE-2, the user requests the transfer of a video media
to UE-2.
4\. UE-2 updates its status, indicating that it solicits an IUT of a video
media.
5 - 6. This status update is notified to UE-1.
7\. UE-1 identifies that it controls Media Flow-B which corresponds to the
solicitation (video) and decides whether to initiate the IUT solicited by UE-2
or not.
8\. UE-1 uses the relevant IUT procedure to transfer Media Flow-B to UE-2.
##### 6.1.3.5.2 Controller UE and Controllee UE belong to different IMS
subscriptions
##### 6.1.3.5.2.1 Establish Collaborative Session by target UE initiated
transferring media {#establish-collaborative-session-by-target-ue-initiated-
transferring-media .H6}
The information flow below illustrates a transfer of media flow scenario in
which a UE belonging to one subscription (UE-2) requests a media flow from a
UE that belongs to another subscription (UE-1). At this time, the control of
the transferred media flow remains at UE-1. After the transfer, a
Collaborative Session is established, in which the UE-1 is Controller UE, and
UE-2 is Controllee UE. It is assumed that, prior to the scenario, User-2 has
discovered that there is an ongoing session between UE-1 and the remote party.
NOTE: If UE-1 does not support IUT media related procedures or is not an IUT
subscriber, SCC AS-1 or UE-1 will return an error.
Figure 6.1.3.5.2.1-1: Establish Collaborative Session by target UE initiated
transferring media
There are Media-A and Media-B between UE-1 and remote party.
1\. UE-2 sends a request towards UE-1 to transfer Media-B from UE-1 to UE-2.
The request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify that the media flow to be transferred is Media-B;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be transferred is UE-1;
\- identify the session that contains the media flow to be transferred;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-2;
\- give control of the Collaborative Session to UE-1.
2\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the request to SCC AS-2.
3\. SCC AS-2 authorizes the request from UE-2.
4\. SCC AS-2 sends a request to S-CSCF-2 towards UE-1 to transfer Media-B from
UE-1 to UE-2. The Collaborative Session request includes enough information
for the network to:
\- identify the source of the transfer request as UE-2;
\- identify that the media flow to be transferred is Media-B;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-2;
\- give control of the Collaborative Session to Controller UE-1.
4a. S-CSCF-2 forwards the request towards UE-1.
4b. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request to SCC AS-1.
5\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-2.
6\. SCC AS-1 removes Media-B from UE-1, updates Remote Leg and finishes Access
Leg establishment for setting up Media-B between remote party and UE-2, and
updates the media information in Controller UE-1.
After the above operation, a Collaborative Session is established, for which
UE-1 becomes the Controller UE and UE-2 becomes a Controllee UE and Media
Flow-A and Media Flow-B become part of the Collaborative Session under the
control of UE‑1.
This information flow is also applicable to the cases where a UE not
participating in an ongoing Collaborative Session joins the Collaborative
Session by initiating the transfer of media flow(s) from Controller UE which
belongs to the different IMS subscription to itself.
##### 6.1.3.5.2.2 Initiated by UE not participating in ongoing Collaborative
Session - media on Controllee UE {#initiated-by-ue-not-participating-in-
ongoing-collaborative-session---media-on-controllee-ue .H6}
UE-1 and UE-2 are involved in Collaborative Session with remote party. UE-1
and UE-2 belong to different subscriptions and SCC AS-1 serves the user of
UE-1, SCC AS-2 serves the user of UE-2. UE-3 which is not in the Collaborative
Session can belong to the same subscription as UE-1 or UE-2 or neither. The
figure below shows the media flow transfer procedure from UE-2 to UE-3
requested by UE-3. For simplification, in the flow UE-3 belongs to the same
subscription with UE-2.
Figure 6.1.3.5.2.2-1: Pull mode Inter UE Transfer initiated by UE not
participating in the Collaborative Session -- media on the Controllee UE
1\. UE-3 obtains information about the existing sessions and their media flows
of UE-2.
2\. UE-3 sends an IUT media transfer request towards UE-2 to transfer the
Media-B from UE-2 to UE-3. The request shall include the enough information
for the network to:
\- identify the targeted Collaborative Session;
\- identify that the transferred media flow is Media-B;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-3;
\- other information.
3\. Based on the identifier of the targeted Collaborative Session, SCC AS-2
knows itself to be the SCC AS serving the Controllee UE of the collaborative
session, and relays the media transfer request via S-CSCF2/1 to the SCC AS-1
which serves the Controller UE of the collaborative session.
4-6. SCC AS-1 sends a media transfer request to the Controller UE-1, and the
Controller UE-1 authorizes the media transfer request. If SCC AS-1 is
configured to authorize the request on behalf of UE-1, steps 4-6 are skipped.
7\. After obtaining authorization, SCC AS-1 establishes a session with UE-3
for the Media-B, removes Media-B from UE-2, and updates the Remote Leg using
the Remote Leg Update procedure as specified in clause 6a.1.2 in TS 23.237
[2]. The UE-3 becomes a new Controllee UE.
NOTE 1: If no media flow as part of the Collaborative Session remains in UE-2
after the transfer, UE-2 shall be removed from the Collaborative Session.
8\. SCC AS-1 sends the media transfer response via S-CSCF1/2 towards UE-3.
9\. SCC AS-2 sends the media transfer response towards UE-3.
10\. SCC AS-1 sends the Collaborative Session information to the Controller
UE-1 to inform UE-1 of the change of the Collaborative Session.
> NOTE 2: If the Controller UE-1 and the Controllee UE-2 belong to the same
> subscription, SCC AS-1 and SCC AS-2 are the same SCC AS.
#### 6.1.3.6 Media flow transfer initiated by UE other than the target UE
##### 6.1.3.6.1 Transferring media from Controller UE to Controllee UE
belonging to different IMS subscription
The information flow below illustrates a transfer of media flow scenario in
which the Controller UE transfers a flow to a UE that belongs to another user.
Figure 6.1.3.6.1-1: Transferring media from Controller UE to Controllee UE
belonging to different IMS subscriptions
There are Media-A and Media-B between Controller UE-1 and remote party.
1\. UE-1 sends a request towards SCC AS-1 to transfer Media-B to UE-2. The
request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify that the media flow to be transferred is Media-B;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be transferred is UE-1;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-2.
2\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request to SCC AS-1.
3\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-1.
4\. SCC AS-1 sends a request towards UE-2 to setup Media-B on UE-2. The
request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify the source of the transfer request as UE-1;
\- identify the remote party;
\- identify that the media flow to be transferred is Media-B;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be transferred is Controller
UE-1;
\- identify that the target of the media flow to be transferred is Controllee
UE-2.
4a. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request towards UE-2.
5\. If UE-2 is an IUT subscriber, the request is routed via SCC AS-2 which
checks that UE-2 is authorized to receive the request. If so, SCC AS-2 notes
that this request relates to the establishment of a Collaborative Session so
that any requests by UE-2 related to this Collaborative Session will be
forwarded back towards SCC AS-1. A Session Setup request is then routed on
towards UE-2. If UE-2 is not an IUT subscriber, S-CSCF-2 routes the request
according to normal procedures.
6\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the Session Setup request to Controllee UE-2.
7\. UE-2 sends a Session Setup response towards SCC AS-1.
8 - 9. S-CSCF-2 routes the response back towards SCC AS-1 -- via SCC AS-2 if
UE-2 is an IUT subscriber.
10\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the session setup response to SCC AS-1.
11\. SCC AS-1 removes Media-B from UE-1, updates Remote Leg and finishes
Access Leg establishment for setting up Media-B between remote party and UE-2.
After the above operation, Media-B has been transferred from Controller UE-1
to Controllee UE-2.
##### 6.1.3.6.2 Adding media from Controller UE to Controllee UE belonging to
different IMS subscription
The information flow below illustrates a scenario in which UE-1, the
Controller UE of a Collaborative Session, invites a UE that belongs to a
second user to participate in the Collaborative Session by adding a new media
flow towards it; control of the Collaborative Session remains with UE-1.
Figure 6.1.3.6.2-1: Adding media by Controller UE to Controllee UE belonging
to different IMS subscription
There is Media-A between Controller UE-1 and remote party.
1\. Controller UE-1 sends a request towards SCC AS-1 to add Media-B on UE-2,
as part of the same Collaborative Session of Media-A. The request includes
enough information for the network to:
\- identify that the added media flow is Media-B and the requested media type
associated with Media-B (e.g., video);
\- identify that the target of the added media flow is UE-2.
2\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request to SCC AS-1.
3\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-1.
4\. SCC AS-1 sends a request towards UE-2 for adding Media-B to Controllee
UE-2. The request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify the source of the request as UE-1;
\- identify the remote party;
\- identify that the added media flow is Media-B and the media type associated
with Media-B (e.g., video);
\- identify that the source of the added media flow is Controller UE-1;
\- identify that the target of the added media flow is Controllee UE-2.
4a. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request towards UE-2.
5\. If UE-2 is an IUT subscriber, the request is routed via SCC AS-2 which
authorizes the request. SCC AS-2 notes that this request relates to the
establishment of a Collaborative Session so that any requests by UE-2 related
to this Collaborative Session will be forwarded back towards SCC AS-1. A
Session Setup Request is then routed on towards UE-2. If UE-2 is not an IUT
subscriber, S-CSCF-2 routes the request according to normal procedures.
6\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the Session Setup request towards UE-2.
7\. UE-2 sends a Session Setup response towards SCC AS-1. This request
contains the full media description of Media-B.
8 - 9. S-CSCF-2 routes the response back towards SCC AS-1 via SCC AS-2 if UE-2
is an IUT subscriber.
10\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the Session Setup response to SCC AS-1.
11\. SCC AS-1 updates Remote Leg and finishes Access Leg establishment for
adding Media-B to UE-2, and updates the media information in Controller UE-1.
After the above operation, Media-B is established between Controllee UE-2 and
remote party.
##### 6.1.3.6.3 Controllee initiated Transfer of media from Controllee UE to
another Controllee UE (Controller, Controllee-1 and Controllee-2 belong to
different IMS subscriptions)
This information flow shows the Controllee UE-2 transferring a media flow from
the Controllee (UE-2) to another Controllee (UE-2). As a pre-requisite, there
exists a Collaborative Session with a media flows, Media--B on the Controllee
UE (UE-2). Furthermore, Controller UE and Controllee UE 1 profiles are served
by different IUT SCC AS, SCC AS 1, SCC AS 2 which are in turn attached to
S-CSCF 1, S-CSCF 2 respectively. For simplicity, the S-CSCFs are not shown in
the following figure.
Figure 6.1.3.6.3 -1: Controllee initiated Transfer of media from Controllee UE
to another Controllee (Controller and Controllees belong to different IMS
subscriptions)
1\. Controllee UE-2 sends a Collaborative session request to SCC AS-2 to
transfer Media-B from UE-2 to Controllee UE-3. The Collaborative Session
request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify that the media to be transferred is Media-B;
\- identify that the source for the media to be transferred is Controllee
UE-2;
\- identify that the target for the media to be transferred is Controllee
UE-3;
\- identify the session that contains of the media flow to be transferred;
\- Controller of the Collaborative Session is Controller UE-1.
2\. SCC AS-2 authorizes the request from UE-2 and identifies that the session
is a collaborative session anchored at SCC AS1 and so forwards the
\"Collaborative session request to transfer Media-B\" to SCC AS-1 which is the
SCC AS for the Controller UE.
3a-c The SCC AS-1 sends a Collaborative session request to the Controller
UE-1, and the Controller UE-1 authorizes the media transfer request.
NOTE: SCC AS-1 may be configured to authorize the request on behalf of UE-1.
4\. SCC AS-1 sends the Session request to add media-B to UE-3 via S-CSCF-3.
Media-B in UE-3 is kept inactive until the remote end is updated. The
Collaborative Session request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify the source of the transfer request as UE-1;
\- identify the remote party;
\- identify that the media flow to be transferred is Media-B;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be transferred is Controllee
UE-2;
\- identify that the target of the media flow to be transferred is Controllee
UE-3;
5a. S-CSCF-3 forwards the Session request to UE-3.
5b. UE-3 sends a Session response to S-CSCF-3.
6\. S-CSCF-3 forwards Session response to SCC AS-1.
7\. SCC AS-1 updates remote leg with Remote Leg Update Procedure.
8\. SCC AS-1 activates media-B at UE-2 and releases media-B UE-3.
When the Inter UE Transfer is completed UE-1 keeps the Collaborative Session
control.
##### 6.1.3.6.4 Controllee initiated Addition of media to another Controllee
UE (Controller, Controllee-1 and Controllee-2 belong to different IMS
subscriptions)
This information flow shows the Controllee UE-2 adding a media flow to another
Controllee (UE-3). As a pre-requisite, there exists a Collaborative Session
with a media flow, Media--A, on the Controllee UE (UE-2). Furthermore,
Controller UE 1 and Controllee UE-2 profiles are served by different IUT SCC
AS: SCC AS 1 and SCC AS 2, which are in turn attached to S-CSCF 1 and S-CSCF 2
respectively. For simplicity, these S-CSCFs are not shown in the following
figure.
Figure 6.1.3.6.4-1: Controllee initiated addition of media to another
Controllee UE (Controller and Controllees belong to different IMS
subscriptions)
1\. Controllee UE-2 sends a Collaborative session request to SCC AS-2 to add
Media-B to Controllee UE-3. The Collaborative Session request includes enough
information for the network to:
\- identify that the media to be added is Media-B;
\- identify that the target for the media to be added to is Controllee UE-3;
\- identify the session that contains of the media flow to be added;
\- Controller of the Collaborative Session is Controller UE-1.
2\. SCC AS-2 authorizes the request from UE-2 and identifies that the session
is a collaborative session anchored at SCC AS-1.
3\. SCC AS-2 then forwards the Collaborative session request to SCC AS-1 to
transfer Media-B to SCC AS-1 which is the SCC AS for the Controller UE.
4-6 SCC AS-1 sends a Collaborative session request to the Controller UE-1, and
the Controller UE-1 authorizes the media addition request.
NOTE: SCC AS-1 may be configured to authorize the request on behalf of UE-1.
7\. SCC AS-1 sends Session request to add media-B to UE-3 via S-CSCF -3. The
Collaborative Session request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify the source of the transfer request as UE-1;
\- identify the remote party;
\- identify that the media flow to be added is Media-B;
\- identify that the target of the media flow to be added is Controllee UE-3;
8\. S-CSCF-3 forwards the Session request to UE-3.
9\. UE-3 sends a Session response to SCC AS-3.
10\. S-CSCF-3 forwards Session response to SCC AS-1.
11\. SCC AS-1 updates remote leg with Remote Leg Update Procedure.
12\. SCC AS-2 sends the Collaborative session response to UE-2.
When the Inter UE Transfer is completed UE-1 keeps the Collaborative Session
control.
##### 6.1.3.6.5 Controller initiated Release of media from Controllee UE
(Controller and Controllee belong to different IMS subscriptions)
This information flow shows the Controller UE releasing a media flow from the
Controllee UE. As a pre-requisite, there exists a Collaborative Session with
two media flows, Media--A on the Controller UE (UE-1) and Media--B on the
Controllee UE (UE-2). Furthermore, Controller UE and Controllee UE profiles
are stored on different S-CSCFs, S‑CSCF-1 and S-CSCF-2, respectively.
Figure 6.1.3.6.5-1: Controller initiated Release of media from Controllee UE
(Controller and Controllee belong to different IMS subscriptions)
1\. Controller UE-1 sends a Release media request to SCC AS-1 to release
Media-B on Controllee UE-2. The Collaborative Session request includes enough
information for the network to:
\- identify that the media to be released is Media-B;
\- identify that the media to be held is on Controllee UE-2;
\- identify the session that contains of the media flow to be released;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in Controller UE-1.
2a. S-CSCF-1 forwards the Release Media request to SCC AS-1.
2b. SCC AS-1 verifies that UE-1 is a Controller and therefore is authorized to
release the media from a Controllee UE with a user belonging to another
subscription.
2c. SCC AS-1 sends a Release Media request towards UE-2 to release Media-B on
UE-2. The Collaborative Session request includes enough information for the
network to:
\- identify the source of the release media request as UE-1;
\- identify that the media flow to be released is Media-B;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be released is Controllee
UE-2;
3\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the Release Media request towards S-CSCF-2.
4\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the Release Media Request towards the Controllee.
5\. Controllee UE-2 provides the Release Media Response to the S-CSCF-2.
6-7. S-CSCF-2 forwards the Release Media Response to SCC-AS-1.
8\. The SCC AS-1 updates the remote leg of the collaborative session with
Media-B released.
9-10. The SCC AS-1 informs the Controller UE-1 via the S-CSCF-1 of
successfully releasing Media-B from Controllee UE 2. Steps 9-10 could be
performed in parallel to Step 10.
##### 6.1.3.6.6 Controller initiated Transfer of media from Controllee UE to
another Controllee UE (Controller, Controllee-1 and Controllee-2 belong to
different IMS subscriptions)
This information flow shows the Controller UE transferring a media flow from
the Controllee (UE-2) to another Controllee (UE-3). As a pre-requisite, there
exists a Collaborative Session with two media flows, Media--A on the
Controller UE (UE-1) and Media--B on the Controllee UE (UE-2). Furthermore,
Controller UE, Controllee UE-2and Controllee UE-3 profiles are served by
different S-CSCFs, S-CSCF-1, S-CSCF-2 and S-CSCF-3, respectively. For
simplicity, S-CSCF-1 is not shown in the following figure.
Figure 6.1.3.6.6-1: Controller initiated Transfer of media from Controllee UE
(Controller and Controllee belong to different IMS subscriptions)
1\. Controller UE-1 sends a Collaboration session request to SCC AS-1 to
transfer Media-B from Controllee UE-2 to Controllee UE-3. The Collaborative
Session request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify that the media to be transferred is Media-B;
\- identify that the media to be transferred is currently on Controllee UE-2;
\- identify that the media to be transferred to is Controllee UE-3;
\- identify the session that contains of the transferred media flow to be
transferred;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in Controller UE-1.
2\. SCC AS-1 verifies that UE-1 is a Controller and therefore is authorized to
release the media from a Controllee UE with a user belonging to another
subscription.
3\. SCC AS-1 sends Session request to add media-B to UE-3 via S-CSCF-3.
Media-B in UE-3 is kept inactive until the remote end is updated. The Session
request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify the source of the transfer request as UE-1;
\- identify the remote party;
\- identify that the media flow to be added is Media-B;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be transferred is Controllee
UE-2;
\- identify that the target of the media flow to be transferred is Controllee
UE-3;
4a. S-CSCF-3 forwards the Session request to UE-3.
4b. UE-3 sends a Session response to S-CSCF-3.
5\. S-CSCF-3 forwards Session response to SCC AS-1.
6\. SCC AS-1 updates remote leg with Remote Leg Update Procedure.
7\. SCC AS-1 establishes the access legs at UE-2 and removes media-B from
UE-3.
8\. SCC AS-1 sends the Collaboration Session Response message to UE-1
confirming the successful transfer of Media-B from UE-2 to UE-3.
When the Inter UE Transfer is completed, UE-1 keeps the Collaborative Session
control.
#### 6.1.3.7 Session Replication by remote party
##### 6.1.3.7.1 Pull Mode Session Replication
The call flow in the figure below shows the scenario where UE-2 requests
replication of a session ongoing between UE‑1 and a remote UE. After the
replication procedure is complete, the sessions are independent.
Figure 6.1.3.7.1-1: Pull mode session replication
1\. UE-2 obtains information about the existing sessions and their media
flows.
2\. UE-2 uses the session information obtained and to send a session
replication request towards the SCC AS. The request indicates that this
request is for a session replication request.
3\. The SCC AS requests UE-1 to authorize the replication request or the SCC
AS authorizes the request on behalf of UE-1 (e.g. pre-configured).
4\. If the request is authorized, UE-2 creates a new session with the remote
UE. When the new session is established, the state of the original media is
replicated e.g. same playback state; same used media etc. is replicated. If
the remote party does not support setting up a replicated session, the flow
will fail.
NOTE: The session replication data and how it is conveyed from the source UE
is not specified in this document.
5\. A new session, where the media is a replica of Media-A, is established
between UE-2 and the remote UE.
##### 6.1.3.7.2 Push Mode Session Replication (same subscription)
The call flow in the figure below shows the scenario where UE-1 requests
replication of a session ongoing between UE‑1 and a remote UE to UE-2. After
the replication procedure is complete, the sessions are independent. As a pre-
requisite, there exists a Session with Media--A on UE-1.
Figure 6.1.3.7.2-1: Push mode session replication (same subscription)
1\. UE-1 requests to replicate current session to UE-2 by sending Session
Replication Request to SCC AS. The Session Replication Request should contain
enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the session replication source is UE-1;
\- identify that the session replication target is UE-2;
\- identify the remote party.
2\. SCC AS checks UE-1 is eligible to request session replication for UE under
the same subscription.
3\. SCC AS sends Session Replication request to controllee UE-2.
3\. UE-2 responses to the Session Replication request.
4\. UE-2 initiates a new session with the remote UE. When the new session is
established, the state of the original media is replicated, e.g., same
playback state, same used media, etc. is replicated. If the remote party does
not support setting up a replicated session, the flow will fail.
NOTE: The session replication data and how it is conveyed from the source UE
is not specified in this document.
5\. A new session, where the media are replica of Media-A, is established
between UE-2 and the remote UE.
##### 6.1.3.7.3 Push Mode Session Replication (different subscription)
The call flow in the figure below shows the scenario where UE-1 requests
replication of a session ongoing between UE‑1 and a remote UE to UE-2. After
the replication procedure is complete, the sessions are independent. As a pre-
requisite, there exists a Session Media--A on UE-1.
Figure 6.1.3.7.3-1: Push mode session replication (different subscription)
1\. UE-1 requests to replicate current session to UE-2 by sending Session
Replication Request to SCC AS-1. The Session Replication Request should
contain enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the session replication source is UE-1;
\- identify that the session replication target is UE-2;
\- identify the remote party.
2\. SCC AS-1 identify UE-2 is not under the same subscription as UE-1. It
forwards the request to S-CSCF-2 that serves UE-2 together with the
information of session on UE-1. S-CSCF-2 further forwards the request to SCC
AS-2 that serves UE-2.
3\. SCC AS-2 sends Session Replication request together with UE-1 session
information to UE-2.
4\. UE-2 decides to accept or reject the Session Replication request.
5\. If the request is accepted by UE-2, UE-2 initiates a new session with the
remote UE. When the new session is established, the state of the original
media is replicated, e.g., same playback state, same used media, etc. is
replicated.
NOTE 1: If either UE-2 or the remote party does not support setting up a
replicated session, the flow will fail.
NOTE 2: The session replication data and how it is conveyed from the source UE
is not specified in this document.
6\. SCC AS-2 sends Media Replication result to UE-1. A new session, where the
media are replica of Media-A, is established between UE-2 and the remote UE.
#### 6.1.3.8 Media Flow Replication by network
##### 6.1.3.8.1 Replicating media in network from Controller UE to another UE
belonging to same IMS subscription
The information flow below illustrates a scenario in which the Controller UE
of a Collaborative Session requests that the network replicate a media flow
towards another UE that belongs to the same subscription.
Figure 6.1.3.8.1-1: Replicating media in network from Controller UE to another
UE belonging to same IMS subscription
There is Media-A between Controller UE-1 and remote party.
1\. Controller UE-1 sends a request towards SCC AS-1 to replicate Media-A to
UE-2. The session setup request includes enough information for the network
to:
\- identify that the media flow to be replicated is Media-A;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be replicated is the remote
party;
\- identify that the target of the media flow to be replicated is Controllee
UE-2.
2\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request to SCC AS-1.
3\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-1.
4\. SCC AS-1 allocates media resource in MRF for the Media-A to be replicated.
5\. SCC AS-1 sends a request to establish an Access Leg at UE-2 for Media-A.
6\. SCC AS-1 updates the Access Leg on Controller UE-1 for the replicated
media flow (Media-A) with MRF.
7\. SCC AS-1 updates the Remote Leg to communicate Media-A with MRF.
After the above operation, Media-A is established between Controller UE-1 and
MRF, between Controllee UE-2 and MRF, and between remote party and MRF.
##### 6.1.3.8.2 Replicating media in network from Controller UE to another UE
belonging to different IMS subscription
The information flow below illustrates a scenario in which a Collaborative
Session is established in the context of an ongoing IMS session. The
Controller UE requests that the network replicate a media flow towards a UE
that belongs to a different subscription.
Figure 6.1.3.8.2-1: Replicating media in network from Controller UE to another
UE belonging to different IMS subscription
There is Media-A between Controller UE-1 and remote party.
1\. Controller UE-1 sends a request towards SCC AS-1 to replicate Media-A to
UE-2. The Collaborative Session request includes enough information for the
network to:
\- identify that the media flow to be replicated is Media-A;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be replicated is the remote
party;
\- identify that the target of the media flow to be replicated is UE-2.
2\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request to SCC AS-1.
3\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-1.
4\. SCC AS-1 allocates media resource for the replicated Media-A in MRF.
5\. SCC AS-1 sends a request towards UE-2 to set up the replicated Media-A
between UE-2 and the MRF. The request includes enough information for the
network to:
\- identify the source of the request as UE-1;
\- identify the remote party;
\- identify that the replicated media flow is Media-A;
\- identify the media resource information of SCC AS-1;
\- identify that the target of the replicated media flow is UE-2.
5a. S-CSCF-1 routes the request towards UE-2.
6\. If UE-2 is an IUT subscriber, the request is routed via SCC AS-2. SCC AS-2
notes that this request relates to the establishment of a Collaborative
Session so that any requests by UE-2 related to this Collaborative Session
will be forwarded back toward SCC AS-1. A Session Setup request is then routed
on towards UE-2. If UE-2 is not an IUT subscriber, S-CSCF-2 routes the request
according to normal procedures.
7\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the Session Setup request towards UE-2.
8\. UE-2 sends the Session Setup response towards SCC AS-1.
9 - 10. S-CSCF-2 routes the response back toward SCC AS-1 via SCC AS-2 if UE-2
is an IUT subscriber.
11\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the response to SCC AS-1.
12\. SCC AS-1 updates Access Leg in UE-1, finishes Access Leg establishment in
UE-2, and updates Remote Leg to communicate Media-A with MRF.
After the above operation, Media-A is established between Controller UE-1 and
MRF, between Controllee UE-2 and MRF, and between remote party and MRF.
##### 6.1.3.8.3 Replicating media in network from Controller UE to another UE
belonging to same IMS subscription -- pull mode
The information flow below illustrates a Collaborative Session scenario in
which a UE not participating in the session requests that the network
replicate towards itself a media flow that pertains to a UE belonging to the
same subscription. It is assumed that, prior to the scenario, UE-2 has
discovered that there is an ongoing session between UE-1 and the remote party
and that UE-1 is capable of supporting IUT related media procedures. If UE-1
does not support IUT related media procedures, SCC AS-1 or UE-1 will return an
error.
Figure 6.1.3.8.3-1: Replicating media in network from Controller UE to another
UE belonging to same IMS subscription - pull mode
There is Media-A between Controller UE-1 and remote party.
1\. UE-2 sends a request towards SCC AS-1 to replicate Media-A of an existing
session to UE-2. The session setup request includes enough information for the
network to:
\- identify the session that contains the media flow to be replicated;
\- identify that the media flow to be replicated is Media-A;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be replicated is the remote
party;
\- identify that the target of the replicated media flow is UE-2.
2\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request to SCC AS-1.
3\. SCC AS-1 authorizes the request from UE-2.
4\. SCC AS-1 allocates media resource for the replicated Media-A.
5\. SCC AS-1 sends response towards UE-2.
6\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the response to UE-2.
7\. SCC AS-1 updates the Access Leg on Controller UE-1 for the replicated
media flow (Media-A) with MRF.
8\. SCC AS-1 updates the Remote Leg to communicate Media-A with MRF.
After the above operation, Media-A is established between Controller UE-1 and
MRF, between Controllee UE-2 and MRF, and between remote party and MRF.
##### 6.1.3.8.4 Replicating media in network from Controller UE to another UE
belonging to different IMS subscription -- pull mode
The information flow below illustrates a Collaborative Session scenario in
which a UE not participating in the session requests that the network
replicate towards itself a media flow that pertains to a UE belonging to
different subscription (User-1). It is assumed that User-1 is an IUT
subscriber. It is also assumed that, prior to the scenario, the user that
requests the media replication (User-2) has discovered that there is an
ongoing session between UE-1 and the remote party. If UE-1 does not support
IUT related media procedures or the user is not an IUT subscriber, SCC AS-1 or
UE-1 will return an error.
Figure 6.1.3.8.4-1: Replicating media in network from Controller UE to another
UE belonging to different IMS subscription -- pull mode
There is Media-A between Controller UE-1 and remote party.
1\. UE-2 sends a request towards UE-1 to replicate Media-A to UE-2. The
request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify the session that contains the media flow to be replicated;
\- identify that the media flow to be replicated is Media-A;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be replicated is the remote
party;
\- identify that the target of the replicated media flow is UE-2.
2\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the request to SCC AS-2.
3\. SCC AS-2 authorizes the request from UE-2.
4\. SCC AS-2 sends a request towards UE-1 to replicate Media-A from the remote
party to UE-2. The request includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify the session that contains the media flow to be replicated;
\- identify the source of the request as UE-2;
\- identify that the replicated media flow is Media-A;
\- identify that the source of the media flow to be replicated is the remote
party;
\- identify that the target of the replicated media flow is UE-2.
4a. S-CSCF-2 forwards the request towards UE-1.
4b. S-CSCF-1 forwards the request to SCC AS-1.
5\. SCC AS-1 or UE-1 authorizes the request from UE-2.
6\. SCC AS-1 allocates media resource for the replicated Media-A.
7\. SCC AS-1 updates Access Leg in UE-1, finishes Access Leg establishment in
UE-2, and updates Remote Leg to communicate Media-A with MRF.
After the above operation, Media-A is established between Controller UE-1 and
MRF, between Controllee UE-2 and MRF, and between remote party and MRF.
#### 6.1.3.9 Inter-UE Transfer between IMS UEs and CS UEs
Inter-UE Transfer can be performed between IMS UEs that connect to the IMS via
an IP-CAN and CS UEs that belong to the same or different IMS subscriptions of
the same operator and connect to IMS via the CS/IMS Intermediate Node (e.g.
the MSC Server enhanced for ICS). Before the transfer, the CS UE shall be
registered to IMS via the CS/IMS Intermediate Node.
##### 6.1.3.9.1 Establish Collaborative Session between IMS UEs and CS UEs by
transferring media
The figure below provides an information flow of establishing a Collaborative
Session by transferring media flow(s) from the IMS UE to the CS UE of the same
IMS subscription via the CS/IMS Intermediate Node (e.g. the MSC Server
enhanced for ICS). The IMS UE-1 and CS UE-2 connect to IMS via IP-CAN and the
CS/IMS Intermediate Node respectively. There is an ongoing IMS session between
UE-1 and a remote party, which is anchored at the SCC AS. UE-1 transfers the
media flow from UE-1 to UE-2 to establish a Collaborative Session. After the
transfer, UE-1 becomes Controller UE of the Collaborative Session, and UE-2
becomes Controllee UE.
Figure 6.1.3.9.1-1: Establish Collaborative Session by transferring media from
IMS UE to CS UE
1\. UE-1 sends an IUT media transfer request to the SCC AS to transfer Media
Flow-A from UE-1 to UE-2. The IUT media transfer request shall include the
enough information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the transferred media flow is Media Flow-A;
\- identify that the target of the transferred media flow is UE-2, which is a
CS UE;
\- keep the control of the Collaborative Session in UE-1.
2\. The SCC AS sends request to the CS/IMS Intermediate Node to establish the
Access Leg of UE-2 for Media Flow-A.
3\. The CS/IMS Intermediate Node establishes the Access Leg between UE-2 and
the SCC AS, using the ICS session terminating procedures for non ICS UE or UE
unable to use ICS UE capabilities as specified in TS 23.292 [3].
4\. The CS/IMS Intermediate Node sends an IUT media transfer response to the
SCC AS.
5\. The SCC AS performs the Remote Leg Update procedures as specified in
clause 6a.1.2 in TS 23.237 [2] to update the media information of Media Flow-A
with the remote party.
6\. The SCC AS removes Media Flow-A from UE-1.
7\. The SCC AS sends an IUT media transfer response to UE-1. A Collaborative
Session is established, for which UE-1 becomes the Controller UE and UE-2
becomes a Controllee UE.
When the above transfer is completed the SCC AS retains the service state
(e.g. media flows status) of UE-1 and UE-2, and UE-1 retains the control of
the Collaborative Session.
NOTE 1: If, besides Media Flow-A, there are other media flows between UE-1 and
the remote party, these other media flows shall not be impacted by the above
Inter‑UE Transfer operation, i.e. these other media flows remain on UE‑1.
NOTE 2: The above information flow does not require any enhancements to
Release 9 specifications; it is already covered by the combination of Release
9 versions of TS 23.237 [2] and TS 23.292 [3].
#### 6.1.3.10 Session Discovery
##### 6.1.3.10.1 General
In order to solicit the IUT of media flows or control of an ongoing session
from other UE(s) under the same or different subscriptions of the same
operator, it shall be possible for a UE capable of IUT to discover ongoing
session information on other UE(s) as follows:
\- Session information for the other UE(s), including session identifier,
source UE identifier (e.g. GRUU or IMPU), remote end identifier, identity of
the Controller UE for the related Collaborative Session;
\- Media flow information for the ongoing session(s) in other UE(s),
including: type (voice, video, etc.), status (held, active, etc.), media flow
identifier;
\- Service Identifier for the service the session is related to.
The UE may use the above information for IUT in addition to the availability
and capabilities of other UE(s) as specified in Rel-9.
The SCC AS which serves target UE(s) of session discovery shall filter
information on some or all of the sessions or media flows composing the
session on the target UE(s) based on user service configuration or operator
policy before providing ongoing session information to the UE which has
requested session discovery.
##### 6.1.3.10.2 Discovery of ongoing session information on other UE(s)
belonging to same IMS subscription
The figure below shows an information flow of UE-1 requesting ongoing session
information for the other UEs, assuming that UE-1, UE-2 and UE-3 belong to the
same IMS subscription and there is a session with Media Flow-A between UE-2
and the remote party and another session with Media Flow-B between UE-3 and
the remote party.
Figure 6.1.3.10.2-1: Discovery of ongoing session information on other UE(s)
belonging to the same IMS subscription
1\. UE-1 sends the SCC AS a Session Discovery request for ongoing session
information for the UEs belonging to the same IMS subscription. The Session
Discovery request indicates the information requested to be provided in the
response.
2\. The SCC AS retrieves the requested information for all ongoing sessions
for the user\'s UEs.
3\. The SCC AS, if required, authorizes that UE-1 is allowed to receive the
requested information, and sends the UE-1 a Session Discovery response
containing the requested session related information for UE-2 and UE-3. The
SCC AS performs filtering as specified in clause 6.1.3.10.1 before sending a
Session Discovery response to the UE-1.
##### 6.1.3.10.3 Discovery of ongoing session information on other UE(s)
belonging to different IMS subscription
The figure below shows an information flow of UE-1 requesting ongoing session
information for the other UEs, assuming that UE-1 belongs to User-1 while UE-2
and UE-3 belong to User-2. It is also assumed that there is a session with
Media Flow-A between UE-2 and the remote party, and another session with Media
Flow-B between UE-3 and the remote party.
Figure 6.1.3.10.3-1: Discovery of ongoing session information on other UE(s)
belonging to different IMS subscription
1\. UE-1 sends SCC AS-1 a Session Discovery request for ongoing session
information for User-2\'s UEs. The Session Discovery request indicates the
information requested to be provided in the response.
2\. SCC AS-1 sends a Session Information request for ongoing session
information for User-2\'s UEs to S-CSCF-2 which serves User-2.
3\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the Session Information request to SCC AS-2 which serves
User-2.
4\. SCC AS-2, if required, authorizes that UE-1 is allowed to receive ongoing
session information for User-2\'s UEs, and sends a Session Information
response containing ongoing session information for UE-2 and UE-3. SCC AS-2
performs filtering as specified in clause 6.1.3.10.1 before sending a Session
Information response.
5\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the Session Information response to SCC AS-1.
6\. SCC AS-1 sends UE-1 a Session Discovery response containing ongoing
session information for UE-2 and UE‑3.
#### 6.1.3.11 Collaborative Session handling upon loss of Collaborative
Session Control
The figure below shows an information flow where the Controller UE sets
control loss preferences and SCC AS acts upon the loss of Collaborative
Session Control based on the preference.
Figure 6.1.3.11-1: Collaborative Session handling upon loss of Collaborative
Session control
1\. A Collaborative Session is established between UE-1, UE-2, UE-3 and a
remote party. UE-1 is the Controller UE, and UE-2 and UE-3 are Controllee UEs.
Control loss preference is sent/updated to SCC AS any time before or during
the Collaborative Session, including:
\- which UE may be the successive controller UE, or
\- criteria on how to select the successive Controller UE
2\. SCC AS detects the Collaborative Session Control is lost during the
session.
NOTE 1: How SCC AS detects the loss of Collaborative Session Control is not
within the scope of this document.
3\. The loss of Collaborative Session Control triggers the activation of
control loss preference. SCC AS selects a Controllee UE as the new Controller
UE based on control loss preference
NOTE 2: If no control loss preference is provided, SCC AS releases the
Collaborative Session.
4\. SCC AS offers Collaborative Session Control to the selected Controllee UE,
UE-3.
Steps 5a -- 7a are for the case where UE-3 accepts to become Controller UE.
5a. The Controllee UE-3 accepts the offer to become a new Controller UE.
6a. SCC AS transfers Collaborative Session Control to UE-3.
7a. SCC AS updates the Remote Leg towards the remote party with the
information of the new local end (i.e. UE-3 as the new Controller UE of the
Collaborative Session).
Steps 5b -- 6b are for the case that the Controllee UE refuses to be a new
Controller UE.
5b. Control transfer is not accepted by the Controllee UE.
NOTE 3: The Controllee UE may reject the offer because its user does not want
to take over control, or the UE may not understand the transfer request; or
the UE may not respond.
6b. SCC AS releases the Collaborative Session associated with lost Controller
UE.
#### 6.1.3.12 Media modification among UEs under different subscriptions
This section provides information flows for media modification among UEs under
different subscriptions in a collaborative session.
##### 6.1.3.12.1 Controller UE initiated media modification on Controllee UE
The information flow shows a Controller UE modifying a Media Flow that is
originated from or terminated at the Controllee UE. As a pre-requisite, there
exists a Collaborative Session with two media flows, Media Flow--A on the
Controller UE (UE-1) and Media Flow--B on the Controllee UE (UE-2).
Figure 6.1.3.12-1: Controller UE initiated media modify on a Controllee UE
1\. UE-1 sends a Modify media request to SCC AS-1 serving UE-1 to modify Media
Flow-B on UE-2. The request includes media modification information pertaining
to Media Flow-B. The IUT media modification request shall include enough
information for the SCC AS to:
\- identify that the modified media is Media Flow-B;
\- identify that the modified media is on UE-2;
\- identify the modification requested to Media Flow-B;
\- keep the control of Collaborative Session in UE-1.
2\. The SCC AS-1 verifies that UE-2\'s (User-2\'s) authorization configuration
in UE-1\'s (User-1\'s) Collaboration Profile is Media Source Privilege.
3\. The SCC AS-1 sends the Modify Media Request to SCC AS-2 that serves UE-2
via S-CSCF-1 and S-CSCF-2.
4\. The SCC AS-2 verifies that UE-1\'s (User-1\'s) authorization configuration
in UE-2\'s (User-2\'s) Collaboration Profile is Controller Privilege.
5\. The SCC AS-2 sends Media Modification Request to UE-2, UE-2 modifies the
media.
6\. The UE-2 sends the result of media modification to SCC AS-2 and SCC AS-2
forwards it to SCC AS-1 via S-CSCF-2 and S-CSCF-1.
7\. The SCC AS-1 updates the Remote Leg with Media Flow--B modified upon
receiving modification result from UE-2.
8\. The SCC AS-1 sends result of modify media request to UE-1.
##### 6.1.3.12.2 Controllee UE initiated media modification on itself
The information flow shows a Controllee UE modifying a Media Flow that is
originated from or terminated at the same Controllee UE. As a pre-requisite,
there exists a Collaborative Session with two media flows, Media Flow--A on
the Controller UE (UE-1) and Media Flow--B on the Controllee UE (UE-2).
Figure 6.1.3.12-2: Controllee UE initiated media modify on itself
1\. UE-2 sends a Modify media request to modify Media Flow-B on itself. The
request includes media modification information pertaining to Media Flow-B.
The IUT media modification request shall include enough information for the
SCC AS to:
\- identify that the modified media is Media Flow-B;
\- identify that the modified media is on UE-2; and
\- identify the modification requested to Media Flow-B.
2\. The SCC AS-2 forwards the Media Modification Request to SCC AS-1 that
serves the controller via S-CSCF-2 and S-CSCF-1.
3\. The SCC AS-1 authorizes the Media Modification Request.
3a\~3b. If SCC AS-1 cannot authorize Media Modification Request, it queries
controller UE-1 for authorization.
NOTE: Steps 3 (including 3a\~3b) is optional depending on operator\'s
configuration.
4\. SCC AS-1 identifies Media Flow-B as associated with UE-2 and sends Modify
Media Request to UE-2 via S-CSCF-1 and S-CSCF-2. UE-2 modifies the Media Flow.
The SCC AS-1 updates the Remote Leg with Media Flow--B modified.
5\. The SCC AS-1 sends result of modify media request to UE-2.
#### 6.1.3.13 IUT without establishing a Collaborative Session between UEs
belonging to different IMS subscription within same operator
Editor\'s Note: How to resolve the issue of services associated with UE-1
remaining in the signaling path to the remote party after IUT has occurred is
FFS. Resolution of this issue is not expected in Rel-10.
##### 6.1.3.13.1 IUT initiated by the source UE
UE-1 and UE-2 belong to different IMS user subscriptions within the same
operator network and UE-1 is involved in an IMS session with remote party. The
information flow in Figure 6.2.3.x.1-1 shows transfer of the session from UE-1
to UE-2. Since the entire session is transferred simultaneously, the roles of
the Controller and Controllee UEs are not applicable.
NOTE 1: This signalling flow does not require UE-2 to have IUT capabilities
but in this example, UE-2 is shown to have IUT capabilities, thus introducing
SCC-AS-2 in the signalling path.
Figure 6.1.3.13.1-1: IUT initiated by source UE without establishing a
collaborative session - UEs belong to different IMS subscriptions
1\. UE-1 sends IUT media and service control transfer request to the SCC AS to
transfer the session that includes Media-A from UE-1 to UE-2. The IUT media
and service control transfer request shall include the enough information for
the network to:
\- identify the transferred session;
\- identify the target of the transferred session is UE-2;
\- identify access leg of UE-1 to be transferred to UE-2.
2\. S-CSCF-1 forwards the session setup request to SCC AS-1.
3\. SCC AS-1 may authorize the IUT request to transfer the session to UE-2
based on network policy and UE-1 preferences.
4-6. The request for IUT is forwarded to the S-CSCF-2 serving UE-2. It is
assumed that UE-2 is IUT capable and user-2 is an IUT subscriber, and thus the
IUT request is forwarded to SCC-AS-2 serving UE-2.
7\. SCC-AS-2 may authorize the incoming request for IUT to determine if such
requests from UE-1 to UE-2 are allowed by the network operator policy and also
by user-2\'s profile and preferences.
8\. establish the access leg to UE-2 for setting up Media-A between remote
party and UE-2 and update remote leg.
9-13. Respond with IUT success response and release access leg with UE-1.
NOTE 2: The session is still anchored at SCC-AS-1 and thus the session control
signalling is controlled by UE-2 but anchored at SCC-AS-1.
##### 6.1.3.13.2 IUT initiated by target UE
UE-1 and UE-2 belong to different IMS user subscriptions within the same
operator network and UE-1 is involved in an IMS session with remote party. The
information flow in Figure 6.2.3.x.2-1 shows transfer of the session from UE-1
to UE-2 initiated by UE-2. Since the entire session is transferred
simultaneously, the roles of the Controller and Controllee UEs are not
applicable. It is assumed that, prior to the scenario, User-2 has discovered
that there is an ongoing session between UE-1 and the remote party.
Figure 6.1.3.13.2-1: IUT initiated by source UE without establishing a
collaborative session - UEs belong to different IMS subscriptions
1\. UE-2 sends a request for IUT to S-CSCF-2 to transfer the session currently
ongoing at UE-1. It is assumed that UE-2 has prior knowledge of the ongoing
session between UE-1 and the remote party. The request for IUT request
includes enough information for the network to:
\- identify the transferred session;
\- identify the target of the transferred session is UE-2.
2\. S-CSCF-2 forwards the request to SCC-AS-2
3\. SCC AS-2 may authorize the IUT request to transfer the session to UE-2
based on network policy and UE-2 preferences.
4-6. The request for IUT is forwarded to the S-CSCF-1 serving UE-1.
7\. The SCC AS-1 requests the UE-1 to authorize the pull request or the SCC AS
authorizes the request on behalf of UE-1 (e.g. pre-configured). If the request
is authorized, SCC AS continues in accordance with step 2 of clause 6a.6 in TS
23.237 [2], i.e. SCC AS establishes a session with UE-2 for the Media-A,
removes Media-A from UE-1, and updates Remote Leg using the Remote Leg Update
procedure.
8-12. SCC-AS-1 responds with a IUT success response towards UE-2.
NOTE 1: The session is still anchored at SCC-AS-1 and thus the session control
signalling is controlled by UE-2 but anchored at SCC-AS-1.
### 6.1.4 Collaboration Profile
To satisfy the architectural requirement for network-based authorization of
Collaborative Session requests, an authorization mechanism that is based upon
per-subscriber provisioned data is assumed. The provisioned data is to be
acted upon by the SCC AS when the SCC AS receives a Collaborative Session
service request. The name given to this mechanism is Collaboration Profile.
NOTE Invocation of the Collaboration Profile by the SCC AS takes precedence
over the UE-based authorization mechanism; that is, if a Collaborative Session
request is blocked at the SCC AS per authorization logic based upon the
contents of the Collaboration Profile, an error response will be returned to
the issuer of the request, and the UE-based authorization mechanism will have
no opportunity to be exercised.
An IMS subscriber\'s profile may include zero or more Collaborator(s) with
Collaboration privileges as determined by the scope of collaboration; e.g.:
\- Controller Privilege: the Collaborator can use the subscriber\'s device as
a media source to provide media for a Collaborative Session that the
Collaborator controls.
\- Media Source Privilege: the Collaborator\'s device can be used to provide
media for a Collaborative Session that the subscriber controls.
Table 6.1.4-1, Figure 6.1.4-1 and Figure 6.1.4-2 below provide two ways of
illustrating example collaboration profile entries for a hypothetical User-1:
User-2 pair for the purpose of explaining the semantics associated with
various collaboration privilege settings.
Table 6.1.4-1: Example of collaboration profile entries for the User-1: User-2
pair
* * *
User-2\'s Authorization profile entry in User-1\'s subscription User-1\'s
Authorization profile entry in User-2\'s subscription Operations allowed for
UE belonging to User-1 Operations allowed for UE belonging to User-2 Both
Controller and Media Source Privileges Both Controller and Media Source
Privileges Can execute all kinds of Collaborative Session procedures to UE
belonging to User-2 Can accept all kinds of Collaborative Session procedures
from UE belonging to User-1 Controller Privilege Media Source Privilege Can
only use the UE(s) belonging to User-2 as media source to provide media for a
Collaborative Session controlled by the UE belonging to User-1 Can accept
request from UE belonging to User-1 to use the UE(s) belonging to User-2 only
as media source to provide media for a Collaborative Session controlled by the
UE belonging to User-1
* * *
Figure 6.1.4-2: Example of controller privilege and media source privilege
profile for Collaborative Session
In addition to and in conjunction with the network-based authorization
mechanism, the subscriber may request to receive authorization requests upon
Collaborative Session setup involving a particular Collaborator.
The collaboration profile may be configured in IMS (AS or HSS) upon
subscription and/or updated by the subscriber anytime after subscription,
and/or updated by the network (upon consent from the subscriber and/or
Collaborator) during Collaborative Session setup.
### 6.1.5 Execution of supplementary services
#### 6.1.5.1 General
Even though the media components for the Collaborative Session are split onto
multiple Access Legs of different UEs, the remote end is presented with one
session including all the media components. This section describes the SCC AS
and IUT UE procedures for handling supplementary services as described in TS
22.173 [4].
Whether or not the UEs involved in a Collaborative Session pertain to multiple
IMS subscriptions, the Controllee UEs can be under a different service profile
than the Controller UE. The service profile of the Controller UE shall
determine the set of Application Servers and services that are invoked for the
overall session with the remote end.
For a Controllee UE\'s Access Leg where CS media is used, the interactions
described in the following sections still apply. However, the operations on
the CS media follow the procedures as described in TS 23.292 [3].
#### 6.1.5.2 Originating Identification Presentation (OIP)
For Collaborative Sessions established concurrently with originating IMS
session setup, the SCC AS associated with the Controller UE shall provide the
originating party information for all UEs involved in the Collaborative
Session, even when the UEs involved in the Collaborative Session pertain to
multiple IMS subscriptions.
#### 6.1.5.3 Originating Identification Restriction (OIR)
The OIR service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.4 Terminating Identification Presentation (TIP)
For Collaborative Sessions established concurrently with terminating IMS
session setup, the SCC AS associated with the Controller UE shall provide the
connected party information for all UEs involved in the Collaborative Session,
even when the UEs involved in the Collaborative Session pertain to multiple
IMS subscriptions.
#### 6.1.5.5 Terminating Identification Restriction (TIR)
The TIR service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.6 Communication Diversion (CDIV)
The CDIV service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.7 Communication Hold (HOLD)
If the Controller UE wants to invoke the HOLD service on one or more media
component(s), the Controller UE shall invoke the HOLD procedures, as defined
in TS 24.610 [5]. The Hosting SCC AS shall act on the HOLD requests by
updating all the Controllee UEs whose media status are changed and shall
update the remote Access Leg using the procedures defined in TS 24.610 [5].
If a Controllee UE wants to invoke the HOLD service on one or more media
component(s) that it hosts, the request to do so must be authorized by the
Controller UE (or by the Hosting SCC AS on behalf of the Controller UE). If
the request is authorized, the Controllee UE shall invoke the HOLD procedures,
as defined in TS 24.610 [5].
#### 6.1.5.8 Communication Barring (CB)
The CB service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.9 Message Waiting Indication (MWI)
The MWI service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.10 Conference (CONF)
Only the Controller UE can invoke the CONF service for the Collaborative
Session and it shall follow the procedures as defined in TS 24.605 [6] for any
CONF service related operations. The SCC AS associated with a Controllee UE
rejects a request to invoke the CONF service.
When the remote end sends a request for the CONF service to replace an
existing session, the SCC AS shall deliver the request for CONF service to the
Controller UE, which then sets up new session following the procedures defined
in TS 24.605 [6].
#### 6.1.5.11 Explicit Communication Transfer (ECT)
Only the Controller UE can invoke the ECT service on behalf of the
Collaborative Session and it shall follow the procedures as specified in TS
24.629 [7]. Upon receiving notification that ECT has been performed
successfully, the Controller UE shall terminate the previous active session
with the transferee UE by terminating all related media control sessions on
the Controllee UEs. The SCC AS associated with a Controllee UE rejects a
request to invoke the ECT service.
Upon receiving an ECT transfer request from the remote end to transfer the
Collaborative Session, the SCC AS shall deliver the request to the Controller
UE.
Upon receiving an ECT transfer request to transfer the Collaborative Session,
the Controller UE shall establish a new session towards the transfer target
following the procedures defined in TS 24.629 [7].
#### 6.1.5.12 Advice of Charge (AOC)
When the AOC service specified in TS 24.647 [8] is active, the SCC AS shall
deliver charging information during the communication to the Controller UE.
#### 6.1.5.13 Closed User Groups (CUG)
The CUG service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.14 Three-Party (3PTY)
The 3PTY service in TS 24.605 [6] is considered as a special case of CONF
service and the interaction with IUT is the same as that specified in clause
4.8.10 for CONF service.
#### 6.1.5.15 Flexible Alerting (FA)
The FA service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.16 Communication Waiting (CW)
The CW service is not impacted.
#### 6.1.5.17 Completion of Communications to Busy Subscriber
(CCBS)/Completion of Communications by No Reply (CCNR)
The CCBS/CCNR service is not impacted.
#### 6.1.5.18 Customized Alerting Tones (CAT)
For Collaborative Sessions established concurrently with terminating IMS
session setup, the CAT provided by the network (under the control of the SCC
AS associated with the Controller UE) to the remote party is the CAT
associated with the Controller UE.
#### 6.1.5.19 Malicious Communication IDentification (MCID)
The MCID service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.20 Reverse Charging
The Reverse Charging service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.21 Personal Network Management (PNM)
The PNM service is not impacted by IUT.
#### 6.1.5.22 Customized Ringing Signal (CRS)
For Collaborative Sessions established concurrently with terminating IMS
session setup, the Customized Ringing Signal (CRS) provided to both the
Controller UE and all Controllee UEs is the CRS associated with the remote
party. For Collaborative Sessions established concurrently with originating
IMS session setup, the CRS provided to the remote party is the CRS associated
with the Controller UE.
# 7 Conclusions
A variety of enhancements to Rel-9 Inter-UE Transfer (IUT) have been
considered in the present TR, most notably the extension of IUT and
Collaborative Session capabilities to UEs that belong to different IMS
subscriptions under the same operator. New capabilities such as media flow
replication and IUT initiated by the target UE ('pull mode' media flow
transfer) have also been considered in order to address requirements received
from other standards development organizations. In addition, the TR captures a
mechanism for session discovery that is used to realize features such as 'pull
mode' media flow transfer from different UEs. Support for transfer of control
of a Collaborative Session is also included, but in Rel-10 such control
transfer functionality is limited to UEs within a single IMS subscription and
sharing the same service profile.
A large set of information flows that illustrate the enhancements have been
included in this TR. From a study of these information flows, it is inferred
that no essential extension of the Rel-9 IUT architecture model is required in
order to deliver the Rel-10 enhancements. The SCC AS remains the key element
in the architecture model for Rel-10 IUT, though it is enhanced to deliver
additional IUT capabilities. Extension of IUT and Collaborative Session
capabilities to multiple IMS subscriptions introduces new requirements for
authorization of service requests; the Collaboration Profile concept is
advanced as a network-based means to satisfy these requirements.
## 7.1 Conclusion on session discovery
The capability for a UE to discover sessions on other UEs is essential in
order to realize features such as pull mode session transfers from different
UEs. The session information has to be up-to-date and contain enough details
to be able to be used in IUT operations.
The Session Discovery mechanism detailed in clause 6.1.3.10 fulfils these
goals and shall be specified in normative Release 10 specifications.
## 7.2 Conclusion on extension of IUT and Collaborative Session capabilities
to multiple UEs belonging to different IMS subscriptions
The extension of IUT and Collaborative Session capabilities specified in
Rel-09 to multiple UEs belonging to different IMS subscriptions under the same
operator requirement is fulfilled by architectural requirements (clause 5.2)
and information flow material (clauses 6.1.3.2.2, 6.1.3.3.2, 6.1.3.5.2,
6.1.3.6, 6.1.3.7.3, 6.1.3.8.2, 6.1.3.8.4, 6.1.3.10.3, 6.1.3.12) in this TR.
Furthermore, it is recognized that extension of IUT and Collaborative Session
capabilities to multiple IMS subscriptions introduces new requirements for
authorization of service requests; the Collaboration Profile concept, as
outlined in clause 6.1.4, describes one possible network-based means to
satisfy these requirements.
The TR material as outlined above fulfils the requirement for IUT and
Collaborative Session capabilities to be extended to multiple UEs belonging to
different IMS subscriptions under the same operator. Hence, this capability
shall be specified in normative release 10 specifications.
## 7.3 Conclusion on establishment of a Collaborative Session upon originating
and terminating IMS session setup
This is a new IUT capability in Rel-10. The information flow material in
clauses 6.1.3.2 and 6.1.3.3 fulfils the requirement for this capability both
for UE\'s belonging to the same IMS subscription and UEs belonging to
different IMS subscriptions under the same operator. This capability shall be
specified in normative release 10 specifications.
## 7.4 Conclusion on control of media components of a Collaborative Session by
more than one UE simultaneously
The requirement for multiple-UEs to be allowed to simultaneously control media
components on another UE is fulfilled by: 1) the following principle from
clause 6.1.1.1: "Any IUT capable UE can request IUT Media Control Related
Procedures. Such requests are subject to authorization by the SCC AS and/or
the Controller UE."; 2) select architectural requirements in clause 5.2; and
3) information flow material in clauses 6.1.3.5, 6.1.3.6.3 and 6.1.3.6.4 of
this TR.
The TR material as outlined above fulfils the requirement for the multiple-UEs
simultaneously controlling media components on another UE, and hence this
capability shall be specified in normative release 10 specifications.
NOTE Development of a solution for multiple-UEs simultaneously controlling
media components specific to Playback Control is beyond the scope of this TR
for Rel-10.
## 7.5 Conclusion on transfer of control of a Collaborative Session
A solution for transfer of control of a Collaborative Session is included in
the TR, but in Rel-10 such control transfer functionality is limited to UEs
within a single IMS subscription and sharing the same service profile.
Similarly, it is decided not to develop a solution for multiple-subscription
IUT without establishing a Collaborative Session in Rel-10. The solution for
both: a) multiple-subscription transfer of Collaborative Session Control; and
b) multiple-subscription IUT without establishing a Collaborative Session; are
regarded as being complex, and it is therefore concluded not to pursue a
solution for these capabilities in Rel-10. Finally, it is recognized that
there are no stage 1 requirements at present for the capability of transfer of
Collaborative Session Control to a CS (ICS) UE that uses either the Gm or I1
reference point for network access signalling.
With the above qualifications, the information flow material in clause
6.1.3.4.1 fulfils the requirement for this capability and shall be specified
in normative release 10 specifications.
## 7.6 Conclusion on media modification among UEs under different
subscriptions
The information flow material in clause 6.1.3.12 fulfils the requirement for
this capability and shall be specified in normative release 10 specifications.
## 7.7 Conclusion on IUT initiated by the target UE
The information flow material in clause 6.1.3.5 fulfils the requirement for
this capability and shall be specified in normative release 10 specifications.
## 7.8 Conclusion on replication of an ongoing multimedia session from one UE
on another UE
Replication of a media flow may be performed by either the remote party UE or
by an element within the IMS core network (e.g., MRFC/MRFP). When a media flow
is replicated by the remote party UE, the solution developed in this TR is to
replicate an ongoing IMS session without establishing a Collaborative Session.
When a media flow is replicated by an element within the IMS core network,
Collaborative Session procedures are employed to accomplish the replication.
The information flow material in clauses 6.1.3.7 and 6.1.3.8 fulfils the
requirement for this capability and shall be specified in normative release 10
specifications.
#