# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The system enhancements to enable codec rate adaptation at voice call setup
over E-UTRA was standardized in Rel-9 in TS 23.401 [2].
The scope of this document is to study and specify enhancements to existing
codec selection and codec rate adaptation based on network loading conditions
and operator policies over UTRA and E-UTRA. Potential enhancements are
definition of the signalling and interfaces enabling:
\- To perform codec selection based on network loading conditions and operator
policies during call establishment phase over both UTRA and E-UTRA;
\- To perform codec data rate adaptation (if possible for the selected codec
and needed by the service) based on network loading conditions during call
establishment phase over UTRA;
\- To perform codec data rate adaptation (if possible for the selected codec
and needed by the service) for non-voice RTP-based services based on network
loading conditions at call setup over E-UTRA;
\- To perform codec data rate adaptation (if possible for the selected codec
and needed by the service) based on network loading indications during an on-
going call over both UTRA and E-UTRA;
\- Support of codec rate adaptation by IMS Core Network entities (e.g.,
MGCF/MGW, IBCF/TrGW, etc.);
\- Setting of Maximum Bit Rate (MBR) to be greater than the Guaranteed Bit
Rate (GBR) over E-UTRA.
The solutions can be moved to normative specifications independently of each
other once the study on the particular solution has been concluded.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[5] 3GPP TR 22.813: \"Study of Use Cases and Requirements for Enhanced Voice
Codecs for the Evolved Packet System (EPS)\".
[6] IETF RFC 3168 (2001): \"The Addition of Explicit Congestion Notification
(ECN) to IP\", K. Ramakrishnan, S. Floyd and D. Black.
[7] IETF Internet draft (2010): \"Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) for
RTP over UDP\", M. Westerlund, et. al., http://www.ietf.org/id/draft-ietf-avt-
ecn-for-rtp-01.txt.
[8] 3GPP TS 29.163: \"Interworking between the IM CN subsystem and CS networks
-- Stage 3\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.333: \"Multimedia Resource Function Controller (MRFC) \--
Multimedia Resource Function Processor (MRFP) Mp interface: Procedures
Descriptions.\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] a apply.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.
ECN Explicit Congestion Notification
# 4 Requirements
## 4.1 General
Following are the general requirements for the Codec rate adaptation
enhancements to be studied:
1\. Codec rate adaptation enhancements shall not negatively affect the
operation of pre-Rel‑10 UEs.
2\. A UE-internal interface between the application being adapted and the
layer responsible for forwarding the indications of the need to rate adapt is
necessary and is assumed to be available. The definition of this interface is
beyond the scope of this study.
3\. It shall be possible to apply Codec rate adaption when interworking with
external networks (e.g. PSTN, non IMS networks).
4\. The Codec rate adaptation shall be applicable for audio and video media
types.
Editor\'s note: Mechanisms to avoid potential conflict between ECN-based
congestion control and ARP-based admission control should be studied.
## 4.2 Functional Requirements
Following are the requirements for solutions that are to provide the Codec
rate adaptation enhancements:
1\. It should be possible to enforce Code rate adaptation for UEs which
support these features when connected through a network which supports Codec
rate adaptation independent of the remote UE/network\'s support for these
features.
2\. The procedures for Codec rate adaptation during an on-going session shall
not cause a SIP re-negotiation.
3\. The procedures for Codec rate adaptation during an on-going session shall
allow the network to indicate to the UE that it should decrease its Codec
rate.
NOTE: The UE can increase its Codec rate in the absence of congestion
indication and if permitted by application layer configuration (e.g., see the
\'ECN_congestion_wait\' parameter specified in TS 26.114 [4]).
4\. The Codec rate adaptation enhancements shall not require the eNB or RNC to
have knowledge of the Codec selected for the multimedia session, so that
future Codecs can be supported and enhancements of policies can be made
without requiring impact to the RAN or upgrade of the RAN functional entities.
# 5 Rate Adaptation in Release 9 (Informative)
The rate adaption procedures defined in Rel‑9 of TS 23.401 [2], TS 36.300 [3],
TS 26.114 [4] are based on using ECN indications from the eNB to the UEs in
the E-UTRA. MTSI terminals that support ECN can be configured to enable use of
ECN to trigger rate adaptation for voice encoders in MTSI clients.
When ECN is enabled in the MTSI client, SDP Offer and Answer procedures are
used to negotiate ECN usage between the MTSI clients in 3GPP networks that
properly handle ECN-marked packets. Once ECN usage has been negotiated at
session set-up terminals begin marking voice media packets with the ECT(0)
codepoint. This serves as an indication to the intermediate routers and eNB
that the MTSI clients are able to properly handle ECN-marked packets.
NOTE: A non-MTSI client may also use the ECT(1) codepoint to indicate that the
client is ECN capable.
If an eNB that supports ECN detects congestion on the downlink for voice RTP
media it may re-mark ECT-marked downlink packets with the ECN-CE codepoint to
indicate \"congestion experienced\" (see Figure 1). Upon receiving this ECN-CE
marked packet MTSI Client A determines if a new rate needs to be requested of
the voice media sender. The procedures through which the media receiver
determines what rate to request of the media sender can be configured by the
operator and are described in TS 26.114 [4]. If a rate request is necessary
the receiving MTSI client sends a rate request to the media sender in MTSI
Client B to lower its transmission rate.
Figure 1: ECN-triggered rate adaptation to downlink congestion
If an eNB that supports ECN detects congestion on the uplink for a voice media
RTP flow it may re-mark ECT-marked uplink packets with the ECN-CE codepoint to
indicate \"congestion experienced\" (see Figure 2). Upon receiving this ECN-CE
marked packet MTSI Client B determines if a new rate needs to be requested of
the voice media sender. The procedures through which the media receiver
determines what rate to request of the media sender can be configured by the
operator and are described in TS 26.114 [4]. If a rate request is necessary
the receiving MTSI client sends a rate request to the media sender in MTSI
client A to lower its transmission rate.
Figure 2: ECN-triggered rate adaptation to uplink congestion
TS 26.114 [4] also specifies procedures on how an MTSI MGW performs inter-
working with:
\- CS networks;
\- Other IP networks and devices that do not support ECN;
\- Other IP networks that support ECN not according to TS 26.114 [4].
# 6 Solutions
## 6.1 Codec selection during call establishment phase
The 3GPP adaptive multi-rate voice codecs (AMR and AMR-WB) and the upcoming
EVS codec are all capable of adapting to narrow-band, and their lowest bit
rate will be approximately the same TR 22.813 [5]. Therefore, there is no
requirement for voice codec selection based on network loading conditions.
In a terminal with multiple video codecs, we expect that all video codecs
would be able to reduce their data rate as needed. Therefore, there is no
requirement for video codec selection based on network loading conditions.
No requirements for codec selection based on network loading conditions have
been identified. The study of this aspect is concluded. There are no impacts
on any 3GPP technical specifications resulting from this aspect.
## 6.2 Codec rate adaptation during call establishment phase
### 6.2.1 Codec data rate adaptation for voice during call establishment phase
over UTRA/HSPA
For voice RTP-based services, UTRA/HSPA can use the ECN procedures described
in clause 5.
### 6.2.2 Codec data rate adaptation for non-voice RTP-based services during
call establishment phase over UTRA/HSPA and E-UTRA
The ECN framework described in clause 5 can be used with video over UTRA/HSPA
and E-UTRA. The detailed adaptation algorithms and configuration parameters
needed for ECN-triggered video rate adaptation should be studied and specified
further in SA WG4.
## 6.3 Mid call rate adaptation
Codec rate adaptation in general - and this includes \'codec rate adaptation
during call establishment phase\' and \'mid call rate adaptation\' - for
UTRA/HSPA and E-UTRA, and for voice and video codecs based on RTP should be
based on the Explicit Congestion Notification scheme.
For E-UTRA SA2 work has not identified any additional aspects to be specified
so far beyond what has already been specified in Rel‑9 TS 36.300 [3]. For
UTRA/HSPA support for ECN needs to be specified in RAN2 similar to how support
for ECN has been specified for E UTRA in Rel‑9 TS 36.300 [3].
For voice codecs SA2 work has not identified any additional aspects to be
specified so far beyond what has already been specified in Rel‑9 TS 26.114
[4]. For video codecs the specification of an ECN-based codec rate adaptation
scheme is to be addressed in SA WG4.
## 6.4 ECN support & Codec rate adaptation by IMS Core Network entities
### 6.4.1 General
The ECN framework used to signal radio congestion and trigger codec rate
adaptation affects the following IMS CN entities: MGCF/IM-MGW, IBCF/TrGW, IMS-
ALG/ IMS-AGW, MRFP/MRFC, and the MSC Server enhanced for ICS/SRVCC / CS-MGW.
As specified in TS 26.114 [4],
  * an MGCF/IM-MGW supporting MTSI can be used for inter-working between an ECN-capable client in a 3GPP network that properly handles ECN-marked packets and a CS network;
  * an IBCF/TrGW supporting MTSI can be used for interworking between an ECN-capable client in a 3GPP network that properly handles ECN-marked packets, and:
\- a remote client that does not use ECN;
\- a remote client that supports ECN in different way than what is specified
for MTSI clients;
\- a network which does not handle ECN-marked packets properly.
### 6.4.2 CS GERAN/UTRAN Interworking at MGCF/IM-MGW
In order to support MTSI-compliant ECN, MGCF/IM-MGW shall:
  * support ECN as described in TS 26.114 [4] for the MTSI client in terminal (including IETF RFC 3168 [6] and IETF Draft on ECN for RTP over UDP [7]), except that the MGCF and IM-MGW do not determine whether ECN can be used based on the Radio Access Technology that is used towards the MTSI client in terminal; the MGCF/ IM-MGW act as an ECN endpoint towards the MTSI client in terminal;
  * support RTP/AVPF and SDPCapNeg;
  * be capable of enabling end-to-end rate adaptation between the MTSI client in terminal and the CS terminal or IM-MGW by performing the following:
\- negotiate the use of ECN with the MTSI client in terminal, if it can be
confirmed that the network used towards the MTSI client in terminal properly
handles ECN-marked packets;
NOTE 1: An operator can ensure that the network used towards the MTSI client
in terminal properly handles ECN-marked packets by setting corresponding
requirements on network equipment, and verifying that those requirements are
met. No active signalling (\"probing\") during normal operation is required to
ensure this.
\- trigger rate adaptation request towards the MTSI client in terminal when
receiving in the incoming IMS media flow IP packets marked with ECN-CE,
regardless of whether the IM-MGW applies or does not apply transcoding;
\- inter-work adaptation requests between the MTSI client in terminal and the
CS GERAN/UTRAN when the IM-MGW bridges compatible codec configurations between
the interfaces without applying a transcoding function (existing requirement);
if the IM-MGW prefers to receive a lower codec mode rate from the MTSI client
in terminal than what the CS network indicates, e.g. after having received IP
packets with ECN-CE, the IM-MGW may replace the codec mode requested from the
CS side with the codec mode that the IM-MGW prefers;
\- perform media adaptation (e.g. reduce media bit-rate) towards the MTSI
client in terminal when receiving from the latter an adaptation request and
the IM-MGW applies transcoding (existing requirement).
NOTE 2: For CS interworking the MTSI MGCF/MGW does not have to perform
transcoding if the same codec is selected on the CS and PS network.
NOTE 3: TS 29.163 [8] only defines so far interworking of CS rate control
requests into RTP in-band rate control (CMR) on IMS side. It is FFS in CT WG3
if interworking with RTCP-APP adaptation requests for MTSI needs to be
specified; this is not specific to ECN.
Potential impacts to the Mn procedures and profile have to be studied and
corresponding stage 2 and stage 3 requirements be documented in CT WG3 and CT
WG4, e.g. configuring the IMS termination to use ECN (with its ECN parameters
e.g. ECT(0), leap-of-faith method, etc.).
### 6.4.3 Interworking with non-ECN IP network and/or terminal at IBCF/TrGW
An IBCF/TrGW supporting MTSI compliant ECN can be used to enable ECN within
the local network when either the remote network cannot be confirmed to
properly handle ECN-marked packets or the remote terminal does not support or
use ECN.
In order to support MTSI compliant ECN when interworking with a remote network
that cannot be confirmed to properly handle ECN-marked packets and/or with a
remote terminal does not support or use ECN, the IBCF/TrGW shall:
  * determine from local configuration if the remote network properly handles ECN-marked packets;
  * determine with SDP offer/answer procedures if the remote terminal supports ECN;
  * support RTP/AVPF and SDPCapNeg;
  * be capable of enabling end-to-end rate adaptation between the local MTSI client in terminal and the remote client or TrGW by performing the following towards the local MTSI client in terminal:
\- negotiate the use of ECN;
\- support ECN as described in this specification for the MTSI client in
terminal (including IETF RFC 3168 [6] and IETF Draft on ECN for RTP over UDP
[7]), except that the MTSI IBCF/TrGW does not determine whether ECN can be
used based on the Radio Access Technology; the MTSI IBCF/TrGW acts as an ECN
endpoint towards the ECN capable MTSI client in terminal;
\- trigger rate adaptation request towards the MTSI client in terminal when
receiving in the incoming IMS media flow IP packets marked with ECN-CE,
regardless of whether the TrGW applies or does not apply transcoding; this
requires that the IBCF provides the TrGW with the media configuration, even if
transcoding is not supported or applied, when the IP termination is configured
with ECN;
\- forward adaptation requests (see NOTE 2) between the MTSI client in
terminal and the remote client when the TrGW bridges compatible codec
configurations between the interfaces without applying a transcoding function
(existing requirement); if the TrGW prefers to receive a lower codec mode rate
from the MTSI client in terminal than what the other SIP network indicates,
e.g. after having received IP packets with ECN-CE, the TrGW may replace the
codec mode requested from the other SIP network with the codec mode that the
TrGW prefers;
\- perform media adaptation (e.g. reduce media bit-rate) towards the MTSI
client in terminal when receiving from the latter an adaptation request and
the TrGW applies transcoding (existing requirement).
NOTE 1: For this interworking the MTSI IBCF/TrGW does not have to perform
transcoding if the same codec is selected on both sides of the TrGW.
NOTE 2: It is FFS in CT WG3 if rate adaptation requests have to be interworked
between RTCP-APP based and RTP in-band rate controls if AVPF is negotiated on
one side only of the IBCF, e.g. AVPF is not supported by the non-ECN IP
terminal and the ECN-capable MTSI client in terminal sends an RTCP-APP
adaptation request. This is not specific to ECN.
Potential impacts to the Ix procedures and profile have to be studied and
corresponding stage 2 and stage 3 requirements be documented in CT WG3 and CT
WG4, e.g. configuring whether the IMS CN termination and the other IMS/SIP
network termination shall use ECN (and if yes, with their relative ECN
parameters).
### 6.4.4 Interworking with non-3GPP ECN IP terminal at IBCF/TrGW
An IBCF/TrGW supporting MTSI compliant ECN can also be used to enable ECN end-
to-end if the remote client uses ECN in a different way than what is described
in TS 26.114 [4] for the MTSI client in terminal, e.g. if the remote client
only supports probing for the ECN initiation phase or it needs the ECN
feedback.
NOTE 1: For this interworking the MTSI IBCF/TrGW does not have to perform
transcoding if the same codec is selected between both terminals.
Potential impacts to the Ix procedures and profile have to be studied and
corresponding stage 2 and stage 3 requirements be documented in CT WG3 and CT
WG4.
NOTE 2: Detailed interworking requirements between 3GPP ECN and non-3GPP ECN
should in particular be carefully studied by CT WG3. This covers e.g. the need
to relay ECN bits, remark ECT(0) to/from ECT(1) IP packets between the IMS and
the other SIP networks, and the possible need to support on the other SIP
network interface probing for ECN initiation phase, ECN feedback of ECN-CE
marked packets, ECN constant monitoring, use of nonce (and support of RTCP-XR
report).
NOTE 3: Some requirements of TS 26.114 [4] would imply new H.248 interactions
between the IBCF and TrGW. e.g. the requirement in clause 7.3.2 that the MTSI
client may initiate a session re-negotiation to disable ECN to resolve ECN-
related error cases (e.g. detecting non-ECT in received packets instead of
ECT(0) or detecting a very high packet loss rate) would imply the need for the
TrGW to notify those new errors to the IBCF.
### 6.4.5 ECN support at IMS-ALG/IMS-AGW
It cannot be assumed by default that an IMS-AGW will support forwarding the
ECN bits.
NOTE 1: When acting in back-to-back IP host (B2BIH) mode (only mode supported
so far by the Iq profile), each H.248 IP stream endpoint represents an IP host
entity, source host for outgoing traffic and destination host for incoming
traffic. The source host behaviour is defined by IETF RFC 1122, which means
essential the insertion of a default value for the 2 bits carrying the ECN.
This can lead the IMS-AGW to remark ECT marked packets to non-ECT, possibly
marking packets with a CE mark as non-ECT, which could force the network into
serious congestion due to non-responsiveness and thus significant impacts to
media quality.
The P-CSCF shall be able to disallow the negotiation of ECN during SDP
offer/answer exchanges if the IMS-AGW does not support transparent forwarding
of the ECN bits or if the IMS core network or the access network used towards
the MTSI client in terminal do not properly handle ECN-marked packets.
An IMS-AGW supporting ECN shall be able to forward the ECN bits, under control
from the IMS-ALG.
Potential impacts to the Iq procedures and profile have to be studied and
corresponding stage 2 and stage 3 requirements be documented in CT WG4.
NOTE 2: ECN support by the IMS-ALG/IMS-AGW is limited to transparently
forwarding (or not forwarding) ECN bits. i.e. there is no requirement, like
for MGCF/IM-MGW or IBCF/TrGW, to support interworking between 3GPP ECN and no
ECN or non-3GPP ECN.
### 6.4.6 ECN support at MRFC/MRFP
An MRFC/MRFP supporting MTSI-compliant ECN may act as an ECN endpoint to
enable ECN with a local ECN-capable MTSI client in terminal within a local
network that properly handles ECN-marked packets, when applying the following
functions (see TS 23.333 [9]):
  * play tone, play audio or multimedia announcement;
  * audio or multimedia record;
  * text to speech;
  * automatic speech recognition;
  * audio or video transcoding;
  * audio or multimedia conferencing.
This requires that the MRFC/MRFP performs the following:
  * support RTP/AVPF and SDPCapNeg;
  * be capable of enabling end-to-end rate adaptation between the local MTSI client in terminal and the MRFP by performing the following towards the local MTSI client in terminal:
\- negotiate the use of ECN;
\- support ECN as described in TS 26.114 [4] for the MTSI client in terminal
(including IETF RFC 3168 [6] and IETF Draft on ECN for RTP over UDP [7]),
except that the MTSI MRFC/MRFP does not determine whether ECN can be used
based on the Radio Access Technology; the MTSI MRFC/MRFP acts as an ECN
endpoint towards the ECN capable MTSI client in terminal;
\- trigger rate adaptation request towards the MTSI client in terminal when
receiving in the incoming IMS media flow IP packets marked with ECN-CE;
\- perform media adaptation (e.g. reduce media bit-rate) towards the MTSI
client in terminal when receiving from the latter an adaptation request.
Potential impacts to the Mp procedures and profile have to be studied and
corresponding stage 2 and stage 3 requirements be documented in CT WG4.
### 6.4.7 CS GERAN/UTRAN Interworking at the MSC Server enhanced for ICS/SRVCC
/ CS-MGW
In order to support MTSI-compliant ECN, the MSC Server enhanced for ICS/SRVCC
/ CS-MGW shall support the requirements specified in clause 6.4.2 respectively
for the MGCF and IM-MGW.
Potential impacts to the Mc procedures and profile have to be studied and
corresponding stage 2 and stage 3 requirements be documented in CT WG3 and CT
WG4, e.g. configuring the IMS termination to use ECN (with its ECN parameters
e.g. ECT(0), leap-of-faith method...).
## 6.5 Setting of Maximum Bit Rate (MBR) to be greater than the Guaranteed Bit
Rate (GBR) over E-UTRA
The definition of MBR allows elastic applications (such as video) to make use
of additional network resources that might be available for non-guaranteed
periods of time. This allows the applications to take advantage of additional
capacity when it is available while being flexible enough to react when such
resources are no longer available to the application.
To achieve the gains for MBR it is necessary to support configuration of the
MBR value greater than the GBR value. It should also be noted that setting MBR
greater than GBR is already supported in UTRAN and such a configuration should
also be supported for E-UTRAN.
To make MBR>GBR bearers useful for a 3GPP application / service (e.g., MTSI)
based on a bit rate adaptive codec requires that when sending beyond GBR the
media end-points become aware of incipient congestion ahead of time. This is
to allow the media end-point to trigger a codec rate reduction before packets
need to be dropped in the network. With the Explicit Congestion Notification
(ECN) scheme supported for UTRA/HSPA and E-UTRA, and for voice and video
Codecs this requirement is met. So given that the media end-points have
successfully negotiated the use of ECN no problem has been identified with
simply allowing MBR>GBR bearers.
No additional functionality has been identified beyond what has already been
specified in Rel-8 that would be required from a UE to support MBR>GBR
bearers. On NAS level a UE shall anyway not reject a dedicated bearer based on
QoS parameters (see dedicated establishment procedure in 23.401: \"The UE may
provide the EPS Bearer QoS parameters to the application handling the traffic
flow. The application usage of the EPS Bearer QoS is implementation dependent.
The UE shall not reject the RRC Connection Reconfiguration on the basis of the
EPS Bearer QoS parameters contained in the Session Management Request.\").
SA4 has stated [S4-070314] that for 3GPP services like MTSI packet dropping is
not an acceptable means to trigger a codec rate reduction. In particular for
video the error propagation may greatly damage video quality. SA WG4 even
states: \"Dropping packets may actually increase the media bit rate if e.g.
frame redundancy is invoked due to degraded channel conditions.\" This is why
an operator may want to configure a policy that the PCRF shall check that the
end-points have successfully negotiated the use of ECN, i.e. that a congestion
pre-warning scheme has been put in place, before the network sets MBR>GBR for
3GPP services like MTSI. Note that MBR>GBR is allowed already in 2G/3G pre-
Rel-8.
# 7 Assessment
No assessment of alternatives were required since only one alternative was
identified.
# 8 Conclusion
The following conclusions have been agreed:
\- Voice and Video Codec selection based on network loading conditions is not
required.
\- The ECN-based rate adaptation procedures defined for RTP-based voice
services in E-UTRA (Rel-9) can be reused for RTP-based voice services in
UTRA/HSPA. Further work on support of this capability is not expected in SA
WG2.
\- The ECN-based rate adaptation framework defined for RTP-based voice
services in E-UTRA (Rel-9) can be reused for RTP-based video services in
E-UTRA and UTRA/HSPA. Further study of the detailed procedures for how MTSI
clients should adapt their video encoding rates in response to ECN indications
is out of scope for SA WG2.
\- The procedures and requirements on impacted IMS CN entities to support ECN
are as outlined in clause 6.4
\- Support the standardization of MBR>GBR in E-UTRA as outlined in clause 6.5.
#