# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective of the feasibility study is to investigate a solution for
supporting single radio the video call continuity from E-UTRAN/HSPA to UTRAN-
CS based on the Rel-8/9 Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC)
architecture as specified in TS 23.216 [2] and TS 23.237 [3], and study the
mechanisms to resolve the key issues. It is not expected that the SRVCC
architecture will be modified unless any of the key issues cannot be resolved
with the current architecture.
The study will be performed to the scenarios where IMS session using
bidirectional voice and synchronised video such as defined in TS 22.173 [4],
originated in E-UTRAN/HSPA and the UE moves to UTRAN and continues the service
over UTRAN in the CS domain.
The video call continuity from E-UTRAN/HSPA to GERAN is not supported.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC): Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.237: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity; Stage
2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.173: \"IP Multimedia Core Network Subsystem (IMS) Multimedia
Telephony Service and supplementary services; Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.101: \"Technical Specifications and Technical Reports for a
UTRAN-based 3GPP system\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.278: \"Service requirements for the Evolved Packet System
(EPS)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony,
Media handling and interaction\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.111: \"Codec for circuit switched multimedia telephony service;
Modifications to H.324\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation H.324, Annex K: \"Media oriented negotiation
acceleration procedure\" and associated changes to Annex J\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation H.245: \"Control protocol for multimedia
communications\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"GPRS Enhancements for E-UTRAN Access\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.172: \"Technical realization of Circuit Switched (CS)
multimedia service; UDI/RDI fallback and service modification; Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and charging control architecture\".
[14] 3GPP TR 26.911: \"Codec(s) for Circuit-Switched (CS) multimedia telephony
service; Terminal implementer\'s guide\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Video Call** : For IMS over E-UTRAN/HSPA, it represents the session using
bidirectional voice and synchronised real time video as specified in TS 22.173
[4]. For UTRAN-CS, it represents the Circuit Switched (CS) multimedia calls as
specified in TS 22.101 [5].
**Single Radio Video Call Continuity** : Video call continuity from IMS over
E-UTRAN/HSPA access to UTRAN access for calls that are anchored in IMS when
the UE is capable of transmitting/receiving on only one of those access
networks at a given time. The definition of SRVCC as specified in TS 23.216
[2] could mean the process of continuing a voice (or video) call as a user
moves from IMS over E-UTRAN/HSPA access to UTRAN access. However, the usage of
the term SRVCC in 3GPP specifications will keep its original meaning, i.e.
voice call continuity. In this technical report, the term vSRVCC is introduced
for single radio video call continuity to differentiate it from single radio
voice call continuity (SRVCC).
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
SRVCC Single Radio Voice Call Continuity
vSRVCC Single Radio Video Call Continuity
# 4 Assumptions and requirements
## 4.1 Assumptions
Followings are the assumptions of the vSRVCC from E-UTRAN/HSPA to UTRAN-CS
handover:
\- The video call by IMS over E-UTRAN/HSPA is the MMTEL with video which uses
separate EPS bearers for video and voice components, respectively.
## 4.2 Architectural requirements
Followings are the requirements for the vSRVCC from E-UTRAN/HSPA to UTRAN-CS
from an architectural perspective.
\- The solution shall not require UE with multiple RATs capability to
simultaneously signal on two different RATs.
\- Impact on user service quality experience, e.g. QoS, call drop,
interruption time, should be minimized.
\- Overall duration of the vSRVCC handover from E-UTRAN/HSPA to UTRAN-CS
procedure shall be minimized.
\- It shall be possible to restrict RAT/domain selection change to access
systems and subscribers depending on operator policies, and capabilities of
the network and the UE, and these shall be network initiated and under network
control.
\- In roaming cases, the VPLMN shall be able to control the RAT/domain
selection change while taking into account any related HPLMN policies for
MMTEL video call.
\- The signalling to the HPLMN for inter-domain continuity from E-UTRAN/HSPA
to UTRAN-CS in the VPLMN should be minimized.
\- Rel-8/9 SRVCC architecture, as specified in TS 23.216 [2], shall not be
modified unless any of the key issues cannot be resolved.
\- For PS bearer(s) other than the ones for voice and video, PS continuity
from E-UTRAN/HSPA to UTRAN-CS and from E-UTRAN to UTRAN/HSPA as specified in
TS 23.401 [11] shall not be impacted.
\- It shall be possible to fallback to Rel-8/9 SRVCC and maintain the voice
component of MMTEL session if the Rel-10 vSRVCC cannot be completed due to,
for instance, resource shortage in UTRAN-CS.
## 4.3 Performance requirements
\- In the RAT change procedure executed to enable vSRVCC, the audio component
of the MMTEL session shall be subject to interruption times equivalent to
Rel-8/9 SRVCC performance, i.e. target interruption time is not higher than
300 ms for voice as defined in TS 22.278 [6].
\- In the RAT change procedure executed to enable vSRVCC, the time of the
additional transfer of the video component(s) of the MMTEL session should be
equivalent to the time it takes to complete the H.245 codec negotiation [10],
as defined in TS 23.237 [3], in order to minimize the perceivable video
disruption for the user.
# 5 Architecture model and reference points
## 5.1 General
## 5.2 Reference architecture
The architecture is similar to the one provided in TS 23.216 [2].
### 5.2.1 Proposed 3GPP E-UTRAN/HSPA to 3GPP UTRAN SRVCC for video-calls
architecture
NOTE 1: The following figure only shows the necessary components related to
MSC Server enhanced for vSRVCC
NOTE 2: MSC Server shown in the figure is enhanced for vSRVCC.
NOTE 3: This architecture also applies to roaming scenario (i.e., S8, S6a are
not impacted due to vSRVCC).
NOTE 4: The MSC server enhanced with vSRVCC may not be the final target MSC
which connects to the target cell.
Figure 5.2.1-1: Video SRVCC architecture for E-UTRAN to 3GPP UTRAN
## 5.3 Impact on functional entities
### 5.3.1 UE
### 5.3.2 eNode-B/Node-B
### 5.3.3 MME/SGSN
### 5.3.4 MSC Server enhanced for vSRVCC
### 5.3.5 SCC AS
## 5.4 Reference points
Editor\'s Note: The reference point that provide video-call SRVCC support
between 3GPP E-UTRAN/HSPA and 3GPP UTRAN (CS).
# 6 Key Issues
## 6.1 Key issue 1: Video Codec negotiation
### 6.1.1 Alternative 1- Two step approach for transferring video-call with
vSRVCC
#### 6.1.1.1 Functional description
For MTSI and 3G-324M, three video Codecs, H.263, MPEG-4, and H.264, are
standardized in [7], [8]. For 3G-324M, only H.263 and MPEG-4 are typically
implemented and the more complex but of a higher compression efficiency H.264
is currently not implemented in general. MTSI is expected to begin with H.264
at higher bit rates and larger image sizes than those of 3G-324M.
**Call Setup Delay of 3G-324M using H.245**
H.324, the parent standard of 3G-324M, includes the following steps for call
setup:
\- H.223 Multiplexer level detection
\- Terminal Capability Exchange
\- Master Slave determination
\- Open Logical Channels
\- Multiplexer Table Entries Exchange
The procedure typically takes 5 \~ 8 seconds. If link quality deteriorates or
media configurations between UEs are not well-matched, this delay may increase
even further. The delay can be suppressed to as low as a few seconds in the
limited cases when the acceleration techniques, such as MONA [9], are
supported by both UEs and little data is lost during the period. However, the
call set up procedure of 3G-324M, outlined above, is likely to occur at cell
edges under the SRVCC situations where radio link is unstable.
Given that the period of the current SRVCC handover with voice only is
significantly smaller (e.g. in the area of 300-500ms) if we aim for
simultaneous transfer of voice and video when handing over from PS-to-CS with
vSRVCC given that we aim for the establishment of a 64kbps bearer on the UTRAN
side and the increased call setup delay of 3G-324M from the negotiation
between UEs using H.245 signalling procedures, the interruption time might be
significantly large, during which a message might be displayed to ask for
patience from the user or recently-played video clips might be replayed until
newly-decoded scenes become available.
#### 6.1.1.2 Information flows
Figure 6.1.1.2-1: Two-step approach of transferring video-call with vSRVCC
NOTE: The upgrade from voice to video is performed using SCUDIF as defined in
TS 23.237 [3]. Both UE and network must therefore support SCUDIF.
Given the long period without any media flow is not acceptable but the voice
component of the call needs to be relayed anyway, one alternative approach
might be the following step-wise procedure in which the transfer is performed
in two steps:
a) the initial session transfer from the MSC-S to the SCC AS only transfers
the voice component (step 2 to 10 in Figure 6.1.1.2-1).
b) in a second stage and when the H.245 negotiation using SCUDIF completes the
3G-324M replaces the CS voice (step 11 to 17 in Figure 6.1.1.2-1).
#### 6.1.1.3 Evaluation of the alternative
This alternative uses SCUDIF procedures from the network for the upgrade of
the voice call to video during the vSRVCC handover procedure. According to the
SCUDIF procedure for establishment of multimedia call which can support in
call modification the SETUP message needs to include Repeat Indicator (RI) set
to support of service change and fallback, a multimedia BC- IE, a speech BC-
IE. The bearer capability elements are indicated by BC1 (first bearer
capability in a message -preferred service) and BC2 (second bearer capability
in a message- less preferred service). A terminal may request a call to be set
with the capability to fallback to either a speech only, a multimedia only
call or to use service change later during the active state of the call (the
first BC‑IE indicates the preferred service). Also, if the terminal supports
Network-initiated service upgrade to multimedia, then it shall also indicate
this in the SETUP message with the \"Enhanced Network-initiated ICM\" (ENICM)
Capability.
As the UE itself can not send the SETUP request, these elements need to be
made available to the MSC server. The problem is that these parameters
especially the bearer capability elements are UE and radio access network
specific and can not be generated by any other entity except the UE. This
would require significant changes in the SCUDIF procedures.
This solution has significant impacts on the legacy CS infrastructure and is
deemed inappropriate for further study as part of the TR 23.886.
### 6.1.2 Alternative 2: 3G-324M pre-negotiation scheme for vSRVCC domain
transfer
#### 6.1.2.1 Functional description
Assuming UE and the network have the capability of combined TA and LA update,
which eventually enables LTE located UE to know corresponding T-MSC. Using
this functionality, this scheme performs necessary 3G-324M negotiation, to
prepare future needs of 3G-324M in CS domain, with T-MSC via MSC-S/MGW while
the process to locate UE in the PS domain during PS session is on-going.
Therefore, all necessary 3G-324M related information has been negotiated prior
to the actual SRVCC sequence. This is shown in the pre 3G-324M negotiation
part of the sequence and this scheme is called the 3G-324M pre-negotiation
procedure.
#### 6.1.2.2 Information flows
Figure 6.1.2.2-1: 3G-324M pre-negotiation scheme for vSRVCC domain transfer
It is assumed that prior to the start of the pre-3G-324M negotiation sequence,
the UE and the network have the capability of TA and LA combined location
update mechanism. Hence, the UE located by the PS domain knows the T-MSC via
TA information.
a-1: UE sends the pre 3G-324M negotiation message to the Source MME in Uplink
generic NAS transport message (TS 24.301 [11], clause 8.2.32) using Generic
message container IE (TS 24.301 [11], clause 9.9.3.42). This message includes
all the necessary information for 3G-324M negotiation which includes:
(1) H.223 Multiplexer level detection,
(2) Terminal Capability Exchange,
(3) Master Slave determination,
(4) Open Logical Channels, and
(5) Multiplexer Table Entries Exchange.
The timing of this message sent is right after the original Audio and Visual
(AV) communication in PS domain has been established.
a-2: The message is forwarded to Target MSC from MME via SGsAP-UPLINK-UNITDATA
message (TS 29.118, clause 8.22). NAS message container Information Element
(IE) can be used.
a-3: The Target MSC forwards the 3G-324M related information to MSC-S/MGW
where codec exchange function is located. Encapsulated Application Information
of Mobile Service Transport (TS 29.205 Annex-B) in BICC is used for this
message. The MSC-S/MGW performs transcoding, if necessary.
a-4: is an acknowledgement of a-2 message. SGsAP-DOWNLINK-UNITSATA message is
used for this message (TS 29.118, clause 8.4). NAS message container
Information Element (IE) can be used for this purpose.
a-5: is an acknowledgement of-1 message. Downlink generic NAS transport
message (TS 24.301 [11], clause 8.2.31) using Generic message container IE (TS
24.301 [11], clause 9.9.3.43) is used for this purpose.
This ends the pre 3G-324M negotiation process. The UE and the network are now
prepared for the 3G-324M call handover when the UE moves to the CS domain.
Steps 1-9 of the SRVCC procedure, as specified in TS 23.216 [2] clause 6.2.2.2
(SRVCC from E-UTRAN to UTRAN or GERAN with DTM HO support) are executed.
Editor\'s Note: When the pre-3G-H324M codec negotiation is triggered needs to
be clarified.
#### 6.1.2.3 Evaluation of the alternative
The pre-3G-324M negotiation procedure is initiated by the UE when the UE
establishes a multimedia call in the PS domain. This prepares the target MSC
to receive the multimedia call in case handover to CS domain is required. This
alternative adds messaging overhead between the UE, MSC server, and target MSC
prior to the start of the HO procedure. Moreover, the pre-negotiation could be
triggered every time UE changes the RAN, which can generate additional
signalling in the network. The impacts of these aspects could not be fully
analyzed.
Hence, this alternative is not recommended for selection in the current
release.
### 6.1.3 Alternative 3: Two step procedure with UE initiated multimedia call
establishment (without need of SCUDIF)
#### 6.1.3.1 Functional description
In this method is proposed the voice component is transferred first and after
reaching the target CS side the UE may initiate a new CS video call based on
user interaction and implementation specific triggers. Then a local transfer
happens at the UE using session continuity procedures and the earlier call is
deactivated.
#### 6.1.3.2 Information flows
Figure 6.1.3.2-1: Phases of two step video call SRVCC handover procedure using
UE initiated additional multimedia call
The phases of the procedure are explained in more detail as follows:
1\. The UE is in PS domain and has an ongoing IMS session with bidirectional
voice and synchronised video media.
2\. SRVCC handover is triggered for video but only the voice component is
initially transferred to the CS domain by the MSC server. After the completion
of the handover the UE maintains a CS voice session and the interruption times
that apply are same as the ones currently experienced in SRVCC handover for
voice only (i.e. 300 ms). At this stage the current SRVCC handover for voice
is executed.
3\. The UE after it connects to the CS domain it establishes a new CS
multimedia call; if SCUDIF is supported procedures as described in TS 23.172
[12] are used. Otherwise, the UE/MSC can establish a \"normal\" multimedia
call. It is strongly recommended that the UE/MSC uses MONA [9] in order to
accelerate the multimedia call establishment and minimise the interruption. In
this case the \"original\" voice-only session is put on hold and the SCC AS
correlates the two sessions.
4\. The UE/SCC AS terminates the initial voice session using procedures
similar to those of source access leg release defined in TS 23.237 [3].
5\. The UE/SCC AS continues with the new multimedia session and performs
SCUDIF procedures if used and required.
Steps 3,4 and 5 can be considered optional and implementation dependent. It
may be possible that the user/UE implementation chooses to pursue with the CS
voice call and not attempt to re-establish the video call when it moves to the
CS target. It is strongly recommended that the UE/MSC uses MONA [9] in order
to accelerate the multimedia call establishment and minimise the interruption.
The procedures in more detail are described in following figure 6.1.3.2-2:
Figure 6.1.3.2-2: Detailed procedure for two-step approach of transferring
video-call using UE initiated multimedia call
1\. The UE is engaged in an ongoing IMS session with bidirectional voice and
synchronised video media (to be called video-call for then on).
2\. The criteria are met for this session to be transferred to CS domain. The
E-UTRAN identifies the existence of the video-call and initiates a SRVCC
handover.
NOTE: Even though the voice component is transferred only the indication of
vSRVCC handover is required in the MME in order to perform the appropriate
bearer splitting as indicated in section 6.2.
3\. The MME sends vSRVCC indication in PS_to_CS request to the MSC server
which initiates a session transfer procedure only for the voice component
(i.e. using SDP for bidirectional speech in the SIP INVITE of the session
transfer as it is currently described in TS 23.237 [3]).
4\. The SCC AS updates the remote party and updates the session to voice-only.
5\. At this stage the UE has an ongoing CS voice call with the remote party.
6\. The UE may trigger the setup of a new CS multimedia session depending on
user interaction or implementation specific triggers and sends SETUP to the
MSC using the STN when it detects the SRVCC for voice only is completed (sends
Handover Complete message).If the UE supports SCUDIF, the UE indicates SCUDIF
support and provides two bearer capabilities (voice and multimedia) with
multimedia preferred when initiating the transfer. Otherwise it sets up the
multimedia call as normal using the STN. At this stage the CS voice call that
is transferred in step 5 is put on hold by the MSC server. It is strongly
recommended that the UE uses MONA [9] in order to accelerate the multimedia
call establishment and minimise the interruption.
7\. If the MSC/MGCF supports SCUDIF, the MSC/MGCF sends SIP INVITE towards the
SCC AS including voice and video in the SDP. The STN and STN-SR are configured
to point to the same SCC AS. The SCC AS correlates the existing (ongoing)
session with the session transfer request received in step 3 and the C-MSISDN.
8\. The video codec negotiation takes place at this stage.
9\. The SCC AS updates the remote party and updates the session to voice and
video.
10\. The UE/SCC AS terminates the ongoing voice session of the UE and performs
procedures similar to the \"source access leg release\" described in TS 23.237
[3].
11\. At this stage the UE has an ongoing CS voice and video call with the
remote party.
#### 6.1.3.3 Evaluation of the alternative
This procedure presents minimal impacts on the existing rel.9/10 SRVCC and ISC
procedures. Namely the additional impacts on the various entities are the
following:
In the UE:
\- may initiate the multimedia call on the CS domain using the STN after the
vSRVCC handover is completed based on user interaction or implementation
specific triggers.
\- it is strongly recommended that the UE uses MONA [9] in order to accelerate
the multimedia call establishment and minimise the interruption.
In E-UTRAN:
\- depends on resolution of key issue 2. See clause 6.2.
In MME:
\- depends on resolution of key issues 2 and 3. See clauses 6.2 and 6.3.
In SCC AS:
\- is required to identify the vSRVCC handover and correlate the transferred
\"voice-only\" session with the session that is initiated later on by the UE
on the CS domain (voice and video).
\- update the remote party when the video component is added by the UE in the
CS domain.
The advantage of this procedure is that it does not impact the legacy CS call
establishment procedures and does not require SCUDIF capability of the
UE/network. Since the voice component of the video-call is transferred
immediately subject to the handover requirements of SRVCC (rel.9) the voice
communication is not disrupted.
The transfer of the video component from UE can be driven by user interaction
or implementation specific means. If the UE triggers the transfer of the video
component then given that the initial voice has to be put on hold, the voice
communication is also disrupted. MONA [9] is strongly recommended to be used
in order to minimize this interruption.
It is proposed that this solution is not considered for Rel‑10.
### 6.1.4 Alternative 4: Basic approach for transferring video-call with
vSRVCC
#### 6.1.4.1 Functional description
This alternative assumes the extension of the existing SRVCC handover
procedure in order to execute SRVCC handover for video calls and identifies
the differences in order to extend the current SRVCC handover procedure for
voice (as described in TS 23.216 [2]) in order to support the video-calls.
This alternative requires the negotiation of video Codecs during the handover
procedure.
#### 6.1.4.2 Information flow
{width="6.143055555555556in" height="5.434722222222222in"}
Figure 6.1.4.2-1: SRVCC handover procedure for video-call based on the current
TS 23.216 [2] signalling flow
1\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
2\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
3\. The change from the step in TS 23.216 [2] is that eNodeB should prepare
the transparent container indicating that video bearer (QCI=2) as well as
voice bearer (QCI=1) should be transferred to CS side and indicate this is
vSRVCC handover towards the MME if \"SRVCC operation possible\" has been
indicated for this UE.
4\. The change from step in TS 23.216 [2] is that the MME performs the split
based on the presence of QCI=2 and QCI=1 bearers and the vSRVCC Handover
indication from the eNodeB.
5a) The change from the step in TS 23.216 [2] is that the MME sends an
indication to the MSC server in PS to CS request to offer video SDP as well as
voice.
5b) The change in this step from TS 23.216 [2] is that MSC server sends a
reject if it receives an indication to prepare the video SDP from MME and MSC
server can\'t support video. This should include the vSRVCC capability.
5c) Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
6\. The difference from step in 23.216[2] is that the EPS bearer includes
context for video bearer(s) also. The PS-to-CS indicator shall be set for
video bearers also.
7\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
8\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
9\. The change from step in TS 23.216 [2] is that if the MSC server receives
the indication from MME to prepare video SDP also, it prepares video SDP along
with voice SDP otherwise it offers SDP for voice only.
10\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
11\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
12\. The difference from TS 23.216 [2] is that MSC server also includes an
indication whether it prepared the SDP for video besides voice. This
potentially requires the renegotiation of the Codecs with H.245 [10].
13\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
14\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
15\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
16\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
17\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2] with extension of 3G-324M codec negotiation
(refer to TR 26.911 [14] for H.245 signalling optimizations).
NOTE: 3G-324M codec negotiation starts at step 17c1 right after the UE
establishes a circuit bearer to the Target MSC, i.e. after step 17c.
18\. The change from step in TS 23.216 [2] is that the PS-to-CS indicator is
included for video bearers.
19\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
#### 6.1.4.3 Evaluation of the alternative
The call setup delay of 3G-324M typically takes 5 \~ 8 seconds. The delay can
be suppressed to as low as a few seconds in the limited cases when the
acceleration techniques, such as MONA [9], are supported by both UEs and
little data is lost during the period. However, the call set up procedure of
3G-324M, outlined above, is likely to occur at cell edges under the SRVCC
situations where radio link is unstable.
The period of the current SRVCC handover with voice only is significantly
shorter (e.g. in the area of 300-500ms). In this procedure transfer of voice
and video handing is done simultaneously after the establishment of a 64kbps
bearer on the UTRAN side. This introduces increased call setup delay of
3G-324M from the negotiation between UEs using H.245 signalling procedures,
and voice interruption time might be significantly large. This alternative is
not recommended for selection in the current release.
### 6.1.5 Alternative 5: Consolidated approach for transferring video-call
with vSRVCC
#### 6.1.5.1 Functional description
This alternative assumes the extension of the existing SRVCC handover
procedure in order to execute SRVCC handover for video calls. In summary the
following steps are executed:
\- The UE has only one voice and one video media active, associated with QCI=1
and QCI=2 bearers in E-UTRAN for bearer identification reasons. The UE shall
prevent multi session scenarios other than one active video call (consisting
of voice and video media) by rejecting origination and termination session
requests, if the UE misbehaves, the SCC AS will select the latest active voice
and video session for the transfer.
\- The MSC-Server executes a SRVCC voice session transfer first, while the
MSC-Server tries to reserve resources for a BS30 bearer towards the target
RAN. In case the target RAN is GERAN the subsequent handover procedure is
similar to SRVCC specified in TS 23.216. In case the target RAN is UTRAN and
the BS30 bearer reservation was successful, voice media only would be
transported over the BS30 bearer in the first place after the handover until
the video negotiation procedure is finished. The UE selects the default voice
codec for vSRVCC use only.
The session transfer procedure towards IMS for the voice media is the same as
in SRVCC. When the UE receives the HO Command with the transparent container
indicating the allocated resources is a TS11 or BS30 bearer, it knows whether
it should start the H324M video codec negotiation or not. In case of UTRAN and
BS30 resources are available, the MSC-Server sends after the finished CS H324M
negotiation a new Session Transfer message to request the addition of the
video media.
#### 6.1.5.2 Information flow
{width="6.677777777777778in" height="8.677083333333334in"}
Figure 6.1.5.2-1: SRVCC handover procedure for video-call with enabling voice
media first and in a subsequent step video media
1\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
2\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
3\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
4\. The change from step4 in TS 23.216 [2] is that the MME performs the split
based on the presence of one QCI=2 and one QCI=1 bearers, i.e. if the target
SGSN uses S4 based interaction with S-GW and P-GW, the PDN Connections IE
includes bearer information for all bearer(s) but the voice and video
bearer(s).. If the target SGSN uses Gn/Gp based interaction with GGSN the
Forward Relocation Request will contain PDP Contexts, instead of PDN
Connections IE, including bearer information for all bearers but the voice and
video bearer(s).
5a) The change from the step in TS 23.216 [2] is that the MME sends an
indication to the MSC server in PS to CS request to indicate a video call
handover and initiates the PS-CS handover procedure for the voice bearer and
the video bearer towards the MSC Server.
5b) The change in this step from TS 23.216 [2] is that n case the target RAN
is GERAN or the MSC Server cannot support video, all following steps are
similar to TS 23.216 except step 12 and the removal of the video by the SCC AS
in steps 10 and 11 . In case the target RAN is UTRAN, the MSC-Server tries to
reserve resources for a BS30 bearer. In case the UTRAN BS30 resource
reservation fails, the MSC-Server tries to reserve the resources for voice
only; all following steps are then similar to TS 23.216 except step 12 and the
removal of the video by the SCC AS in steps 10 and 11.
5c) Same as in TS 23.216 [2] with the difference that a BS30 bearer should be
reserved in case the target RAN is UTRAN.
6\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2]. The video bearer with QCI=2 is not forwarded to
the target SGSN.
7\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
8\. The difference from TS 23.216 [2] is that in case the failed BS30 resource
reservation is detected in step 8b1, then the steps starting from step 5b for
a TS11 resource reservation are executed as a fallback to voice only.
9\. The difference from TS 23.216 [2] is that in case target RAN is UTRAN and
the resource reservation was successful then the MSC-Server includes
additionally to the SDP of the voice a video SDP set to inactive.
10\. The difference from TS 23.216 [2] is that the SCC AS detects based on the
presence of the video SDP set to inactive that it needs to perform a vSRVCC HO
and expects the session update message in step 17c2. The SCC AS performs a
remote leg update with the SDP of the CS access leg for the voice session and
sets the video session to inactive. In case the video SDP set to inactive is
missing, the SCC AS assumes a SRVCC HO and initiates the release of the video
bearer from the remote leg and the access leg.
11\. The difference from TS 23.216 [2] is that the SCC AS releases only the
source IMS access leg of the voice session.
12\. The transparent container contains information about the CS bearer
reservation. In case the target RAN is GERAN or the BS30 resource reservation
failed then the MSC-Server reserved resources for voice only and indicates the
failed video HO to the MME.
13\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
14\. The difference from TS 23.216 [2] is that the UE detects the vSRVCC
handover and selects the default voice codec for vSRVCC.
15\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
16\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
17\. Same as in TS 23.216 [2].
17c1. Right after the UE establishes a circuit bearer to the MSC Server
3G-324M codec negotiation for the video is executed (refer to TR 26.911 [14]
for H.245 signalling optimizations).
17c2. After the 3G-324M codec negotiation, the MSC server prepares the video
SDP and updates the Session with a request to the SCC AS, adding video to the
voice.
17c3. The SCC AS updates the remote end with the SDP of the CS access leg
according to TS 23.237 [14]. The downlink flow of VoIP and video packets is
switched towards the CS access leg at this point.
17d1). The source MME deactivates the voice and video bearer(s) towards
S-GW/P-GW and sets the PS-to-CS handover indicator to Delete Bearer Command
message. If dynamic PCC is deployed, the PGW may interact with PCRF as defined
in TS 23.203 [13].
18\. The change from step in TS 23.216 [2] is that the PS-to-CS indicator is
included for video bearers.
#### 6.1.5.3 Evaluation of the alternative
The impacts on the various entities are the following:
In the UE:
\- signals its vSRVCC capability to the network
\- needs to select a preconfigured default voice codec for vSRVCC usage only
initiates the multimedia codec negotiation on the CS domain after the vSRVCC
handover is completed.
\- it is strongly recommended that the UE uses MONA [9] in order to accelerate
the multimedia call establishment and minimise the interruption.
\- prevents multi session scenarios other than one active video call
(consisting of voice and video media) by rejecting origination and termination
session requests.
In MME:
\- signals the vSRVCC indication to the MSC-S and performs bearer splitting
for QCI=1 and QCI=2 bearers
In MSC:
\- transfers initially \"voice-only\" when the Sv request comes from the MSC-S
(sends SIP INVITE with voice only SDP).
\- initiates the handover towards the target system for BS30 when it receives
the Sv request from the MME.
\- needs to select a default voice codec for vSRVCC usage only.
\- the MGW needs to support the vSRVCC feature.
In SCC AS:
\- is required to identify the vSRVCC handover and correlate the transferred
\"voice-only\" session with the session that is initiated later on by the UE
on the CS domain (voice and video).
\- update the remote party when the video component is added by the UE in the
CS domain.
\- selects the latest active voice and video session in case the UE has more
than one voice and one video media.
\- detects based on the presence of the SDP for video set to inactive from the
MSC-Server in the Session Transfer Request that the UE is involved in a vSRVCC
handover and releases the video session in case the vSRVCC handover was not
successful, i.e. when the SDP for video set to inactive is missing.
### 6.1.6 Alternative 6: IMS based 3G-324M pre-negotiation scheme for vSRVCC
domain transfer
#### 6.1.6.1 Functional description
The scheme uses IMS signalling to perform 3G-324M pre-negotiation during/after
IMS video call establishment with MSC Server/MGW. Therefore, all necessary
3G-324M related parameters have been negotiated in the IMS domain prior to the
vSRVCC handover to CS domain.
When the vSRVCC handover occurs, the 3G-324M call can be established based on
the pre-negotiation result.
The method described here in this clause is identical to that described in
clause 6.1.2, except for the video codec pre negotiation steps shown in part-a
of the sequence. In the method described below, the pre-negotiation steps of
part-a are carried out in IMS. This scheme does not require combined TA and LA
update capability: the SCC AS is aware of the MSC Server enhanced for vSRVCC,
so the SCC AS can connect to the MSC Server to do the pre-negotiation and
there is no need to perform the combined TA and LA update.
#### 6.1.6.2 Information flows
{width="6.677777777777778in" height="8.677083333333334in"}
Figure 6.1.6.2-1: 3G-324M pre-negotiation scheme for vSRVCC domain transfer in
IMS domain
Part-a: 3G-324M pre-negotiation in IMS domain:
a-1: UE initiates the IMS Video Call establishment procedure by sending a SIP
INVITE message to the SCC AS via the IM CN subsystem intermediate entities as
specified in TS 23.237 [3].
a-2: The SCC AS obtains from the UE all the necessary information for
establishing the 3G-324M call, which includes:
(1) H.223 Multiplexer level detection,
(2) Terminal Capability Exchange,
(3) Master Slave determination,
(4) Open Logical Channels, and
(5) Multiplexer Table Entries Exchange.
Three alternatives can be used for obtaining the information of the UE for
establishing the 3G-324M call:
\- the UE sends the 3G-324M pre-negotiation message to the SCC AS via the IM
CN subsystem intermediate entities after the IMS Video Call has been
established; or
\- the SCC AS queries the UE for all the necessary information for
establishing the 3G-324M call based on an indication in the SIP INVITE that
indicates the UE has the capability of 3G-324M pre-negotiation for vSRVCC
domain transfer, after the IMS Video Call has been established, and the UE
sends the information back to the SCC AS; or
\- the SCC AS has prior knowledge of 3G-324M information of the UE from the
SIP INVITE request for IMS Video Call establishment or through registration
procedures.
NOTE: Based on the local configuration, the SCC AS can retrieve the remote
end\'s codec capabilities and provide to the MSC Server/MGW for the 3G-324M
pre-negotiation (e.g. by sending a SIP OPTIONS to the remote end). Optionally,
the MSC Server/MGW can perform transcoding if necessary when interworking
3G-324M towards the remote end, and thus the IMS based capability exchange
procedures towards the remote end would be unnecessary.
a-3: The SCC AS provides the MSC Server enhanced for vSRVCC with the 3G-324M
related information of the UE received in step a-2, together with the codec
capabilities of the remote end if available.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS how the SCC AS selects the MSC Server for the
3G-324M pre-negotiation.
a-4: The MSC Server/MGW gets the 3G-324M related parameters for the 3G-324M
call by performing pre-negotiation based on the information received from the
SCC AS and sends the pre-negotiation result to the SCC AS. When choosing the
codec for 3G-324M, the MSC Server also takes account of the codec capabilities
of the remote end if available. The MSC Server/MGW performs transcoding, if
necessary.
a-5: The 3G-324M pre-negotiation result is sent to the original UE. This ends
the 3G-324M pre-negotiation procedure. The UE and the network are now prepared
for the 3G-324M call handover when the UE moves to the CS domain.
Steps 1-15 are identical with steps 1-15 in Figure 6.1.4.2-1 (Information flow
of Alternative 4).
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS how to ensure that the MME selects the same MSC
Server as the one involved in the 3G-324M pre-negotiation.
16\. The difference from TS 23.216 [2] is that after the UE sends a Handover
Complete message via the target MSC to the MSC Server, the UE and the MSC
Server/MGW activate the 3G-324M call based on the pre-negotiation result.
Steps 17-19 are identical with steps 1-15 in Figure 6.1.4.2-1 (Information
flow of Alternative 4).
#### 6.1.6.3 Evaluation of the alternative
This alternative requires the UE, SCC AS and MSC Server to support the 3G-324M
pre-negotiation procedure, and the UE and the MSC Server to activate the
3G-324M call based on the pre-negotiation result after the UE switches to CS
domain, as described in clause 6.1.6.2. The IMS SIP signalling needed to be
extended to support the 3G-324M pre-negotiation.
The advantages of this alternative are:
\- 3G-324M negotiation is done before vSRVCC handover, so that the 3G-324M
call can be established soon after the UE moves to CS domain and the
interruption can be further minimised compared to the case of 3G-324M
negotiation being done during the vSRVCC handover;
\- 3G-324M negotiation is done via the IMS domain, minimising the impacts on
the EPS.
This alternative is not recommended to be specified in Release 10.
## 6.2 Key issue 2: Bearer identification for vSRVCC handover
The IMS session with bi-directional speech and synchronised video media over
E-UTRAN/HSPA as defined in TS 22.173 [4], and TS 26.114 [7] and for which
separate bearers will be established for the voice and video components
respectively as per the current assumption in clause 4.1. These bearers will
have different QCI values: QCI =1 and for example QCI=2 for the bearer
carrying the voice and the video media respectively. At any instance, there
can be multiple bearers available with QCI =1 and QCI =2 because there can be
multiple video/voice call applications running simultaneously. The
E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) will not be able to co-relate which video and voice bearer
belong to the same application and it can provide a wrong trigger for SRVCC
e.g. sending Handover Required message with indication for vSRVCC whereas it
should have been for voice. Similar problem occurs at the MME/SGSN which has
to perform bearer splitting by separating the voice and video bearer belonging
to a single video call application from others. Hence it needs to be resolved
how these bearers should be identified and correlated together by the
E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) and MME/SGSN to trigger the correct SRVCC operation.
### 6.2.1 Alternative 1: Using dedicated QCI for the video bearer associated
with a video call application
#### 6.2.1.1 Functional description
**The video bearer which is associated with a video call application is
assigned a dedicated QCI value. The eNodeB checks if both QCI=1 i.e. voice
bearer and QCI=2 i.e. video bearer are present. The presence of both the voice
and video bearer indicates that a video call application is ongoing. Hence,
the eNodeB prepares the transparent containers appropriately and triggers a
vSRVCC handover. The MME checks that voice and video bearers related to video
call application are present (based on the QCI values) and there is vSRVCC
handover indication from the eNodeB. The MME recognizes that a vSRVCC
operation is desirable and splits the video call application related voice and
video bearers from other non-voice PS bearers. The MME then sends a PS-to-CS
request for vSRVCC towards the MSC server.**
#### 6.2.1.2 Evaluation of the alternative
At any instance of time there may be multiple active video call applications
along with voice call application. Hence E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) will observe
multiple bearers with QCIs corresponding to voice and video respectively and
with no idea of which bearer belongs to which application. Hence the
E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) cannot correctly identify whether to trigger SRVCC for
video or voice.
Figure 6.2.1.2-1: Incorrect trigger of SRVCC HO- scenario 1
As per the figure 6.2.1.2-1, for Applications 1 and 3, the video bearer should
be transferred to the PS domain, whereas for application 2, the voice needs to
be transferred to the CS domain but since E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) is not aware
that these QCI=1 and QCI =2 bearers belong to different applications, it might
incorrectly trigger SRVCC for video considering QCI =1 from Application 1 and
QCI =2 from Application 2.
Another example of incorrect SRVCC triggering by the E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) can
be as follows:
Figure 6.2.1.2-2: Incorrect SRVCC HO trigger -- scenario 2
In figure 6.2.1.2-2, instead of E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) triggering vSRVCC
operation with respect to application 1, it might assume that the Application
1\'s bearer are not co-related and will trigger SRVCC Handover for voice
corresponding to application 2.
For SRVCC HO the MME/SGSN needs to perform bearer splitting i.e. separating
the voice bearer from non-voice bearers. For SRVCC HO for voice application,
the MME/SGSN performs bearer splitting based on the \'SRVCC HO indicator\' in
Handover Required message and the presence of QCI =1 bearer. But in case of
vSRVCC when the MME/SGSN receives \'vSRVCC required\' from the
E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) it does not know clearly which QCI = 1 and QCI =2 bearer
belong to the same video call application. For example in figure Y, the
MME/SGSN might combine the QCI = 2 bearer from the application 1 with QCI =1
bearer from application 3 and transfer them to the CS domain. Hence this
alternative for bearer identification can only work if the vSRVCC UE is
allowed only one pair of QCI=1/QCI=2 bearers in place at any point in time. It
is also not possible for the same UE to have in parallel voice calls (with
associated QCI=1) in held status.
It is proposed that the above limitation is accepted for rel.10 and QCI=2 is
selected as the allocated QCI for the video component of the Video Call and
this limitation is captured in relevant specifications.
### 6.2.2 Alternative 2: Using bearer correlation method
#### 6.2.2.1 Functional description
**In accordance to this alternative describing co-relation of bearers, the
E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) and the MME/SGSN receive a \"correlation-id\" from the
PCRF and in turn the PDN-GW as part of dedicated EPS bearer activation process
as defined in Fig. 6.2.2.2-1.**
**Based on \"vSRVCC operation possible\", existence of EPS bearers with QCI
values for voice and video (QCI=1 and QCI=2 respectively) and the
\"correlation id\", the E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) triggers vSRVCC operation. The
MME/SGSN in addition splits the bearers based on vSRVCC HO indication, QCI
values and the \"correlation id\" as described in Fig. 6.2.2.2-1.**
#### 6.2.2.2 Information flows
Figure 6.2.2.2- 1: Dedicated EPS bearer establishment using \"correlation-id\"
**The changes with respect to the dedicated bearer activation procedure in TS
23.401 [11] are as follows:**
1\. The PCRF sends the correlation id to PDN GW/GGSN in case of dynamic PCC.
PCRF can send the correlation id obtained from application or the statically
assigned correlation id.
2\. The PDN GW sends the correlation id to SGW along with the EPS Bearer
Identity and the Linked Bearer Identity. The PDN GW stores the correlation id
in the bearer context.
3\. The SGW sends the correlation id to MME/SGSN along with the EPS Bearer
Identity and Linked Bearer Identity. The SGW stores the correlation id in the
bearer context.
4\. The MME/SGSN signals the correlation id received in step 3 in the Bearer
Setup Request message to the E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) only if the UE is vSRVCC
capable. The MME/SGSN also stores the correlation id in the bearer context. If
UE is not vSRVCC capable then the MME/SGSN doesn\'t send the \'vSRVCC
operation possible\' indication to the E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) so that the
E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) doesn\'t trigger vSRVCC operation.
5\. The E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) stores the correlation id received in step 4.
6\~12. These steps are the same as in TS 23.401 [11].
The correlation id obtained by the MME/SGSN during the dedicated bearer
activation procedure is passed as a part of bearer context during the mobility
management procedures.
**In the vSRVCC Handover procedure the E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) will take a
decision for triggering vSRVCC handover procedure based on the \'vSRVCC
operation possible\' indication from the MME/SGSN, QCI values 1 and 2 for
voice and video respectively and the correlation identifier. Similarly the
MME/SGSN splits the bearers corresponding to the video call application from
rest of the bearers based on the \'vSRVCC HO\' indication from the
E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA), QCIs of the bearers 1 and 2 for voice and video
respectively and the correlation identifier which was saved during the
dedicated bearer activation procedure. Figure 6.2.2.2-2 explains the vSRVCC
procedure:**
Figure 6.2.2.2- 2: Bearer splitting vSRVCC from E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) to UTRAN
The changes with respect to the current SRVCC procedure as defined in TS
23.216 [2] are as follows:
2\. The E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) decides to trigger vSRVCC handover based on the
vSRVCC operation possible indication from the MME/SGSN, QCI-1 and QCI-2 for
voice and video respectively and the specific correlation identifier.
3\. The E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA) sends Handover Required message containing the
\'vSRVCC HO\' indication towards the MME/SGSN.
4\. The MME/SGSN splits the bearers corresponding to the video call
application from other bearers based on the vSRVCC HO indication from the
E-UTRAN/UTRAN(HSPA), QCI- 1 and QCI-2 for voice and video respectively and the
correlation identifier. These bearers are transferred to the CS domain and PS
HO is triggered for the remaining bearers.
Then the remaining procedure is the same as in TS 23.216 [2] with needed
updated for handling video call.
#### 6.2.2.3 Evaluation of the alternative
This solution presents significant impacts on IMS, PCC, EPC and RAN, and may
be required only for more than one set of QCI=1/QCI=2 bearers from the same
UE.
### 6.2.3 Alternative 3: Not requiring bearer identification for vSRVCC
#### 6.2.3.1 Functional description
It is not possible for the MME to reliably differentiate between the cases
that the currently ongoing session is an IMS session only with bidirectional
speech media or an IMS session with bi-directional speech and synchronised
video media. Hence the MME can only indicate SRVCC for bi-directional speech
media to the MSC Server.
#### 6.2.3.2 Evaluation of the alternative
In rel.9 the MME cannot reliably identify the cases that the currently ongoing
session is an IMS session only with bidirectional speech media or an IMS
session with bi-directional speech and synchronised video media. Therefore if
SRVCC handover is triggered towards UTRAN or GERAN with DTM the MME is unable
to perform bearer splitting in the case of bi-directional speech and
synchronised video media, so it will transfer the QCI-1 bearer as CS
transparent container whereas the QCI corresponding to the video media as a PS
transparent container.
This will lead to the Video Call application losing the synchronisation
between speech and video media, since the former will be transferred to the CS
domain where the latter to the PS domain. In addition if the target access is
GERAN with DTM the video performance will be poor.
Overall the solution of \"doing nothing\" (as is the case in rel.9) is not
even going to allow the appropriate continuity of the voice communication in
the CS domain unless the UE drops the PS bearers corresponding to the video
component when it moves to the CS access.
## 6.3 Key issue 3: Requirement for vSRVCC indication towards the MME and the
MSC server
### 6.3.1 Alternative 1: vSRVCC indication towards the MME and the MSC server
#### 6.3.1.1 Description
For SRVCC HO for voice calls the \'Handover Required\' message from eNodeB to
MME contains an indication. Similarly the PS-to-CS request message from the
MME to MSC server indicates that SRVCC HO is to be performed. For vSRVCC HO
also, a separate indication is required because the core network nodes i.e.
the MSC and the MME needs to perform different actions based on whether it is
voice or vSRVCC.
#### 6.3.1.2 Functional description
For vSRVCC operation the MME splits the voice and video bearer(s)
corresponding to the video call application from the other non-video call
application bearers based on indication for vSRVCC in Handover Required
message. The MSC server performs the vSRVCC related action i.e. initiate the
voice transfer and later perform video transfer based on the vSRVCC indication
in the PS-to-CS request message.
#### 6.3.1.3 Evaluation of the alternative
Whether we need indication for vSRVCC handover will depend on the solution for
key issue 1.
If Alternative 4 is chosen where the session transfer for voice and video is
happening in one step, we need to identify to the MSC that the session
transfer is for vSRVCC in order to include voice and video SDP media lines in
the INVITE request it sends to the SCC AS.
If Alternative 3 is chosen then we can rely on the MME to perform bearer
splitting (refrain from sending QCI-1 and QCI-2 PS transparent containers)
when the UE has simultaneously QCI-1 and QCI-2 bearers active and we assume
that we allow only one pair of QCI-1/QCI-2 bearers to exist. The MME can then
use Sv procedures to trigger SRVCC as defined in rel.9 TS 23.216 [2].
If Alternative 5 is chosen then we can also rely on the MME to perform bearer
splitting (refrain from sending QCI-1 and QCI-2 PS transparent containers).
But the MME still needs to signal to MSC-S that this is vSRVCC or SRVCC
handover in order for the MSC to decide whether to initiate TS11 or BS30
bearers towards the target system.
In conclusion if Alternative 4 or 5 is selected for Key issue 1 then we need a
vSRVCC indication from the MME to MSC Server.
### 6.3.2 Alternative 2: No need for vSRVCC indication towards the MME and the
MSC server
#### 6.3.2.1 Functional description
Since it is not possible for the MME to reliably differentiate between the
cases that the currently ongoing session is an IMS session only with
bidirectional speech media or an IMS session with bi-directional speech and
synchronised video media, the MME can only indicate SRVCC for bi-directional
speech media to the MSC Server.
Therefore there is no need for a special vSRVCC indication towards the MME and
the MSC Server.
#### 6.3.2.2 Evaluation of the alternative
As indicated in section 6.3.1.3 this alternative can work if Alternative 3 is
selected for key issue 1 and we allow only one pair of QCI-1/QCI-2 bearers to
exist.
# 7 Assessment of the solutions
Editor\'s Note: This clause will include solutions assessment and will provide
the chosen solution for video-call SRVCC from 3GPP E-UTRAN/HSPA to 3GPP UTRAN
(CS) study.
# 8 Conclusion
Following are the conclusions for this TR:
1\. For key issue #1 - Video codec negotiation: Alternative 5 in clause 6.1.5
(Consolidated approach for transferring video-call with vSRVCC) shall be
selected for normative specification. This alternative transfers the voice
component of the multimedia call first followed by the transfer of the video
component after the 3G-324M video codec negotiation has been completed. With
this approach the voice component is transferred with minimum delay prior to
the transfer of the video component. It is assumed the UE has only one voice
and one video media active, associated with QCI=1 and QCI=2 bearers in E-UTRAN
for bearer identification reasons.
2\. For key issue #2 - Bearer identification for vSRVCC handover: Alternative
1 in clause 6.2.1 shall be selected for normative specification, with the
assumption that only one multimedia (voice+video) call is active.
3\. For key issue #3 - Requirement for vSRVCC indication towards the MME and
the MSC server: Alternative 1 in clause 6.3.1 shall be selected for normative
specification.
#