# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The objective of this technical report is to identify the full set of
requirements for bandwidth and resource savings and improved speech quality,
with specific consideration to networks supporting A/Gb mode and the bearer
independent circuit-switched core network (BICN). The different architectural
solutions to meet these requirements will be assessed.
Consideration shall be made to existing architectures and solutions to provide
harmony between 2G nodes, UMTS nodes and external networks (PSTN/ISDN).
Backward compatibility to existing solutions and ease of network
introduction/upgrade shall be given high importance.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.153: \"Out of band transcoder control; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.053: \"Tandem Free Operation (TFO); Service description; Stage
2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 28.062: \"Inband Tandem Free Operation (TFO) of speech codecs;
Service description; Stage 3\".
[5] 3GPP TS 26.103: \"Speech codec list for GSM and UMTS\".
[6] 3GPP TR 26.975: \"Performance Characterization of the AMR Speech Codec\".
[7] 3GPP TR 26.976: \"Performance characterization of the Adaptive Multi-Rate
Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec\".
[8] 3GPP TS 26.102: \"Mandatory speech codec; Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech
codec; Interface to Iu, Uu and Nb\".
[9] Void.
[10] 3GPP TS 48.060: \"In-band control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for full rate traffic channels\".
[11] 3GPP TS 48.061: \"In band control of remote transcoders and rate adaptors
for half rate traffic channels\".
[12] 3GPP TS 52.021: \"Network Management (NM) procedures and messages on the
A-bis interface\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.163: \"Interworking between the IP Multimedia (IM) Core
Network (CN) subsystem and Circuit Switched (CS) networks\".
[14] ITU-T Recommendation Q.1912.5: \"BICC SIP Interworking\".
[15] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the definitions in TR 21.905 [15]
apply as well as the following terms and definitions.
**Bearer Independent Core Network :** This term refers to a core network (CN)
comprised of MSC Server, CS-MGW and GMSC Server nodes to support MSC and GMSC
functionality, as defined in TS 23.002 [1].
**Codec Configuration :** The Codec Configuration of a codes type ,like AMR,
includes mainly the Active Codec Set, the setting of the OM flag and DTX
parameters, etc.
**_MIPS:_** Mega (Million) Instructions Per Second. This is a measure for the
required DSP capacity. It is here in this context related to the \"ETSI-DSP\"
as defined in 3GPP SA4 for the complexity characterisation of the 3GPP Speech
Codec algorithms.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Ater the reference point internal to the BSC functional entity, between the
transcoders and the rest of the BSC functions.
Abis interface between the BTS and the BSC
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations in TR 21.905 [15]
apply as well as the following abbreviations:
BICN Bearer Independent Core Network
BICC Bearer Independent Call Control
DSP Digital Signal Processor
DC Decoding
MSC-S MSC Server
OoBTC Out of Band Transcoder Control
PT TFO Protocol Termination
R Reframing
TC Transcoding
UP User Plane Termination
# 4 Network deployment scenarios to be studied
## 4.1 GSM network architecture before Release 4
Figure 4.1-1: GSM Network Architecture before release 4
In GSM networks according to releases before release 4 the MSCs are
interconnected on the user plane by TDM links (real or virtual) with 64 kb/s
for speech traffic. The only speech codec type known between MSCs is G.711
\'PCM\'.\ There are typically several Points-of-Interconnect to the underlying
PSTN, with 64kb/s for the speech traffic in PCM.\ The MSCs control and
interconnect the BSCs via the A-Interface (user plane and control plane), but
they have no direct influence on the Codec Type selected by the BSC on the GSM
radio access. The MSC can make a suggestion on the Codec Type, but the BSC
decides finally. The MSCs have no means at all to signal the Codec
Configuration to the BSCs or between MSCs. This is a drawback.
The transcoders belong logically to the GSM_BSS. Speech is transported on the
Ater interface in compressed form using the same codec type and configuration
as on the radio interface.
Tandem Free Operation (TFO) is defined on PCM links for all GSM Codec Types.
TFO allows by inband signalling to \'tunnel\' the compressed speech through
the TDM core network. TFO provides the possibility to bypass and omit the
encoding functions, saves DSP resources, improves the speech quality in
mobile-mobile calls, allows new speech services like wideband speech, but does
not provide transmission cost saving.
## 4.2 UMTS network architecture in Release 99
Figure 4.2-1: UMTS network architecture in Release 99
In UMTS networks according to release 99 the MSCs are interconnected on the
user plane by TDM links (real or virtual) with 64 kb/s for speech traffic. The
only speech codec type known [between]{.underline} MSCs is G.711 \'PCM\'.
There are typically several Points-of-Interconnect to the underlying PSTN,
with 64kb/s for the speech traffic in PCM.
The MSCs control and interconnect the RNCs via the Iu-Interface (user plane
and control plane).
The MSC selects and commands the Codec Type on the UTRAN radio access and
makes a suggestion on the Codec Configuration, but the RNC can select a sub-
configuration.
The Transcoders are located on central places physically and logically
\'inside\' the mobile core network as integral parts of the MSCs. They are
controlled by the MSCs via internal interfaces. But also the RNC controls the
transcoder via the Iu interface (Iu_Init). Speech is transported on the Iu-
interface in compressed form using the same codec type and configuration as on
the radio interface.
The MSCs have no means at all to signal the Codec Configuration between MSCs.
This is a drawback.
Tandem Free Operation (TFO) is defined on PCM links for all UMTS Codec Types
(there is only UMTS_AMR and UMTS_AMR2). TFO allows by inband signalling to
\'tunnel\' the compressed speech through the TDM core network. TFO provides
the possibility to bypass and omit the encoding functions, saves DSP
resources, improves the speech quality in mobile-mobile calls, allows new
speech services like wideband speech, but does not provide transmission cost
saving. It is possible to have a combined GSM/UMTS core network with MSCs
supporting both the Iu interface towards RNCs and the A-interface towards
BSCs.
## 4.3 Packet transport network between MGWs in an A/Iu mode BICN
NOTE: Since we consider only speech telephony services in this TR the Gb
interface has no relevance.
Figure 4.3-1: Bearer Independent Core Network with A- and Iu-interfaces from
Release 4 onwards
The mobile Core Network from release 4 onwards has a layered architecture with
BICC and OoBTC/TrFO on the Nc/Nb interface or TFO on the Nb interface and
provides the means to transport speech in compressed form on the Nb interface.
The MSC-Ss know, negotiate and select the speech Codec Types and
Configurations on the Iu interfaces. The MSC-Ss also know, negotiate and
select speech Codec Types and Configurations on the Nb Interface.
\- This may lead to Transcoder free operation (TrFO) with compressed speech at
the Nb interface.
\- If the MSC-Ss determine G.711 as the codec used between the MGWs, then the
MGWs may afterwards establish TFO at the Nb interface. In this case the
transcoders in the MGWs know and negotiate the speech codec configuration on
the Nb interface, and they inform the MSC-Server of this configuration
indicating that TFO is possible. If the transcoder is in the BSCs, the BSCs
know and select the speech codec type and configuration on the A-ter interface
to enable TFO operation on the A interface.
The RNC accepts the commanded Codec Type and Configuration.
The MSC-Ss suggest also the speech Codec Type to be used on the Ater
interface, but the BSC has the final decision and determines the initial Codec
Type and Configuration for the GSM radio interface and the Ater interface. The
MSC-Ss cannot communicate the preferred Codec Configuration to the BSCs in a
direct way. The MSC-Ss can discover the Codec Type and Configuration from the
BSCs via the TFO procedures at the corresponding MGW. The MSC-Ss can then
direct interworking procedures between TFO on an A interface or other TDM link
and either OoBTC or TFO associated with an Nb interface to optimally allocate
the speech transcoder functions.
The MGWs host the transcoding and interworking between compressed speech on Nb
or Iu and the legacy \'PCM\' with or without TFO on A and TDM interfaces.
Points-of-Interconnect to the PSTN are typically provided at every MGW. MGWs
may be geographically distributed to minimise the length of the speech path
inside the PSTN.
Bandwidth efficient transmission is always provided on the Ater- and on the
Iu-interfaces, where the Iu allows a slightly higher efficiency in DTX due to
its packet based transport structure (ATM or IP).
The bandwidth efficiency on the Nb-Interface depends on the selected Codec
Type. It can be as on Iu (when TrFO is used) or it can be 64kb/s for G.711.In
the latter case, the bandwidth efficiency on the Nb-interface is always 64kb/s
for PCM, even when a compressed Codec Type has been selected by using TFO.
This is a drawback.
OoBTC may lead to a Transcod**er** free Operation (TrFO) with high bandwidth
efficiency on all user planes for UE-to-UE calls. For UE-to-PSTN calls at
least the major part of the speech path can be realised in compressed form
(TrFO-link, Transcoder at the Edge of the CN).
For any call transiting the Nb interface, both OoBTC and TFO procedures may
apply. Harmonization procedures between OoBTC and TFO provide the necessary
interworking, achieving the same speech quality benefits provided separately
by either TrFO or TFO. OoBTC and TFO for MS-to-UE and MS-to-MS calls that
traverse a packet transport network over Nb may lead to a combination of
TrFO/TFO and TFO operation on the Nb and A interface / TDM portions of the
speech path, respectively, with high bandwidth efficiency on all but the A
interface and TDM portions of the speech path, except when TFO is used over Nb
interface. OoBTC and TFO for MS-to-PSTN calls that traverse a packet transport
network over Nb may also provide for high bandwidth efficiency on any Ater, Iu
and Nb portions of the speech path, except when TFO is used over Nb interface.
## 4.4 TDM transit network between A/Iu mode PLMNs
Figure 4.4-1: TDM Transit network between PLMNs from Release 4 onwards
This architecture shows two mobile Core Networks (BICNs) of Release 4 or 5 in
layered architecture, with BICC and OoBTC on the Nc interface or TFO on the Nb
interface and speech in compressed form on the Nb interface, connected by a
legacy ISUP signalling and TDM with 64kb/s for speech (G.711). All features as
explained above for one BICN are of course valid inside each BICN and are not
further reprinted here in all details.
TFO on the TDM interface between the BICNs (here between MGW A2 and MGW B2)
can be used to exchange the compressed speech parameters between both BICNs.
By that, end-to-end transcoding free operation is possible in any combination
of mobile-to-mobile calls, provided that no In-Path_Equipment prevents the
establishment of TFO on these links. Also \"Transcoder at the edge\" can be
provided in any combination of mobile-to-PSTN calls, regardless whether the
Point-of-Interconnect to the PSTN is inside the BICN where the mobile is
connected, or in the other BICN. Cost efficient transmission is possible
within each BICN, but of course not (directly) on the TDM link between the
BICNs, except when TFO is used on Nb interface. The resulting speech quality
should be identical to the one achievable within one BICN. In all call
scenarios the optimal speech quality can be achieved.
Within each BICN, for TrFO, the MSC-Ss know, negotiate and select the speech
Codec Types and Configurations on the Nb and Iu interfaces and suggest also
the speech Codec Type to be used on the Ater interface.
\- This may lead to Transcoder free operation (TrFO) with compressed speech at
the Nb interface.
\- If the MSC-Ss determine G.711 as the codec used between the MGWs, then the
MGWs may afterwards establish TFO at the Nb interface. In this case the
transcoders in the MGWs know and negotiate the speech codec configuration on
the Nb interface, and they inform the MSC-Server of this configuration
indicating that TFO is possible. If the transcoder is in the BSCs, the BSCs
know and select the speech codec type and configuration on the A-ter interface
to enable TFO operation on the A interface.
For TrFO, the MSC-Ss of one BICN cannot negotiate Speech Codec
Type/Configuration directly with the MSC-Ss of the other BICN due to the ISUP
connection between them. OoBTC-signalling therefore ends at the border MGWs
(here MGW A2 and MGW B2). TFO inband signalling connects both BICNs and
provides OoBTC-compatible means to exchange the Codec Lists and to identify
the optimal Codec Type and Configuration. In this way a complete end-to-end
Codec List negotiation is achieved.
The main difference between OoBTC- and TFO-signalling is, that one is
performed [before]{.underline} call setup and the other immediately
[after]{.underline} call setup. As both Core Networks could select different,
incompatible Codec Types/Configurations that TFO cannot in all cases establish
immediately. The Codec Mismatch situation and the Optimal Codec
Type/Configuration gets known to both BICNs by TFO signalling and then it
might be required that one or both BICNs perform an In-Call-Modification of
the Codec Type/Configuration to achieve end-to-end transcoding free transport.
It may be noted here for completeness that also \"inside\" the ISUP/TDM
connection between the shown BICNs another BICN may be \"hidden\" with TFO
capability to the external world. This hidden BICN could have the same OoBTC
and Codec Types/Configurations and by that support high bandwidth efficiency
on long trunks without any loss of speech quality.
## 4.5 Packet transport transit network between PLMNs
Figure 4.5-1: Packet transport transit network between PLMNs of REL5
This architecture shows two mobile Core Networks (BICNs) of Release 4 or 5 in
layered architecture, with BICC and OoBTC on the Nc interface and speech in
compressed form on the Nb interface. They are connected by a packet network,
using the signalling and user plane protocols, which are used with the BICNs.
All features as explained above for one BICN are of course valid inside each
BICN and are not further reprinted here in all details. Indeed, in this
scenario all features apply across network borders: OoBTC and TrFO can take
place all along the path in the core networks, resulting in compressed speech
with high bandwidth efficiency on all user planes for UE-to-UE calls even
across PLMN borders.
The description above indicates that the user plane protocols are used inter-
PLMN. The user plane interconnecting the two BICNs may alternately use
standard IETF framing protocols when configured over IP transport. TS 29.007
currently does not describe the use of BICC inter-PLMN.
In the transit network where other protocols than BICC with OoBTC are used
(e.g. ISUP), then in some cases OoBTC and TrFO can not apply across network
borders and bandwidth efficiency can not be achieved across PLMN borders. To
achieve such efficiency would require a mechanism which did not rely on BICC
and provided compressed speech still.
Figure 4.5-2: Packet transport transit network between PLMNs of REL5, using
SIP between PLMNs.
The PLMNs may alternately be interconnected using SIP rather than BICC in the
signalling plane, see Figure 4.5.2. The user plane interconnecting the two
BICNs uses standard IETF framing protocols when configured over IP transport.
In this case SIP-to-BICC interworking procedures apply at the border MSCs. See
ITU‑T Recommendation Q.1912.5 [14], which accommodates the 3GPP SIP profile
through its profile A for SIP. ITU-T Recommendation Q.1912.5 [14] can be used
with TS 29.163 [13] to enable interworking of OoBTC through the intermediate
SIP network. However, TS 29.007 currently does not define the use of SIP
inter-PLMN.
Support for EFR and Half Rate in SDP does not exist. It has not been validated
if all current Supplementary Services are supported by the BICC-SIP
interworking. Furthermore, the BICC-SIP interworking may have impact to the
supported in-call modifications. Further study would be needed to address
these issues to ensure BICC-SIP interworking without degradation of the CS
call services.
# 5 Call Scenarios to be studied
The following call scenarios are those of interest for BARS functionality for
the network scenarios detailed in clause 4. For each scenario the resources
used in the MGWs and TRAUs and the bandwidths in use are described. They are
also quantified in relation to each other in terms of Mega Instructions Per
Second (MIPS, see definitions). These scenarios apply to initial bearer
establishment as well as bearer renegotiation as needed for call forwarding,
handover and other situations involving bearer reconfiguration.
Resource utilisation in MGWs and TRAUs comprises the following aspects:
**a) TFO Protocol Termination (PT)**. TFO requires the use of TFO-protocol
handlers for the inband signalling. This is typically implemented in a DSP,
collocated with the Transcoder function. TFO-Protocol Termination requires a
small processing power, mainly during the initial search for the first TFO
message (≤ 1MIPS, for simplicity and to be on the save side counted with 1
MIPS).
**b) Re-framing (R)**. Depending on the scenario, it is necessary to reframe
\"the same bits of information\", for example at transition from TDM (TFO-
Frames) to packet (Iu- or Nb-Frames) or vice versa. Reframing is also
necessary where transcoding takes place. Reframing requires a comparably tiny
processing power (\ * only the SID-Framing on Nb is missing for the GSM_EFR.
# 7 Requirements and architectural solutions for Resource Savings
\- Reduce the total number of transcoding equipment in a A/Gb mode network
using R4 core network architecture. This is very important for growing A/Gb
mode networks.
Sections 4 and 5 include detailed comparisons of the resource savings possible
with TrFO and TFO solutions.
## 7.1 AMR-NB configurations
The AMR Codec algorithm comprises eight modes. More than hundred combinations
of 1, 2, 3 or 4 modes out of 8 are possible, not all are reasonable, only a
few are necessary for most applications. TS 28.062 [4] lists the 15
\"preferred\" AMR Configurations.
Without further agreements the likelihood is small, that two independent radio
legs would chose the same or compatible configurations. With an additional
TrFO link in between, which selects the configuration potentially also
independently, the situation does by no means improve.
The [TFO-Decision Rules]{.underline}, as formulated in TS 28.062 [4], define
preferred configurations for HR_AMR and for FR_AMR. With these AMR
Configurations it is guaranteed that any combination on both radio access
sides and the core network in between does (nearly) always lead to the optimal
communication quality under the given restrictions. The Maximum Rate Control
Algorithm, integrated into the TFO Handlers, do automatically restrict the
rates to the common ones, in case the configurations are different.
The UTRAN groups preferred a different AMR-NB configuration for UTRAN.
With this GSM-GSM calls and UTRAN-UTRAN calls would work fine in TFO/TrFO, but
GSM-UTRAN calls require at least one unnecessary transcoding, in practise it
would mean two transcoders are inserted:
AMR (config-GSM) -- PCM -- AMR (config-UTRAN).\ The OoBTC at call setup can
not easily decide, which configuration to use inside the CN on the TrFO-link.
The specified mechanisms to resolve the situation could use an in-call-
modification immediately after call setup, when the overall call scenario is
known after the TFO Negotiation. But also this can only work, if UTRAN is
accepting to be modified to the preferred GSM configurations. So this is not
really a nice solution, it costs a substantial amount of additional signalling
and speech path disruptions during the (unnecessary) modification.\ Every
handover could jeopardise the configuration again.
Given the importance of GSM-to-UTRAN calls and the expected handovers between
GSM and UTRAN in many dual-mode networks this is hardly acceptable.
**Conclusion:\** It is proposed that the 3GPP standardisation groups cooperate
to decide upon a common configuration for AMR, to include it into the
specifications and to give it a dominant importance. This configuration would
be preferred for systems supporting TFO and/or TrFO.
## 7.2 AMR-WB configurations
For the AMR-WB Codec Types one basic, mandatory configuration with the three
lowest modes (AMR-WB 6.60 + 8.85 + 12.65 kbit/s) is [mandatory]{.underline}
for all radio access technologies that offer AMR-WB capability. One of two
optional modes [may]{.underline} be added: either 15.85 _or_ 23.85 kbit/s.
This is described in clause 5.4.0 of TS 26.103 [5]
With these three different AMR-WB Configurations it is guaranteed that any
combination on both radio access sides and the core network in between does
(nearly) always lead to the optimal communication quality under the given
restrictions. The Maximum Rate Control Algorithms, integrated into the TFO
Handlers, do automatically restrict the rates to the common ones, in case the
configurations are different. For a pure TrFO connection the Rate Control
algorithm should be identical, but it is - so far - not described anywhere.
**Conclusion:\** The configurations for AMR-WB are well suited and no change
is necessary
# 8 Requirements and architectural solutions for bandwidth savings
## 8.1 Background
The 3GPP architecture must support bandwidth usage efficiency on the most
highly utilized user plane interfaces in the system. Candidates for
optimisation include:
\- The path between RNC and MGW. This is the Iu interface and is already
optimised.
\- The path between MGWs within a BICN. When this path uses a packet network,
it is the Nb interface and is optimised for TrFO.
\- The path between BSC and MGW. This is a combination of the Ater and A
interfaces via the TRAU. The Ater interface is already optimised but the A
interface uses 64 kbps facilities on a TDM interface. In this form, the A
interface is not a candidate for bandwidth optimisation, but is consistent
with TFO.
\- The path between MGWs in different PLMNs. This interface is typically TDM
and may be consistent with TFO if no DCMEs or other non-TFO IPE (e.g. echo
cancellers) are in the path. If a packet transport network is available
between the PLMNs, then OoBTC may be applicable.
Other sections describe how harmonized OoBTC and TFO procedures enable some
combination of TrFO, TFO and transcoding at the edge in various scenarios
involving media flow on these paths. The A and TDM interfaces do not yet
support the same degree of bandwidth usage efficiency as the Ater, Iu and Nb
interfaces.
If a path between MGWs within a BICN does not already use TrFO over an Nb
interface, it can be optimised by doing so. The path between MGWs may used
TFO. The path between PLMNs may also support either TFO or TrFO. If a path
between BSC and MGW is significantly comprised of an A interface, no standard
method exists for realizing higher bandwidth usage efficiency on this portion
of the path. The next section includes discussion of two alternative
architectures to address this issue.
## 8.2 Requirements
\- Reduce bandwidth requirements for A/Gb mode traffic in the packet transport
network between Media Gateways across Nb interface.
\- Enact transcoding at the edge of the network for calls to PSTN or other
incompatible networks.
## 8.3 Architectural solutions
### 8.3.1 A-ter interface to the MGW
NOTE: Issues related to the signalling aspects have not been studied in this
TR.
Figure 8.3.1-1: BSC to MGW path before and after adding ater interface to MGW
Figure 8.3.1-1 depicts the BSC to MGW path as it would appear if an Ater
interface is standardized for the MGW, and the TRAU function is performed
within the MGW. This corresponds to the functional distribution RNC and MGW
across the Iu interface. The advantage of this configuration is that all
scenarios described herein using Nb packet transport between MGWs can support
end-to-end OoBTC procedures for TrFO or transcoder at the edge since there is
no need to perform TFO on any interface. Harmonized OoBTC/TFO procedures
support all other scenarios described herein that include this configuration
option for the BSC to MGW path, may include Nb packet transport between some
MGWs in the path, and include at least one TDM interface between some pair of
MGWs in the path, e.g., between PLMNs. But in the case there is TC at the edge
of the network with TDM transit network to another TrFO network then TFO on
this transit network will improve speech quality.
### 8.3.2 MGW collocated with TRAU
Figure 8.3.2-1: Options for BSC to MGW path after collocating MGW with TRAU
Figure 8.3.2-1 depicts two options for how the BSC to MGW path would appear if
either the TRAU is moved to be collocated with (in physical proximity to) the
MGW, or a new MGW is introduced and collocated with the TRAU. Either approach
shortens the portion of the BSC to MGW path comprising an A interface to a
negligible portion of the overall path. Harmonized OoBTC/TFO procedures
support all scenarios described herein that includes either of these
configuration options for the BSC to MGW path.
# 9 Requirements and architectural solutions for speech quality Improvements
## 9.1 Requirements
It is proposed that the TR investigates the requirements for speech quality
enhancement features
The general requirement to ensure maximum speech quality that TrFO and TFO
attempt to meet is to prevent unnecessary transcoding on mobile-to-mobile and
mobile to fixed network. TSG SA WG4 has studied the degradation to speech
quality for mobile to mobile calls with tandeming of speech codecs, and the
following is a summary of conclusions from the reports TR 26.975 [6] and TR
26.976 [7].
Section 7 of TR 26.975 [6] shows that tandeming tests were conducted by SA4 in
the past and they showed that the degradation in single tandeming compared to
TFO between EFR and AMR12.2 is not significant to the user. To quote:
\"Tandeming with the clean speech error free 12.2 and 10.2 modes of AMR do not
significantly degrade the single encoding performances of any of the AMR codec
(modes) or existing GSM codecs.\" Transcoding between FR and AMR, however,
does introduce degradation.
## 9.2 Architectural solutions
### 9.2.1 Mobile to mobile calls scenarios: 5.1.1 and 5.1.3
For mobile to mobile calls between a BSC and an RNC within a PLMN, the call
scenarios in section 5 show that the existing architecture can employ TFO on
the A interface supporting AMR-WB / AMR / EFR / FR / HR, and compressed speech
(TrFO) on the Iu interface supporting AMR-WB / AMR. If compatible codecs are
available, then the network need not perform any transcoding. OoBTC can be
used within the BICN and TrFO be established between the MGWs, thus achieving
optimal bandwidth saving with optimal voice quality. If compatible codecs are
not available, a single transcoding point at the MGW then exists between GSM
on one side and UTRAN on the other and, therefore, the requirement to prevent
unnecessary transcoding in order to not perceptibly degrade the speech quality
is fulfilled. Again the BICN can operate in TrFO to achieve optimal bandwidth
savings.
For BSC to BSC calls via a BICN, the network should not need to perform any
transcoding when the mobiles share at least one common codec. In some cases,
e.g. if only one side supports AMR in multi-mode configuration and the other
side supports only single-mode codecs (FR / HR / EFR), it needs to be
considered whether to perform a single transcoding in order to gain optimal
voice quality. In such cases, the radio error robustness of the AMR may be
more important than the TFO connection of a single-mode codec. For details see
TS 28.062 [4], section F.3.
Whether a transcoding-free link can be established through the BICN (for BSC -
BSC or BSC -- RNC calls) depends on the codec types used for TFO. If at least
one side supports AMR, or AMR-WB or EFR, then optimal bandwidth saving and
optimal voice quality can be achieved. Otherwise a 64kbps transparent PCM
channel with TFO has to be established through the BICN for optimal voice
quality. The reason is that up to 3GPP REL5 no Nb framing is specified for FR
and HR. Also, though Nb (and Iu) framing for EFR is supported according to TS
26.103 [5], the specification in TS 26.102 [8] does not seem complete.
### 9.2.2 Mobile to PSTN calls: scenarios 5.2.x
For GSM/UMTS mobile to PSTN calls, the existing solutions allow for a single,
necessary, transcoding point within the MGW at the edge of the BICN, close to
the point of interconnect.
## 9.3 Summary
Architectural solutions exist for the common interworking scenarios of mobile
to mobile/PTSN calls, which avoid or minimise degradation of speech quality.
Optimal Voice Quality together with Optimal Bandwidth Saving is possible for
AMR, AMR-WB and EFR. For EFR the Nb (and Iu) framing does not seem completely
specified and for FR and HR the optimal bandwidth saving would need the Nb
framing for these codec types to be specified. A useful output of this TR
would be for these (or at least EFR) be standardised for Nb framing in order
for a more optimal voice quality to be accomplished.
# 10 Requirements and architectural solutions for avoiding duplication in
transcoder development
## 10.1 Background and requirements
The GSM and UMTS systems will co-exist for many years. Most dual-mode
operators have currently significantly less UMTS spectrum than they have GSM
spectrum, so, these operators have to optimise their utilisation of the
combined spectrum pool. Other operators may just have GSM spectrum or just
UMTS spectrum.
One potential operational strategy is that dual mode mobiles may be camped on
3G cells (e.g. to help provide access to fast PS data services), but
occasionally (or always) be handed over to 2G for voice calls. However, until
the RNC has gathered GSM neighbour cell measurements, the voice call must be
handled by the 3G cell and a transcoder is needed in the MGW. Following the
handover to 2G, the 2G TRAU will be connected in tandem with the 3G MGW.
Hence the introduction of a new speech codec (particularly one that is best
suited for mobile to mobile calls, like AMR-WB) requires support for that
codec in both 2G and 3G coverage areas.
NOTE: Over GSM\'s 12 years, 4 new speech coders have been developed (HR, EFR,
AMR, AMR-WB). The development of additional codecs in the future probably
depends on the uptake of AMR-WB.\ With the current architectures for GSM and
UMTS this requires both TRAUs in the 2G BSS and Transcoders in 3G MSCs (non-
layered architecture) and/or Media GateWays (layered architecture) to be
developed and installed.
This has at least the following disadvantages, e.g.:
a) increased development cost;
b) increased deployment costs, since the total transcoding capacity is split
into TRAU and MGW pools;
c) new speech codecs are difficult to use until the slowest of MGW and TRAU
development is finished;
d) if/when GSM is decommissioned, TRAUs in the BSS will probably have to be
discarded;
e) The requirement for extra DSP power within the TRAUs in the BSS may require
other parts of the BSS to have to be replaced.
Hence it is interesting to consider how a graceful migration of transcoding
functionality from BSS to MGW could be achieved and what the potential
migration strategies and costs could look like.
## 10.2 Architectural solutions
### 10.2.1 A-ter interface to the MGW
#### 10.2.1.1 Description / concept
If new transcoders are only implemented on the MGW, then the MGW will need to
be able to be connected to GSM BTSes (via the BSC). Given that there is a very
large installed base of GSM base stations but only a limited installed base of
MGWs, it seems more logical that the MGW adapts itself to handle the existing
interface to the BTS rather than the other way round.
On the user plane, this A-bis/A-ter interface is defined in TS 48.060 [10] and
TS 48.061 [11]. Given that multi-vendor interoperability is required for TFO,
and the TFO standard (TS 28.062 [4]) is closely related to TS 48.060 [10]/TS
48.061 [11], it seems reasonable to assume that TS 48.060 [10]/TS 48.061 [11]
might be made into open standards.
Many BSS vendors support TRAUs located at the MSC site but with control from
the BSS. This control plane, comprising e.g. the selection of the codec type,
the allocation of TRAU resources, the handover handling, the fault handling,
is currently vendor specific. For O+M purposes remote TRAUs are generally
controlled from the BSC. However, if the transcoding would be located within
the MGW, then the MGW O+M is used for this task.
For the A interface control plane, the MSC already controls the allocation of
the circuit on the user plane.
#### 10.2.1.2 Difficulties with this concept
a) This approach would introduces legacy design constraints into the MGW and
may restrict future development of the MGW.
b) The complexity of the MGW and the necessary know-how concentration would
increase substantially.
c) Neither GSM-only nor UMTS-only operators would have a gain of that
additional functionality and complexity.
d) The MGW would need to support the functionality described in TS 48.060 [10]
and TS 48.061 [11]. This includes support for the TRAU frame structure and for
the frame alignment protocol, which is currently running between TRAU and BTS,
and provides e.g. procedures for frame synchronisation and time alignment
between TRAU and BTS. At least one vendor indicates that there are obvious
errors still in TS 48.060 [10], explicitly in the Time Alignment section. They
have not been corrected so far and the only reasonable explanation for that
is: every vendor found his own solution to the problem and did not consider it
worth the effort to correct the TS 48.060 [10]. A complete standardisation of
the Abis/Ater user plane would very likely require a compromise there and an
adaptation of existing GSM base stations.
NOTE 1: It is FFS as to whether this error was corrected during the
development of modern codec types, like AMR and AMR-WB.
NOTE 2: For codecs such as AMR-WB, TFO (or similar) needs to be used in the
core network, and, while in TFO mode, the Time Alignment functionality is not
required.
e) Development effort in the DSP-kernel software might not be saved, because
this can be reused also in the existing concept in TRAU and MGW. But extra
development on the MGW would be needed for the Input/Output-Interfaces and the
Framing protocols. So the saving in development costs would not be as big as
originally hoped. Considering that GSM-only operators will exist as well, the
development costs would rather increase, because the existing GSM architecture
will have to be maintained in parallel.
f) The introduction of a new Codec Type in GSM requires in any case the
upgrade of MSCs, BSCs, BTSs and the signalling interfaces between them. No
development costs can be saved here.
g) The Operation and Maintenance functions of the BSS need modification
(whether new O+M functionality is needed in the BSS, or, whether existing BSS
functionality only needs to be disabled is FFS and the impact will be
implementation dependent).
h) It should also be noted that the A interface uses 64 kbit/s channels, while
TS 48.060 [10]/TS 48.061 [11] use different data rates, e.g. 16 kbit/s and
sometimes 8 and/or 32 kbit/s. The mapping between these two is currently
defined BSS internally. For CS data calls with higher bit rates, allocation of
up to four 16 kbit/s traffic channels needs to be considered.
i) For the Mc interface between MSC-Server and MGW protocol extensions would
be required.
j) It is for further study whether the MGW would need to support some of the
O+M procedures described in TS 48.060 [10]/TS 48.061 [11] and/or TS 52.021
[12]. However, with the TRAUs in the BSS, the BSS should check that the TRAU
is working correctly before it is connected to the BTS. If the TRAU is moved
to the MGW, then this check should be performed by the MGW and the need for
the BSS to signal O+M commands to the TRAU is unclear, in any case it would be
different than today.
k) For CS data calls the TRAU provides rate adaptation, as described in clause
6.7 of TS 48.060 [10] and clause 6.7 of TS 48.061 [11]. The impact on the MGW
in case of Ater to the MGW needs some further study.
l) some internal handovers may have to be performed as external \"intra BSS\"
handovers, because the location of the transcoder may change from the TRAU
into the MGW or vice versa. This causes typically higher signalling load and
longer speech path interruptions.
m) The BSC performs Codec Type and radio resource selection based on its
knowledge on the dynamically changing radio situation. This results in the
selection of a half rate or full rate radio channel, and, legacy BTSs may
further restrict the choice of codec. This may require reallocation of
transcoding resources in the MGW or TRAU. This could be achieved by slightly
modifying the \"switch circuit pool\" functionality already specified on the A
interface.
n) Current MGWs have no need to support the basic GSM HR and FR codecs.
#### 10.2.1.3 Migration aspects
A large number of existing UEs and base station transceivers support only the
early GSM codecs FR, HR. On the other hand, according to TS 26.103 [5], only
EFR, AMR and WB-AMR are defined for Iu mode. This implies that MGWs according
to 3GPP REL-4 and REL-5 specifications are not mandated to support the legacy
codecs FR and HR - and given that all Iu mode UEs support AMR, there is so far
little motivation to support EFR.
Note: EFR is nearly identical to one of the AMR codec modes, and, FR and HR
are much less computationally intensive than AMR. Nevertheless the development
and verification effort is in a first order approximation similar for all
codec types.
Migration from the existing architecture to the \"Ater to the MGW\"
architecture would thus require one of the following three options:
1\. Terminate the support for HR and FR codecs. This would contradict the
desire to use the existing installed base stations including their
transceivers - and it will take time until all UEs in the field support at
least EFR!\ The feasibility of this is uncertain.
2\. Implement the legacy codecs and related procedures (e.g. TFO) in the MGW.
This is possible, but: is it desirable to spend the implementation effort to
implement legacy technology? Indeed, disadvantage a) described in clause 10.1
would remain. It is FFS what is the implementation effort to implement legacy
codecs in the MGW, however, it should be noted that current mobile devices are
capable of implementing FR, HR, EFR and AMR.
3\. Support transcoding in the TRAU for legacy codecs and transcoding in the
MGW for new codecs at the same time in the same network at both sides of the
same A/Ater interface configuration. This seems rather complex and seems to
contradict the desire for resource savings. From a technical perspective, at
least the following issues would require attention:
\- Change of codec during a call, where one codec is supported in the TRAU and
the other in the MGW;
\- Change between voice and CS data during a call;
\- Handover scenarios.
The MGW would need to support A and Ater user planes. Note that there would
still be duplicated implementation effort (disadvantage a) in clause 10.1) in
case transcoding related enhancements were introduced in future releases,
which are not restricted to a specific voice codec, for example voice quality
enhancements (VQE).
While it is assumed that introduction of a new codec to both UMTS and GSM
systems will be easier, once the \"Ater to the MGW architecture\" is in place,
the first new codec requires the implementation of the new architecture; thus
the deployment of this codec might be delayed rather than accelerated.
#### 10.2.1.4 Sample message flow
A sample message flow for a mobile terminating call with Ater interface going
to the MGW is shown below.
NOTE: Some details of this message flow are still for further study.
Figure 10.2.1.4-1: Message flow for a mobile terminating call with A-ter
interface going to the MGW
1 The call is routed to the terminating MSC; the Codec List is included
2 The MSC establishes the GSM radio link with the mobile and sends the SETUP
message.
3 a) The mobile indicates what codecs it supports in the CALL CONFIRMED
message.
b) The MSC determines that it wants to use a \"new\" codec that is supported
only by the MGW, but not supported by the TRAUs in the BSS
c) The MSC selects a sub-set of the codecs (including now only the \"new\"
ones supported by the MGW), allocates the Circuit ID code, and sends an
\"establish 16 kbit/s bearer for A-ter\" message to the MGW.\ Comments: extra
signalling is needed if 8kbit/s or 32k sub-multiplexing of TDM lines is
needed. Use of 16 kbit/s on the A-ter may require extra bandwidth on the BSC-
MSC interface.
4 The MGW selects transcoding resources, possibly further restricting the sub-
set offered by the MSC and associates them with the TDM sub channel indicated
by the MSC on the interface to the BSS.
5 The MSC copies the CIC and codec information into the Ater interface
Assignment Request message. A new IE is added to this message to indicate that
the MSC has allocated a TC in the core network and hence that the BSS shall
not perform transcoding.
6 a) The BSC accepts the speech codec type (including all necessary parameters
like codec configuration an sub-multiplexing scheme) provided by the MSC and
selects the radio channel that the BTS will use.
b) With the general A-bis architecture, the selection of the radio channel
also identifies the A-bis user plane channel that will be used.
c) The BSC through connects the A-bis user plane channel to the 16 (8, 32)
kbps Ater circuit to the MGW, identified by the CIC provided by the MSC.
d) The BSC commands the BTS to activate the radio channel and to start
transmission/reception on the A-bis user plane.
e) If at step (a) the BSC knows that the BTS cannot support the channel coding
for the codec indicated by the MSC, or, for other reasons the assignment
fails, then the BSCS sends an ASSIGNMENT FAILURE with the cause \"switch
circuit pool\" and the \"circuit pool list\" information element. The MSC uses
this information to adjust its choice of codec. (see 48.008 section 3.1.1.2).
7 The BTS sends TRAU frames directly to the TC inside the MGW. These TRAU
frames carry information on the selected codec type and other details. The MGW
responds with TRAU frames and obeys the procedures, e.g. time alignment etc.
# 11 Conclusions
The extended set of scenarios provided in this Technical Report has enabled a
detailed examination of the requirements identified within the report. These
scenarios have gone beyond the existing basic set of scenarios provided in the
current stage 2 documents e.g. TS 23.153 [2]. Some scenarios, e.g. intra UTRAN
handover or call forwarding, have not been documented because no further
insights were expected to have come from this.
This Technical Report has also identified that architectural solutions exist
for all of the investigated interworking scenarios for 2G and 3G access for
mobile-to-mobile and mobile-to-PSTN calls, which
\- maximise the perceived speech quality;
\- minimise the core network bandwidth;
\- minimise the usage of signal processing devices in the path.
The study briefly addressed the interworking of CS speech with IMS (see clause
5.4) and triggered the related work ongoing in CN3 in the context of TS 29.163
[13]
This study has also identified that there are a few issues that could benefit
from further standardisation work. These include:
\- Different AMR-NB configurations are preferred for GERAN and UTRAN. A common
AMR-NB configuration would improve the situation for GERAN-UTRAN calls (see
clause 7.1). Changes would be necessary in TS 26.103 [5] and TS 28.062 [4] and
some dependent specifications (e.g. TS 23.153 [2]).
\- The standardisation of additional codec framing for EFR over the Nb
interface would be of benefit for the GERAN-GERAN calls (see clause 9.3).
Changes would be necessary in TS 26.101 and TS 26.102 [8].
\- Some clarifications in the OoBTC could improve inter-vendor
interoperability and minimize signalling load (see clause 5.5). Changes would
be necessary in TS 23.153 [2].
\- It could be made optional for the MSC-S in OoBTC to follow the local TFO
decision on the \"Optimal Codec Type\" (see clause 5.5.2). Changes would be
necessary in TS 23.153 [2] and TS 28.062 [4].
\- Further clarifications on Inter-PLMN signalling could be provided to
include in addition to TFO/PCM also BICC and potentially SIP. No problems are
expected with using BICC between CS-PLMNs (see clauses 4.4 and 4.5). The gain
of using SIP for the interconnection of CS-PLMNs has not been studied in its
entirety within this TR (see clause 4.5).
SA2 recommends that interested companies bring the identified issues forward
in the relevant working groups.
###### ### Annex A: Example for migrating a service to TrFO
# A.1 Service description
As an example for a non-standardised service, a \"personal ring back tone
(PRBT) service\" is considered, where the B-party can choose the ringing tone
that the A-party will hear, e.g. a song. A media server inserts media (e.g.
the song) towards the calling A-party, as long as the B-party is alerted.
# A.2 Realization
## A.2.1 Overview
In clause 2.2 it is described how the service might be realised in the
following network scenarios:
1\. A network according to R99 specifications.
2\. A network with packet transport, BICC and TrFO/OoBTC with integrated MSC.
3\. A network with packet transport, BICC and separation of MSC in MSCS and
MGW without TrFO/OoBTC.
4\. A network with packet transport, BICC, TrFO/OoBTC and separation of MSC in
MSCS and MGW.
The analysis of all four scenarios allows distinguishing the TrFO/OoBTC
specific impact from the impact arising from the separation of call control
and bearer. It also illustrates two different migration paths for introduction
of TrFO/OoBTC and Rel-4 architecture: 1 24 and 134.
NOTE: The descriptions are not intended as a complete service description as
this is and should remain a non-standardised service. Thus only the aspects
relating to TrFO introduction and the understanding of the underlying
assumptions are detailed.
## A.2.2 High level description
Once the B party GMSC queries the HLR, it receives an indication that the
B-party has subscribed to the PRBT service. Thus, after applying the usual
call handling, the B-party GMSC sets-up a connection with a media server,
where the ringing tone is stored. The media server inserts the ringing tone.
Once the B-party answers the call, the media server is disconnected.
In all what follows, we assume a mobile-to-mobile call within a network, where
the VMSC of the A-party has GMSC functionality. The entities involved in the
service are shown in figure A.1.
Figure A.1: Functional entities involved in the Service
The GMSC B plays a key role in the service. Therefore in the following VMSC A
= GMSC B will often be referred to as MSC for simplicity.
## A.2.3 Message flow for a Release 99 network
Figure A.2 shows a possible message flow for a R99 network. TDM transport with
G.711 in the core network is assumed. Moreover, it is assumed that TDM
transport and G.711 are used between media server and GMSC, and that AMR is
used between UE A and VMSC A in Iu mode.
Figure A.2: Message flow in a R99 network
1\. The MSC receives the initial SETUP message from the UE. It recognises that
this is a mobile terminating call and interrogates the HLR. The MSC receives
the roaming number and an indication that the B-party has subscribed to the
PRBT service.
2\. The MSC sends an IAM message to the VMSC B. It applies the usual handling
for Iu mode and inserts a transcoder, as it will use G.711 encoded media
towards the VMSC of the B-party, but use AMR on the Iu interface towards the
UE.
3\. The MSC sends a RAB assignment request towards the RNC.
4\. At the Iu interface the Iu bearer is established and the user plane is
initialised.
5\. The MSC receives the RAB assignment response.
6\. The MSC sends a Continuity message indicating a successful continuity
check.
7\. The MSC receives the acknowledgement for the IAM.
8\. The MSC sends an IAM towards the media server, where the ringing tone is
stored.
9\. The MSC receives the acknowledgement from the media server.
10\. The MSC informs the A-party that the B-party is alerted and in-band
information is available.
The media server inserts the ringing tone and the MSC forwards it towards the
A-party. The A-party listens to the nice ringing tone selected by the B-party.
At some point in time the B-party accepts the call and the message sequence
continues.
11\. The MSC receives the answer message from the VMSC B.
12\. The MSC sends a CONNECT message towards UE A.
13\. The MSC releases the connection with the media server.
14\. The media server confirms the release message and stops sending media.
## A.2.4 Message flow with BICC and TrFO
In this clause it is assumed that the network has been migrated to support
packet transport and BICC with TrFO according to Rel-4 specifications with an
integrated MSC. In particular, call and bearer control are now separated.
However it is assumed that the media server is still the same, and is still
connected via ISUP and using TDM transport with G.711.The message flow might
now look as shown in figure A.3. Here and in the following forward bearer
establishment is considered.
Figure A.3: Message flow with BICC and TrFO in a Rel-4 network
Compared to the flow for a release 99 architecture in figure A.2, there are
the following changes:
\- The IAM message 2 contains codec information.
\- As AMR is expected at both Iu and Nb interfaces, at this point there is no
need to insert a transcoder.
\- The IAM message 2 triggers an additional bearer and codec information
message, which contains the necessary information for forward bearer
establishment and also codec information in response to the codec information
in the IAM.
\- Nb bearer establishment takes place.
\- The Iu/Nb user plane can be established \"through the MSC\".
\- Once the IAM message 8 is sent to the media server, a transcoder is
inserted. Again, this is part of usual call handling: insertion of the
transcoder is triggered because the MSC is configured in such a way that it
knows that the link to the media server is a TDM link with G.711 encoding (as
for other links, e.g. towards the PSTN).
\- The transcoder can be removed once the connection to the media server is
released. Codec modification is not necessary.
We conclude that the only added \"service specific\" actions are the insertion
of the transcoder and its removal. Both are triggered by the link information
configured in the MSC. Service and bearer separation is possible without added
complexity for this example service.
## A.2.5 Message flow with split architecture without TrFO
This clause describes an alternative intermediary scenario. It is assumed that
the network has been migrated to support packet transport and BICC with the
split in call control and bearer according to Rel-4 specifications, but yet
without support of TrFO. Thus the MSC is split to MSCS and MGW. However it is
assumed that the media server is still the same integrated box, which is
connected via ISUP and using TDM transport with G.711.The message flow might
now look as shown in figure A.4.
Figure A.4: Message flow with split architecture without TrFO
Compared to the flow for a release 99 architecture in figure A.2, there are
the following changes:
\- The functionality of the MSC is now distributed to MSC-Server and MGW. In
particular, the transcoder is now located in the MGW.
\- H.248 based interactions take place at the Mc interface between MSC-Serve
and MGW, some of which contain the necessary codec information.
\- Nb bearer establishment takes place.
\- The Nb user plane is established. As different codecs are used at Iu and
Nb, the user planes are established independently.
We conclude that service and bearer separation is possible without added
complexity for this example service.
## A.2.6 Message flow with split architecture and TrFO
This clause describes the scenario where network supports all possibilities of
the Release 4 architecture, i.e. it is assumed that the network supports
packet transport and BICC with the split in call control and bearer according
to Rel-4 specifications as well as TrFO/OoBTC. As in the previous section the
MSC is split to MSCS and MGW. However it is assumed that the media server is
still the same integrated box, which is connected via ISUP and using TDM
transport with G.711.The message flow might now look as shown in figure A.5.
Figure A.5 Message flow with split architecture and TrFO
The flow A.5 can be considered as a combination of the flows A.3 and A.4 in
the previous two clauses
Compared to the message flow A.3,
\- The functionality of the MSC is now distributed to MSC-Server and MGW. In
particular, the transcoder is now located in the MGW.
\- H.248 based interactions take place at the Mc interface between MSC-Serve
and MGW, some of which contain the necessary codec information.
Compared to the message flow A.4,
\- The IAM message 2 contains codec information.
\- As AMR is expected at both Iu and Nb interfaces, at this point there is no
need to insert a transcoder between the two.
\- As there is codec information in the IAM, codec information is sent
together with the bearer information in the response.
\- The Iu/Nb user plane can be established \"through the MSC\".
\- Once the IAM message 8 is sent to the media server, the MGW is informed in
the ADDreq message that G.711 will be used on this link. Therefore the MGW
inserts a transcoder. Again, this is part of usual call handling.
\- The transcoder can be removed once the connection to the media server is
released. Codec modification is not necessary.
# A.3 Summary and conclusions
In summary, each time a connection request is sent out, there is a need to
consider whether insertion or removal of a transcoder is required. The
decision depends on the codecs used on the link and the link which will be
connected to it. For this purpose link properties are configured, and the
results of a codec negotiation are taken into account.
For this example service three points in the call flow have been identified,
where a transcoder may be added or removed depending on the scenario and
configuration: after the initial IAM to the VMSC, after the IAM to the media
server and after the release of the connection to the media server. With the
split architecture, these points become the establishment and removal of the
connections. Now, if the same example service is considered for various
scenarios, then the call flows look analogous. In each case the decision for
transcoder insertion or removal depends on the scenario. This also holds for
scenarios not considered in the previous clauses e.g. for access via A
interface instead of Iu (with obvious differences and adjustments), or e.g.
for a scenario where the A-party VMSC is different from the B-party GMSC.
In the same way similar example services would have their dedicated points for
transcoder insertion at establishment and release of links and the same logic
would apply.
We conclude that service and bearer separation is possible without added
complexity for this example service and similar services.
#