# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The IM CN subsystem interworks with the external IP networks through the Mb
reference point.
This document details the interworking between the IM CN subsystem and
external IP networks for IM service support. It addresses the issues of
control plane interworking and, user plane interworking for specific
interworking use cases. Clause 10 describes the IMS-Ix interface requirements
in the form of Use Cases which require H.248 protocol procedures. Subclause
10.4 then details the additional Information Elements required to perform the
specific procedures.
The IP version Interworking, between IP version 4 (IETF RFC 791 [9] ) and IP
version 6 (IETF RFC 2460 [10] ) detailed in terms of the processes and
protocol mappings required in order to support both mobile originated and
terminated calls.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".
[2] IETF RFC 3261: \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.221: \"Architectural requirements\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.002: \"Network architecture\".
[6] 3GPP TS 26.235: \"Packet switched conversational multimedia applications;
Default codecs\".
[7] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[8] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[9] IETF RFC 791: \"Internet Protocol\".
[10] IETF RFC 2460: \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification\".
[11] IETF RFC 2766: \"Network Address Translation - Protocol Translation (NAT-
PT)\".
[12] IETF RFC 2663: \"IP Network Address Translator (NAT) Terminology and
Considerations\".
[13] 3GPP TR 29.962 version 6.1.0: \"Signalling interworking between the 3GPP
profile of the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and non-3GPP SIP usage\".
[14] Void.
[15] Void.
[16] Void.
[17] Void.
[18] IETF RFC 792: \"Internet Control Message Protocol\".
[19] IETF RFC 2463: \"Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMPv6) for the
Internet Protocol Version 6\".
[20] Void.
[21] Void.
[22] Void.
[23] Void.
[24] Void.
[25] 3GPP TS 29.238: \"Interconnection Border Control Functions -- Transition
Gateway; H.248 Profile; Stage 3\".
[26] ITU-T Recommendation H.248.1 (05): \"Gateway Control Protocol: Version
3\".
[27] Void.
[28] 3GPP TS 23.205: \"Bearer-independent circuit-switched core network; Stage
2\".
[29] 3GPP TS 29.235: \"Interworking between SIP-I based circuit-switched core
network and other networks\".
[30] Void.
[31] IETF RFC 2474: \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS
Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[32] 3GPP TS 33.328: \"IMS Media Plane Security\".
[33] IETF RFC 4568: \"Session Description Protocol (SDP) Security Descriptions
for Media Streams\".
[34] IETF RFC 3711: \"The Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP)\".
[35] IETF RFC 5124: \"Extended Secure RTP Profile for Real-time Transport
Control Protocol (RTCP)-Based Feedback (RTP/SAVPF)\".
[36] 3GPP TS 26.114: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Multimedia Telephony;
Media handling and interaction\".
[37] IETF RFC 3168: \"The Addition of Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN)
to IP\".
[38] IETF RFC 6679: \"Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) for RTP over
UDP\".
[39] 3GPP TS 29.079: \"Optimal Media Routeing within the IP Multimedia
Subsystem; Stage 3\".
[40] 3GPP TS 29.165: \"Inter-IMS Network to Network Interface (NNI)\".
[41] 3GPP TS 23.237: \"IP Multimedia subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity; Stage
2\".
[42] 3GPP TS 24.237: \"IP Multimedia subsystem (IMS) Service Continuity; Stage
3\".
[43] 3GPP TS 23.334: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Application Level Gateway
(IMS-ALG) -- IMS Access Gateway (IMS-AGW) interface: Procedures
descriptions\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [7] and the following apply:
**IM CN subsystem:** (IP Multimedia CN subsystem) comprises of all CN elements
for the provision of IP multimedia applications over IP multimedia sessions
**IP multimedia session:** set of multimedia senders and receivers and the
data streams flowing from senders to receivers\ IP multimedia sessions are
supported by the IP multimedia CN Subsystem and are enabled by IP connectivity
bearers (e.g. GPRS as a bearer). A user may invoke concurrent IP multimedia
sessions.
**MSC Server enhanced for ICS:** An MSC Server that supports the network based
ICS functionality.
**MSC Server enhanced for SRVCC** : An MSC Server that supports the network
based SRVCC functionality.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Mm Reference Point between a CSCF/BGCF/IMS-ALG and an IP multimedia network.
Mx Reference Point between a CSCF/BGCF/MSC Server enhanced for ICS/MSC Server
enhanced for SRVCC and IBCF.
Mb Reference Point defined in 3GPP TS 23.002 [5] and is IP based.
Ix Reference Point between IBCF and TrGW or CS-IBCF and CS-TrGW.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [7] and the following apply: An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [7].
ATCF Access Transfer Control Function
ATGW Access Transfer Gateway
B2BUA Back-to-Back User Agent
BGCF Breakout Gateway Control Function
CS-TrGW CS (domain) TrGW
ECN Explicit Congestion Notification
ECN-CE ECN Congestion Experienced
IBCF Interconnect Border Control Function
ICS IMS Centralized Services
I-CSCF Interrogating CSCF
IMS-ALG IMS - Application Level Gateway
ITU-T International Telecommunication Union -- Telecommunication
Standardization Sector
MboIP Mb over IP
MRFP Multimedia Resource Function Processor
NAT/NAPT Network Address Translation / Network Address and Port Translation
NA (P) T-PT Network Address (and Port) Translation - Protocol Translation
OMR Optimal Media Routeing
P-CSCF Proxy CSCF
RTCP Real Time Control Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SIP UA SIP User Agent
UAC User Agent Client
UAS User Agent Server
THIG Topology Hiding Internetwork Gateway
TrGW Translation GateWay
WAN Wide Area Network
# 4 General
## 4.1 General interworking overview
The IM CN Subsystem interworks with SIP (IETF RFC 3261 [2] ) based IP
Multimedia networks. These IP Multimedia networks include:
\- SIP User Agents (SIP UAs); and
\- SIP Servers.
As such, the IM CN Subsystem has to be able to interwork to all of these above
functional entities in the IP multimedia network, as there is a possibility
that they all may be involved in an IM session. The general interworking model
is shown in figure 1. The SIP based Multimedia networks may use IP version 4
(IETF RFC 791 [9] ) or IP version 6 (IETF RFC 2460 [10]).
Figure 1: Interworking Model for IM CN Subsystem to IP Multimedia Network
The UE uses the CSCF in order to communicate with the external IP multimedia
network entities.
If no IP version interworking or no NAT/NAPT between different realms is
required, the CSCF can communicate with SIP UAs in an external IP multimedia
network directly.
If no IP version interworking or no NAT/NAPT between different realms is
required, the CSCF can also communicate with SIP proxies in an external IP
multimedia network directly, which in turn can then communicate with SIP UAs.
To provide the IP version interworking or NAT/NAPT between different realms
the functions of an IMS-ALG and a TrGW may be inserted between the CSCF and
external IP Multimedia Network by configuration. The IMS-ALG and the TrGW may
be implemented as a part of other physical entities in the IMS.
NOTE: Other methods to provide IP version interworking are outside the scope
of this release.
## 4.2 Interworking scenarios
3GPP specifications design the IM CN subsystem elements and interfaces to
exclusively support IPv6. 3GPP TS 23.221 [3] details the interoperability
scenarios that an UE may experience when interworking with an external PDN.
All of these IP transport layer interworking scenarios can apply to the
application layer interworking scenarios detailed in subclause 4.2.1.
### 4.2.1 UE with 3GPP SIP profile capability connecting to an external SIP
device
The procedures used by an UE with 3GPP SIP profile to connect to an external
SIP device, which may lack 3GPP SIP profile capabilities, have been analysed
in Release 6 within 3GPP TR 29.962 [13] and are specified in 3GPP TS 24.229
[1].
# 5 Network characteristics
## 5.1 Key characteristics of IP Multimedia Networks
The Internet is a conglomeration of networks utilising a common set of
protocols. IP protocols are defined in the relevant IETF RFCs. The networks
topologies may be based on LANs (e.g. Ethernet), Point-to-Point leased lines,
PSTN, ISDN, X.25 or WANs using switched technology (e.g. SMDS, ATM).
IP multimedia networks provide the ability for users to invoke IP multimedia
applications in order to send and receive (where applicable) voice and data
communications. One protocol used to manage IP multimedia sessions is the
Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) (IETF RFC 3261 [2]).
## 5.2 Key characteristics of UMTS IM CN Subsystem
The UMTS IM CN subsystem uses the SIP protocol to manage IP multimedia
sessions, and uses IP as the transport mechanism for both SIP session
signalling and media transport.
The UMTS IM CN subsystem shall support interworking with existing fixed and
mobile voice and IP data networks, including PSTN, ISDN, Mobile and Internet.
# 6 Interworking Reference Model for control plane interworking and user plane
interworking
## 6.0 Reference Model
Figure 2 details the reference architecture required to support interworking
between the IM CN subsystem and IP networks for IM services. Figure 3 details
the reference architecture required to support interworking between the IMS
and IP SIP networks supporting IP version 4.
NOTE: Multimedia IP networks may be connected via the Mb interface to various
network entities, such as an UE (via an GTP Tunnel reaching to the GGSN), an
MRFP, or an application server.
Figure 2: IM CN Subsystem to IP network interworking reference Architecture
without IP version interworking
Figure 3: Border Control Functions
**Mm reference point:** The call control protocol applied to the Mm interface
between CSCF and external IP networks is SIP, IETF RFC 3261 [2], as detailed
in 3GPP TS 24.229 [1]. SIP extension packages mandated by 3GPP are possibly
not supported.
**Mb reference point:** This interface is defined in 3GPP TS 23.002 [5] and is
IP based. Further information is provided in 3GPP TS 29.061 [4] and 3GPP TS
26.235 [6].
**Mx reference point:** The protocol applied at the Mx reference point is
specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [1].
**Ix reference point:** The protocol applied at the Ix reference point is
specified in 3GPP TS 29.238 [25].
## 6.1 Interworking Functional Entities
### 6.1.1 IBCF
This entity provides control plane functionality to connect entities following
the 3GPP profile of SIP, 3GPP TS 24.229 [1], and external SIP entities
following IETF RFC 3261 [2].
### 6.1.2 IMS-ALG
IMS-ALG functionality resides in IBCF. An IMS-ALG provides the application
level translation function for SIP and SDP in order to communicate between
IPv6 and IPv4 SIP applications or, based on operator policies between
different realms using the same IP version. The IBCF acts as a SIP B2BUA when
IBCF performs IMS-ALG functionality.
### 6.1.3 TrGW
The TrGW is a NAT-PT/NAPT-PT, which uses a pool of globally unique IPv4
addresses for assignment to IPv6 nodes on a dynamic basis as sessions are
initiated across the IP version boundaries. NAT-PT binds addresses in IPv6
network with addresses in IPv4 network and vice versa to provide transparent
routing between the two IP domain without requiring any changes to end points.
NAPT-PT provides additional translation of transport identifier (TCP, SCTP and
UDP port numbers). More detailed information on the NAT-PT/NAPT-PT is given in
IETF RFC 2766 [11] and IETF RFC 2663 [12].
The TrGW may provide the NAT/NAPT functionality between two disparate address
realms.
### 6.1.4 Acces Transfer Control Function
The ATCF may reside within the IBCF to support \"SRVCC enhanced with ATCF\"
procedures as described in 3GPP TS 23.237 [41] and 3GPP TS 24.237 [42] . In
this case, the Ix reference point is used for IMS sessions that the ATCF
decides to anchor at the ATGW to provide the following functions:
  * reservation and configuration of ATGW resources for media anchoring during PS session origination or termination;
  * reconfiguration of ATGW resources during access transfer to the CS domain;
  * release of ATGW resources upon completion of the access transfer or release of the session;
  * media transcoding if the media that was used prior to the access transfer is not supported by the MSC server;
  * IP version interworking if different IP versions are used between the access and the remote legs; and
  * indication of IP realm during allocation of transport addresses/resources (the PS and CS accesses may be reachable via different IP realms).
### 6.1.5 Acces Transfer GateWay
The ATGW may reside within the TrGW to support \"SRVCC enhanced with ATCF\"
procedures as described in 3GPP TS 23.237 [41] and 3GPP TS 24.237 [42]. If the
IBCF supports the ATCF functionality (see subclause 6.1.4), the IBCF shall
select a TRGW which supports the ATGW functionality.
# 7 Control plane interworking
## 7.1 SIP with 3GPP Profile to Standard SIP Interworking
3GPP TS 24.229 [1] defines the procedures, which allow a 3GPP-IMS UE to
connect to a standard SIP terminal.
## 7.2 Additional interworking of protocols associated with services
There is no impact beyond that specified in subclause 7.1 provided the
necessary SIP extensions are supported on both sides of the interworking
point.
Based on operator policy and/or service level agreements the interworking of
services may be restricted.
Additional information related to interworking with services is provided in
3GPP TS 29.165 [40].
# 8 User Plane Interworking
## 8.1 Overview
The present specification addresses user plane interworking between codec
types used for either speech or video. Codecs used for conversational services
in the PS domain are as defined in 3GPP TS 26.235 [6] and 3GPP TS 26.114 [36].
## 8.2 Void
## 8.3 Void
# 9 IMS-ALG and TrGW functionality for NAPT and IP Version Interworking
## 9.1 Control plane interworking
### 9.1.1 Session Set-up
#### 9.1.1.0 General
The procedure described in clause 9.1.1 applies both for an SDP offer received
from the external network and received from the IMS.
If different IP versions are used in the external network and the IMS, the
TrGW shall provide IP version interworking of the user plane. Otherwise, the
TrGW provides NAPT functionality.
#### 9.1.1.1 Receipt of the first SDP offer
At the receipt of the first SDP offer from an offering network A the IMS-ALG
shall:
\- Request the TrGW to allocate a termination towards an answering network B
and provide IP address(es) and port number(s) from its pool for this
termination.
When the IMS-ALG has received the requested information from the TrGW, the
IMS-ALG shall include the address(es) and port number(s) in a new offer, and
sent this offer toward the network B. The IMS-ALG shall create a SIP message
in accordance with the rules for the IMS-ALG described in subclause 9.1.4 with
the following clarification:
\- The IP address(es) and port number(s) received from the TrGW for the
termination towards network B shall replace the IP address(es) and port
number(s) in the SDP.
#### 9.1.1.2 Receipt of the first SDP answer
At the receipt of the first SDP answer from network B the IMS-ALG shall:
\- Provide to the TrGW the address(es) and port number(s) as received in the
c-line(s) and m-line(s) in the SDP answer as destinations for the termination
towards answering network B;
\- Request the TrGW to allocate a termination towards the offering network A
and provide IP address(es) and port number(s) from its pool for this
termination, and provide the IP address and port number received in the first
SDP offer from network A as destination for this termination, unless this step
has already been executed earlier, e.g. at the receipt of the SDP offer; and
\- Requests the TrGW to bind the termination towards network A and the the
termination towards network B to enable the routing of user plane traffic
towards the IPv4 SIP network through the TrGW.
NOTE: The binding request will be combined with the request to create
terminations in the H.248 protocol
When the IMS-ALG has received the requested information, the IMS-ALG shall
send an SDP answer to the network A. The IMS-ALG shall create the SIP message
in accordance with the rules for the IMS-ALG described in subclause 9.1.4 with
the following clarification:
\- The IP address(es) and port number(s) received from the TrGW for the
termination towards network A shall replace the received IP address(es) and
port number(s) in the SDP.
### 9.1.2 Void
### 9.1.3 Change of connection information
After the dialog is established it is possible for both ends of the session to
change the connection data for the session. When the IMS-ALG/TrGW receives a
SDP offer/answer where port number(s) or IP address(es) is included., there
are four different possibilities:
1) IP address(es) or/and port number(s) have been added. In this case
additional binding(s) shall be provided by the IMS-ALG/TrGW as detailed for
the first SDP offer in the subclauses above;
2) IP address(es) or/and port number(s) have been deleted. In this case
binding(s) shall be made free by the IMS-ALG/TrGW;
3) IP address(es) and port number(s) have been reassigned of the users. In
this case the binding(s) shall reflect the reassignment; and
4) No change has been made to the IP address(es) and port number(s). In this
case no change shall be made to the existing binding(s).
### 9.1.4 Interworking of SIP messages
The IMS-ALG behaves as a SIP B2BUA when interworking SIP messages. The IMS-ALG
shall forward all SIP messages transparently with respect to all methods,
result codes, headers and attachments except as follows:
\- The IMS-ALG modifies SDP according to subclauses 9.1.1, 9.1.2 and 9.1.3;
\- When forwarding an incoming SIP request, the IMS-ALG should perform UAC
procedures towards the intended target according to IETF RFC 3261 [2], by
modifying those headers necessary to ensure that all transactions within the
dialog pass through the IMS-ALG;
\- When forwarding an incoming SIP response, the IMS-ALG should perform UAS
procedures towards the originator of the corresponding request according to
IETF RFC 3261 [2], by modifying those headers necessary to ensure that all
transactions within the dialog pass through the IMS-ALG;
\- The IMS-ALG may perform any appropriate error recovery procedures in the
event that an incoming message contains errors inconsistent with the
forwarding procedures above; and
\- The IBCF can perform screening of SIP request and SIP responses based on
local policy as described in subclause 5.10.6 of 3GPP TS 24.229 [1].
At the receipt of a SIP BYE request, SIP CANCEL request or non-200 SIP final
response, the IMS-ALG shall release the session and request the TrGW to
release the bindings established for the session.
## 9.2 User plane transport
### 9.2.1 Payload transport
The TrGW shall use the established bindings described in subclause 9.1 to
transport the messages between the network A and the network B in the
following way.
At the receipt of a payload message the TrGW shall:
\- replace the received destination IP address(es) and port number(s) in the
payload message with the corresponding IP address(es) and port number(s) that
have been signalled by the IBCF; and
\- replace the received source IPaddress(es) and port number(s) in the payload
message with the corresponding IPaddress(es) and port number(s) the TrGW
allocated at its own terminations.
### 9.2.2 IP header interworking
#### 9.2.2.1 IPv4 to IPv6
When the TrGW receives an IPv4 message the following codings shall be set in
the IPv6 headers of the message sent to the IPv6 network.
\- If the DF bit is set and the packet is not a fragment (i.e., the MF flag is
not set and the Fragment Offset is zero) The IPv6 headers shall be set as
described in table 1;
\- If the DF bit is not set or the packet is a fragment the IPv6 headers shall
be set as described in table 2.
Table 1: Derivation of IPv6 Header from IPv4 header (no fragmentation)
* * *
**IPv6 field** **Value** Version 6 Traffic Class: The default behaviour is
that the value of the IPv6 field Traffic Class field is the value of the IPv4
Type Of Service field (all 8 bits are copied). An im­plementation of a TrGW
should also provide the ability to ignore the value of the IPv4 Type of
Service and always set the IPv6 traffic class field to zero. Flow label The
Ipv6 Flow Label Field is set to 0 (all zero bits). Payload Length The IPv6
Payload Length field value is the IPv4 Total length field value minus the size
of the IPv4 header and IPv4 options field length, if present. Next Header The
Ipv6 Next Header value is copied from IPv4 Protocol field HopLimit: The IPv6
Hop Limit value is The value of IPv4 field Time To Live minus 1. Source
Address Shall be handled as the addresses of the payload message as described
in subclause 9.2.1. Destination Address Shall be handled as the addresses of
the payload message as described in subclause 9.2.1.
* * *
Table 2: Derivation of IPv6 Header from IPv4 Header (fragmentation)
* * *
**IPv6 field** **Value** Version 6 Traffic Class: The default behaviour is
that the value of the IPv6 field Traffic Class field is the value of the IPv4
Type Of Service field (all 8 bits are copied). An im­plementation of a TrGW
should also provide the ability to ignore the value of the IPv4 Type of
Service and always set the IPv6 traffic class field to zero. Flow label The
Ipv6 Flow Label Field is set to 0 (all zero bits). Payload Length The IPv6
Payload Length field value is the IPv4 Total length field value plus 8 for the
fragment header minus the size of the IPv4 header and IPv4 options field
length, if present. Next Header The IPv6 Next header field is set to Fragment
header (44). Hop Limit: The IPv6 Hop Limit value is The value of IPv4 field
Time To Live minus 1. Source Address Shall be handled as the addresses of the
payload message as described in subclause 9.2.1. Destination Address Shall be
handled as the addresses of the payload message as described in subclause
9.2.1. Fragments headers  
a) next header Copied from IPv4 Protocol field. b) fragment Offset Copied from
the IPv4 Fragment offset field. c) More fragment bit Copied from the value of
the more fragment bit in the IPv4 flags field. d) Identification The value of
this field should be mapped from the triple of the source address, destination
address and IPv4 identification field of the incoming packet/fragments to a
unique value for the source and destination address of the outgoing IPv6
packet/fragments.
* * *
#### 9.2.2.2 Abnormal cases
If IPv4 options are present in the IPv4 packet, they should be ignored i.e.,
there is no attempt to translate them. However, if an unexpired source route
option is present then the packet shall instead be discarded, and an ICMPv4
\"destination unreachable/source route failed\" Type 3/Code 5 error message
shall be returned to the sender as defined in IETF RFC 792 [16].
When a translator receives the first fragment of a fragmented UDP IPv4 packet
and the checksum field is zero the translator should drop the packet and
generate a system management event specifying at least the IP addresses and
port numbers in the packet. When the translator receives fragments other than
the first it should silently drop the packet since there is no port
information to log.
When a translator receives an unfragmented UDP IPv4 packet and the checksum
field is zero the translator shall compute the missing UDP checksum as part of
translating the packet. Also, the translator should maintain a counter of how
many UDP checksums are generated in this manner.
#### 9.2.2.3 IPv6 to IPv4
When the TrGW receives an IPv6 message the following codings shall be set in
the IPv4 headers of the message sent to the IPv4 network.
\- If there is no IPv6 fragment header, the IPv4 header fields shall be set as
described in Table 3;
\- if there is an IPv6 fragment header, the IPv4 header fields shall be set as
described in Table 4.
Table 3: Derivation of IPv4 Header from IPv6 Header (no fragmentation)
* * *
**IPv4 field** **Value** Version 4 Internet header length 5 (No IPv4 options)
Type of Service The default behaviour is that the value of the IPv4 field Type
of service field is the value of the IPv6 Traffic class field (all 8 bits are
copied). An im­plementation of a TrGW should also provide the ability to
ignore the value of the IPv6 Traffic Class and always set the IPv4 Type of
Service field to zero. Total length The IPv4 Total Length field value is the
IPv6 Payload length value plus the size of the IPv4 headers. Identification
All bits are set to zero. Flags The more fragment flag is set to zero. The
Don't fragment flag is set to one. Fragment offset Set to zero. Time to live
(TTL) The value of the field shall be set to the received IPv6 Hop Limit field
value minus 1. Protocol The IPv4 field Protocol shall be set to the value of
IPv6 field The next header value. Header checksum Computed once the IPv4
header has been created. Source Address Shall be handled as the addresses of
the payload message as described in subclause 9.2.1. Destination Address Shall
be handled as the addresses of the payload message as described in subclause
9.2.1.
* * *
Table 4: Derivation of IPv4 Header from IPv6 Header (fragmentation)
* * *
**IPv4 field** **Value**
Version 4
Internet header length 5 (No IPv4 options)
Type of Service and Precedence: The default behaviour is that the value of the
IPv4 field Type of service field is the value of the IPv6 Traffic class field
(all 8 bits are copied). An im­plementation of a TrGW should also provide the
ability to ignore the value of the IPv6 Traffic Class and always set the IPv4
Type of Service field to zero.
Total length The IPv4 Total Length field value is the IPv6 Payload length
value plus the size of the IPv4 headers minus 8 for the Fragment header.
Identification The value of this field should be mapped from the triple of the
source address, destination address and IPv6 fragmentation header field
\"identification\" of the incoming packet/fragments to a unique value for the
source and destination address of the outgoing IPv4 packet/fragments.
Flags The IPv4 More Fragments flag is copied from the IPv6 M flag in the IPv6
Fragment header the IPv4.\ The Don\'t Fragments flag is set to zero allowing
this packet to be fragmented by IPv4 routers.
Time to live (TTL) The value of the field shall be set to the received IPv6
Hop Limit field value minus 1.
Protocol The IPv4 field Protocol shall be set to the value of IPv6 field The
next header value.
Header checksum Computed once the IPv4 header has been created.
Source Address Shall be handled as the addresses of the payload message as
described in subclause 9.2.1.
Destination Address Shall be handled as the addresses of the payload message
as described in subclause 9.2.1.
* * *
#### 9.2.2.4 Abnormal cases
If any of an IPv6 hop-by-hop options header, destination options header, or
routing header with the Segments Left field equal to zero are present in the
IPv6 packet, they are ignored i.e., there is no attempt to translate them.
However, the Total Length field and the Protocol field shall be adjusted to
\"skip\" these extension headers.
If a routing header with a non-zero Segments Left field is present then the
packet shall be translated, and an ICMPv6 \"parameter problem/ erroneous
header field encountered\" Type 4/Code 0 error message as defined in IETF RFC
2463 [17], with the Pointer field indicating the first byte of the Segments
Left field should be returned to the sender.
### 9.2.3 Fragmentation
If the DF flag is not set and the IPv4 packet will result in an IPv6 packet
larger than 1280 bytes the TrGW shall prior to transferring it in the IPv6
network:
\- Add the fragment header to the message; and
\- fragment the IPv4 packets so that their length, excluding the IPv4 header,
is at most 1232 bytes (1280 minus 40 for the IPv6 header and 8 for the
Fragment header).
### 9.2.4 Abnormal cases
As a part of decrementing the Time To Live /Hop Limit value and the TrGW
discovers that the zero value is reached the TrGW shall send an ICMPv4/ICMPv6
message with the error \"time to live exceeded in transit\" type 11 code 0 as
defined in IETF RFC 792 [16] and \"hop limit exceeded in transit\" type 3 code
0 as defined in IETF RFC 2463 [19].
# 10 IBCF -- TrGW Interactions
## 10.1 Overview
### 10.1.1 General
The present specification describes Ix signalling procedures and their
interaction with SIP signalling in the control plane, and with user plane
procedures. Each scenario or \"use case\" is described in a separate subclause
within subclause 10.2. 3GPP TS 29.238 [25] maps these signalling procedures to
H.248 messages and defines the required H.248 profile (which provides details
of used packages and parameters).
### 10.1.2 Network model
Figure 10.1.2.1 shows the network model. The broken line represents the call
control signalling. The dotted line represents the user plane. The IBCF uses
one context with two terminations in the TrGW.
Figure 10.1.2.1: Network model
### Example Call Flow
#### 10.1.3.1 Basic Procedures
##### 10.1.3.1.1 Call Establishment
Figure 10.1.3.1.1.1 depicts the signalling flow for a call setup either from
or toward an external network.
1\. The IBCF receives an SDP offer in SIP signalling.
2\. The IBCF detects that one of the CS-TrGW functions is required, e.g.
NAPT/NAT.
3\. The IBCF sends a H.248 ADD command to create the outgoing termination and
to request resources to execute TrGW function.
4\. The TrGW creates the outgoing termination.
5\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 Add reply command and provides the
local address and port of the outgoing termination.
6\. The IBCF replaces the IP address inside the SDP using the information
coming from TrGW.
7\. SDP offer is sent to the network at the outgoing side.
8\. SDP answer is received by IBCF.
9\. The IBCF sends a H.248 MOD command to configure the outgoing termination
with address and port information received in the SDP answer.
10\. The TrGW configures the outgoing termination.
11\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 MOD reply command.
12\. The IBCF sends a H.248 ADD command to create the incoming termination and
to request resources to execute TrGW function.
13\. The TrGW creates the incoming termination.
14\. The TrGW replies to the IBCF with a H.248 Add reply command and provides
the local address and port of the incoming termination.
NOTE 1: Steps 12 to 14 may also be executed after step 2.
15\. The IBCF replaces the IP address inside the SDP using the information
coming from TrGW.
16\. SDP answer is sent to the network at the incoming side.
Figure 10.1.3.1.1.1: IBCF and TrGW interaction at Call establishment.
When creating the termination towards the IMS network or towards external
networks, the IBCF may also indicate that the IP Interface Type is \"MboIP\".
NOTE : Other values may be indicated by a CS-IBCF, as detailed in 3GPP TS
29.235 [29].
The IP Interface Type allows the TrGW to collect statistics per interface type
associated with the RTP bearer termination. The provision of these statistics
is outside of the scope of this specification.
##### 10.1.3.1.2 Call Release
Figure 10.1.3.1.2.1 depicts the signalling flow for a call release.
1\. The IBCF identifies that the call is to be release. Typically this will be
by the receipt of a SIP BYE request.
2\. The IBCF sends a H.248 SUB command to release the outgoing termination.
3\. The TrGW destroys the outgoing termination.
4\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 SUB reply command.
5\. The IBCF sends a H.248 SUB command to release the incoming termination.
6\. The TrGW destroys the incoming termination.
7\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 SUB reply command.
NOTE 1: Steps 5 to 7 may also be executed before steps 2 to 4 or in parallel
with steps 2 to 4.
NOTE 2: Rather than releasing the two terminations separately, the IBCF may
request the TrGW to release both terminations in a single request.
Figure 10.1.3.1.2.1: IBCF and TrGW interaction at Call release
## 10.2 Main Functions supported at the Ix Interface
### 10.2.0 Introduction
The following functions shall be supported by the TrGW:
\- Gate Management including:
o Opening/closing of gates;
o Remote source address filtering; and
o Remote source port filtering;
\- QoS packet marking (differentiated services);
\- NAPT and IP Version Interworking;
\- Bandwidth policing;
> \- Hanging termination detection;
>
> \- IP Realm Indication;
>
> \- Media Control; and
>
> \- Through-Connection.
Additionally, the following functions may be supported by the TrGW:
\- Resource allocation per flow;
\- Media Inactivity Detection;
> \- IP Realm Availability;
\- Optimal Media Routeing;
\- Explicit Congestion Notification support ;
> \- Emergency Call;
>
> \- IMS end-to-end media plane security; and
>
> \- Access Transfer procedures with media anchored in ATGW.
### 10.2.1 NAPT and IP version interworking
NAPT and IP version interworking is documented in clause 9.
The IP Address and port conversion is configured by the standard Ix
interactions at call setup depicted in figure 10.1.3.1.1.1.
IP address and port conversion is mandatory every time a TrGW is inserted into
the path for any reason to guarantee that all IP packets are routed through
this entity.
### 10.2.2 Gate Management
The procedures in subclause A.7.1.2.2.3 of 3GPP TS 29.235 [29] are applicable.
### 10.2.3 RTCP Handling
The procedures in subclause A.7.1.2.2.7 of 3GPP TS 29.235 [29] are applicable.
### 10.2.4 IP Realm Indication
Whenever requesting a new IP media-path (i.e. creation of IP bearer
terminations), the TrGW may indicate the correspondent IP realm/domain to the
TrGW. The TrGW shall assign the IP termination in the IP realm indicated. The
same IP realm shall be applied to all media streams associated with the
termination. The IP realm identifier shall not be changed after the initial
assignment.
A default IP realm may be configured such that if the TrGW has not received
the IP realm identifier and the TrGW supports multiple IP realms then the
default IP realm shall be used.
### 10.2.5 Media Control
The transcoding functionality, where the TrGW processes and possibly converts
application / media data (like e.g. RTP payload) is optional for the TrGW and
IBCF to support.
The IBCF shall determine the TrGW transcoding capability through provisioning
and MGW selection, outside the scope of this specification.
IBCF procedures to offer transcoding in SIP/SDP signalling are described in
3GPP TS 23.228 [8] and in 3GPP TS 24.229 [1]. The IBCF shall only apply those
transcoding procedures if an attached TrGW supports transcoding. For media
with \"RTP/SAVP\" (see IETF RFC 3711 [34]) or \"RTP/SAVPF\" (see IETF RFC 5124
[35]) as transport protocol, the IBCF shall not offer or apply transcoding.
If the IBCF and available TrGW support transcoding, the IBCF may add codecs to
a SDP offer within a SIP request.
If the IBCF and available TrGW do not support transcoding, or if the IBCF
chooses not to offer transcoding, the IBCF shall pass SDP offers without
adding codecs to the SDP offer and the IBCF shall pass SDP answers without
modification to the contained codecs.
If the IBCF does not offer or apply transcoding procedures (as described
above) but inserts the TrGW for any other reason, the IBCF shall either not
signal media related information to the TrGW, or it shall signal the same
media related information for all interconnected terminations (i.e. identical
media configurations for the two connected H.248 stream endpoints).
If the IBCF does not offer or apply transcoding but signals media attributes
to a TrGW that does not support transcoding without having seized the peer
termination (see figure 10.2.5.3, Step 3) the TrGW\' shall accept this request
even though it cannot reserve any transcoding resources related to this media.
When the peer termination is seized and configured it shall be configured with
the same media related sub-fields in the media descriptor as for the first
termination. If the selected codec is not the same as the codec configured at
the first termination then this termination shall be modified before the peer
termination is seized.
NOTE 1: The signalling of such codec related information by an IBCF to a TrGW
not supporting transcoding is an implementation decision.
NOTE 2: A TrGW not supporting transcoding can use such codec related
information to learn that RTCP ports need to be reserved, and to derive
information about packet size and frequency useful for internal resource
reservation.
If the IBCF and available TrGW support transcoding and the IBCF includes in a
SDP offer additional codecs, the following procedures apply:
\- The IBCF may seize a termination towards the terminating user, using the
\"Reserve TrGW Connection Point\" procedure before sending an SDP offer with
added codecs to the terminating user. The IBCF may signal media related
information to the TrGW or omit media when adding the IP termination at this
stage.
NOTE 3: The signalling of media related information to a MGW requires that it
reserve the indicated resources before returning a positive response to the
H.248 command, by omitting media related information the TrGW does not need to
reserve any associated resources at this stage.
\- When the IBCF receives the SDP answer from the terminating user, the IBCF
shall check if any of the codecs offered by the originating side are contained
in the answer.
\- If only the codecs inserted by the IBCF are contained in the answer, the
IBCF shall configure the TrGW to transcode. If it previously performed a
\"Reserve TrGW Connection Point\" procedure it shall configure the TrGW using
the \"Configure TrGW Connection Point\" procedure towards the termination on
the terminating user side by supplying the media returned in the answer from
the terminating user, otherwise it shall perform a \"Reserve and Configure
TrGW Connection Point\" procedure. Within those procedures, the IBCF shall
supply the media returned in the answer from the terminating user. If the IBCF
seized the termination only at this point in time, it shall send the IP
address and port information received from the TrGW in the acknowledment to
the \"Reserve and Configure TrGW Connection Point\" procedure towards the
terminating user in a new SDP offer. The IBCF shall perform the \"Reserve and
Configure TrGW Connection Point\" procedure towards the termination on the
originating user side, supplying the preferred media offered by the
originating side.
\- If the returned SDP contains media offered by the originating user no
transcoding at the TrGW is required. If the IBCF previously performed the
\"Reserve TrGW Connection Point\" procedure the IBCF shall configure the TrGW
accordingly by either either supplying the same media related information for
all interconnected terminations or by omitting the media related information.
Some basic use cases are depicted in figures 10.2.5.1, 10.2.5.2, and 10.2.5.3.
1\. The IBCF receives an SDP offer in SIP signalling.
2\. The IBCF adds additional codecs to the subsequent SDP offer, giving
priority to those offered by the preceding node/network.
3\. In this example the IBCF seizes a TrGW prior to sending the new SDP offer;
as this scenario is preparing for a possible transcoding in the TrGW then a
TrGW supporting media shall be seized. The IBCF sends a H.248 ADD request
command to create the outgoing termination and to request IP resources to
execute TrGW function. As no media transcoding is yet known to be needed this
may be indicated by omitting media related sub-fields in the media descriptor
(i.e.signalling \"-\"). Alternatively the preferred codec (e.g. codec 1) may
be signalled in order to reserve this resource in the event that transcoding
was required.
4\. The TrGW creates the outgoing termination.
5\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 ADD reply command and provides the
local address and port of the outgoing termination.
6\. The IBCF replaces the IP address inside the SDP offer using the
information coming from TrGW
7\. The IBCF forwards the new SDP offer to the succeeding node.
8\. The SDP answer is received by IBCF. In this example the codec1 received in
the original SDP offer in step1 has been selected by the succeeding
network/terminating UE and the IBCF determines that transcoding is not
required.
9\. The IBCF sends a H.248 MOD request command to configure the outgoing
termination with address and port information received in the SDP answer. As
no media transcoding is needed this may be indicated by omitting media related
sub-fields in the media descriptor (i.e. signalling \"-\"). Alternatively the
selected codec (codec 1) may be signalled.
10\. The TrGW configures the outgoing termination.
11\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 MOD reply command.
12\. The IBCF sends a H.248 ADD request command to create the incoming
termination to configure this termination with remote address and port
information and to request resources to execute TrGW function. As no media
transcoding is needed this may be indicated by omitting media related sub-
fields in the media descriptor (i.e. signalling \"-\"). Alternatively the
selected codec received in step 8 (Codec 1) may be signalled.
13\. The TrGW creates the incoming termination.
14\. The TrGW replies to the IBCF with a H.248 ADD reply command and provides
the local address and port of the incoming termination.
15\. The IBCF replaces the IP address inside the SDP using the information
coming from TrGW.
16\. The SDP answer is sent to the network at the incoming side.
Figure 10.2.5.1: IBCF and TrGW interaction when the IBCF offers additional
codecs but no transcoding is required, and the TrGW is seized in advance.
1\. The IBCF receives an SDP offer in SIP signalling.
2\. The IBCF adds additional codecs to the subsequent SDP offer, giving
priority to those offered by the preceding node/network.
3\. In this example the IBCF seizes a TrGW prior to sending the new SDP offer;
as this scenario is preparing for a possible transcoding in the TrGW then a
TrGW supporting media shall be seized. The IBCF sends a H.248 ADD request
command to create the outgoing termination and to request IP resources to
execute TrGW function. As no media transcoding is yet known to be needed this
may be indicated by omitting media related sub-fields in the media descriptor
(i.e.signalling \"-\"). Alternatively the preferred codec (e.g. Codec 1) may
be signalled in order to reserve this resource in the event that transcoding
was required.
4\. The TrGW creates the outgoing termination.
5\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 ADD reply command and provides the
local address and port of the outgoing termination.
6\. The IBCF replaces the IP address inside the SDP offer using the
information coming from TrGW.
7\. The IBCF forwards the new SDP offer to the succeeding node.
8\. The SDP answer is received by IBCF. In this example the codec 3 added by
the IBCF to the SDP offer has been selected. Transcoding is therefore
required.
9\. The IBCF sends a H.248 MOD request command to configure the outgoing
termination with address and port information received in the SDP answer and
the selected media attibutes (codec 3).
10\. The TrGW configures the outgoing termination.
11\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 MOD reply command.
12\. The IBCF sends a H.248 ADD request command to create the incoming
termination to configure this termination with remote address and port
information and to request resources to execute TrGW function. As media
transcoding is required it indicates this explicitly with a codec selected by
the IBCF for the incoming termination from the offered codec(s) received in
step1.
13\. The TrGW creates the incoming termination.
14\. The TrGW replies to the IBCF with a H.248 ADD reply command and provides
the local address and port of the incoming termination.
15\. The IBCF replaces the IP address inside the SDP using the information
coming from TrGW and replaces the codec with the codec it selected for the
incoming termination.
16\. The SDP answer is sent to the network at the incoming side.
Figure 10.2.5.2: IBCF and TrGW interaction when IBCF offers additional codecs
and transcoding is required, and the TrGW is seized in advance.
1\. The IBCF receives an SDP offer in SIP signalling.
2\. The IBCF requires a TrGW for another use case but does not offer
transcoding.
3\. The IBCF sends a H.248 ADD request command to create the outgoing
termination and to request IP resources to execute TrGW function. As no media
transcoding is required this may be indicated by signalling \"-\".
Alternatively any codec (e.g. codec 1) can be signalled. If the IBCF selects a
TrGW that does not support transcoding, the IBCF may signal media related sub-
fields in the media descriptor to the TrGW if the TrGW supports media
encoding. The TrGW shall accept the ADD request even though it cannot reserve
any transcoding resources for the indicated media.
4\. The TrGW creates the outgoing termination.
5\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 ADD reply command and provides the
local address and port of the outgoing termination.
6\. The IBCF replaces the IP address inside the SDP using the information
coming from TrGW.
7\. The IBCF forwards the new offer to the succeeding node.
8\. The SDP answer is received by IBCF. In this example the codec 1 received
in the original SDP offer in step 1 has been selected.
9\. The IBCF sends a H.248 MOD request command to configure the outgoing
termination with address and port information. As no media transcoding is
needed this may be indicated by signalling \"-\" .Alternatively the selected
codec (codec 1) can be signalled.
10\. The TrGW configures the outgoing termination.
11\. The TrGW replies to IBCF with a H.248 MOD reply command.
12\. The IBCF sends a H.248 ADD command to create the incoming termination to
configure this termination with remote address and port information and to
request resources to execute TrGW function. As no media transcoding is needed
this may be indicated by signalling \"-\" .Alternatively media related sub-
fields in the media descriptor for the codec indicated to the incoming
termination may be signalled (e.g. the selected codec received in step 8
(codec 1).
13\. The TrGW creates the incoming termination.
14\. The TrGW replies to the IBCF with a H.248 ADD reply command and provides
the local address and port of the incoming termination.
15\. The IBCF replaces the IP address inside the SDP answer using the
information coming from TrGW.
16\. The SDP answer is sent to the network at the incoming side.
Figure 10.2.5.3: IBCF and TrGW interaction when IBCF does not offer
transcoding
### 10.2.6 Media Inactivity Detection
The procedures in subclause A.7.1.2.2.6 of 3GPP TS 29.235 [29] are applicable.
### 10.2.7 QoS Packet Marking (differentiated services)
The procedures in subclause A.7.1.2.2.4 of 3GPP TS 29.235 [29] are applicable.
Those procedures relate to Diffserv code point marking as described in IETF
RFC 2474 [31]
### 10.2.8 Hanging Termination Detection
The procedures in subclause A.7.1.2.2.2 of 3GPP TS 29.235 [29] are applicable.
### 10.2.9 Bandwidth Policing
The procedures in subclause A.7.1.2.2.8 of 3GPP TS 29.235 [29] are applicable.
### 10.2.10 IMS end-to-end media plane security
An IBCF and a TrGW may support the end-to-end IMS media plane security as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.328 [32]. If supported, the IBCF shall use the
following procedures.
If the IBCF receives SDP containing media lines with \"RTP/SAVP\" (see IETF
RFC 3711 [34]) or \"RTP/SAVPF\" (see IETF RFC 5124 [35]) as transport
protocol, the IBCF shall:
\- forward the SDP with unmodified transport protocol for those media lines;
\- apply the procedures to not offer or apply transcoding defined in subclause
10.2.5; and
\- provide \"RTP/SAVP\" or \"RTP/SAVPF\", as received in the SDP, to the TrGW
as transport protocol for all related terminations, and not provide media
related information to these terminations, to configure the TrGW to pass media
and possibly associated RTCP control flows and not to reserve any resources.
NOTE: RTP/SAVP or SAVPF are provided to the TrGW even though it does not
reserve any resources for this as such, but this is needed in order to
allocate dual ports to support RTCP flows. These are also controlled as
described in subclause 10.2.3. For \"RTP/SAVP\" or \"RTP/SAVPF\", RTCP will be
encrypted and can not be interpreted by the TrGW. Media information is also
meaningless as encryption will modify the properties of the media streams.
If the IBCF receives SDP containing SDES SDP attribute(s) according to IETF
RFC 4568 [33], IBCF shall forward the SDP with unmodified SDES SDP
attribute(s), but shall not provide the SDES SDP attribute(s) to the TrGW.
### 10.2.11 Through-Connection
The procedures in subclause A.7.1.2.2.9 of 3GPP TS 29.235 [29] are applicable.
### 10.2.12 Emergency Call
The procedures in subclause A.7.1.2.2.10 of 3GPP TS 29.235 [29] are
applicable.
### 10.2.13 Explicit Congestion Notification support
#### 10.2.13.1 General
An IBCF and TrGW may support Multimedia Telephony using Explicit Congestion
Notification (ECN) according to IETF RFC 3168 [37], and may act as an ECN
endpoint to enable ECN with a local ECN-capable terminal within a local
network that properly handles ECN-marked packets.
#### 10.2.13.2 Incoming SDP offer with ECN
If the IBCF receives an SDP offer containing the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\"
attribute (see IETF RFC 6679 [38]), then if all of the following statements
are true:
a) the IBCF supports ECN according to 3GPP TS 26.114 [36];
b) the TrGW supports ECN according to 3GPP TS 26.114 [36];
c) the IBCF knows (via configuration) that the succeeding network supports ECN
according to 3GPP TS 26.114 [36]; and
d) the IBCF does not insert any transcoding;
then the IBCF shall:
\- if the \"ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute includes both the \"ice\" initiation
method and other initiation methods, remove the \"ice\" initiation method from
the \"ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute and forward the attribute with this
modification in the outgoing SDP offer;
\- if the \"ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute only includes the \"ice\" initiation
method, remove the \"ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute, any \"rtcp-fb\" attribute
with the \"nack\" feedback parameter and the \"ecn\" feedback parameter value,
and any \"ecn-sum\" parameter within a \"rtcp-xr\" attribute from the outgoing
SDP offer;
\- if the \"ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute did not includes the \"ice\"
initialisation method, forward the unmodified \"ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute
within the outgoing SDP offer; and
\- if the IBCF includes the \"ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute within the outgoing
SDP offer, forward the SDP offer containing ECN parameters to the succeeding
network.
Otherwise the IBCF shall remove the \"ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute, any \"rtcp-
fb\" attribute with the \"nack\" feedback parameter and the \"ecn\" feedback
parameter value, and any \"ecn-sum\" parameter within an \"rtcp-xr\" attribute
from the outgoing SDP offer.
If the IBCF forwarded the SDP offer containing the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\"
attribute and receives an SDP answer also containing the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\"
attribute (the reception of the attribute indicates a successful ECN
negotiation) then the IBCF shall forward the SDP answer to its preceding node
and shall indicate to the TrGW that it shall transfer ECN bits in IP header
transparently.
If the IBCF forwarded the SDP offer containing the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\"
attribute and receives an SDP answer without the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\"
attribute and the TrGW supports at least some of the initialisation methods
within the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute in the previously received SDP
offer,
NOTE 1: Only the \"leap\" initialisation method is supported over the Ix
interface in this release.
the IBCF shall:
\- act as an end point for ECN;
\- select an initialisation method supported by the TrGW;
\- determine if application specific feedback or ECN feedback messages shall
be used, taking into account whether the TrGW supports ECN feedback messages,
and the negotiation procedures in 3GPP TS 26.114 [36];
\- determine if ECN XR summary reports can be used, taking into account
whether they are supported at the TrGW, and the negotiation procedures in 3GPP
TS 26.114 [36];
\- send the SDP answer according to 3GPP TS 26.114 [36] and the capabilities
of the TrGW, containing the ECN attribute \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\"; and
\- indicate to the TrGW that it shall apply the ECN procedures (according to
3GPP TS 26.114 [36]) and act as an ECT endpoint.
If the IBCF receives an SDP offer containing the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\"
attribute and bullets a) and b) above are satisfied but if bullet c) or d) or
both are not met then the IBCF shall remove ECN related attributes before
forwarding the SDP offer. If the TrGW supports at least some of the
initialisation methods offered within the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute,
NOTE 2: Only the \"leap\" initialisation method is supported over the Ix
interface in this release.
the IBCF shall:
\- act as an end point for ECN;
\- select an initialisation method supported by the TrGW;
\- determine if application specific feedback or ECN feedback messages shall
be used, taking into account whether the TrGW supports ECN feedback messages,
and the negotiation procedures in 3GPP TS 26.114 [36];
\- determine if ECN XR summary reports can be used, taking into account
whether they are supported at the TrGW and the negotiation procedures in 3GPP
TS 26.114 [36];
\- send an SDP answer according to 3GPP TS 26.114 [36] and the capabilities of
the TrGW, containing the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute; and
\- indicate to the TrGW that it shall apply the ECN procedures (according to
3GPP TS 26.114 [36]) and act as an ECT endpoint.
The TrGW should not send RTCP XR ECN summary reports.
#### 10.2.13.3 Incoming SDP offer without ECN
If the IBCF receives an SDP offer without the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute
then if all of the following statements are true:
a) the IBCF supports ECN according to 3GPP TS 26.114 [36];
b) the TrGW supports ECN according to 3GPP TS 26.114 [36]; and
c) the IBCF knows (via configuration) that the succeeding network supports ECN
according to 3GPP TS 26.114 [36];
the IBCF may include the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute in the SDP offer it
forwards towards the succeeding node, indicating the related capabilities of
the TrGW.
NOTE: ECN XR summary reports and RTCP AVPF ECN feedback message are not
supported in this release towards IMS terminations.
If the IBCF inserted ECN attributes in the SDP offer and receives an SDP
answer containing the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute the IBCF shall act as an
endpoint and shall return the SDP answer to the preceding node removing the
\"a=ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute, any \"rtcp-fb\" attribute with the \"nack\"
feedback parameter and the \"ecn\" feedback parameter value, and any \"ecn-
sum\" parameter within a \"rtcp-xr\" attribute, and shall indicate to the TrGW
that it shall apply the ECN procedures according to 3GPP TS 26.114 [36] and
act as an ECT endpoint. The TrGW should not send RTCP XR ECN summary reports.
If the IBCF inserted the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute in the SDP offer and
receives an SDP answer without the \"a=ecn-capable-rtp\" attribute the IBCF
shall continue the call without any ECN active.
#### 10.2.13.3a Detection of ECN failures by TrGW
If the TrGW acts as ECN endpoint and detects an ECN-related error case, for
example non-ECT in the received packets when ECT(0) was expected or detecting
a very high packet loss rate when ECN is used, the TrGW shall notify the IBCF.
The IBCF should then initiate a session re-negotiation to disable ECN.
#### 10.2.13.4 Interworking with non-3GPP ECN IP terminal
##### 10.2.13.4.1 Support for additional ECN parameters
An IBCF and TrGW may support additional ECN parameter settings than defined in
10.2.13.2. The following sub-clauses describe the optional behaviour if the
IBCF and TrGW support these additional values.
##### 10.2.13.4.2 Incoming SDP offer from external IP network with ECN
If the IBCF receives an incoming SDP offer from the external IP network
containing values in the incoming SDP offer not supported by MTSI then it
shall configure the SDP offer as defined in subclause 10.2.13.2 when
forwarding the SDP offer to the IMS.
When receiving the SDP answer from the IMS the IBCF may configure the SDP
answer to the external IP network with alternative settings depending on what
is received from the IMS and what was offered by the external IP network. The
permitted alternatives are listed in table 10.2.13.4.1; the supported
alternatives are implementation options which need to be derived through
configuration or package auditing.
##### 10.2.13.4.3 Incoming SDP offer from the IMS with ECN
If the IBCF receives an incoming SDP offer from the IMS and it supports
additional ECN parameter settings than those defined in subclause 10.2.13.2
the IBCF may add these to the SDP offer forwarded to the external IP network.
When receiving an SDP answer from the external IP network the IBCF shall
respond to the IMS in accordance with 10.2.13.2. If the IBCF modifies any ECN-
related parameters in the forwarded SDP answer compared to the received SDP
answer, the IBCF shall configure its TrGWas an ECN endpoint. The permitted
alternatives are listed in table 10.2.13.4.1; the supported alternatives are
implementation options which need to be derived through configuration or
package auditing.
Table 10.2.13.4.1: Possible configurations when interworking with non-3GPP ECN
IP terminal
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECN SDP Attribute | | | | and required TrGW | | | | Action | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IMS side | External IP Network | TrGW Action | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Initiation | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | \"leap\" | \"rtp\" | Act as an Endpoint | | | | and trigger explicit | | | NOTE 3 | initiation using RTP | | | | and RTCP as | | | | described in | | | | IETF RFC 6679 [38] | | | | toward the external | | | | IP network. When | | | | initial ECT marked | | | | packets are received | | | | from the external IP | | | | network these are | | | | forwarded to the IMS | | | | (all packets shall | | | | be marked) and early | | | | feedback and XR | | | | Summary reports are | | | | sent back to the | | | | external IP network. | | | | If ECT marked | | | | packets are received | | | | from the IMS before | | | | any initiation is | | | | completed with the | | | | external IP network | | | | then ECT marking | | | | should be removed | | | | and only a fraction | | | | of the packets | | | | should be marked | | | | until feedfback is | | | | received from the | | | | external IP network. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | \"ice\" | This initiation | | | | method is not | | | | supported in the | | | | present release. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mode | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | \"setread\" | \"readonly\" | Act as ECN | | | | transparent unless | | | | required to act as | | | | an Endpoint for | | | | other reasons but | | | | mark packets toward | | | | the IMS with ECT(0). | | | | If ECN-CE is | | | | received from the | | | | IMS then this shall | | | | be handled by the | | | | IMS termination as | | | | currently specified | | | | for the | | | | non-interworking | | | | case and not | | | | forwarded to the | | | | external IP network. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | \"setonly\" | Act as ECN | | | | transparent (unless | | | | required to act as | | | | ECN Endpoint for | | | | other reasons) - | | | | ECN-CE marked | | | | packets will not be | | | | received from | | | | external IP network, | | | | ECN-CE marked | | | | packets from the IMS | | | | will be passed to | | | | the external IP | | | | network. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | ECT | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | \"ect(0)\" | \"ect(1)\" | Act as ECN | | | | transparent unless | | | | required to act as | | | | an Endpoint for | | | | other reasons but | | | | mark packets toward | | | | the IMS with ECT(0) | | | | and mark packets | | | | toward external | | | | network with ECT(1). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | \"random\" | Act as ECN | | | | transparent unless | | | | required to act as | | | | an Endpoint for | | | | other reasons but | | | | mark packets toward | | | | IMS with ECT(0). | | | | Packets received | | | | from the IMS are | | | | left as ECT(0). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RTCP feedback | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | no \"rtcp-fb:* nack | \"rtcp-fb:* nack | For AMR, the | | ecn\" | ecn \" (sender | handling of an AVPF | | | driven congestion | feedback message | | (received driven | control) | received from the | | congestion control) | | external IP the | | | | handling is not | | | | defined. | | | | | | | | For video related | | | | AVFP feedback | | | | messages received | | | | from the external IP | | | | network the TrGW | | | | shall generate the | | | | appropriate TMBR | | | | request towards the | | | | IMS. If a TMBR | | | | request is received | | | | from the IMS the | | | | TrGW shall generate | | | | an appropriate AVPF | | | | feedback message to | | | | the external IP | | | | network. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | \"rtcp-fb:* nack | rtcp-fb:* nack | An AVPF feedback | | ecn\" (sender driven | ecn\" (sender driven | message received | | congestion control) | congestion control) | from the external IP | | | | network shall be | | | | forwarded via the | | | | IMS termination. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RTCP XR ECN summary | | | | report | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | - | \"rtcp-xr:ecn-sum\" | RTCP XR is not | | | | bi-directions and | | | | each end-point | | | | indicates whetever | | | | XR feedback it | | | | supports. Hence, if | | | | the SDP offer does | | | | not contain rtcp-xr | | | | with \"ecn-sum\" | | | | then it can still be | | | | added in the SDP | | | | answer. | | | | | | | | The TrGW shall | | | | include XR ECN | | | | Summary reports | | | | towards the external | | | | IP network and | | | | receive reports from | | | | the external IP | | | | network. (NOTE 4) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE1: The settings | | | | for IMS side may be | | | | supported on the | | | | External IP Network | | | | side in which case | | | | no interworking is | | | | specified. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Each | | | | parameter is | | | | described separately | | | | as each parameter | | | | may or may not need | | | | to be interworked. | | | | Unless stated | | | | otherwise the | | | | assumption is that | | | | each parameter can | | | | be treated | | | | independently. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: RTCP | | | | feedback messages | | | | need to be supported | | | | and negotiated for | | | | the \"rtp\" | | | | initialisation | | | | method | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: The contents | | | | of the XR reports | | | | will be limited to | | | | data received from | | | | the external IP | | | | network. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 10.2.13.5 Message sequence chart
##### 10.2.13.5.1 ECN support requested (ECN endpoint)
Figure 10.2.13.5.1.1 shows the message sequence chart example for requesting
ECN.
Figure 10.2.13.5.1.1: Procedure to Request ECN
Upon receipt of a request to apply ECN the TrGW shall set the ECN field of the
IP header in accordance with 3GPP TS 26.114 [36] when sending any data
packets.
Upon receipt of any IP headers indicating ECN Congestion Experienced (ECN-CE)
the TrGW shall trigger rate adaptation in accordance with 3GPP TS 26.114 [36].
NOTE: ECN requires the IBCF to configure the TrGW with all media attributes to
allow rate adaptation even if no transcoding is required/supported in the
TrGW.
##### 10.2.13.5.2 ECN Active Indicated (ECN transparent)
Figure 10.2.13.5.2.1 shows the message sequence chart example for indicating
ECN transparent.
Figure 10.2.13.5.2.1: Procedure to indicate ECN transparent negotiated
Upon receipt of the indication that ECN transparent has been negotiated the
TrGW shall forward IP packets with ECN bits set unmodified.
##### 10.2.13.5.3 ECN Failure Indication (ECN endpoint)
Figure 10.2.13.5.3.1 shows the message sequence chart example for an ECN
Failure Event.
Figure 10.2.13.5.3.1: Procedure to Report ECN Failure
When the IBCF receives a Notification indicating that a failure has occurred,
the MGCF may trigger a new SDP offer to disable ECN.
### 10.2.14 Optimal Media Routeing
An IBCF may support optimal media routeing (OMR) procedures, as defined in
3GPP TS 29.079 [39].
3GPP TS 29.079 [39] specifies that \"secondary media resources\" may be
allocated in addition to \"primary media resources\". If cotrolled by an IBCF,
such primary or secondary media resources are TrGWs controlled over the Ix
interface with procedures specified in the present specification.
If the IBCF applies OMR procedures, the following modifications to the
procedures within the present specification are applicable:
\- Under conditions specified in 3GPP TS 29.079 [39], the IBCF uses
information from OMR related SDP attributes as remote connection and port
information that is provided towards the TrGW within the call establishment
procedures in subclause 10.1.3.1.1.
\- Under conditions specified in 3GPP TS 29.079 [39], the IBCF encapsulates
local addess and port information, as received from the TrGW within the call
establishment procedures in subclause 10.1.3.1.1, in OMR related SDP
attributes.
\- Under conditions specified in 3GPP TS 29.079 [39], the IBCF uses
information from OMR related SDP attributes as codec information that is
provided towards the TrGW within the media control procedures in clause
10.2.5.
\- 3GPP TS 29.079 [39] specifies OMR-specific events that trigger the call
release procedures in subclause 10.1.3.1.2.
### 10.2.15 IP Realm Availability
The procedures in subclause A.7.1.2.2.5 of 3GPP TS 29.235 [29] are applicable.
### 10.2.16 Access Transfer procedures with media anchored in ATGW
The procedures in the present clause are optional to be supported for both
IBCF and TrGW when supporting the ATCF and ATGW functionality (see subclause
6.1.4).
The procedures in subclause 6.2.14 of 3GPP TS 23.334 [43] are applicable,
except that where the Iq interface is mentioned in those procedures, the Ix
interface is applicable.
## 10.3 Void
## 10.4 Procedures
### 10.4.1 Call related Procedures
#### 10.4.1.1 Reserve TrGW Connection Point
This procedure is used to reserve an termination at the TrGW.
Table 10.4.1.1.1: Reserve TrGW Connection Point
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Procedure | > Initiated | > | > | > | | | | Information | Information | Information | | | | > element | > element | > element | | | | > name | > required | > | | | | | | description | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Reserve | IBCF | Cont | M | This | | TrGW | | ext/Context | | information | | Connection | | Request | | element | | Point | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | context or | | | | | | requests a | | | | | | new context | | | | | | for the | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | t | | | | | | ermination. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Emergency | O | This | | | | Call | | information | | | | Indicator | | element | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | the call as | | | | | | emergency | | | | | | call that | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | p | | | | | | referential | | | | | | handling. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Termination | M | This | | | | Request | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | requests a | | | | | | new | | | | | | termination | | | | | | for the | | | | | | bearer to | | | | | | be | | | | | | e | | | | | | stablished. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | IP | O | This | | | | Interface | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the type of | | | | | | external | | | | | | interface | | | | | | to be used | | | | | | for the IP | | | | | | termination | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | MboIP). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local IP | O | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resource(s) | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | codec, | | | | | | auxiliary | | | | | | payload | | | | | | types) for | | | | | | which the | | | | | | TrGW shall | | | | | | be prepared | | | | | | to receive | | | | | | user data. | | | | | | May be | | | | | | excluded | | | | | | (i.e. \"-\" | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | SDP m-line) | | | | | | if no | | | | | | transcoding | | | | | | or other | | | | | | media | | | | | | related | | | | | | functions | | | | | | are | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | R | C | This | | | | eserveValue | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | if multiple | | | | | | local | | | | | | resources | | | | | | are to be | | | | | | reserved. | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | a speech | | | | | | codec and | | | | | | auxiliary | | | | | | payload | | | | | | types are | | | | | | configured. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local | M | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | Request | | requests an | | | | | | IP address | | | | | | and port | | | | | | number on | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | that the | | | | | | remote end | | | | | | can send | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data to. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | O | This | | | | Source | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | Filtering | | indicates | | | | | | that remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | address | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | C | This | | | | Source | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | Mask | | provides | | | | | | information | | | | | | on the | | | | | | valid | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | addresses. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | address | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | included. | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | address | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | O | This | | | | Source Port | | information | | | | Filtering | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | C | This | | | | Source Port | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | the valid | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | port. This | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | included. | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included. | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | C | This | | | | Source Port | | information | | | | Range | | element | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | a range of | | | | | | valid | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | ports. This | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | included. | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included. | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | RTCP | O | Indicates | | | | handling | | whether or | | | | | | not the | | | | | | TrGW shall | | | | | | reserve a | | | | | | port for an | | | | | | RTCP flow. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Notify | M | This | | | | termination | | information | | | | heartbeat | | element | | | | | | requests | | | | | | termination | | | | | | heartbeat | | | | | | i | | | | | | ndications. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Notify | O | This | | | | Released | | information | | | | Bearer | | element | | | | | | requests a | | | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | of a | | | | | | released | | | | | | bearer. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | DiffServ | O | This | | | | Code Point | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates a | | | | | | specific | | | | | | DiffServ | | | | | | code point | | | | | | to be used | | | | | | in the IP | | | | | | header in | | | | | | packets | | | | | | sent on the | | | | | | IP | | | | | | t | | | | | | ermination. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | DiffServ | O | This | | | | Tagging | | information | | | | Behaviour | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | Diffserv | | | | | | code point | | | | | | in theIP | | | | | | header in | | | | | | packets | | | | | | sent on the | | | | | | IP | | | | | | termination | | | | | | should be | | | | | | copied from | | | | | | the | | | | | | received | | | | | | value or | | | | | | set to a | | | | | | specific | | | | | | value. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | IP Realm | O | This | | | | Identifier | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | realm of | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | t | | | | | | ermination. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Traffic | O | This | | | | Policing | | information | | | | Required | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that | | | | | | policing of | | | | | | the media | | | | | | flow is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Peak Data | O | This | | | | Rate | | information | | | | | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Policing | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | permissible | | | | | | peak data | | | | | | rate for a | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Sustainable | O | This | | | | Data Rate | | information | | | | | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Policing | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | permissible | | | | | | sustainable | | | | | | data rate | | | | | | for a media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Delay | O | This | | | | Variation | | information | | | | Tolerance | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Policing | | | | | | on Peak | | | | | | Data Rate | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | expected | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variation | | | | | | tolerance | | | | | | for the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Maximum | C | This | | | | Burst Size | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | Policing on | | | | | | Sustainable | | | | | | Data Rate | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | expected | | | | | | burst size | | | | | | for the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Media | O | This | | | | Inactivity | | information | | | | Detection | | element | | | | Required | | indicates | | | | | | that | | | | | | detection | | | | | | of inactive | | | | | | media flows | | | | | | is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Inactivity | C | This | | | | Detection | | information | | | | Time | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Inactive | | | | | | Media | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | Inactivity | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | time. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Inactivity | C | This | | | | Detection | | information | | | | Direction | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Inactive | | | | | | Media | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | Inactivity | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | direction. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN Enable | O | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | requests | | | | | | the TrGW to | | | | | | apply ECN | | | | | | procedures | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN | C | This | | | | Initiation | | information | | | | Method | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN | | | | | | Initiation | | | | | | method and | | | | | | requests | | | | | | the TrGW to | | | | | | perform IP | | | | | | header | | | | | | settings as | | | | | | an ECN | | | | | | endpoint, | | | | | | or | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that ECN | | | | | | bits shall | | | | | | be passed | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsparently. | | | | | | It may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Congestion | C | This | | | | Response | | information | | | | Method | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN | | | | | | Congestion | | | | | | Response | | | | | | Method; | | | | | | receiver | | | | | | driven or | | | | | | sender | | | | | | driven. The | | | | | | default is | | | | | | \"received | | | | | | driven | | | | | | congestion | | | | | | control\". | | | | | | It may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled | | | | | | and the | | | | | | TrGW acts | | | | | | as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN ECT | C | This | | | | Marking | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN ECT | | | | | | Marking. It | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled | | | | | | and the | | | | | | TrGW acts | | | | | | as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN Mode | C | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN | | | | | | Mode. It | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled | | | | | | and the | | | | | | TrGW acts | | | | | | as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | RTCP | C | This | | | | Feedback | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the RTCP | | | | | | Feedback | | | | | | support. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | XR Summary | C | This | | | | Report | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the support | | | | | | of XR | | | | | | Summary | | | | | | Reporting. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Notify ECN | C | This | | | | Failure | | information | | | | Event | | element | | | | | | requests a | | | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | if a ECN | | | | | | failure | | | | | | occurs. It | | | | | | may only be | | | | | | supplied if | | | | | | ECN is | | | | | | enabled and | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | acts as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Reserve | TrGW | Context | M | This | | TrGW | | | | information | | Connection | | | | element | | Point Ack | | | | indicates | | | | | | the context | | | | | | where the | | | | | | command was | | | | | | executed. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Termination | M | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | termination | | | | | | where the | | | | | | command was | | | | | | executed. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local IP | C | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resources | | | | | | that the | | | | | | TrGW has | | | | | | reserved to | | | | | | receive the | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data from | | | | | | the remote | | | | | | peer. This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | it was | | | | | | contained | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request. If | | | | | | the | | | | | | information | | | | | | element was | | | | | | not | | | | | | contained | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request, it | | | | | | may be | | | | | | present in | | | | | | the reply. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local | M | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | address and | | | | | | port on the | | | | | | TrGW that | | | | | | shall | | | | | | receive | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data from | | | | | | the remote | | | | | | peer. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Remote | | | | | | Source Port | | | | | | and Remote | | | | | | Source Port | | | | | | Range are | | | | | | mutually | | | | | | exclusive. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: At | | | | | | least one | | | | | | of these | | | | | | information | | | | | | el | | | | | | ementsshall | | | | | | be present | | | | | | when | | | | | | policing is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | This | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | does not | | | | | | need to be | | | | | | signalled | | | | | | if support | | | | | | is for 3GPP | | | | | | defined ECN | | | | | | only. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 10.4.1.2 Configure TrGW Connection Point
This procedure is used to configure or reconfigure an termination at the TrGW.
> Table 10.4.1.2.1: Configure TrGW Connection Point Procedure
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Procedure | > Initiated | > | > | Information | | | | Information | Information | element | | | | > element | > element | description | | | | > name | > required | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Configure | IBCF | Context | M | This | | TrGW | | | | information | | Connection | | | | element | | Point | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | context. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Termination | M | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | t | | | | | | ermination. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | IP | O | This | | | | Interface | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the type of | | | | | | external | | | | | | interface | | | | | | to be used | | | | | | for the IP | | | | | | termination | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | MboIP). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local IP | O | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resources | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | codec, | | | | | | auxiliary | | | | | | payload | | | | | | types) that | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | may use on | | | | | | the | | | | | | reception | | | | | | of user | | | | | | plane data. | | | | | | | | | | | | If Local | | | | | | Connection | | | | | | Address is | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | may be | | | | | | excluded | | | | | | (i.e. \"-\" | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | SDP m-line) | | | | | | if no | | | | | | transcoding | | | | | | or other | | | | | | media | | | | | | related | | | | | | functions | | | | | | are | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote IP | O | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resources | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | codec, | | | | | | auxiliary | | | | | | payload | | | | | | types) that | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | may send | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data to. | | | | | | | | | | | | If Remote | | | | | | Connection | | | | | | Address is | | | | | | supplied | | | | | | may be | | | | | | excluded | | | | | | (i.e. \"-\" | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | SDP m-line) | | | | | | if no | | | | | | transcoding | | | | | | or other | | | | | | media | | | | | | related | | | | | | functions | | | | | | are | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local | O | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | address and | | | | | | port on the | | | | | | TrGW that | | | | | | the remote | | | | | | peer can | | | | | | send user | | | | | | plane data | | | | | | to. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | O | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | address and | | | | | | port that | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | can send | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data to. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Reserve | C | This | | | | Value | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | if multiple | | | | | | resources | | | | | | are to be | | | | | | reserved. | | | | | | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | a speech | | | | | | codec and | | | | | | auxiliary | | | | | | payload | | | | | | types are | | | | | | configured. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | O | This | | | | Source | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | Filtering | | indicates | | | | | | that remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | address | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | C | This | | | | Source | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | Mask | | provides | | | | | | information | | | | | | on the | | | | | | valid | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | addresses. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | address | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | included. | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | address | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | O | This | | | | Source Port | | information | | | | Filtering | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | C | This | | | | Source Port | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | the valid | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | port. This | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | included. | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included. | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | C | This | | | | Source Port | | information | | | | Range | | element | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | a range of | | | | | | valid | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | ports. This | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | included. | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included. | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | RTCP | O | Indicates | | | | handling | | whether or | | | | | | not the | | | | | | TrGW shall | | | | | | reserve a | | | | | | port for an | | | | | | RTCP flow | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Traffic | O | This | | | | Policing | | information | | | | Required | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that | | | | | | policing of | | | | | | the media | | | | | | flow is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Peak Data | O | This | | | | Rate | | information | | | | | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Policing | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | permissible | | | | | | peak data | | | | | | rate for a | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Sustainable | O | This | | | | Data Rate | | information | | | | | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Policing | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | permissible | | | | | | sustainable | | | | | | data rate | | | | | | for a media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Delay | O | This | | | | Variation | | information | | | | Tolerance | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Policing | | | | | | on Peak | | | | | | Data Rate | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | expected | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variation | | | | | | tolerance | | | | | | for the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Maximum | C | This | | | | Burst Size | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | Policing on | | | | | | Sustainable | | | | | | Data Rate | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | expected | | | | | | burst size | | | | | | for the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | DiffServ | O | This | | | | Code Point | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates a | | | | | | specific | | | | | | DiffServ | | | | | | code point | | | | | | to be used | | | | | | in the IP | | | | | | header in | | | | | | packets | | | | | | sent on the | | | | | | IP | | | | | | t | | | | | | ermination. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | DiffServ | O | This | | | | Tagging | | information | | | | Behaviour | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | Diffserv | | | | | | code point | | | | | | in theIP | | | | | | header in | | | | | | packets | | | | | | sent on the | | | | | | IP | | | | | | termination | | | | | | should be | | | | | | copied from | | | | | | the | | | | | | received | | | | | | value or | | | | | | set to a | | | | | | specific | | | | | | value. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Media | O | This | | | | Inactivity | | information | | | | Detection | | element | | | | Required | | indicates | | | | | | that | | | | | | detection | | | | | | of inactive | | | | | | media flows | | | | | | is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Inactivity | C | This | | | | Detection | | information | | | | Time | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Inactive | | | | | | Media | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | Inactivity | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | time. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Inactivity | C | This | | | | Detection | | information | | | | Direction | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Inactive | | | | | | Media | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | Inactivity | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | direction. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN Enable | O | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | requests | | | | | | the TrGW to | | | | | | apply ECN | | | | | | procedures. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN | C | This | | | | Initiation | | information | | | | Method | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN | | | | | | Initiation | | | | | | method and | | | | | | requests | | | | | | the TrGW to | | | | | | perform IP | | | | | | header | | | | | | settings as | | | | | | an ECN | | | | | | endpoint, | | | | | | or | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that ECN | | | | | | bits shall | | | | | | be passed | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsparently. | | | | | | It may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Congestion | C | This | | | | Response | | information | | | | Method | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN | | | | | | Congestion | | | | | | Response | | | | | | Method; | | | | | | receiver | | | | | | driven or | | | | | | sender | | | | | | driven. The | | | | | | default is | | | | | | \"received | | | | | | driven | | | | | | congestion | | | | | | control\". | | | | | | It may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled | | | | | | and the | | | | | | TrGW acts | | | | | | as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN ECT | C | This | | | | Marking | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN ECT | | | | | | Marking. It | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled | | | | | | and the | | | | | | TrGW acts | | | | | | as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN Mode | C | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN | | | | | | Mode. It | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled | | | | | | and the | | | | | | TrGW acts | | | | | | as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | RTCP | C | This | | | | Feedback | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the RTCP | | | | | | Feedback | | | | | | support. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | XR Summary | C | This | | | | Report | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the support | | | | | | of XR | | | | | | Summary | | | | | | Reporting. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Notify ECN | C | This | | | | Failure | | information | | | | Event | | element | | | | | | requests a | | | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | if a ECN | | | | | | failure | | | | | | occurs. It | | | | | | mayonly be | | | | | | supplied if | | | | | | ECN is | | | | | | enabled and | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | acts as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Configure | TrGW | Context | M | This | | TrGW | | | | information | | Connection | | | | element | | Point | | | | indicates | | | | | | the context | | Ack | | | | where the | | | | | | command was | | | | | | executed. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Termination | M | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | termination | | | | | | where the | | | | | | command was | | | | | | executed. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local IP | O | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resources | | | | | | that the | | | | | | TrGW has | | | | | | reserved to | | | | | | receive the | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data from | | | | | | the far | | | | | | end. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote IP | O | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | codec) that | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | shall use | | | | | | to send | | | | | | user data | | | | | | to. May be | | | | | | present | | | | | | only if | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | information | | | | | | elementis | | | | | | present in | | | | | | the | | | | | | request. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local | O | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | address and | | | | | | port on the | | | | | | TrGW that | | | | | | the remote | | | | | | end can | | | | | | send user | | | | | | plane data | | | | | | to. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | O | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | address and | | | | | | port that | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | can send | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data to. | | | | | | May be | | | | | | present | | | | | | only if | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | information | | | | | | element is | | | | | | present in | | | | | | the | | | | | | request. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Remote | | | | | | Source Port | | | | | | and Remote | | | | | | Source Port | | | | | | Range are | | | | | | mutually | | | | | | exclusive. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: At | | | | | | least one | | | | | | of these | | | | | | information | | | | | | el | | | | | | ementsshall | | | | | | be present | | | | | | when | | | | | | policing is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | This | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | does not | | | | | | need to be | | | | | | signalled | | | | | | if support | | | | | | is for 3GPP | | | | | | defined ECN | | | | | | only. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 10.4.1.3 Reserve and Configure TrGW Connection Point
This procedure is used to reserve and configure multimedia-processing
resources for a termination at the TrGW.
Table 10.4.1.3.1: Reserve and Configure TrGW Connection Point
+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Procedure | Initiated | Information | Information | ** | | | | element | element | Information | | | | name | required | element | | | | | | de | | | | | | scription** | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Reserve and | IBCF | Cont | M | This | | Configure | | ext/Context | | information | | TrGW | | Request | | element | | Connection | | | | indicates | | Point | | | | the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | context or | | | | | | requests a | | | | | | new context | | | | | | for the | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | t | | | | | | ermination. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Emergency | O | This | | | | Call | | information | | | | Indicator | | element | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | the call as | | | | | | emergency | | | | | | call that | | | | | | requires a | | | | | | p | | | | | | referential | | | | | | handling. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | T | M | This | | | | ermination/ | | information | | | | Termination | | element | | | | Request | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | termination | | | | | | or requests | | | | | | a new | | | | | | termination | | | | | | for the | | | | | | bearer to | | | | | | be | | | | | | e | | | | | | stablished. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | IP | O | This | | | | Interface | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the used | | | | | | interface | | | | | | type for | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | termination | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | MboIP). | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local IP | C | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resource(s) | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | codec, | | | | | | auxiliary | | | | | | payload | | | | | | types) for | | | | | | which the | | | | | | TrGW shall | | | | | | be prepared | | | | | | to receive | | | | | | user data | | | | | | May be | | | | | | excluded | | | | | | (i.e. \"-\" | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | SDP m-line) | | | | | | if no | | | | | | transcoding | | | | | | or other | | | | | | media | | | | | | related | | | | | | functions | | | | | | are | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote IP | C | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resources | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | codec, | | | | | | auxiliary | | | | | | payload | | | | | | types) that | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | shall use | | | | | | to send | | | | | | user data. | | | | | | May be | | | | | | excluded | | | | | | (i.e. \"-\" | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | SDP m-line) | | | | | | if no | | | | | | transcoding | | | | | | or other | | | | | | media | | | | | | related | | | | | | functions | | | | | | are | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Reserve | C | This | | | | Value | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | if multiple | | | | | | IP | | | | | | resources | | | | | | are to be | | | | | | reserved. | | | | | | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | a speech | | | | | | codec and | | | | | | auxiliary | | | | | | payload | | | | | | types are | | | | | | configured. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local | M | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | request | | requests an | | | | | | IP address | | | | | | and a port | | | | | | number on | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | that the | | | | | | remote end | | | | | | can send | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data to. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | M | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | address and | | | | | | ports of | | | | | | the remote | | | | | | party that | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | can send | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data to. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | O | This | | | | Source | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | Filtering | | indicates | | | | | | that remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | address | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | C | This | | | | Source | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | Mask | | provides | | | | | | information | | | | | | on the | | | | | | valid | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | addresses. | | | | | | This may be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | address | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | included. | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | address | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | O | This | | | | Source Port | | information | | | | Filtering | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | C | This | | | | Source Port | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | the valid | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | port. This | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | included. | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included. | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | C | This | | | | Source Port | | information | | | | Range | | element | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | a range of | | | | | | valid | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source | | | | | | ports. This | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is | | | | | | included. | | | | | | It shall | | | | | | not be | | | | | | included if | | | | | | remote | | | | | | source port | | | | | | filtering | | | | | | is not | | | | | | included. | | | | | | (NOTE 1) | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | RTCP | O | This | | | | handling | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | whether or | | | | | | not the | | | | | | TrGW shall | | | | | | reserve a | | | | | | port for an | | | | | | RTCP flow. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Notify | M | This | | | | termination | | information | | | | heartbeat | | element | | | | | | requests | | | | | | termination | | | | | | heartbeat | | | | | | i | | | | | | ndications. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Notify | O | This | | | | Released | | information | | | | Bearer | | element | | | | | | requests a | | | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | of a | | | | | | released | | | | | | bearer. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | IP Realm | O | This | | | | Identifier | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | realm of | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | t | | | | | | ermination. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Traffic | O | This | | | | Policing | | information | | | | Required | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that | | | | | | policing of | | | | | | the media | | | | | | flow is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Peak Data | O | This | | | | Rate | | information | | | | | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Policing | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | permissible | | | | | | peak data | | | | | | rate for a | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Sustainable | O | This | | | | Data Rate | | information | | | | | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Policing | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | permissible | | | | | | sustainable | | | | | | data rate | | | | | | for a media | | | | | | stream. | | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Delay | O | This | | | | Variation | | information | | | | Tolerance | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Policing | | | | | | on Peak | | | | | | Data Rate | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | expected | | | | | | delay | | | | | | variation | | | | | | tolerance | | | | | | for the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Maximum | C | This | | | | Burst Size | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | Policing on | | | | | | Sustainable | | | | | | Data Rate | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the maximum | | | | | | expected | | | | | | burst size | | | | | | for the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | media | | | | | | stream. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | DiffServ | O | This | | | | Code Point | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates a | | | | | | specific | | | | | | DiffServ | | | | | | code point | | | | | | to be used | | | | | | in the IP | | | | | | header in | | | | | | packets | | | | | | sent on the | | | | | | IP | | | | | | t | | | | | | ermination. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | DiffServ | O | This | | | | Tagging | | information | | | | Behaviour | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | Diffserv | | | | | | code point | | | | | | in theIP | | | | | | header in | | | | | | packets | | | | | | sent on the | | | | | | IP | | | | | | termination | | | | | | should be | | | | | | copied from | | | | | | the | | | | | | received | | | | | | value or | | | | | | set to a | | | | | | specific | | | | | | value. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Media | O | This | | | | Inactivity | | information | | | | Detection | | element | | | | Required | | indicates | | | | | | that | | | | | | detection | | | | | | of inactive | | | | | | media flows | | | | | | is | | | | | | required. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Inactivity | C | This | | | | Detection | | information | | | | Time | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Inactive | | | | | | Media | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | Inactivity | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | time. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Inactivity | C | This | | | | Detection | | information | | | | Direction | | element may | | | | | | be present | | | | | | if Inactive | | | | | | Media | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | is required | | | | | | and | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | Inactivity | | | | | | Detection | | | | | | direction. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN Enable | O | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | requests | | | | | | the TrGW to | | | | | | apply ECN | | | | | | procedures. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN | C | This | | | | Initiation | | information | | | | Method | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN | | | | | | Initiation | | | | | | method and | | | | | | requests | | | | | | the TrGW to | | | | | | perform IP | | | | | | header | | | | | | settings as | | | | | | an ECN | | | | | | endpoint, | | | | | | or | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | that ECN | | | | | | bits shall | | | | | | be passed | | | | | | tra | | | | | | nsparently. | | | | | | It may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Congestion | C | This | | | | Response | | information | | | | Method | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN | | | | | | Congestion | | | | | | Response | | | | | | Method; | | | | | | receiver | | | | | | driven or | | | | | | sender | | | | | | driven. The | | | | | | default is | | | | | | \"received | | | | | | driven | | | | | | congestion | | | | | | control\". | | | | | | It may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled | | | | | | and the | | | | | | TrGW acts | | | | | | as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN ECT | C | This | | | | Marking | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN ECT | | | | | | Marking. It | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled | | | | | | and the | | | | | | TrGW acts | | | | | | as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | ECN Mode | C | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the ECN | | | | | | Mode. It | | | | | | may be | | | | | | included | | | | | | only if ECN | | | | | | is enabled | | | | | | and the | | | | | | TrGW acts | | | | | | as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | RTCP | C | This | | | | Feedback | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the RTCP | | | | | | Feedback | | | | | | support. | | | | | | (NOTE 3) | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | XR Summary | C | This | | | | Report | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | specifies | | | | | | the support | | | | | | of XR | | | | | | Summary | | | | | | Reporting. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Notify ECN | C | This | | | | F | | information | | | | ailureEvent | | element | | | | | | requests a | | | | | | n | | | | | | otification | | | | | | if a ECN | | | | | | failure | | | | | | occurs due | | | | | | to ECN. It | | | | | | mayonly be | | | | | | supplied if | | | | | | ECN is | | | | | | enabled and | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | acts as ECN | | | | | | endpoint. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Reserve and | TrGW | Context | M | This | | Configure | | | | information | | TrGW | | | | element | | Connection | | | | indicates | | Point | | | | the context | | | | | | where the | | Ack | | | | command was | | | | | | executed. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Termination | M | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | termination | | | | | | where the | | | | | | command was | | | | | | executed. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local IP | C | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resources | | | | | | that the | | | | | | TrGW has | | | | | | reserved to | | | | | | receive the | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data from | | | | | | the remote | | | | | | side. This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present if | | | | | | it was | | | | | | contained | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request. | | | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | information | | | | | | element was | | | | | | not | | | | | | contained | | | | | | in the | | | | | | request, it | | | | | | may be | | | | | | present in | | | | | | the reply. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote IP | O | This | | | | Resources | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | resource | | | | | | (i.e. | | | | | | codec) that | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | shall use | | | | | | to send | | | | | | user data. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Local | M | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Addresses | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | address and | | | | | | port on the | | | | | | TrGW that | | | | | | shall | | | | | | receive | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Remote | O | This | | | | Connection | | information | | | | Address | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the IP | | | | | | address and | | | | | | port that | | | | | | the TrGW | | | | | | can send | | | | | | user plane | | | | | | data to. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | Remote | | | | | | Source Port | | | | | | and Remote | | | | | | Source Port | | | | | | Range are | | | | | | mutually | | | | | | exclusive. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: At | | | | | | least one | | | | | | of these | | | | | | information | | | | | | elements | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | present | | | | | | when | | | | | | policing is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | This | | | | | | parameter | | | | | | does not | | | | | | need to be | | | | | | signalled | | | | | | if support | | | | | | is for 3GPP | | | | | | defined ECN | | | | | | only. | | | | | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 10.4.1.4 Release TrGW Termination
This procedure is used to release multimedia-processing resources for a
termination at the TrGW.
> Table 10.4.1.4.1: Release TrGW Termination
+-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Procedure | Initiated | Information | Information | Information | | | | element | element | element | | | | name | required | description | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Release | IBCF | Context | M | This | | TrGW | | | | information | | Termination | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | context. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Termination | M | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | existing | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | termination | | | | | | to be | | | | | | released. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Release | TrGW | Context | M | This | | TrGW | | | | information | | Termination | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | Ack | | | | the context | | | | | | where the | | | | | | command was | | | | | | executed. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | Termination | M | This | | | | | | information | | | | | | element | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the | | | | | | termination | | | | | | where the | | | | | | command was | | | | | | executed. | +-------------+-----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE: No requirement for statistics in the Release TrGW Termination Ack has
been justified by a use case.
#### 10.4.1.5 IP Bearer Released
Table 10.4.1.5.1: IP Bearer Released
* * *
Procedure Initiated Information element name Information element required
Information element description IP Bearer Released TrGW Context M This
information element indicates the context for the bearer termination.
Termination M This information element indicates the bearer termination where
the bearer was released. Bearer Released M This information element notifies a
bearer release. Release Cause M This information element indicates the cause
of a bearer release. IP Bearer Released Ack IBCF Context M This information
element indicates all context are where the command was executed. Termination
M This information element indicates that Bearer termination is where the
command was executed.
* * *
#### 10.4.1.6 Media Inactivity Detection
This command is used to notify the IBCF of media inactivity on the TrGW.
Table 10.4.1.6.1: Media Inactivity Notification
* * *
Procedure Initiated Information element name Information element required
Information element description Media Inactivity Notification TrGW Context M
This information element indicates the existing context for the bearer
termination. Termination M This information element indicates that bearer
termination is where the media inactivity detection was activated. Media
Inactivity M This information element notifies the IBCF of Media inactivity
detection on the bearer termination. Media Inactivity Notification Ack IBCF
Context M This information element indicates the context where the command was
executed. Termination M This information element indicates the bearer
termination where the command was executed.
* * *
#### 10.4.1.7 Termination heartbeat indication
This command is used by the TrGW to periodically notify the IBCF of a
termination heartbeat.
Table 10.4.1.7.1: Termination heartbeat indication
* * *
Procedure Initiated Information element name Information element required
Information element description Termination heartbeat indication TrGW Context
M This information element indicates the context for the bearer termination.
Bearer Termination M This information element indicates the bearer termination
for which the termination heartbeat is reported. Termination heartbeat M
Hanging Termination event. Termination heartbeat indication Ack IBCF Context M
This information element indicates the context where the command was executed.
Bearer Termination M This information element indicates the bearer termination
where the command was executed.
* * *
#### 10.4.1.8 Change Through-Connection
This procedure is used to change the Through-connection in the bearer
termination.
Table 10.4.1.8.1: Change Through-Connection
* * *
Procedure Initiated Information element name Information element required
Information element description Change Through-Connection IBCF Context/Context
Request M This information element indicates the existing context or requests
a new context for the bearer termination. Bearer Termination/Bearer
Termination Request M This information element indicates the existing bearer
termination or requests a new Bearer termination where the through connection
is changed. Through-Connection M This information element indicates the
through-connection of the bearer termination. Change Through-Connection Ack
TrGW Context M This information element indicates the context where the
command was executed. Bearer Termination M This information element indicates
the bearer termination where the command was executed.
* * *
NOTE: This procedure may be combined with Reserve and Configure TrGW
Connection Point, Reserve TrGW Connection Point or Configure TrGW Connection
Point procedure. This list of procedures is not exhaustive.
#### 10.4.1.9 ECN Failure Indication
This procedure is used to report ECN related failures (see clause 10.2.13.3a).
Table 10.4.1.9.1: Procedures toward the IM Subsystem: ECN Failure Indication
* * *
Procedure Initiated Information element name Information element required
Information element description ECN Error Indication TrGW Context M This
information element indicates the context for the bearer termination. Bearer
Termination M This information element indicates the bearer termination for
which the ECN failure is reported. ECN Error Indication M This information
element indicates an ECN failure event. ECN Error Indication Ack IBCF Context
M This information element indicates the context where the command was
executed. Bearer Termination M This information element indicates the bearer
termination where the command was executed.
* * *
#### 10.4.1.10 Change Flow Direction
This procedure may be used to change the flow direction between bearer
terminations within a context for access transfer procedures (see Clause
10.2.15).
Table 10.4.1.10.1: Procedures toward the IM Subsystem: Change Flow Direction
* * *
Procedure Initiated Information element name Information element required
Information element description Change Flow Direction IBCF(ATCF)
Context/Context Request M This information element indicates the existing
context or a new context where the flow direction is changed. Bearer
Termination 1/ Bearer Termination 1 Request M This information element
indicates the existing bearer termination or a new bearer termination from
where the new flow direction is applied. Bearer Termination 2/ Bearer
Termination 2 Request M This information element indicates the existing bearer
termination or a new bearer termination where to the new flow direction is
applied. Flow Direction M This information element indicates the flow
direction from the bearer termination 1 to bearer termination 2 within the
context. Change Flow Direction Ack TrGW(ATGW) Context M This information
element indicates the context where the command was executed.
* * *
### 10.4.2 Non Call related Procedures
The procedures in table 10.4.2.1 shall be applied between the IBCF and TrGW.
Table 10.4.2.1: Non-call related procedures
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Stage 3 Procedure | Corresponding | Remarks | | (for information) | Stage 2 Procedure | | | defined in | defined in | | | | | | | 3GPP TS 29.238 | 3GPP TS 23.205 | | | [25] | [28] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TrGW Out of service | MGW Out of Service | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TrGW Communication | MGW Communication Up | | | Up | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TrGW Restoration | MGW Restoration | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TrGW Register | MGW Register | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TrGW Re-register | MGW Re-register | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CS-IBCF Ordered | (G)MSC Server | | | Re-register | Ordered Re-register | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CS-IBCF Restoration | (G)MSC Server | | | | Restoration | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | CS-IBCF Out of | (G)MSC Server Out of | | | Service | Service | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Termination | Termination | The \"Termination | | Out-of-Service | Out-of-Service | Out-of-Service | | | | procedure\" is also | | | | used as a | | | | call-related H.248 | | | | command | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Audit Value | Audit Value | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Command Rejected | Command Rejected | The \"Command | | | | Rejected\" procedure | | | | may be used in | | | | response both to | | | | call-related and | | | | non-call-related | | | | H.248 commands. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TrGW Capability | Capability Update | | | Change | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TrGW Resource | MGW Resource | | | Congestion Handling | Congestion Handling | | | -- Activate | -- Activate | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TrGW Resource | MGW Resource | | | Congestion Handling | Congestion Handling | | | -- Indication | -- Indication | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inactivity timeout | Inactivity timeout | | | activation | activation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inactivity timeout | Inactivity timeout | | | indication | indication | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Realm Availability | | See 3GPP TS 29.235 | | Change Activation | | [29] subclause | | | | A.7.2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Realm Availability | | See 3GPP TS 29.235 | | Change Indication | | [29] subclause | | | | A.7.2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void.
#