# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The present document describes the network interworking for the Packet Domain.
Interworking to various external networks is defined together with the
interworking for data forwarding while subscribers roam within the 3GPP
system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the requirements for Packet Domain interworking
between a:
a) PLMN with WLAN access and PDN;
b) PLMN with WLAN access and PLMN.
The present document also defines, in clause 12, the usage of Radius at the Pp
Reference Point between the Packet Data Gateway and the Presence Network
Agent, see 3GPP TS 23.141 [18].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking; System description\".
[2] 3GPP TS 29.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking; Stage 3\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.234: \"3GPP system to Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking; User Equipment (UE) to network protocols; Stage 3\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[5] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[6] IETF RFC 1034 (1987): \"Domain names - concepts and facilities\".
[7] IETF RFC 1035 (1987): \"Domain names - implementation and specification\".
[8] IETF RFC 2131 (1997): \"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol\".
[9] IETF RFC 3315 (2003) \"Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6
(DHCPv6)\".
[10] IETF RFC 2865 (2000): \"Remote Authentication Dial In User Service
(RADIUS)\".
[11] IETF RFC 3162 (2001): \"RADIUS and IPv6\".
[12] IETF RFC 2866 (2000): \"RADIUS Accounting\".
[13] IETF RFC 2373 (1998): \"IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture\".
[14] IETF RFC 2461 (1998): \"Neighbor Discovery for IP Version 6 (IPv6)\".
[15] IETF RFC 2462 (1998): \"IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration\".
[16] 3GPP TS 33.234: \"3G security; Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN)
interworking security\".
[17] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"Internet Protocol (IP) multimedia call control protocol
based on Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and Session Description Protocol
(SDP); Stage 3\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.141: \"Presence Service; Architecture and functional
description\".
[19] IETF RFC 4739, (2006): \"Multiple Authentication Exchanges in the
Internet Key Exchange (IKEv2) Protocol\".
[20] IETF RFC 3579, September 2003: \"RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial In
User Service) Support for Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)\".
[21] IETF RFC 4005 (2005): \"Diameter Network Access Server Application\".
[22] IETF RFC 3588 \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, abbreviations and symbols
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 23.234 [1] and the following apply:
**3GPP - WLAN Interworking:** used generically to refer to interworking
between the 3GPP system and the WLAN family of standards
**interworking WLAN:** WLAN that interworks with a 3GPP system
**Serving WLAN:** interworking WLAN that the user is connected to, i.e. either
a visited or a home WLAN
**Visited WLAN:** interworking WLAN that Interworks only with a visited PLMN
**WLAN UE:** UE (equipped with UICC card including (U)SIM) utilized by a 3GPP
subscriber to access the WLAN interworking
**External AAA Server:** The External AAA Server is located in an external
packet data network. The PDG interworks with the External AAA Server via the
Wi reference point.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [5] and the following apply:
APN Access Point Name
DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
DHCPv6 Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol version 6
DNS Domain Name System
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IP Internet Protocol
IPv4 Internet Protocol version 4
IPv6 Internet Protocol version 6
ISP Internet Service Provider
I-WLAN Interworked / interworking WLAN
LAN Local Area Network
MTU Maximum Transfer Unit
PDG Packet Data Gateway
PDN Packet Data Network
PPP Point-to-Point Protocol
PS Packet Switched
RADIUS Remote Authentication Dial In User Service
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
W-APN WLAN APN
WLAN Wireless Local Area Network
## 3.3 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
Wi Reference point between a Packet Data Gateway and an external IP Network
Pp Reference point between a Packet Data Gateway and a Presence Network Agent
# 4 Network characteristics
## 4.1 Key characteristics of PLMN
The PLMN is fully defined in the 3GPP technical specifications. The key
characteristics of **3GPP - WLAN Interworking** are found in 3GPP TS 23.234
[1].
## 4.2 Key characteristics of IP Networks
Refer to 3GPP TS 29.061 [4].
# 5 Interworking classifications
Refer to 3GPP TS 29.061 [4].
# 6 Access reference configuration
Refer to scenario 3 in the clause Interworking Architecture in 3GPP TS 23.234
[1].
# 7 Subscription checking
Subscription is checked during the WLAN attach procedure and at the tunnel
establishment as described in 3GPP TS 23.234 [1].
# 8 Interworking with PDN (IP)
NOTE: The application of procedures in this subclause is not recommended if
user authentication and authorisation with AAA server is required because of
the following reason: In order to perform RADIUS Authentication, the user ID
and password information have to be passed from WLAN UE to PDG. However, this
function is missing in the IKEv2 protocol that 3GPP TS 33.234 [16] refers in
this release. In addition, user authentication and authorisation with AAA
server will be standardised in release 7.
## 8.1 General
Packet Domain with the **3GPP - WLAN Interworking** access shall support
interworking with networks based on the Internet Protocol (IP). These
interworked networks may be either intranets or the Internet.
## 8.2 PDN Interworking Model
When interworking with the IP networks, the Packet Domain with the **3GPP -
WLAN Interworking** access can operate IPv4 or IPv6. The interworking point
with IP networks is at the Wi reference point, refer to scenario 3 in the
clause Interworking Architecture in 3GPP TS 23.234 [1].
The PDG for interworking with the IP network is the access point of the Packet
Domain. In this case the Packet Domain network will look like any other IP
network or subnetwork.
Typically in the IP networks, the interworking with subnetworks is done via IP
routers. The Wi reference point is between the PDG and the external IP
network. From the external IP network\'s point of view, the PDG is seen as a
normal IP router. The L2 and L1 layers are operator specific.
It is out of the scope of the present document to standardize the router
functions and the used protocols in the Wi reference point.
Interworking with user defined ISPs and private/public IP networks is subject
to interconnect agreements between the network operators.
No user data or header compression is done in the PDG.
### 8.2.1 Access to Internet, Intranet or ISP through Packet Domain
The access to Internet, Intranet or ISP may involve specific functions such as
user authentication, user\'s authorization, end to end encryption between the
UE and Intranet/ISP, allocation of a dynamic address belonging to the
PLMN/Intranet/ISP addressing space, IPv6 address autoconfiguration, etc.
For this purpose the Packet Domain may offer:
\- either direct transparent access to the Internet; or
\- a non-transparent access to the Intranet/ISP. In this case the Packet
Domain, i.e. the PDG, takes part in the functions listed above.
#### 8.2.1.1 Transparent access to the Internet
The WLAN UE is given an IPv4 address or IPv6 Prefix belonging to the operator
addressing space. The address or IPv6 Prefix is given either at subscription
in which case it is a static address or at the WLAN session authorization in
which case it is a dynamic address. This address or IPv6 Prefix is used for
packet forwarding between the Internet and the PDG and within the packet
domain. With IPv6, either Stateless or Stateful Address Autoconfiguration
shall be used to assign an IPv6 address to the terminal. These procedures are
as described in the IPv6 non-transparent access case except that the addresses
belong to the operator addressing space. The use of stateful or stateless is
configured per W-APN.
The transparent case provides at least a basic ISP service. As a consequence
of this it may therefore provide a bearer service for a tunnel to a private
Intranet. For details of this specific case, refer to 3GPP TS 29.061 [4],
subclause \"Transparent access to the Internet\".
#### 8.2.1.2 IPv4 Non Transparent access to an Intranet or ISP
The WLAN UE is given an address belonging to the Intranet/ISP addressing
space. The address is given either at subscription in which case it is a
static address or at the WLAN session authorization in which case it is a
dynamic address. This address is used for packet forwarding within the PDG and
for packet forwarding on the Intranet/ISP. This requires a link between the
PDG and an address allocation server, like AAA or DHCP belonging to the
Intranet/ISP.
Access to the ISP/Intranet may require the authentication and authorization
with the External AAA Server. The PDG may negotiate with the WLAN UE whether
\"Multiple authentication Exchanges in IKEv2\" is supported or not. If both
WLAN UE and PDG support this function and WLAN UE requests multiple
authentications with the External AAA Server, then next authentication and
authorization with the External AAA Server is performed after the successful
authentication and autorisation with the 3GPP AAA Server. Details on the
multiple authentications are specified in IETF RFC 4739 [19]. Whether or not
multiple authentications and authorizations are required is configured on a
W-APN basis in the PDG.
If the UE requests an IP address from a DHCP server, refer to RFC 2131 [8],
the tunnel establishment acknowledgement brings the IP address from the PDG to
the WLAN UE, refer to 3GPP TS 24.234 [3].
Figure 1 describes the access signalling between the PDG and the ISP/Intranet
in the IPv4 Non-Transparent case.
Figure 1: IPv4 Non-Transparent access to an Intranet or ISP
#### 8.2.1.3 IPv6 Non Transparent access to an Intranet or ISP
When using IPv6 Address Autoconfiguration (either Stateless or Stateful), the
process of setting up the access to an Intranet or ISP involves two signalling
phases. The first signalling phase is done in the control plane and consists
of the WLAN access authentication and authorization and tunnel establishment.
The second signalling phase is done in the user plane.
The user plane signalling phase shall be either stateless or stateful. The
stateless procedure, which involves only the WLAN UE and the PDG, is described
in subclause \"IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration\". The stateful
procedure, which involves the WLAN UE, PDG (as DHCP relay agent) and one or
several DHCP servers on the Intranet or ISP, is described in subclause \"IPv6
Stateful Address Autoconfiguration\".
Whether to use stateless or stateful address autoconfiguration procedure is
configured per W-APN in the PDG. For W-APNs configured as stateless, the PDG
shall only use the Prefix part of the IPv6 address for forwarding of UE
terminated IP packets. The size of the prefix shall be according to the
maximum prefix length for a global IPv6 address as specified in the IPv6
Addressing Architecture, see RFC 2373 [13].
The selection between Stateful and Stateless Autoconfiguration is dictated by
the Router Advertisements sent by the PDG as described in the corresponding
subclauses below and according to the principles defined in RFC 2461 [14] and
RFC 2462 [15].
##### 8.2.1.3.1 Tunnel establishment and Intranet/ISP access authorization
The PDG provides the WLAN UE with an IPv6 Prefix belonging to the Intranet/ISP
addressing space. A dynamic IPv6 address shall be given using either stateless
or stateful address autoconfiguration. This IPv6 address is used for packet
forwarding within the packet domain and for packet forwarding on the
Intranet/ISP. The WLAN UE may send an authentication request at the tunnel
establishment and the PDG may request user authentication from a server, e.g.
AAA, belonging to the Intranet/ISP.
Access to the ISP/Intranet may require the authentication and authorization
with the External AAA Server. The PDG may negotiate with the WLAN UE whether
\"Multiple authentication Exchanges in IKEv2\" is supported or not. If both
WLAN UE and PDG support this function and WLAN UE requests multiple
authentications with the External AAA Server, then next authentication and
authorization with the External AAA Server is performed after the successful
authentication and autorisation with the 3GPP AAA Server. Details on the
multiple authentications are specified in IETF RFC 4739 [19]. Whether or not
multiple authentications and authorizations are required is configured on a
W-APN basis in the PDG.
In order to avoid any conflict between the link-local address of the WLAN UE
and that of the PDG, the Interface-Identifier used by the UE to build its
link-local address shall be assigned by the PDG. The PDG ensures the
uniqueness of this interface-identifier.
Figure 2 describes the tunnel establishment between the WLAN UE and the PDG in
the IPv6 Non-Transparent case.
The PDG deduces from local configuration data associated with the W-APN:
\- IPv6 address allocation type (stateless or stateful);
\- the source of IPv6 Prefixes in the stateless case (PDG internal prefix
pool, or external address allocation server);
\- any server(s) to be used for address allocation, authentication and/or
protocol configuration options retrieval (e.g. IMS related configuration, see
3GPP TS 24.229 [17]);
\- the protocol e.g. RADIUS, to be used with the server(s);
\- the communication and security feature needed to communicate with the
server(s).
As an example the PDG may use one of the following options:
\- PDG internal Prefix pool for IPv6 prefix allocation and no authentication;
\- PDG internal Prefix pool for IPv6 prefix allocation and RADIUS for
authentication. The External AAA Server responds with either an Access-Accept
or an Access-Reject to the RADIUS client in the PDG;
\- RADIUS for authentication and IPv6 prefix allocation. The External AAA
Server responds with either an Access‑Accept or an Access-Reject to the RADIUS
client in the PDG.
DHCPv6 may be used for IPv6 prefix allocation.
IPv6 Prefixes in a PDG internal Prefix pool shall be configurable and
structured per W-APN.
The PDG shall return an IPv6 address composed of a Prefix and an Interface-
Identifier in the tunnel establishment acknowledgement message (ike-auth-
resp). The Interface-Identifier may have any value and it does not need to be
unique within or across W-APNs. It shall however not conflict with the
Interface-Identifier the PDG has selected for its own side of the UE-PDG link.
The Prefix assigned by the PDG or the External AAA Server shall be globally or
site-local unique, if stateless address autoconfiguration is configured on
this W-APN. If, on the other hand, stateful address autoconfiguration is
configured on the W-APN, the Prefix part of the IPv6 address returned to the
UE shall be set to the link-local prefix (FE80::/64).
NOTE: DHCPv6 may be used or IPv6 prefix allocation.
Figure 2: Tunnel establishment and Intranet/ISP access authorization
##### 8.2.1.3.2 IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration
The **tunnel establishment and** Intranet/ISP access **authorization** is
followed by a stateless address autoconfiguration procedure, which provides
the WLAN UE with an IPv6 Global or Site-Local Unicast Address for the
Intranet/ISP. (A terminal, e.g. a PC or a PDA with the WLAN UE may not have
been able to receive the IP address during the 3GPP specific tunnel
establishment signalling).
The procedure describing W-APNs configured to use Stateless Address
Autoconfiguration may be as follows, (for details refer to RFC 2462 [15] and
RFC 2461 [14]):
\- After the tunnel establishment, the PDG starts sending Router
Advertisements periodically in the tunnel towards the WLAN UE, with the M-flag
cleared to indicate stateless address autoconfiguration.
\- The UE may issue a Router Solicitation directly after the user plane
establishment. This shall trigger the PDG to send a Router Advertisement
immediately.
\- The Prefix sent in the Router Advertisements shall be identical to the
Prefix returned earlier in the tunnel establishment acknowledgement.
Figure 3: IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration
##### 8.2.1.3.3 IPv6 Stateful Address Autoconfiguration
The **tunnel establishment and** Intranet/ISP access **authorization** is
followed by a stateful address autoconfiguration procedure, which provides the
WLAN UE with an IPv6 Global or Site-Local Unicast Address from the
Intranet/ISP. The address has not yet been available during the tunnel
establishment phase, but the UE requests the address from the Intranet/ISP by
the stateful address autoconfiguration procedure. The PDG acts as a DHCP relay
agent.
The procedure describing W-APNs configured to use Stateful Address
Autoconfiguration may be as follows, (for details refer to RFC 2461 [14] and
RFC 3315 [9]):
\- The UE issues a Router Solicitation after the user plane establishment.
\- This triggers the PDG to start sending Router Advertisements periodically
in the tunnel towards the WLAN UE, with the M-flag set to indicate stateful
address autoconfiguration and with no IPv6 prefix.
\- When the UE receives the Router Advertisement with the M-flag set, it
starts a DHCPv6 configuration including a request for an IPv6 address.
Figure 4: IPv6 Stateful Address Autoconfiguration
##### 8.2.1.3.4 IPv6 Router Configuration Variables in the PDG
Refer to 3GPP TS 29.061 [4], subclause \"IPv6 Router Configuration Variables
in the GGSN\".
## 8.3 Numbering and addressing
Refer to 3GPP TS 23.234 [1] and 3GPP TS 29.061 [4].
## 8.4 Charging
Refer to 3GPP TS 23.234 [1] and 3GPP TS 29.234 [2].
## 8.5 Domain Name System server (DNS Server)
Provision of Domain Name services shall be provided by the PLMN operators in
the transparent case and the ISP in the non-transparent case. (DNS
documentation is provided in RFC 1034 [6] and RFC 1035 [7]).
## 8.6 IP Multicast access
The Packet Domain with 3GPP -- WLAN interworking access may allow an access to
IP Multicast traffic coming from an external network. The support of IP
Multicast in the Packet Domain is optional.
In order for the Packet Core Network with WLAN interworking access to support
Multicast traffic that allows the WLAN UE to subscribe to multicast groups
from outside the PLMN, the PDG shall support IGMP (IPv4) and/or MLD (IPv6) and
one or more Inter-Router Multicast protocols, such as DVMRP, MOSPF, or PIM-SM.
For details, refer to 3GPP TS 29.061 [4], subclause \"IP Multicast access\".
# 9 Interworking with PDN (DHCP)
## 9.1 General
In current LAN environments the most commonly used configuration protocol is
DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, RFC 2131 [8]) and DHCPv6 (Dynamic
Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6, RFC 3315 [9]). It provides a mechanism
for passing a large set of configuration parameters to hosts connected to a
TCP/IP network (IP address, sub‑net mask, domain name, MTU, etc.) in an
automatic manner. Moreover DHCP may assign IP addresses to clients for a
finite lease time, allowing for sequential reassignment of addresses to
different users.
The lease time is chosen by the administrator of the DHCP server (in the
external network), and is therefore out of the scope of the present document.
The Packet Domain offers the end user the possibility to run DHCP end-to-end
the same way as he does when connected directly to a LAN (e.g. an enterprise
Intranet). No modifications should be required in common implementations of
DHCP clients and servers. However a Packet Domain-specific DHCP relay agent,
refer to RFC 2131 [8] and RFC 3315 [9],is needed in the PDG so as to allow
correct routing of DHCP requests and replies between the WLAN UE and the DHCP
servers.
## 9.2 Address allocation by the Intranet or ISP
Address allocation schemes using DHCP are described in subclause \"Access to
Internet, Intranet or ISP through Packet Domain\", with details for IPv4 in
RFC 2131 [8] and for IPv6 in RFC 3315 [9].
## 9.3 Other configuration by the Intranet or ISP (IPv6 only)
When using IPv6, in some situations the WLAN UE may need additional
configuration information from the Intranet or ISP besides the IP address. It
may for example be IMS related configuration options (see 3GPP TS 24.229
[17]). If the UE is DHCP capable and the IPv6 address has been allocated using
Stateless Address Autoconfiguration, the UE may use a procedure as in the
example in figure 5 to configure additional external network protocol
parameters, or other parameters that apply to the Intranet or ISP. The PDG
shall in this case indicate to the UE that there is additional configuration
information to retrieve by setting the O-flag in the Router Advertisements.
This shall be configured per W-APN in the PDG.
The following bullets describe an example of a signal flow, where the UE
directs an Information-Request to the All_DHCP_Relay_Agents_and_Servers
multicast address. The UE may also direct the message to a specific server
instead of all servers. For a detailed description of the DHCPv6 messages
refer to the DHCPv6 RFC 3315 [9]. The sequence is depicted in figure 5.
1) A Router Advertisement with the O-flag set is sent from the PDG to the UE
to indicate to it to retrieve other configuration information.
2) The UE sends an INFORMATION-REQUEST message with the IP destination address
set to the All_DHCP_Relay_Agents_and_Servers multicast address defined in the
DHCPv6 RFC 3315 [9]. The source address shall be the link-local address of the
UE. The DHCP relay agent in the PDG shall forward the message.
3) DHCP servers receiving the forwarded INFORMATION-REQUEST message reply by
sending a RELAY‑REPLY message, with the \"Relay Message\" option including a
REPLY message with the requested configuration parameters.
The UE chooses one of the possibly several REPLY messages and extracts the
configuration information.
Figure 5: DHCPv6 other configuration signal flow
# 10 Interworking between Packet Domains
Refer to 3GPP TS 23.234 [1].
# 11 Usage of RADIUS on Wi interface
NOTE: The application of procedures in subclause 11.1 is not recommended. The
application of procedures in subclause 11.3 is only recommended if user
authentication and authorisation is not required. The procedures of those
flows are incomplete for the following reason: In order to perform RADIUS
Authentication, user ID and password information have to be passed from WLAN
UE to PDG. However, this function is missing in the IKEv2 protocol that 3GPP
TS 33.234 [16] refers in this release. In addition, user authentication and
authorisation with AAA server will be standardised in release 7.
A PDG may, on a per W-APN basis, use RADIUS authentication to authenticate a
user and RADIUS accounting to provide information to an External AAA
(Authentication, Authorization and Accounting) server.
## 11.1 RADIUS Authentication and Authorization
RADIUS authentication and authorization shall be used according to RFC 2865
[10] and RFC 3162 [11].
The RADIUS client function may reside in a PDG. When the PDG receives a tunnel
establishment request, the RADIUS client function may initiate the
authentication and authorization procedure with the External AAA Server after
the successful authentication and autorisation with the 3GPP AAA Server.
The following procedure may take place depending on an ability of the External
AAA Server. Details on the following procedures are specified in 3GPP TS
33.234 [16].
  * The EAP procedure\ This procedure is the most preferable configuration for the ISP/Intranet access. In this procedure, the External AAA Server shall support EAP extensions specified in the RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial In User Service) Support for Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) [20].
  * The PAP procedure\ This procedure is applied if the External AAA server performs PAP procedure.
  * The CHAP procedure\ This procedure is applied if the External AAA server performs CHAP procedure.
The External AAA Server checks that the user can be accepted. The response
(when positive) may contain network information, such as an IPv4 address or
IPv6 prefix for the user.
The information delivered during the RADIUS authentication and authorization
can be used to automatically correlate the users identity to the IPv4 address
or IPv6 prefix, assigned/confirmed by the PDG or the External AAA Server
respectively. The same procedure applies, in case of sending the
authentication and authorization to a \'proxy\' authentication server.
## 11.2 RADIUS Accounting
RADIUS Accounting shall be used according to RFC 2866 [12] and RFC 3162 [11].
The RADIUS accounting client function may reside in a PDG. The RADIUS
accounting client may send information to an accounting server, which is
identified during the W-APN provisioning. The accounting server may store this
information and use it to automatically identify the user. This information
can be trusted because the 3GPP network has authenticated the subscriber.
The Accounting-Request STOP and the Accounting ON and Accounting OFF messages
may be used to ensure that information stored in the accounting server is
synchronized with the PDG information.
## 11.3 Authentication, Authorization and Accounting message flows
Figure 6 presents the RADIUS message flows between a PDG and an
Authentication, Authorization and Accounting (AAA) server. For details of the
tunnel establishment and deletion signalling, refer to 3GPP TS 24.234 [3].
NOTE 1: If some external applications require RADIUS Accounting request
(Start) information before they can process user packets, then the selected
W-APN (PDG) may be configured in such a way that the PDG drops user data until
the Accounting Response (START) is received from the External AAA server. The
PDG may wait for the Accounting Response (START) before sending the ike-auth
response. The PDG may reject the tunnel establishment, if the Accounting
Response (START) is not received.
NOTE 2: Separate accounting and authentication servers may be used.
NOTE 3: The Accounting-Request (Start) message may be sent at a later stage,
e.g. after IPv6 address has been assigned and PDP Context updated, in case of
a stateful address autoconfiguration.
Figure 6: RADIUS message flow
When a PDG receives a tunnel establishment request (IKE-AUTH request) for a
given W-APN, the PDG may (depending on the configuration for this W-APN) send
a RADIUS Access-Request to an External AAA Server after the successful
authentication and autorisation with the 3GPP AAA Server. The External AAA
server authenticates and authorizes the user. If RADIUS is also responsible
for IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix allocation, the External AAA Server shall
return the allocated IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix in the Access-Accept message.
Even if the PDG was not involved in user authentication (e.g. transparent
network access mode), it may send a RADIUS Accounting-Request START message to
an External AAA Server. This message contains parameters, e.g. the tuple,
which includes the user-id and IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix, to be used by
application servers (e.g. WAP gateway) in order to identify the user. This
message also indicates to the External AAA Server that the user session has
started. The session is uniquely identified by the Acct-Session-Id that is
composed of the Charging-Id and the PDG-Address.
If some external applications require RADIUS Accounting request (Start)
information before they can process user packets, then the selected W-APN
(PDG) may be configured in such a way that the PDG drops user data until the
Accounting Response (START) is received from the AAA server. The PDG may wait
for the Accounting Response (START) before sending the tunnels establishment
response (IKE-AUTH response). The PDG may reject the tunnel establishment
request, if the Accounting Response (START) is not received. The
authentication and accounting servers may be separately configured for each
W-APN.
At a stateful address autoconfiguration, no IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix is
available at tunnel establishment. In that case the PDG may wait to send the
Accounting-Request START message until the WLAN UE receives its IP address in
a DHCP-REPLY.
When the PDG receives a delete tunnel request (_informational (delete)_) and
providing a RADIUS Accounting-Request START message was sent previously, the
PDG shall send a RADIUS Accounting-Request STOP message to the External AAA
Server, which indicates the termination of this particular user session. The
PDG shall immediately send a delete tunnel response (_informational-resp_),
without waiting for an Accounting-Response STOP message from the AAA server.
The External AAA Server shall deallocate the IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix (if
any) initially allocated to the subscriber, if there is no session for the
subscriber.
Accounting-Request ON and Accounting-Request OFF messages may be sent from the
PDG to the External AAA Server to ensure the correct synchronization of the
session information in the PDG and the External AAA Server.
The PDG may send an Accounting-Request ON message to the External AAA Server
to indicate that a restart has occurred. The External AAA Server may then
release the associated resources.
Prior to a scheduled restart, the PDG may send Accounting-Request OFF message
to the External AAA Server. The External AAA Server may then release the
associated resources.
If an Access-Challenge is sent to the PDG when an Access-Request message is
pending, the PDG shall silently discard the Access-Challenge message and it
shall treat an Access-Challenge as though it had received an Access-Reject
instead RFC 2865 [10].
## 11.4 List of RADIUS attributes
Refer to the 3GPP TS 29.061 [4], subclause \"List of Radius attributes\".
# 11a Usage of Diameter on Wi interface
As an operator option, it is also possible to use the Diameter protocol in
order to provide Authentication, Authorization and Accounting services.
A PDG may, on a per W-APN basis, use Diameter authentication to authenticate a
user and Diameter accounting to provide information to a Diameter server.
## 11a.1 Diameter Authentication
Diameter Authentication shall be used according to RFC 4005 [21].
The PDG and the Diameter server shall advertise the support of the Diameter
NASREQ Application by including the value of the appropriate application
identifier in the Capability-Exchange-Request and Capability-Exchange-Answer
commands as specified in RFC 3588 [22].
The Diameter client function may reside in a PDG. When the PDG receives a
tunnel establishment request, the Diameter client function may send the
authentication information to an authentication server, which is identified
during the W-APN provisioning.
The authentication server checks that the user can be accepted. The response
(when positive) may contain network information, such as an IPv4 address or
IPv6 prefix for the user.
The information delivered during the Diameter authentication can be used to
automatically correlate the users identity to the IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix,
assigned/confirmed by the PDG or the authentication server respectively. The
same procedure applies, in case of sending the authentication to a \'proxy\'
authentication server.
## 11a.2 Diameter Accounting
Diameter Accounting shall be used according to RFC 4005 [21].
The Diameter accounting client function may reside in a PDG. The Diameter
accounting client may send information to an accounting server, which is
identified during the W-APN provisioning. The accounting server may store this
information and use it to automatically identify the user. This information
can be trusted because the 3GPP network has authenticated the subscriber.
## 11a.3 Authentication and accounting message flows
Figure 6a presents the Diameter message flows between a PDG and a Diameter
server. For details of the tunnel establishment and deletion signalling, refer
to 3GPP TS 24.234 [3].
NOTE 1: If some external applications require Diameter Accounting request
(START) information before they can process user packets, then the selected
W-APN (PDG) may be configured in such a way that the PDG drops user data until
the Accounting Answer (START) is received from the External AAA server. The
PDG may wait for the Accounting Answer (START) before sending the ike-auth
response. The PDG may reject the tunnel establishment, if the Accounting
Answer (START) is not received.
NOTE 2: Separate accounting and authentication servers may be used.
NOTE 3: The Accounting-Request (START) message may be sent at a later stage,
e.g. after IPv6 address has been assigned and PDP Context updated, in case of
a stateful address autoconfiguration.
Figure 6a: Diameter message flow
When a PDG receives a tunnel establishment request (IKE-AUTH request) for a
given W-APN, the PDG may (depending on the configuration for this W-APN) send
a Diameter AA-Request to a Diameter Server after the successful authentication
and autorisation with the 3GPP AAA Server. The Diameter server authenticates
and authorizes the user. If Diameter is also responsible for IPv4 address or
IPv6 prefix allocation, the Diameter Server shall return the allocated IPv4
address or IPv6 prefix in the AA-Answer message.
Even if the PDG was not involved in user authentication (e.g. transparent
network access mode), it may send a Diameter Accounting-Request (START)
message to a Diameter Server. This message contains parameters, e.g. the
tuple, which includes the user-id and IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix, to be used
by application servers (e.g. WAP gateway) in order to identify the user. This
message also indicates to the Diameter Server that the user session has
started.
If some external applications require Diameter Accounting request (START)
information before they can process user packets, then the selected W-APN
(PDG) may be configured in such a way that the PDG drops user data until the
Accounting Answer (START) is received from the Diameter server. The PDG may
wait for the Accounting Answer (START) before sending the tunnels
establishment response (IKE-AUTH response). The PDG may reject the tunnel
establishment request, if the Accounting Answer (START) is not received. The
authentication and accounting servers may be separately configured for each
W-APN.
At a stateful address autoconfiguration, no IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix is
available at tunnel establishment. In that case the PDG may wait to send the
Accounting-Request (START) message until the WLAN UE receives its IP address
in a DHCP-REPLY.
When the PDG receives a delete tunnel request (_informational (delete)_) and
providing a Diameter Accounting-Request (START) message was sent previously,
the PDG shall send a Diameter Accounting-Request (STOP) message to the
Diameter Server, which indicates the termination of this particular user
session. The PDG shall immediately send a delete tunnel response
(_informational-resp_), without waiting for an Accounting-Answer (STOP)
message from the Diameter server.
The Diameter Server shall deallocate the IPv4 address or IPv6 prefix (if any)
initially allocated to the subscriber, if there is no session for the
subscriber.
## 11a.4 Wi Diameter messages and AVPs
Refer to the 3GPP TS 29.061 [4], subclauses \"Gi Diameter messages\" and \"Gi
specific AVPs\".
# 12 Usage of RADIUS on Pp interface
## 12.1 General
The Pp interface is defined in 3GPP TS 23.141 [18] and allows the PDG to
report presence relevant events to the Presence Network Agent (such as tunnel
establishment/removal, allocation of the remote IP address for the WLAN UE).
The Pp interface is implemented by reusing mechanisms of RADIUS authentication
and accounting via Wi interface as defined in clause 11.
## 12.2 Radius Profile for Pp interface
The RADIUS interface on Wi reference point as defined in Clause 11 is used for
the Pp Reference Point as clarified in the Profile in this Clause.
Only the following messages are required for the Radius Profile for the Pp
reference Point:
\- Accounting-Request START
\- Accounting-Response START
\- Accounting-Request STOP
\- Accounting-Response STOP
For the Radius Profile for the Pp Reference Point, only the mandatory
Parameters within the Accounting-Request START and Accounting-Request STOP
messages according to 3GPP TS 29.061 [4] Clauses 16.4.3 and 16.4.4,
respectively, and the Parameter \"Calling-Station-Id\" need to be supported.
The usage of other parameters is optional. They may be ignored by the Presence
Network Agent.
## 12.3 Interconnecting the Presence Network Agent and the PDG
The Presence Network Agent may be directly attached to the PDG or via a Radius
Proxy.
If the PDG needs to connect both to some AAA server via the Wi interface and a
Presence Network Agent via the Pp interface for the same APN, but supports
only a single RADIUS interface, the PDG can be directly attached to that AAA
server. The Presence Network Agent can in turn be attached to that AAA server,
which acts as a RADIUS proxy. If the AAA server is configured as a RADIUS
Proxy between the Presence Network Agent and the PDG, the Radius Profile for
the Pp Reference Point shall be applicable on the interface between the
Presence Network Agent and the AAA server.
#