# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures and information coding for the
EPC LCS Protocol (ELP) that is needed to support the location services in
E-UTRAN. The ELP message set is applicable to the SLg interface between the
MME and the GMLC. ELP is developed in accordance to the general principles
stated in 3GPP TS 23.271 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[4] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[5] IETF RFC 2234: \"Augmented BNF for syntax specifications\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.171: \"LCS Application Protocol (LCS-AP) between the MME and
E-SMLC\".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"Evolved General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) Tunnelling
Protocol for Control plane (GTPv2-C)\".
[9] Void
[10] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Charging management; Diameter charging applications\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Evolved Packet System; MME and SGSN Related Interfaces
Based on Diameter Protocol\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol\".
[13] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G Security; Network Domain Security; IP Network Layer
Security\".
[14] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[15] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description\".
[16] IETF RFC 5778: \"Diameter Mobile IPv6: Support for Home Agent to Diameter
Server Interaction\".
[17] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx Interfaces based on the Diameter protocol;
protocol details\".
[18] 3GPP TS 29.173: \"Location Services; Diameter-based SLh interface for
Control Plane LCS\".
[19] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**EPC-MO-LR:** EPC Mobile Originating Location Request
**EPC-MT-LR:** EPC Mobile Terminating Location Request
**EPC-NI-LR:** EPC Network Induced Location Request
**LCS:** LoCation Services
**LCS Client:** software and/or hardware entity that interacts with a LCS
Server (in this case, the GMLC) for the purpose of obtaining location
information for one or more Mobile Stations. LCS Clients subscribe to LCS in
order to obtain location information. LCS Clients may or may not interact with
human users. The LCS Client is responsible for formatting and presenting data
and managing the user interface (dialogue). The LCS Client may reside in the
Mobile Station (UE).
**LCS QoS:** The QoS class determines the degree of adherence to the quality
of service information as required by the source of a location request.
**Target:** UE being positioned
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
SLg Interface between GMLC and MME
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Centre
EPC Enhanced Packet Core
IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity
IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MME Mobility Management Entity
UE User Equipment, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3]
# 4 Functional Overview
## 4.1 General
This document defines the EPC LCS Protocol (ELP) used on the SLg interface
between the GMLC and the MME in the Evolved Packet Core (EPC).
The location of the SLg interface within the LCS logical architecture is shown
in Figure 4.1-1.
Figure 4.1-1 SLg interface in the LCS Architecture
The high level functions of the ELP protocol are described in 3GPP TS 23.271
[2].
The main functions of the protocol are:
\- To allow the GMLC to request position estimates for a particular target UE
from the MME in order to support the EPC-MT-LR positioning procedures. This is
achieved using the Provide Subscriber Location message;
\- To allow the MME to return a position estimate or an error report to the
GMLC in response to a Provide Subscriber Location request as part of an EPC-
MT-LR positioning procedure;
\- To allow the MME to forward an unsolicited position estimate to the GMLC as
part of the EPC-MO-LR or EPC-NI-LR procedures;
\- To allow the GMLC to acknowledge receipt of an unsolicited position
estimate as part of the EPC-MO-LR or EPC-NI-LR procedures;
\- To support the procedures for handover of an IMS emergency call with
EPS/GPRS access.
# 5 ELP Message Transport
## 5.1 General
The ELP protocol is defined as a Vendor Specific diameter application (SLg
application). It reuses the basic mechanisms defined by the diameter base
protocol, and it defines a number of additional commands and AVPs to implement
the SLg specific procedures.
## 5.2 Use of Diameter base protocol
The Diameter Base Protocol as specified in IETF RFC 3588 [4] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as described in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
## 5.3 Securing Diameter Messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [13].
## 5.4 Accounting functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the SLg interface.
## 5.5 Use of sessions
Between the MME and the GMLC, Diameter sessions shall be implicitly
terminated. An implicitly terminated session is one for which the server does
not maintain state information. The client shall not send any re-authorization
or session termination requests to the server.
The Diameter base protocol includes the Auth-Session-State AVP as the
mechanism for the implementation of implicitly terminated sessions.
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 3588 [4]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
## 5.6 Transport protocol
Diameter messages over the SLg interface shall make use of SCTP (see IETF RFC
4960 [14]).
## 5.7 Routing considerations
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host.
Destination-Realm AVP shall always be included in all diameter requests, and
therefore is declared as mandatory in the ABNF for all commands.
When a request is initiated by the GMLC, the name of the MME shall be
determined by querying the HSS over the SLh interface, and retrieve the
specific MME that is currently serving the UE. Therefore, Destination-Host AVP
shall always be included in the commands originated at the GMLC, and is
declared as mandatory in the ABNF.
When a request is initiated by the MME, the name of the GMLC may be either
locally configured in the MME (e.g., in the intra-domain scenario, when the
GMLC belongs to the same PLMN as the MME), or it is known from a previously
received location procedure initiated at the GMLC. Therefore, the Destination-
Host AVP is declared as mandatory in the ABNF of the commands originated at
the MME.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the commands,
it may be ignored by the receiving node, and it shall not be used for routing
purposes.
## 5.8 Advertising Application Support
The MME and GMLC shall advertise support of the Diameter SLg Application by
including the value of the application identifier in the Auth-Application-Id
AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-
Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per RFC 3588 [4].
# 6 ELP Procedures
## 6.1 General
The ELP procedures, between the GMLC and the MME, are used to exchange
messages related to location services over the SLg interface. The ELP can be
divided into the following sub-procedures.
\- Provide Subscriber Location
\- Subscriber Location Report
## 6.2 Provide Subscriber Location
### 6.2.1 General
The Provide Subscriber Location operation is used by a GMLC to request the
location of a target UE from the MME at any time. The response contains a
location estimate of the target UE and other additional information.
### 6.2.2 Successful Operation
> Figure 6.2.2-1: Provide Subscriber Location procedure. Successful operation.
The GMLC initiates the procedure by sending a PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION
REQUEST message to the MME. This message carries the type of location
information requested (e.g. current location and optionally, velocity), the UE
subscriber\'s IMSI, LCS QoS information (e.g. accuracy, response time) and an
indication of whether the LCS client has the override capability.
Upon reception of PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REQUEST message, the MME shall
perform authentication privacy verification on the location request. After
that, the MME shall retrieve the location information of the target UE from
E-UTRAN according to the procedures described in 3GPP TS 23.271 [2].
The MME returns a PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION RESPONSE to the GMLC. The
message shall contain the location estimate, its age and obtained accuracy. If
the MME failed to get the current location and the LCS client is requesting
the current or last known location, the MME may return the last known location
of the target UE if this is known.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Provide-Location-Request/Answer in
the Diameter application specified in sections 7.3.1 and 7.3.2.
Table 6.2.2-1: Provide Subscriber Location Request
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Location Type | SLg-Location-Type | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the type | | | | | of location | | | | | measurement | | | | | requested, such | | | | | as current | | | | | location, initial | | | | | location, last | | | | | known location, | | | | | etc. (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 22.071 [15]). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | IMSI | User-Name | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the IMSI | | | | | of the user whose | | | | | UE is to be | | | | | positioned (see | | | | | Note 1). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MSISDN | MSISDN | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | MSISDN of the | | | | | user whose UE is | | | | | to be positioned | | | | | (see Note 1). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | IMEI | IMEI | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the IMEI | | | | | of the UE to be | | | | | positioned (see | | | | | Note 1). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Client Name | LC | M | This Information | | | S-EPS-Client-Name | | Element shall | | | | | contain the name | | | | | of the LCS client | | | | | issuing the | | | | | positioning | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Client Type | LCS-Client-Type | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the type | | | | | of LCS client | | | | | (Emergency, | | | | | Lawful | | | | | Interception ...) | | | | | issuing the | | | | | positioning | | | | | request (see 3GPP | | | | | TS 23.271 [2] | | | | | and 3GPP TS | | | | | 32.299 [10]). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Requestor Name | L | O | If present, this | | | CS-Requestor-Name | | Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | the identity of | | | | | the originating | | | | | entity which has | | | | | requested the | | | | | location of the | | | | | target UE from | | | | | the LCS Client. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Priority | LCS-Priority | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | priority of the | | | | | LCS client | | | | | issuing the | | | | | positioning | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | QoS | LCS-QoS | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | quality of | | | | | service | | | | | requested, such | | | | | as the accuracy | | | | | of the | | | | | positioning | | | | | measurement and | | | | | the response time | | | | | of the | | | | | positioning | | | | | operation. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Velocity | V | O | If present, this | | Requested | elocity-Requested | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | whether or not | | | | | the Velocity of | | | | | the target UE is | | | | | requested. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported GAD | LCS-Sup | O | If present, this | | Shapes | ported-GAD-Shapes | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the list | | | | | of supported GAD | | | | | shapes by the LCS | | | | | client. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Service Type ID | LC | O | If present, this | | | S-Service-Type-ID | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | service type | | | | | associated for | | | | | the particular | | | | | positioning | | | | | request (the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | different service | | | | | types is defined | | | | | in 3GPP TS 22.071 | | | | | [15]). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Codeword | LCS-Codeword | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Codeword to be | | | | | used between an | | | | | LCS client and a | | | | | target UE in | | | | | order to check | | | | | and accept or | | | | | reject the | | | | | positioning | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | APN | Service-Selection | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Access Point Name | | | | | (APN) Network | | | | | Identifier of the | | | | | LCS client, as | | | | | used by the | | | | | target UE. It | | | | | shall only be | | | | | included in | | | | | session-related | | | | | location | | | | | requests. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Session-Related | LCS-Priv | O | If present, this | | Privacy Check | acy-Check-Session | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of how | | | | | the positioning | | | | | operation should | | | | | proceed in the | | | | | relation to the | | | | | checking of the | | | | | session-related | | | | | privacy settings | | | | | of the user. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | No | LCS-Privacy- | O | If present, this | | n-Session-Related | Check-Non-Session | | Information | | Privacy Check | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of how | | | | | the positioning | | | | | operation should | | | | | proceed in the | | | | | relation to the | | | | | checking of the | | | | | no | | | | | n-session-related | | | | | privacy settings | | | | | of the user. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [17]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | NOTE 1: At least | | | | | one of these IEs | | | | | shall be present | | | | | in the message. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 6.2.2-2: Provide Subscriber Location Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This Information | | | Ex | | Element shall | | | perimental-Result | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for ELP errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which shall | | | | | contain the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Location Estimate | Location-Estimate | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | estimate of the | | | | | location of the | | | | | UE in universal | | | | | coordinates and | | | | | the accuracy of | | | | | the estimate. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Accuracy | Accuracy-Ful | O | If present, this | | Fulfilment | filment-Indicator | | Information | | Indicator | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | whether the | | | | | requested | | | | | accuracy (as | | | | | indicated in the | | | | | LCS-QoS IE in the | | | | | request message) | | | | | was fulfilled or | | | | | not. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Age of Location | Age-of- | O | If present, this | | Estimate | Location-Estimate | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of how | | | | | long ago the | | | | | location estimate | | | | | was obtained. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Velocity Estimate | Velocity-Estimate | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | estimate of the | | | | | velocity of the | | | | | target UE, | | | | | composed by | | | | | horizontal speed, | | | | | vertical speed, | | | | | and their | | | | | respective | | | | | uncertainty (see | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | | [3]). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | EUTRAN | EUTRAN | O | If present, this | | Positioning Data | -Positioning-Data | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | indicate the | | | | | usage of each | | | | | positioning | | | | | method that was | | | | | attempted to | | | | | determine the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate, either | | | | | successfully or | | | | | unsuccessfully. | | | | | The internal | | | | | structure and | | | | | encoding is | | | | | defined in 3GPP | | | | | TS 29.171 [7]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | ECGI | ECGI | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current cell | | | | | location of the | | | | | target UE. The | | | | | E-UTRAN Cell | | | | | Global Identifier | | | | | (ECGI) is used to | | | | | globally identify | | | | | a cell. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Target Serving | Serving-Node | O | If present, this | | Node Identity | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | address of the | | | | | target side | | | | | serving node for | | | | | handover of an | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | Call. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [17]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 6.2.3 Unsuccessful Operation
On receipt of a PROVIDE SUBSCRIBER LOCATION RESPONSE with a Result-Code or
Experimental-Result AVP indicating failure the GMLC considers the positioning
request as failed.
## 6.3 Subscriber Location Report
### 6.3.1 General
The Subscriber Location Report operation is used by an MME to provide the
location of a target UE to a GMLC when a request for location has been
implicitly issued.
### 6.3.2 Successful Operation
> Figure 6.3.2-1: Subscriber Location Report procedure. Successful operation.
The MME initiates the procedure by sending a SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT
message to the GMLC. The message may carry the identity of the UE, the
location estimate and its age, and the event causing the location report.
Upon reception of SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT message, the GMLC shall return a
SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT ACK to the MME and process the location report
accordingly, e.g. transfer of the location estimate to an external LCS Client
according to procedure described in 3GPP TS 23.271 [2].
This procedure is mapped to the commands Location-Report-Request/Answer in the
Diameter application specified in sections 7.3.3 and 7.3.4.
Table 6.3.2-1: Subscriber Location Report
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Location Event | Location-Event | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the type | | | | | of event that | | | | | caused the | | | | | location | | | | | procedure to be | | | | | initiated. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | IMSI | User-Name | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the IMSI | | | | | of the user whose | | | | | UE is to be | | | | | positioned (see | | | | | Note 1). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | MSISDN | MSISDN | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | MSISDN of the | | | | | user whose UE is | | | | | to be positioned | | | | | (see Note 1). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | IMEI | IMEI | C | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the IMEI | | | | | of the UE to be | | | | | positioned (see | | | | | Note 1). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Client Name | LC | O | If present, this | | | S-EPS-Client-Name | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the name | | | | | of the LCS client | | | | | where the result | | | | | of the | | | | | positioning | | | | | operation should | | | | | be sent. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Location Estimate | Location-Estimate | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | estimate of the | | | | | location of the | | | | | UE in universal | | | | | coordinates and | | | | | the accuracy of | | | | | the estimate. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Accuracy | Accuracy-Ful | O | If present, this | | Fulfilment | filment-Indicator | | Information | | Indicator | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | whether the | | | | | requested | | | | | accuracy was | | | | | fulfilled or not. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Age of Location | Age-of- | O | If present, this | | Estimate | Location-Estimate | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of how | | | | | long ago the | | | | | location estimate | | | | | was obtained. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Velocity Estimate | Velocity-Estimate | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | estimate of the | | | | | velocity of the | | | | | UE, composed by | | | | | horizontal speed, | | | | | vertical speed, | | | | | and their | | | | | respective | | | | | uncertainty (see | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.032 | | | | | [3]). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | EUTRAN | EUTRAN | O | If present, this | | Positioning Data | -Positioning-Data | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | indicate the | | | | | usage of each | | | | | positioning | | | | | method that was | | | | | attempted to | | | | | determine the | | | | | location | | | | | estimate, either | | | | | successfully or | | | | | unsuccessfully. | | | | | The internal | | | | | structure and | | | | | encoding is | | | | | defined in 3GPP | | | | | TS 29.171 [7]. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | ECGI | ECGI | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | current cell | | | | | location of the | | | | | target UE. The | | | | | E-UTRAN Cell | | | | | Global Identifier | | | | | (ECGI) is used to | | | | | globally identify | | | | | a cell.. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Service Type ID | LC | O | If present, this | | | S-Service-Type-ID | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | service type | | | | | associated for | | | | | the particular | | | | | positioning | | | | | report | | | | | identifying the | | | | | service at the | | | | | receiving LCS | | | | | Client (the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | different service | | | | | types is defined | | | | | in 3GPP TS 22.071 | | | | | [15]). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Pseudonym | Ps | O | If present, this | | Indicator | eudonym-Indicator | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain an | | | | | indication of | | | | | whether or not a | | | | | pseudonym must be | | | | | allocated by the | | | | | network and | | | | | transferred to | | | | | the LCS client as | | | | | the identity of | | | | | the UE. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [17]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | LCS QoS Class | LCS-QoS-Class | O | If present, this | | | | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | LCS-QoS-Class | | | | | requested by the | | | | | target UE. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Target Serving | Serving-Node | O | If present, this | | Node Identity | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | address of the | | | | | target side | | | | | serving node for | | | | | handover of an | | | | | IMS Emergency | | | | | Call. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | NOTE 1: At least | | | | | one of these IEs | | | | | shall be present | | | | | in the message. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 6.3.2-2: Subscriber Location Report Ack
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | This Information | | | Ex | | Element shall | | | perimental-Result | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for ELP errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which shall | | | | | contain the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [17]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
### 6.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation
If for some reason the GMLC does not accept the SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT
APDU, the GMLC shall send a SUBSCRIBER LOCATION REPORT ACK message with a
Result-Code or Experimental-Result AVP indicating failure.
# 7 ELP Messages and Message Formats
## 7.1 General
The Diameter Base Protocol as specified in IETF RFC 3588 [4] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
This clause specifies a Diameter application that allows a Diameter server and
a Diameter client:
\- to retrieve the location information of a target UE
\- to report the location information of a target UE
The SLg interface protocol is defined as an IETF vendor specific Diameter
application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The vendor identifier assigned by IANA
to 3GPP (http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the SLg interface application
is 16777255 (allocated by IANA).
## 7.2 Message Formats
This section defines Command-Code values for the SLg interface application.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 2234 [5],
according to the rules in IETF RFC 3588 [4]. If the definition and use of an
AVP is not specified in this document, the guidelines in IETF RFC 3588 [4]
shall apply.
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to16777255
(application identifier of the SLg interface application).
NOTE: For this release, the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID is included as an
optional AVP in all commands in order to ensure interoperability with diameter
agents following a strict implementation of IETF RFC 3588, by which messages
not including this AVP will be rejected. IETF RFC 3588 indicates that the AVP
shall be present in all proxiable commands, such as those specified here,
dispite that the contents of this AVP are redundant since the Application ID
is already present in the command header. This AVP may be removed in
subsequent revisions of this specification, once the diameter base protocol is
updated accordingly.
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 7.2-1: Command-Code values
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Section Provide-Location-Request PLR 8388620
7.3.1 Provide-Location -Answer PLA 8388620 7.3.2 Location-Report-Request LRR
8388621 7.3.3 Location-Report-Answer LRA 8388621 7.3.4
* * *
## 7.3 ELP Messages
### 7.3.1 Provide-Location-Request (PLR) Command
The Provide-Location-Request (PLR) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388620 and the 'R' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent
by the GMLC in order to request subscriber location to the MME.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777255 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> {Destination-Host }
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> **{ SLg-Location-Type }**
>
> **[ User-Name ]**
>
> **[ MSISDN]**
>
> **[ IMEI ]**
>
> **{ LCS-EPS-Client-Name }**
>
> **{ LCS-Client-Type }**
>
> **[ LCS-Requestor-Name ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Priority ]**
>
> **[ LCS-QoS ]**
>
> **[** Velocity-Requested **]**
>
> **[ Supported-GAD-Shapes ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Service-Type-ID ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Codeword ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session ]**
>
> **[ LCS-Privacy-Check-Session ]**
>
> **[Service-Selection ]**
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
*[ AVP ]
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.3.2 Provide-Location-Answer (PLA) Command
The Provide-Location-Answer (PLA) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388620 and the 'R' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by
the MME to the GMLC in response to the Provide-Location-Request command.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> **[ Location-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator ]**
>
> **[ Age-Of-Location-Estimate]**
>
> **[ Velocity-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ EUTRAN-Positioning-Data]**
>
> **[ ECGI ]**
>
> **[ Serving-Node ]**
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.3.3 Location-Report-Request (LRR) Command
The Location-Report-Request (LRR) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to 8388621 and the 'R' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by the
MME in order to provide subscriber location data to the GMLC.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777255 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> { Destination-Host }
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> **{ Location-Event }**
>
> **[ LCS-EPS-Client-Name ]**
>
> **[ User-Name ]**
>
> **[ MSISDN]**
>
> **[ IMEI ]**
>
> **[ Location-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator ]**
>
> **[ Age-Of-Location-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ Velocity-Estimate ]**
>
> **[ EUTRAN-Positioning-Data ]**
>
> **[ ECGI]**
>
> **[ LCS-Service-Type-ID ]**
>
> [ Pseudonym-Indicator ]
>
> [ LCS-QoS-Class ]
>
> [ Serving-Node ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 7.3.4 Location-Report-Answer (LRA) Command
The Location-Report-Answer (LRA) command, indicated by the Command-Code field
set to8388621 and the 'R' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by
the GMLC to the MME in response to the Location-Report-Request command.
Message Format
> \ ::= \
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
## 7.4 Information Elements
### 7.4.1 General
The following table describes the Diameter AVPs defined for the SLg interface
protocol, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and whether the
AVP may or not be encrypted.
Table 7.4.1-1: Diameter ELP Application AVPs
* * *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                AVP Flag rules
Attribute Name AVP Code Section defined Value Type Must May Should not Must
not May Encrypt
SLg-Location-Type 2500 7.4.2 Enumerated M, V No
LCS-EPS-Client-Name 2501 7.4.3 Grouped M, V No
LCS-Requestor-Name 2502 7.4.4 Grouped M, V No
LCS-Priority 2503 7.4.5 Unsigned32 M, V No
LCS-QoS 2504 7.4.6 Grouped M, V No
LCS-QoS-Class 2523 7.4.27 Enumerated M, V No
Horizontal-Accuracy 2505 7.4.7 Unsigned32 M, V No
Vertical-Accuracy 2506 7.4.8 Unsigned32 M, V No
Vertical-Requested 2507 7.4.9 Enumerated M, V No
Velocity-Requested 2508 7.4.10 Enumerated M, V No
Response-Time 2509 7.4.11 Enumerated M, V No
Supported-GAD-Shapes 2510 7.4.12 Unsigned32 M, V No
LCS-Codeword 2511 7.4.13 UTF8String M, V No
LCS-Privacy-Check 2512 7.4.14 Enumerated M, V No
Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator 2513 7.4.15 Enumerated M, V No
Age-Of-Location-Estimate 2514 7.4.16 Unsigned32 M, V No
Velocity-Estimate 2515 7.4.17 OctetString M, V No
EUTRAN-Positioning-Data 2516 7.4.18 OctetString M, V No
ECGI 2517 7.4.19 OctetString M, V No
Location-Event 2518 7.4.20 Enumerated M, V No
Pseudonym-Indicator 2519 7.4.21 Enumerated M, V No
LCS-Service-Type-ID 2520 7.4.22 Unsigned32 M, V No
LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session 2521 7.4.23 Grouped M, V No
LCS-Privacy-Check-Session 2522 7.4.24 Grouped M, V No
Note: The AVP header bit denoted as 'M', indicates whether support of the AVP
is required. The AVP header bit denoted as 'V', indicates whether the optional
Vendor-ID field is present in the AVP header.\  
For further details, see IETF RFC 3588 [4].
* * *
Table 7.4.1-2: Diameter ELP Application reused AVPs
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | AVP Code | Reference | Value Type | Comment | | Name | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LCS-Forma | 1237 | 3GPP TS | Enumerated | | | t-Indicator | | 32.299 | | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LCS- | 1238 | 3GPP TS | UTF8String | | | Name-String | | 32.299 | | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | LCS- | 1241 | 3GPP TS | Enumerated | | | Client-Type | | 32.299 | | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | L | 1240 | 3GPP TS | UTF8String | | | CS-Requesto | | 32.299 | | | | r-Id-String | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Locati | 1242 | 3GPP TS | OctetString | | | on-Estimate | | 32.299 | | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMEI | 1402 | 3GPP TS | UTF8String | | | | | 29.272 | | | | | | [11] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MSISDN | 701 | 3GPP TS | OctetString | | | | | 29.329 | | | | | | [12] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Servic | 493 | 3GPP TS | UTF8String | It is used | | e-Selection | | 29.272 | | to define | | | | [11], | | the APN | | | | | | | | | | IETF RFC | | | | | | 5778 [16] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | User-Name | 1 | IETF RFC | UTF8String | It is used | | | | 3588 [4] | | to include | | | | | | the user\'s | | | | | | IMSI | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Support | 628 | 3GPP TS | Grouped | | | ed-Features | | 29.229 | | | | | | [17] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Feat | 629 | 3GPP TS | Unsigned32 | See clause | | ure-List-ID | | 29.229 | | 7.4.25 | | | | [17] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | F | 630 | 3GPP TS | Unsigned32 | See clause | | eature-List | | 29.229 | | 7.4.26 | | | | [17] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | S | 2401 | 3GPP TS | Grouped | See clause | | erving-Node | | 29.173 | | 7.4.28 | | | | [18] | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 7.4.2 SLg-Location-Type
The SLg-Location-Type AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
CURRENT_LOCATION (0)
CURRENT_OR_LAST_KNOWN_LOCATION (1)
INITIAL_LOCATION (2)
RESERVED (3)
RESERVED (4)
NOTIFICATION_VERIFICATION_ONLY (5)
NOTE: Values (3) and (4) are reserved for future use. The other values are
homogeneous with those defined for the equivalent information element in MAP.
### 7.4.3 LCS-EPS-Client-Name
The LCS-EPS-Client-Name AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-EPS-Client-Name ::= \
>
> [ LCS-Name-String ]\ [ LCS-Format-Indicator ]
The details of the LCS-Name-String AVP and the LCS-Format-Indicator AVP are
described in 3GPP TS 32.299 [10].
### 7.4.4 LCS-Requestor-Name
The LCS-Requestor-Name AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-Requestor-Name ::= \
>
> [ LCS-Requestor-Id-String ]\ [ LCS-Format-Indicator ]
The details of the LCS-Requestor-Id-String AVP and the LCS-Format-Indicator
AVP are described in 3GPP TS 32.299 [10].
### 7.4.5 LCS-Priority
The LCS-Priority AVP is of type Unsigned32. It indicates the priority of the
location request. The value 0 shall indicate the highest priority, and the
value 1 shall indicate normal priority. All other values shall be treated as 1
(normal priority). For details, refer to 3GPP TS 22.071 [15].
### 7.4.6 LCS-QoS
The LCS-QoS AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-QoS ::= \
>
> [ LCS-QoS-Class ]\ [ Horizontal-Accuracy ]\ [ Vertical-Accuracy ]\ [
> Vertical-Requested ]\ [ Response-Time]
### 7.4.7 Horizontal-Accuracy
The Horizontal-Accuracy AVP is of type Unsigned32. Bits 6-0 corresponds to
Uncertainty Code defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3]. The horizontal location error
should be less than the error indicated by the uncertainty code with 67%
confidence. Bits 7 to 31 shall be ignored.
### 7.4.8 Vertical-Accuracy
The Vertical-Accuracy AVP is of type Unsigned32. Bits 6-0 corresponds to
Uncertainty Code defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3]. The vertical location error
should be less than the error indicated by the uncertainty code with 67%
confidence. Bits 7 to 31 shall be ignored.
### 7.4.9 Vertical-Requested
The Vertical-Requested AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
VERTICAL_COORDINATE_IS_NOT REQUESTED (0)
VERTICAL_COORDINATE_IS_REQUESTED (1)
Default value if AVP is not present is: VERTICAL_COORDINATE_IS_NOT_REQUESTED
(0).
### 7.4.10 Velocity-Requested
The Velocity-Requested AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
VELOCITY_IS_NOT_REQUESTED (0)
VELOCITY_IS_REQUESTED (1)
Default value if AVP is not present is: VELOCITY_IS_NOT_REQUESTED (0).
### 7.4.11 Response-Time
The Response-Time AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are defined:
LOW_DELAY (0)
DELAY_TOLERANT (1)
### 7.4.12 Supported-GAD-Shapes
The Supported-GAD-Shapes AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a
bitmask.
A node shall mark in the BIT STRING all Shapes defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3]
it supports.
Bits 6-0 in shall indicate the supported Shapes defined in 3GPP TS 23.032 [3].
Bits 7 to 31 shall be ignored.
ellipsoidPoint (0)
ellipsoidPointWithUncertaintyCircle (1)
ellipsoidPointWithUncertaintyEllipse (2)
polygon (3)
ellipsoidPointWithAltitude (4)
ellipsoidPointWithAltitudeAndUncertaintyElipsoid (5)
ellipsoidArc (6)
### 7.4.13 LCS-Codeword
The LCS-Codeword AVP is of type UTF8String. It indicates the potential
codeword string to send in a notification message to the UE.
### 7.4.14 LCS-Privacy-Check
The LCS-Privacy-Check AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
ALLOWED_WITHOUT_NOTIFICATION (0)
ALLOWED_WITH_NOTIFICATION (1)
ALLOWED_IF_NO_RESPONSE (2)
RESTRICTED_IF_NO_RESPONSE (3)
NOT_ALLOWED (4)
Default value if AVP is not present is: ALLOWED_WITHOUT_NOTIFICATION (0).
### 7.4.15 Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator
The Accuracy-Fulfilment-Indicator AVP is of type Enumerated. The following
values are defined:
REQUESTED_ACCURACY_FULFILLED (0)
REQUESTED_ACCURACY_NOT_FULFILLED (1)
### 7.4.16 Age-Of-Location-Estimate
The Age-Of-Location-Estimate AVP is of type Unsigned32. It indicates how long
ago the location estimate was obtained in minutes, as indicated in 3GPP TS
29.002 [19].
### 7.4.17 Velocity-Estimate
The Velocity-Estimate AVP is of type OctetString. It is composed of 4 or more
octets with an internal structure according to 3GPP TS 23.032 [3].
### 7.4.18 EUTRAN-Positioning-Data
The EUTRAN-Positioning-Data AVP is of type OctetString. It shall contain the
encoded content of the \"Positioning-Data\" Information Element as defined in
3GPP TS 29.171 [7].
### 7.4.19 ECGI
The ECGI AVP is of type OctetString. It indicates the E-UTRAN Cell Global
Identifier. It is coded according to clause 8.21.5, in 3GPP TS 29.274 [8].
### 7.4.20 Location-Event
The Location-Event AVP is of type Enumerated. The following values are
defined:
EMERGENCY_CALL_ORIGINATION (0)
EMERGENCY_CALL_RELEASE (1)
MO_LR (2)
EMERGENCY_CALL_HANDOVER (3)
RESERVED (4)
RESERVED (5)
NOTE: Values (4) and (5) are reserved for future use.
### 7.4.21 Pseudonym-Indicator
The Pseudonym-Indicator AVP is of type Enumerated. It defines if a pseudonym
is requested. The following values are defined:
PSEUDONYM_NOT_REQUESTED (0)
PSEUDONYM_REQUESTED (1)
Default value if AVP is not present is: PSEUDONYM_NOT_REQUESTED (0).
### 7.4.22 LCS-Service-Type-ID
The LCS-Service-Type-ID is of type Unsigned32. It defines the identifier
associated to one of the Service Types for which the LCS client is allowed to
locate the particular UE.
### 7.4.23 LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session
The LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-Privacy-Check-Non-Session ::= \
>
> { LCS-Privacy-Check }
Default value if AVP is not present is that AVP LCS-Privacy-Check take value:
ALLOWED_WITHOUT_NOTIFICATION (0).
### 7.4.24 LCS-Privacy-Check-Session
The LCS-Privacy-Check-Session AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> LCS-Privacy-Check-Session ::= \
>
> { LCS-Privacy-Check }
Default value if AVP is not present is that AVP LCS-Privacy-Check take value:
NOT_ALLOWED (4).
### 7.4.25 Feature-List-ID
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [17]. For this release,
the Feature-List-ID AVP value shall be set to 1.
### 7.4.26 Feature-List
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [17]. A null value
indicates that there is no feature used by the application.
NOTE: There are no features defined for this release.
### 7.4.27 LCS-QoS-Class
The LCS-QoS-Class AVP is of the type Enumerated. The following values are
defined.
ASSURED (0)
BEST EFFORT (1)
### 7.4.28 Serving-Node
The Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped. This AVP shall contain the
information about the network node serving the targeted user.
## 7.5 Result-Code AVP and Experimental-Result AVP Values
### 7.5.1 General
This section defines result code values that shall be supported by all
Diameter implementations that conform to this specification.
### 7.5.2 Success
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in Diameter Base Protocol RFC 3588 [4] shall be applied.
### 7.5.3 Permanent Failures
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in Diameter Base Protocol RFC 3588
[5] shall be applied. When one of the result codes defined here is included in
a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-Result AVP and the Result-Code
AVP shall be absent.
#### 7.5.3.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the MME to indicate that the user is
unknown. This error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [17]
#### 7.5.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_NETWORK (5490)
This result code shall be sent by the MME to indicate that the requesting
GMLC\'s network is not authorized to request UE location information. This
error code is defined in 3GPP TS 29.173 [18]
### 7.5.4 Transient Failures
Errors that fall within the transient failures category are those used to
inform a peer that the request could not be satisfied at the time that it was
received. The request may be able to be satisfied in the future.
#### 7.5.4.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNREACHABLE_USER (4221)
This result code shall be sent by the MME to indicate that the user could not
be reached in order to perform positioning procedure.
#### 7.5.4.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_SUSPENDED_USER (4222)
This result code shall be sent by the MME to indicate that the user is
suspended in the MME.
#### 7.5.4.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_DETACHED_USER (4223)
This result code shall be sent by the MME to indicate that the user is
detached in the MME.
#### 7.5.4.4 DIAMETER_ERROR_POSITIONING_DENIED (4224)
This result code shall be sent by the MME to indicate that the positioning
procedure was denied.
#### 7.5.4.5 DIAMETER_ERROR_POSITIONING_FAILED (4225)
This result code shall be sent by the MME to indicate that the positioning
procedure failed.
#### 7.5.4.6 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNKNOWN_UNREACHABLE LCS_CLIENT (4226)
This result code shall be sent by the GMLC to indicate that the LCS Client was
not known or could not be reached.
#