# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
This clause is optional. If it exists, it is always the second unnumbered
clause.
# 1 Scope
The present document analyses and evaluates the definition of a Reference Data
Model (RDM) for Ud interface between Front-Ends (FEs) for the HSS application
and the User Data Repository (UDR).
The stage 3 of the Ud interface in the User Data Convergence (UDC
architecture) is defined in 3GPP TS 29.335 [2].
The Reference Data Model (RDM) shall comply with the Common Baseline
Information Model for UDC as defined in 3GPP TS 32.182 [3] and it shall follow
the concepts of the Framework for Model Handling and Management as defined in
3GPP TS 32.181 [4].
The analysis will comprise the general considerations impacting the RDM for
HSS.
The analysis will comprise the following topics:
  * The general considerations impacting the RDM for HSS;
  * Attributes definition: names, syntax, semantics;
  * Object classes & Directory Information Tree: object classes names, attributes grouping, LDAP entries, Distinguished Names and Relative Distinguished Names.
The contents of this report when stable shall determine the modifications to
existing core network specifications.
Editor\'s note: The object classes in the following sections are subject to
future revisions including the addition of new attributes and the modification
of existing attributes.
Editor\'s note: The assignment of attributes to object classes is provisional
and attributes may be subsequently redistributed. For example, the
normalisation of object classes across different domains may result in
attributes being moved to a superclass.
Editor\'s note: The object class names are provisional and the naming
convention is FFS.
Editor\'s note: The use of alias objects, e.g. to APN objects, requires
further investigation and justification.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\"
[2] 3GPP TS 29.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC);User Data Repository Access
Protocol over the Ud interface\"
[3] 3GPP TS 32.182: \"Telecommunication management; User Data Convergence
(UDC); Common Baseline Information Model\"
[4] 3GPP TS 32.181: \"User Data Convergence; Framework for Model Handling and
Management\"
[5] 3GPP TS 23.008: \"Organization of subscriber data\"
[6] IETF RFC 4517: \"Syntaxes and Matching Rules\"
[7] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\"
[8] IETF RFC 4291: \"IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture\"
[9] 3GPP TS 29.214: \"Policy and Charging Control over Rx reference point\"
[10] 3GPP TS 32.251: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Packet Switched (PS) domain charging\"
[11] 3GPP TS 32.298: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging Data Record (CDR) parameter description\"
[12] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Evolved Packet System (EPS); Mobility Management Entity
(MME) and Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) related interfaces based on
Diameter protocol\"
[13] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\"
[14] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\"
[15] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\"
[16] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and Charging Control over Gx reference point\"
[17] IETF RFC 1035: \"DOMAIN NAMES - IMPLEMENTATION AND SPECIFICATION\"
[18] 3GPP TS 23.015: \"Technical realization of Operator Determined Barring
(ODB)\"
[19] 3GPP TS 29.364: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) Application Server (AS)
service data descriptions for AS interoperability\"
> [20] IETF RFC 3261 \"SIP: Session Initiation Protocol\"
[21] IETF RFC 2396: \"Uniform Resource Identifiers (URI): generic syntax\"
[22] IETF RFC 3966 \"The tel URI for Telephone Numbers\"
[23] IETF RFC 4282: \"The Network Access Identifier\"
[24] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx and Dx interface;
signalling flows and message contents\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Reference Data Model for HSS:** Reference Data Model for HSS is an
Application Data Model that operations on Ud interfaces supporting HSS
applications shall comply to.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CB Call Barring
CDIV Call Diversion
MMTEL Multimedia Telephony
RDM Reference Data Model
TAS Telephony Application Server
# 4 General considerations
## 4.1 General Syntax Definitions
The LDAP attributes in this document are defined as having a syntax specified
in RFC 4517 [6] or a derived syntax that will be specified in this section.
The description of a derived syntax will contain the name of the RFC 4517 [6]
syntax from which it was derived as well as any additional structure and value
constraints.
Editor's Note: Contributors are encouraged to name and define additional
syntaxes for maximum reuse in the attribute definitions. Syntax names should
follow the precedent set by RFC4517 (mixed case with first letter of word
capitalized), e.g. NumericString.
* * *
Derived Syntax name Description IMSI This syntax is used to represent
international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) [7] and is derived from the
NumericString syntax [6]. The structure is further constrained to a maximum
length of 15 and the values are further constrained to decimal digits (0
through 9) only. PublicIdentity This syntax is used to represent the public
identity of a user in the IMS and is derived from the PrintableString syntax
[6]. The structure is further constrained to a SIP URI (with the format
defined in IETF RFC 3261 [20] and IETF RFC 2396 [21]) or a TEL URI (with the
format defined in IETF RFC 3966 [22]). Both SIP URI and TEL URI shall be in
canonical form, as described in 3GPP TS 23.003 [7]. PrivateIdentity This
syntax is used to represent the private identity of a user in the IMS and is
derived from the PrintableString syntax [6]. The structure is further
constrained to a NAI with the form username\@realm as specified in IETF RFC
4282 [23]. UInt8 This syntax is derived from the Integer syntax [6]. The
structure is further constrained to a maximum length of 1 and the values are
further constrained from 0 to 255. UInt16 This syntax is derived from the
Integer syntax syntax [6]. The structure is further constrained to a maximum
length of 2 and the values are further constrained from 0 to 65535. UInt32
This syntax is derived from the Integer syntax syntax [6]. The structure is
further constrained to a maximum length of 4 and the values are further
constrained from 0 to 4294967295. HexString This syntax is derived from the
PrintableString syntax [6]. The values are further constrained to the decimal
digits (0 through 9), characters "a" to "f" or characters "A" to "F".
HexString32 This syntax is derived from the HexString syntax. The structure is
further constrained to a maximum length of 32 characters. FQDN This syntax is
used to represent an Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) (see RFC1035 [17]) and
is derived from the PrintableString syntax [6]. The structure is further
constrained to a maximum length of 255 and the values are further constrained
to one or more labels separated by the period (\".\") character. Each label
consists of the decimal digits (0 through 9), characters \"a\" to \"z\",
characters \"A\" to \"Z\", the hyphen (\"-) character and has a maximum length
of 63 characters. CaseIgnore IPv4Address This syntax is derived from the
PrintableString syntax [6] and is used to represent IPv4 addresses formatted
in dot-decimal notation without leading zeros. The structure is further
constrained to a maximum length of 15 and values are further constrained to
the decimal digits (0 through 9) and the period (.) character. IPv6Address
This syntax is derived from the PrintableString syntax [6] and is used to
represent IPv6 addresses formatted in hexadecimal colon-separated notation
without leading zeros in each group and with the largest run of consecutive
zero groups collapsed into a single empty group (see RFC4291 [8]). The
structure is further constrained to a maximum length of 39 and the values are
further constrained to the decimal digits (0 through 9), characters "a" to "f"
or characters "A" to "F" and the colon (:) character. IPv6Prefix This syntax
is derived from the PrintableString syntax [6] and is used to represent an
IPv6 prefix formatted in CIDR (Classless Inter-domain Routing) notation, i.e.
an IPv6 address (formatted in IPv6Address syntax), a slash (/) character and a
decimal value indicating the size in bits of the address prefix (see RFC4291
[8]). The structure is further constrained to a maximum length of 43 and the
values are further constrained to the decimal digits (0 through 9), characters
"a" to "f" or characters "A" to "F", the colon (:) character and the slash (/)
character. Name10 This syntax is derived from the PrintableString syntax [6].
The structure is further constrained to a maximum length of 10 characters.
CaseIgnore. E164Number This syntax is used to represent an E.164 Number and is
derived from the NumericString syntax [6]. The structure is further
constrained to a maximum length of 15 and the values are further constrained
to decimal digits (0 through 9) only. String This syntax corresponds to
Printable String syntax according to IETF RFC 4517 [6]. Enumerated This syntax
corresponds to Numeric String syntax according to IETF RFC 4517 [6], where the
maximum length is defined by the number of included numerals.
* * *
Table 4.1-1
## 4.2 Subset of HSS functionality
The RDM defined in this TR covers the data needed by HSS FEs that handle the
following initial requests of an HSS FE session:
  * MAP-SendAuthenticationInfo
  * MAP-PurgeMS
  * S6a/S6d PUR
  * S6a/S6d ULR\ \ Editor\'s Note: The data needed to handle S6a/S6d ULR needs to be completed.
## 4.3 CS data
Editor's note: this part needs to be completed and Supplementary Services
covered.
## 4.4 MMTEL data
### 4.4.1 Introduction
The specification of the MMTEL data in the Reference Data Model over Ud has to
define for which Application FEs it will be applied. Two cases are identified.
\- MMTEL data specification over Ud applies to the Ud interface between a
Telephony Application Server Front-end (TAS-FE) and the UDR.
\- MMTEL data specification over Ud applies to the Ud interface between a HSS-
FE (supporting IMS) and the UDR.
### 4.4.2 MMTEL data with a TAS-FE
The Ud interface supported by a TAS is an alternative way to store its MMTEL
data in a UDR instead of using the Sh interface and an HSS-FE.
Editor's note: To introduce another protocol to centrally store MMTEL Data in
addition to Sh has to be assessed and confirmed in particular towards the
second sub-case of sub-clause 4.4.3.
### 4.4.3 MMTEL data with an HSS-FE
With a HSS-FE, SMMTEL data are transported over a Sh interface as transparent
data within repository data. Then, regarding to the storage on the UDR by the
HSS-FE, two sub-cases are identified:
\- It is normally stored as transparent data in the UDR in the same way as any
other transparent data coming from an AS over Sh, so not requiring a data
modelling of the MMTEL data over the Ud between a HSS-FE and the UDR.
\- The transparent data is analysed by the HSS-FE application logic and
translated into data complying with the MMTEL RDM over Ud. In the other way,
the HSS-FE application logic builds a Sh transparent data from the MMTEL data
retrieved from the UDR and complying with the MMTEL RDM over Ud. It is to be
noted that the concept of transparent data that still applies to Sh is no more
applied on the transparent storage in the HSS in this sub-case.
To address the second sub-case, the HSS-FE will rely on the standardisation of
MMTEL Data over Sh in 3GPP TS 29.364 [19]. Two coding options are defined, a
binary one and a XML one. An objective is that the same MMTEL RDM over Ud can
be mapped with both options. The same MMTEL RDM should also be applicable to
the case described in 4.4.2.
Editor's note: The support of the second sub-case in sub-clause 4.4.3 has to
be assessed in particular towards the case described in sub-clause 4.4.2.
With the XML option, the data configuring each of the CDIV and CB MMTEL
Services is structured in a set of multiple rules, each rule may contain
multiple conditions and an action, structure that was not retained for the
binary option aimed to handle the subset of MMTEL services corresponding to
PSTN/ISDN and CS supplementary services.
Editor's note: To investigate on how the MMTEL RDM over Ud will address the
configuration data for CDIV and CB services for both the XML and the binary
option.
### 4.4.4 MMTEL Data and CS Supplementary Services data
In some cases, the supplementary services execution and/or their configuration
when user is in the CS domain may have to rely on the CS supplementary
services and not MMTEL ones. It may drive to maintain the consistency between
the MMTEL services and the CS supplementary services. Two approaches that
impact RDM for Ud may be considered:
\- MMTEL Data and CS supplementary Service data are considered as separate
data in the RDM for Ud, considering that their consistency will be handled by
the concerned application logics. This approach may be more in line with
current 3GPP specifications where CS supplementary Services and MMTEL services
are defined in different 3GPP specifications.
\- A subset of MMTEL data and CS supplementary service data are merged in the
RDM over Ud and describe a supplementary service independently of the access
(CS or PS). This approach may impact stage 1 and stage 2 specifications on
supplementary services.
Editor's note: to investigate which of the two approaches is the most relevant
and if it impacts existing specifications on supplementary services (CS and
MMTEL).
### 4.4.5 Supplementary Services RDM principle
It should be possible to define the Supplementary Services that are common to
MMTEL and CS only once and **not separately in the Reference Data Model. Using
this approach the synchronization of common MMTEL and CS Supplementary
Services is implicitly reached**. At the same time, it should be possible to
have separate Supplementary Services data for MMTEL and CS in order that the
operators could provide differentiated services. The operator has to choose
between these alternatives. **The RDM specification for MMTEL and CS
Supplementary services should allow these two approaches.**
**Only a subset of MMTEL Supplementary Services defined in [19] is shared with
the Circuit domain.**
Here are described three possible structures of the RDM.
{width="5.436111111111111in" height="2.988888888888889in"}
Figure 4.4.5-1: Reference Data Model referring to MMTEL services
{width="5.436111111111111in" height="2.9791666666666665in"}
Figure 4.4.5-2: Reference Data Model referring to CS services
{width="5.436111111111111in" height="2.9791666666666665in"}
Figure 4.4.5-3: Reference Data Model referring to the common services
Editor's note: which data structure for MMTEL and CS SS should be selected for
RDM needs to be investigated.
# 5 Identifier
## 5.1 Object classes and their attributes
## 5.2 Directory Information Tree
# 6 End Device
## 6.1 Object classes and their attributes
## 6.2 Directory Information Tree
# 7 UDC Service Profile
## 7.1 Object classes and their attributes
## 7.2 Directory Information Tree
### 7.2.1 Alternative A
Figure 7.2.1-1: DIT Structure for UDC with alternative A
Editor\'s Note: Figure 7.2.1-1 is ffs.
For definition of End User see 3GPP TS 32.182 [3].
### 7.2.2 Alternative B
In this alternative, the parent of the different domain data entities is a
Subscription entity. This Subscription entity may be not limited to one user,
for example, IMS data belongs to a IMS subscription that, according to TS
23.228, may be multiuser.
It introduces privateIdentityAlias and publicIdentityAlias entities that cover
Private and Public Service Identities as well as Private and Public User
Identities.
Figure 7.2.2-1: DIT Structure for UDC with alternative B
Editor's Note: Figure 7.2.2-1 is ffs, in particular for the support of a
subscription with several IMS users,
### 7.2.3 Alternative C
In alternative C, as for alternative B, the diagram contains Subscription,
privateIdentityAlias and publicIdentityAlias entities.
The different domains for data are organised differently. This alternative
allows attributes that are applicable to several domains to be defined once.
For example:
  * an attribute that is the same in the GPRS and EPS domains should be defined in the entity PS-Data
  * an attribute that is the same in the CS and PS domains should be defined in the entity Access-Data.
Figure 7.2.3-1: DIT Structure for UDC with alternative C
Editor's Note: Figure 7.2.3-1 is ffs, in particular for the support of a
subscription with several IMS users,
Editor's Note: The compatibility with new 3GPP releases extending the use of
data defined for a domain to other domains is ffs.
### 7.2.4 Alternative D
In this alternative, the parent of the different domain data entities is a
Subscription entity. This Subscription entity may not limited to one user, for
example, IMS data belongs to a IMS subscription that, according to 3GPP TS
23.228, may be multiuser.
The RDN of the Individual user data classes AuC-Data, CS-Data, PS-Data and
EPS-Data is defined with the IMSI + svcType in order to allow for multiuser.
The Alias MSISDN class, in addition to providing a reference to the
Subscription object, also contain an IMSI attribute. This is done to assist in
MSISDN based message processing, such as MAP Send Routing Info. i.e., such a
request would have to search for the Alias MSISDN object to obtain the
subscriber\'s IMSI prior to obtaining the specific SvcType class associated
with the IMSI.
Figure 7.2.4-1: DIT Structure for UDC with alternative D
# 8 UDC Service Data shared by several domains
Editor\'s Note: The following data defined in this section may be restructured
according to the domains sharing the data, or an indication may be required to
show by which domains the attribute is shared.
## 8.1 Object classes and their attributes
### 8.1.1 AuC Subscriber Data
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ACSUBDATA | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | tbd | | | | | Obect Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for all | | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | | Data | | | | | | relevant to | | | | | | the AuC | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imsi | IMSI | read | Naming | In | | | | | Attribute | ternational | | | | | | Mobile | | | | | mandatory | Subscriber | | | | | | Identity. | | | | | si | See 3GPP TS | | | | | ngle-valued | 23.003. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | UInt8 | read | optional | Type of | | cSubscrType | | | | Subscriber. | | | | | si | Possible | | | | | ngle-valued | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - GSM | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - UMTS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | acEncKey | HexString32 | read | optional | The | | | | | | su | | | | | si | bscriber\'s | | | | | ngle-valued | encrypted | | | | | | long term | | | | | | secret key. | | | | | | This is a | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | string with | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | length of | | | | | | 32 bytes. | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | definition | | | | | | of a UMTS | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | long term | | | | | | secret key | | | | | | K see 3GPP | | | | | | TS 33.102. | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | definition | | | | | | of a GSM | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | long term | | | | | | secret key | | | | | | Ki see 3GPP | | | | | | TS 43.020. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | acSeqNum | HexString32 | read, write | optional | Sequence | | | | | | Number for | | | | | si | UMTS | | | | | ngle-valued | subscriber. | | | | | | This is a | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | string with | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | length of | | | | | | 12 bytes. | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | definition | | | | | | of a UMTS | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | Sequence | | | | | | Number | | | | | | SQN~HE~ see | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 33.102. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | acAMF | HexString32 | read | optional | Aut | | | | | | hentication | | | | | si | Management | | | | | ngle-valued | Field for | | | | | | UMTS | | | | | | subscriber. | | | | | | This is a | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | string with | | | | | | fixed | | | | | | length of 4 | | | | | | bytes | | | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | definition | | | | | | of a UMTS | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | Aut | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | Management | | | | | | Field AMF | | | | | | see 3GPP TS | | | | | | 33.102. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | acKdbId | Uint16 | read | optional | The | | | | | | reference | | | | | si | to the key | | | | | ngle-valued | used to | | | | | | encrypt the | | | | | | su | | | | | | bscriber\'s | | | | | | long term | | | | | | secret key. | | | | | | tbc. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | Uint16 | read | optional | AC | | cAlgorithId | | | | Algorithm | | | | | si | Identifier. | | | | | ngle-valued | Specifies | | | | | | the | | | | | | algorithm | | | | | | used for | | | | | | the | | | | | | generation | | | | | | of | | | | | | aut | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | vectors. | | | | | | tbc. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Editor's note: The described attributes are to be revised and confirmed.
### 8.1.2 tbd data
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | tbd | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | odbBarri | UInt8 | read | mandatory | See 3GPP TS | | ngOfRoaming | | | si | 23.015 | | | | | ngle-valued | [18]. The | | | | | | following | | | | | | values are | | | | | | defined: | | | | | | | | | | | | NONE (0) | | | | | | | | | | | | ROAMING_ | | | | | | OUTSIDE_HP | | | | | | LMN_BARRED | | | | | | (1) | | | | | | | | | | | | ROAMING | | | | | | _OUTSIDE_ | | | | | | HPLMN_COUN | | | | | | TRY_BARRED | | | | | | (2) | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | CS, GPRS, | | | | | | EPS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | odbPoAccess | UInt8 | read | mandatory | The | | | | | s | following | | | | | ingleValued | values are | | | | | | defined: | | | | | | | | | | | | NONE (0) | | | | | | | | | | | | ALL | | | | | | _PO_SERVI | | | | | | CES_BARRED | | | | | | (1) | | | | | | | | | | | | HO | | | | | | ME_PLMN_A | | | | | | P_ACCESS_ | | | | | | BARRED_WHI | | | | | | LE_ROAMING | | | | | | (2) | | | | | | | | | | | | VISITED\ | | | | | | _PLMN_AP_ | | | | | | BARRED_WHI | | | | | | LE_ROAMING | | | | | | (3) | | | | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | is used in | | | | | | GPRS and | | | | | | EPS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tbc. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 8.2 Directory Information Tree
# 9 UDC CS Service Data
## 9.1 Object classes and their attributes
### 9.1.1 CS Subscriber Data
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | CsSubData | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for all CS | | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | | Data | | | | | | relevant to | | | | | | the HLR | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | vlrNumber | E164Number | read | optional | In | | | | | | ternational | | | | | si | PSTN/ISDN | | | | | ngle-valued | number of | | | | | | the VLR | | | | | | that serves | | | | | | the user. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | | [7]. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | msPurgedFor | Boolean | read, write | optional | VLR purge | | NonGprsFlag | | | | status of | | | | | si | the user: | | | | | ngle-valued | | | | | | | MS purged | | | | | | for | | | | | | non-GPRS | | | | | | flag (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5]) | | | | | | | | | | | | false -- MS | | | | | | not purged | | | | | | | | | | | | true -- MS | | | | | | purged | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tbc. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 9.2 Directory Information Tree
# 10 UDC GPRS Service Data
## 10.1 Object classes and their attributes
### 10.1.1 GPRS Subscriber Data
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | GprsSubData | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for all | | | | | | GPRS | | | | | | Subscriber | | | | | | Data | | | | | | relevant to | | | | | | the HLR | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | sgsnNumber | E164Number | read | optional | In | | | | | | ternational | | | | | si | PSTN/ISDN | | | | | ngle-valued | number of | | | | | | the SGSN | | | | | | that serves | | | | | | the user. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | | [7]. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | msPurged | Boolean | read, write | optional | SGSN purge | | ForGprsFlag | | | | status of | | | | | si | the user: | | | | | ngle-valued | | | | | | | MS purged | | | | | | for GPRS | | | | | | flag (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5]) | | | | | | | | | | | | false -- MS | | | | | | not purged | | | | | | for GPRS | | | | | | | | | | | | true -- MS | | | | | | purged for | | | | | | GPRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tbc. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 10.2 Directory Information Tree
# 11 UDC EPS Service Data
## 11.1 Object classes and their attributes
### 11.1.1 EPS Subscriber Data
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | EpsSubData | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | subscrib | | | | | | er-specific | | | | | | EPS Data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | svcType | Name10 | read | Naming | Fixed | | | | | Attribute | "EPS". | | | | | | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | defCxtId | UInt32 | read | mandatory | Identifies | | | | | si | the per | | | | | ngle-valued | s | | | | | | ubscriber's | | | | | | default APN | | | | | | con | | | | | | figuration. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ueAmbrDl | UInt32 | read | mandatory | S | | | | | si | ubscriber's | | | | | ngle-valued | aggregate | | | | | | maximum bit | | | | | | rate (AMBR) | | | | | | for | | | | | | downlink. | | | | | | See section | | | | | | 5.3.14 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.214 | | | | | | [9] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ueAmbrUl | UInt32 | read | mandatory | S | | | | | si | ubscriber's | | | | | ngle-valued | aggregate | | | | | | maximum bit | | | | | | rate (AMBR) | | | | | | for uplink. | | | | | | See section | | | | | | 5.3.15 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.214 | | | | | | [9] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | chargeChar | HexString | read | optional | 3GPP | | | | | si | charging | | | | | ngle-valued | chara | | | | | | cteristics. | | | | | | 6 octets | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | a | | | | | | f | | | | | | ixed-length | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | string of | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | characters. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 32.251 | | | | | | [10] | | | | | | Annex A and | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 32.298 | | | | | | [11] | | | | | | section | | | | | | 5.1.2.2.7. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | accessRest | UInt16 | read | optional\ | Access | | rictionData | | | m | restriction | | | | | ulti-valued | data. See | | | | | | section | | | | | | 2.4.18 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5] .The | | | | | | following | | | | | | values are | | | | | | defined: | | | | | | | | | | | | GERAN_ | | | | | | NOT_ALOWED | | | | | | (0) | | | | | | | | | | | | UTRAN_N | | | | | | OT_ALLOWED | | | | | | (1) | | | | | | | | | | | | EUTRAN_N | | | | | | OT_ALLOWED | | | | | | (2) | | | | | | | | | | | | GAN_N | | | | | | OT_ALLOWED | | | | | | (3) | | | | | | | | | | | | IHSPA_E | | | | | | VOLUTION_N | | | | | | OT_ALLOWED | | | | | | (4) | | | | | | | | | | | | HO_TO | | | | | | _NON_3GPP | | | | | | _ACCESS_N | | | | | | OT_ALLOWED | | | | | | (5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ueApnOiRpl | FQDN | read | optional | Subscrib | | | | | si | er-specific | | | | | ngle-valued | APN OI | | | | | | replacement | | | | | | string. See | | | | | | section | | | | | | 7.3.32 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.272 | | | | | | [12] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | rsfpId | UInt32 | read | optional | Subscriber | | | | | si | Profile ID | | | | | ngle-valued | for | | | | | | RA | | | | | | T/Frequency | | | | | | Priority. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.401 | | | | | | [13] and | | | | | | 3GPP | | | | | | TS 23.060 | | | | | | [14]. The | | | | | | encoding is | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 36.413 | | | | | | [15]. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | s | FQDN | read | optional | Diameter | | gsnIdentity | | | | Identity of | | | | | si | the SGSN | | | | | ngle-valued | that serves | | | | | | the user. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | | [7]. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | mmeIdentity | FQDN | read, write | optional | Diameter | | | | | | Identity of | | | | | si | the MME | | | | | ngle-valued | that serves | | | | | | the user. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | | [7]. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | msP | Boolean | read, write | optional | MME purge | | urgedForEps | | | | status of | | | | | si | the user: | | | | | ngle-valued | | | | | | | MS purged | | | | | | for EPS | | | | | | flag (see | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5]) | | | | | | | | | | | | false -- MS | | | | | | not purged | | | | | | for EPS | | | | | | | | | | | | true -- MS | | | | | | purged for | | | | | | EPS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tbc. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
###
Editor's note: The modelling of PLMN-specific information, e.g. CSG
Information lists, is FFS.
Editor's note: The necessity of the svcType attribute to identity an
EpsSubData object is FFS.
### 11.1.2 APN Configuration
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ApnConfig | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for a | | | | | | subscrib | | | | | | er-specific | | | | | | APN | | | | | | co | | | | | | nfiguration | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | EpsSubData | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | apn | FQDN | read | Naming | Access | | | | | Attribute | Point Name | | | | | | Network | | | | | mandatory | Identifier | | | | | | or Wild | | | | | si | Card APN. | | | | | ngle-valued | See | | | | | | sections | | | | | | 9.1, 9.1.1 | | | | | | and 9.1.2 | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | | [7] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | cxtId | UInt32 | read | mandatory | Context | | | | | | identifier | | | | | si | of this | | | | | ngle-valued | APN. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pdnType | UInt8 | read | mandatory | Type of | | | | | si | PDN. See | | | | | ngle-valued | section | | | | | | 7.3.62 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.272 | | | | | | [12] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ueIpv4Addr | IPv4Address | read | optional | IPv4 | | | | | si | address of | | | | | ngle-valued | the user | | | | | | when static | | | | | | IP address | | | | | | allocation | | | | | | is used. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ueIpv6Addr | IPv6Address | read | optional | IPv6 | | | | | si | address of | | | | | ngle-valued | the user | | | | | | when static | | | | | | IP address | | | | | | allocation | | | | | | is used. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | u | IPv6Prefix | read | optional | IPv6 prefix | | eIpv6Prefix | | | si | of the user | | | | | ngle-valued | when static | | | | | | IP address | | | | | | allocation | | | | | | is used. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pgwIpv4Addr | IPv4Address | read | optional | IPv4 | | | | | si | address of | | | | | ngle-valued | the PDN-GW. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pgwIpv6Addr | IPv6Address | read | optional | IPv6 | | | | | si | address of | | | | | ngle-valued | the PDN-GW. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pgwHost | FQDN | read | optional | FQDN of the | | | | | si | PDN-GW. | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pgwAlloc | UInt8 | read | mandatory | Indicates | | | | | si | whether the | | | | | ngle-valued | PDN-GW IP | | | | | | address is | | | | | | statically | | | | | | allocated | | | | | | or | | | | | | dynamically | | | | | | by other | | | | | | nodes. See | | | | | | section | | | | | | 7.3.44 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.272 | | | | | | [12] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | chargeChar | HexString | read | optional | 3GPP | | | | | si | charging | | | | | ngle-valued | chara | | | | | | cteristics. | | | | | | 6 octets | | | | | | encoded as | | | | | | a | | | | | | f | | | | | | ixed-length | | | | | | hexadecimal | | | | | | string of | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | characters. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 32.251 | | | | | | [10] | | | | | | Annex A and | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 32.298 | | | | | | [11] | | | | | | section | | | | | | 5.1.2.2.7 | | | | | | for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ambrDl | UInt32 | read | mandatory | A | | | | | si | PN-specific | | | | | ngle-valued | aggregate | | | | | | maximum bit | | | | | | rate (AMBR) | | | | | | for | | | | | | downlink. | | | | | | See section | | | | | | 5.3.14 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.214 | | | | | | [9] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ambrUl | UInt32 | read | mandatory | A | | | | | si | PN-specific | | | | | ngle-valued | aggregate | | | | | | maximum bit | | | | | | rate (AMBR) | | | | | | for uplink. | | | | | | See section | | | | | | 5.3.15 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.214 | | | | | | [9] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | apnOiRepl | FQDN | read | optional | APN OI | | | | | si | replacement | | | | | ngle-valued | string. See | | | | | | section | | | | | | 7.3.32 in | | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.272 | | | | | | [12] for | | | | | | encoding.. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 11.1.3 APN Configuration Alias
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ApnCfgAlias | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This | | | | | | represents | | | | | | an alias to | | | | | | a | | | | | | subscrib | | | | | | er-specific | | | | | | APNConfig | | | | | | entry | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | EpsSubData | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | alias | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | cxtId | UInt32 | read | Naming | Context | | | | | Attribute | identifier | | | | | | of the APN. | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | aliase | DN | read | mandatory | Di | | dObjectName | | | si | stinguished | | | | | ngle-valued | name of the | | | | | | APNConfig | | | | | | entry for | | | | | | which this | | | | | | entry is an | | | | | | alias. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 11.1.4 Active APN
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ActiveApn | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for a | | | | | | subscrib | | | | | | er-specific | | | | | | Active APN | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | EPSSubData | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | apn | Prin | read, write | Naming | Access | | | tableString | | Attribute | Point Name | | | | | | Network | | | | | mandatory | Identifier. | | | | | | See | | | | | si | sections | | | | | ngle-valued | 9.1 and | | | | | | 9.1.1 in TS | | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | | [7] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | cxtId | UInt32 | read, write | mandatory | Context | | | | | | identifier | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | Active APN. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pgwIpv4Addr | IPv4Address | read, write | optional | IPv4 | | | | | si | address of | | | | | ngle-valued | the PDN-GW. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pgwIpv6Addr | IPv6Address | read, write | optional | IPv6 | | | | | si | address of | | | | | ngle-valued | the PDN-GW. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pgwHost | Prin | read, write | optional | FQDN of the | | | tableString | | si | PDN-GW. | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | vNetId | Prin | read, write | optional | Identity of | | | tableString | | si | the network | | | | | ngle-valued | where the | | | | | | PDN GW was | | | | | | allocated. | | | | | | See section | | | | | | 7.3.105 in | | | | | | TS 29.272 | | | | | | [12] for | | | | | | encoding. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | authWildAPN | Boolean | read, write | mandatory | Indicates | | | | | | whether the | | | | | si | APN was | | | | | ngle-valued | authorized | | | | | | as a | | | | | | consequence | | | | | | of the | | | | | | user's | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the | | | | | | Wildcard | | | | | | APN. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 11.1.5 Active APN Alias
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Act | | | | | Class | iveApnAlias | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This | | | | | | represents | | | | | | an alias to | | | | | | a | | | | | | subscrib | | | | | | er-specific | | | | | | Active APN | | | | | | entry | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | EpsSubData | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | alias | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | cxtId | UInt32 | read,write | Naming | Context | | | | | Attribute | identifier | | | | | | of the | | | | | mandatory | Active APN. | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | aliase | DN | read, write | mandatory | Di | | dObjectName | | | si | stinguished | | | | | ngle-valued | name of the | | | | | | ActiveAPN | | | | | | entry for | | | | | | which this | | | | | | entry is an | | | | | | alias. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 11.2 Directory Information Tree
Figure 10.2-1: DIT Structure for EPS Subscriber Data
Editor's note: The superior structural object class for EpsSubData is FFS.
# 12 UDC IMS Service Data
## 12.1 Object classes and their attributes
### 12.1.1 Alternative A
### 12.1.2 Alternative B
#### 12.1.2.1 IMS Data
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ImsData | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | subscrib | | | | | | er-specific | | | | | | IMS Data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | svcType | Name10 | read | Naming | Fixed | | | | | Attribute | "IMS". | | | | | | | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | mandatoryC | UInt32 | read | optional | Mandatory | | apabilities | | | | c | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | of S-CSCF | | | | | | used by | | | | | | I-CSCF to | | | | | | select a | | | | | | S-CSCF. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | optionalC | UInt32 | read | optional | Optional | | apabilities | | | | c | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | of S-CSCF | | | | | | used by | | | | | | I-CSCF to | | | | | | select a | | | | | | S-CSCF. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serverNames | String | read | optional | Statically | | | | | | configured | | | | | m | S-CSCF | | | | | ulti-valued | names to be | | | | | | selected by | | | | | | the I-CSCF. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | as | String | read. write | optional | Assigned | | signedSCSCF | | | | S-CSCF for | | | | | si | a user. | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pri | FQDN | read | optional | Address of | | maryECFName | | | | the Primary | | | | | si | Online | | | | | ngle-valued | Charging | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | secon | FQDN | read | optional | Address of | | daryECFName | | | | the | | | | | si | Secondary | | | | | ngle-valued | Online | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Pri | FQDN | read | optional | Address of | | maryCCFName | | | | the Primary | | | | | si | Charging | | | | | ngle-valued | Data | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | secon | FQDN | read | optional | Address of | | daryCCFName | | | | the Primary | | | | | si | Charging | | | | | ngle-valued | Data | | | | | | Function. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.2.2 Service Profile Data
##### 12.1.2.2.1 Service Profile
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Ser | | | | | Class | viceProfile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for a | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Profile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | UInt32 | read | Naming | The service | | ceProfileID | | | Attribute | profile | | | | | | Ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | associated | | | | | si | with the | | | | | ngle-valued | public user | | | | | | identity. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | coreNet-Su | UInt32 | read | optional | Subscribed | | bscribedMed | | | | media | | iaProfileId | | | Si | profile | | | | | ngle-valued | Ide | | | | | | ntification | | | | | | which | | | | | | identifies | | | | | | a media | | | | | | profile in | | | | | | the S-CSCF | | | | | | for the | | | | | | au | | | | | | thorization | | | | | | of media | | | | | | parameters. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | coreNet-Se | String | read | optional | List of | | rviceIdList | | | | Service Ids | | | | | m | which | | | | | ulti-valued | identify | | | | | | the IMS | | | | | | Co | | | | | | mmunication | | | | | | Service | | | | | | Identifiers | | | | | | that the | | | | | | subscriber | | | | | | is | | | | | | authorized | | | | | | to use. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | sh | UInt32 | read | optional | The Shared | | aredFilterC | | | | iFC Set ID | | riteriaSets | | | mandatory | ist. | | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | ulti-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#####
##### 12.1.2.2.2 IFC
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | InitialFil | | | | | Class | terCriteria | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for an | | | | | | Initial | | | | | | Filter | | | | | | Criteria | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | i | UInt32 | read | Naming | The | | nitialFilte | | | Attribute | Ide | | rCriteriaId | | | | ntification | | | | | mandatory | of the | | | | | | associated | | | | | si | initial | | | | | ngle-valued | filter | | | | | | criteria. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | applicatio | String | read | mandatory | SIP URI of | | nServerName | | | | the | | | | | si | application | | | | | ngle-valued | server to | | | | | | contact if | | | | | | the | | | | | | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | trigger | | | | | | points are | | | | | | met. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | priority | UInt32 | read | mandatory | Priority of | | | | | | the IFC. | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | profilePa | UInt8 | read | optional | Indicator | | rtIndicator | | | | of the | | | | | si | Profile | | | | | ngle-valued | Type as | | | | | | defined in | | | | | | the 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.228 | | | | | | [24], | | | | | | i.e. | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | iFC is part | | | | | | of the | | | | | | registered | | | | | | or | | | | | | u | | | | | | nregistered | | | | | | user | | | | | | profile. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - | | | | | | U | | | | | | NREGISTERED | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - | | | | | | REGISTERED | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | tr | String | read | optional | Trigger | | iggerPoints | | | | Points as | | | | | si | defined in | | | | | ngle-valued | the 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.228 | | | | | | [24]. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | defa | UInt8 | read | optional | Default | | ultHandling | | | | Handling as | | | | | si | defined in | | | | | ngle-valued | the 3GPP TS | | | | | | 29.228 | | | | | | [24]. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - | | | | | | SESSION | | | | | | _CONTINUED | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - | | | | | | SESSION\ | | | | | | _TERMINATED | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serviceInfo | String | read | optional | Transparent | | | | | | information | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the trigger | | | | | | points only | | | | | | used by the | | | | | | application | | | | | | server. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.2.3 Implicit Registration Set Data
##### 12.1.2.3.1 Implicit Registration Set
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | I | | | | | Class | mplicitRegi | | | | | | strationSet | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | Implicit | | | | | | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Set | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | Tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imp | UInt32 | read | Naming | Inde | | licitRegist | | | Attribute | ntification | | rationSetID | | | | of the | | | | | mandatory | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | si | Implicit | | | | | ngle-valued | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Set. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | Pub | read | mandatory | Public User | | ublicIdList | licIdentity | | | Identities | | | | | m | belonging | | | | | ulti-valued | to the | | | | | | implicit | | | | | | r | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | set. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
##### 12.1.2.3.2 Alias Group
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | AliasGroup | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Alias | | | | | | Group | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | Tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | UInt32 | read | Naming | Inde | | liasGroupID | | | Attribute | ntification | | | | | | of the | | | | | mandatory | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | si | Alias | | | | | ngle-valued | Group. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | Pub | read | mandatory | Public User | | ublicIdList | licIdentity | | | Identities | | | | | m | belonging | | | | | ulti-valued | to the | | | | | | alias | | | | | | group. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.2.4 Public Identity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Pub | | | | | Class | licIdentity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Public | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | publicId | Pub | read | Naming | Public | | | licIdentity | | Attribute | Identity of | | | | | | the | | | | | mandatory | subscriber. | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | idType | UInt8 | read | mandatory | Type of | | | | | | Public | | | | | si | Identity. | | | | | ngle-valued | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - IMPU | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - PSI | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | barrin | UInt8 | read | optional | The Barring | | gIndication | | | | Indicator | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | IMPU. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - NOT | | | | | | BARRED | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - BARRED | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imp | UInt32 | read | optional | Ide | | licitRegist | | | | ntification | | ritionSetID | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | Implicit | | | | | | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Set the | | | | | | Public User | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | belongs to. | | | | | | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | only | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | the Public | | | | | | User | | | | | | Identity. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | UInt32 | read | mandatory | Ide | | ceProfileID | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | Service | | | | | | Profile the | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pr | Priv | read | mandatory | Private | | ivateIdList | ateIdentity | | | Identities | | | | | m | the Public | | | | | ulti-valued | Identity is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | registr | UInt8 | read, write | mandatory | The | | ationStatus | | | | r | | | | | m | egistration | | | | | ulti-valued | status | | | | | | related to | | | | | | the Public | | | | | | Identity. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - NOT | | | | | | REGISTERED | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - | | | | | | U | | | | | | NREGISTERED | | | | | | | | | | | | 2 - | | | | | | REGISTERED | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | r | Priv | read, write | optional | Private | | egisteredPr | ateIdentity | | | Identities | | ivateIdList | | | m | the Public | | | | | ulti-valued | Identity is | | | | | | registered | | | | | | with. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | UInt32 | read | optional | Ide | | liasGroupID | | | | ntification | | | | | si | of the | | | | | ngle-valued | Alias Group | | | | | | the public | | | | | | user | | | | | | identity | | | | | | belongs to. | | | | | | It only | | | | | | applies to | | | | | | the Public | | | | | | User | | | | | | Identity. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.2.5 Repository Data
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Rep | | | | | Class | ositoryData | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | Repository | | | | | | Data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servic | String | read, write | Naming | Identifier | | eIndication | | | Attribute | of one set | | | | | | of service | | | | | mandatory | related | | | | | | transparent | | | | | si | data. | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | seq | UInt32 | read, write | optional | Sequence | | uenceNumber | | | | number of | | | | | si | the | | | | | ngle-valued | Repository | | | | | | data | | | | | | updated. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serviceData | OctetString | read, write | optional | The | | | | | | co | | | | | si | rresponding | | | | | ngle-valued | service | | | | | | data. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.2.6 Private Identity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Priv | | | | | Class | ateIdentity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Private | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | privateId | Priv | read | Naming | Private | | | ateIdentity | | Attribute | Identity of | | | | | | the | | | | | mandatory | subscriber. | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | idType | UInt8 | read | mandatory | Type of | | | | | | Public | | | | | si | Identity. | | | | | ngle-valued | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - IMPI | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - PSI | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | Pub | read | mandatory | Public | | ublicIdList | licIdentity | | | Identities | | | | | m | the Private | | | | | ulti-valued | Identity is | | | | | | associated | | | | | | with. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pe | UInt8 | read, write | Optional | The | | ndingStatus | | | | aut | | | | | si | hentication | | | | | ngle-valued | pending | | | | | | flag. | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values: | | | | | | | | | | | | 0 - NOT | | | | | | PENDING | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 - | | | | | | PENGDING | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | lin | OctetString | read | optional | Fixed | | eIdentifier | | | | broadband | | | | | m | access line | | | | | ulti-valued | identifiers | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to the | | | | | | user. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | userName | String | read | optional | The user | | | | | | name | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI, | | | | | | which is | | | | | | used to | | | | | | calculate | | | | | | HA1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | password | String | read | optional | The | | | | | | password | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI, | | | | | | which is | | | | | | used to | | | | | | calculate | | | | | | HA1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Realm | String | read | optional | The | | | | | | password | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI, | | | | | | which is | | | | | | used to | | | | | | calculate | | | | | | HA1 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ipv4Addr | IPv4Address | read | optional | IPv4 | | | | | | address | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI | | | | | | for GIBA. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ipv6Prefix | IPv6Prefix | read | optional | IPv6 prefix | | | | | | related to | | | | | si | the IMPI | | | | | ngle-valued | for GIBA. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | iPv6Addr | IPv6Address | read | optional | IPv6 | | | | | | address | | | | | si | related to | | | | | ngle-valued | the IMPI | | | | | | for GIBA. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.2.7 Reference Location Information
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ReferenceLo | | | | | Class | cationInfor | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for | | | | | | Reference | | | | | | Location | | | | | | Information | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | tbd | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | FE access | Properties | Description | | Name | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | re | UInt8 | read | Naming | Identifier | | ferenceLoca | | | Attribute | of one set | | tionInforId | | | | of | | | | | mandatory | reference | | | | | | location | | | | | si | i | | | | | ngle-valued | nformation. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | accessType | String | read | optional | The type of | | | | | | access | | | | | si | (e.g. | | | | | ngle-valued | ADSL). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | accessInfo | String | read | optional | The type of | | | | | | the access | | | | | si | information | | | | | ngle-valued | (e.g. | | | | | | dsl | | | | | | -location). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | accessValue | String | read | optional | The | | | | | | location | | | | | si | information | | | | | ngle-valued | (e.g. line | | | | | | identifier | | | | | | in fixed | | | | | | access | | | | | | networks). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 12.1.3 Alternative C
#### 12.1.3.1 IMS-Subscription
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | IMS-S | | | | | Class | ubscription | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the root | | | | | | node for | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | | | | | | specific | | | | | | data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | sub | tbd | read | Naming | U | | scriptionId | | | Attribute | DR-Internal | | | | | | ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | of an | | | | | si | IMS-Su | | | | | ngle-valued | bscription. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | share | Boolean | read, write | optional | Indicates | | dIFCsupport | | | si | whether the | | | | | ngle-valued | assigned | | | | | | S-CSCF (if | | | | | | any) | | | | | | supports | | | | | | shared | | | | | | iFCs. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | s | tbd | read | optional | Mandatory | | cscfMandCap | | | | C | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | an S-CSCF | | | | | | must | | | | | | support to | | | | | | serve the | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | scscfOptCap | tbd | read | optional | Optional | | | | | | C | | | | | m | apabilities | | | | | ulti-valued | an S-CSCF | | | | | | may support | | | | | | to serve | | | | | | the | | | | | | s | | | | | | ubscription | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | scscfHost | FQDN | read, write | optional | Diameter | | | | | | Identity of | | | | | single | the | | | | | valued | assigned | | | | | | S-CSCF | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | scscfRealm | FQDN | read, write | optional | Diameter | | | | | | Identity of | | | | | single | the | | | | | valued | assigned | | | | | | S-CSCF | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ccfPrim | FQDN | read | mandatory | Diameter | | | | | single | Identity of | | | | | valued | the Primary | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Collection | | | | | | Function | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ccfSec | FQDN | read | mandatory | Diameter | | | | | single | Identity of | | | | | valued | the | | | | | | Secondary | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Collection | | | | | | Function | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ecfPrim | FQDN | read | mandatory | Diameter | | | | | single | Identity of | | | | | valued | the Primary | | | | | | Event | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Function | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ecfSec | FQDN | read | mandatory | Diameter | | | | | single | Identity of | | | | | valued | the | | | | | | Secondary | | | | | | Event | | | | | | Charging | | | | | | Function | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
###
#### 12.1.3.2 ServiceProfile
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Ser | | | | | Class | viceProfile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | service | | | | | | profiles | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-S | | | | | OCL | ubscription | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | tbd | read | Naming | U | | ceProfileId | | | Attribute | DR-Internal | | | | | | ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | of a | | | | | si | Service | | | | | ngle-valued | Profile. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | shar | tbd | read | optional | List of | | edFilterIDs | | | m | pointers to | | | | | ulti-valued | shared IFCs | | | | | | within | | | | | | CommonData | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | sub | tbd | read | optional | Core | | MediaProfId | | | si | Network | | | | | ngle-valued | Service | | | | | | Aut | | | | | | horization: | | | | | | Subscribed | | | | | | Media | | | | | | Profile Id | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serviceId | tbd | read | optional | Core | | | | | m | Network | | | | | ulti-valued | Service | | | | | | Aut | | | | | | horization: | | | | | | | | | | | | List of | | | | | | Service Ids | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
###
#### 12.1.3.3 Initial Filter Criteria
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Filter | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | user | | | | | | specific | | | | | | filter | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | Ser | | | | | OCL | viceProfile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | i | tbd | read | Naming | U | | nitialFilte | | | Attribute | DR-Internal | | rCriteriaId | | | | ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | of a | | | | | si | Filter. | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pro | tbd | read | optional | Profile | | filePartInd | | | si | Part | | | | | ngle-valued | Indicator | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | priority | tbd | read | optional | Priority | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | applic | tbd | read | optional | SIP URL of | | ationServer | | | si | the | | | | | ngle-valued | Applicatio | | | | | | Server | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | serviceInfo | tbd | read | optional | Service | | | | | si | Information | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | t | tbd | read | optional | The | | riggerPoint | | | | Filter\'s | | | | | si | trigger | | | | | ngle-valued | point | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.3.4 ImplicitRegistrationSet
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | I | | | | | Class | mplicitRegi | | | | | | strationSet | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | Implicit | | | | | | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Sets | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-S | | | | | OCL | ubscription | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imp | tbd | read | Naming | U | | licitRegist | | | Attribute | DR-Internal | | rationSetId | | | | ide | | | | | mandatory | ntification | | | | | | of an | | | | | si | Implicit | | | | | ngle-valued | R | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | Set. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | authentica | Boolean | read, write | mandatory | Authenticat | | tionPending | | | si | ion-Pending | | | | | ngle-valued | flag | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | registr | tbd | read, write | mandatory | R | | ationStatus | | | si | egistration | | | | | ngle-valued | Status | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | priv | tbd | read | mandatory | List of | | ateIdentity | | | m | Private | | | | | ulti-valued | User | | | | | | Identities | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | forbi | tbd | read | optional | pointer to | | ddenPLMNsId | | | si | a list of | | | | | ngle-valued | forbidden | | | | | | PLMNs | | | | | | within | | | | | | CommonData | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.3.5 PublicIdentity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Pub | | | | | Class | licIdentity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | IMS Public | | | | | | Identities | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | I | | | | | OCL | mplicitRegi | | | | | | strationSet | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | pub | tbd | read | Naming | Public User | | licIdentity | | | Attribute | Identity or | | | | | | Public | | | | | mandatory | Service | | | | | | Identity | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | barr | Boolean | read | mandatory | Indicates | | edIndicator | | | si | whether the | | | | | ngle-valued | Pub | | | | | | licIdentity | | | | | | is barred | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | defau | Boolean | read | mandatory | Indicates | | ltIndicator | | | si | whether the | | | | | ngle-valued | public | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | the default | | | | | | public | | | | | | identity | | | | | | within the | | | | | | implicit | | | | | | regi | | | | | | strationset | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | tbd | read | optional | Name of the | | ceProfileId | | | si | service | | | | | ngle-valued | profile | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to the | | | | | | public | | | | | | identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | displayName | tbd | read | optional | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | aliasId | tbd | read | optional | Identifies | | | | | si | the alias | | | | | ngle-valued | group to | | | | | | which the | | | | | | public | | | | | | identity | | | | | | belongs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | p | Boolean | read | mandatory | Indicates | | siIndicator | | | si | whether the | | | | | ngle-valued | public | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | a PSI | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.3.6 RepositoryData
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Rep | | | | | Class | ositoryData | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | Repository | | | | | | Data | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | Pub | | | | | OCL | licIdentity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servic | tbd | create, | Naming | Identifies | | eIndication | | delete | Attribute | the | | | | | | Transparent | | | | | mandatory | Data | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | version | tbd | read, write | mandatory | Version of | | | | | si | the | | | | | ngle-valued | Transparent | | | | | | Data | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | data | tbd | read, write | optional | Transparent | | | | | si | Data | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.3.7 AliasGroup
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | AliasGroup | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | Alias | | | | | | Groups | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | I | | | | | OCL | mplicitRegi | | | | | | strationSet | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | a | tbd | read | Naming | Identifies | | liasGroupId | | | Attribute | the Alias | | | | | | Group | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | servi | tbd | read | mandatory | Name of the | | ceProfileId | | | si | service | | | | | ngle-valued | profile | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to the | | | | | | alias group | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 12.1.3.8 PrivateIdentity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | Priv | | | | | Class | ateIdentity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | Private | | | | | | Identities | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-S | | | | | OCL | ubscription | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | STRUCTURAL | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | top | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | priv | tbd | read | Naming | Identifies | | ateIdentity | | | Attribute | the Private | | | | | | Identity | | | | | mandatory | | | | | | | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | authScheme | tbd | read | mandatory | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | imsi | tbd | read | optional | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | digestHa1 | tbd | read | optional | | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 12.1.4 Alternative D
#### 12.1.4.1 IMS Private Identity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ImsImpi | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for IMS | | | | | | Private | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ImsImpiId | tbd | Read | Naming | This | | | | | Attribute | attribute | | | | | | identifies | | | | | Mandatory | this Object | | | | | | Class. | | | | | Si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ImsPassw | String | Read | Optional | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | contains | | | | | ngle-valued | the | | | | | | password to | | | | | | be used for | | | | | | SIP Digest | | | | | | aut | | | | | | hentication | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Ims | Enumerated | Read | Mandatory | This | | AuthSchMask | | | | attribute | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | IMS | | | | | | supported | | | | | | aut | | | | | | hentication | | | | | | mechanisms. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | I | Boolean | Read | Mandatory | This | | msRoamAllow | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | whether the | | | | | | user is | | | | | | allowed to | | | | | | roam. | | | | | | | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values are: | | | | | | | | | | | | TRUE -- The | | | | | | user is | | | | | | allowed to | | | | | | roam | | | | | | | | | | | | FALSE -- | | | | | | The user is | | | | | | not allowed | | | | | | to roam | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Editor's note: some more attributes in this object class are FFS.
#### 12.1.4.2 IMS Public Identity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | ImsImpu | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for IMS | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IMPU | tbd | Read | Naming | This | | | | | Attribute | attribute | | | | | | identifies | | | | | Mandatory | this Object | | | | | | Class | | | | | Si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | I | tbd | Read | Optional | This | | msAssocImpi | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | the Private | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to this | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Im | String | Read | Optional | This | | sServProfId | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | the Service | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to this IMS | | | | | | Public | | | | | | | | | | | | Identity. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A | String | Read | Optional | This | | liasGroupId | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | identifies | | | | | ngle-valued | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | Alias | | | | | | Group, if | | | | | | any. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ImsIrs | UInt16 | Read | Mandatory | This | | | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | to which | | | | | | implicit | | | | | | r | | | | | | egistration | | | | | | set (IRS) | | | | | | the IMS | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | belongs to. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5], | | | | | | section | | | | | | 3.1.6. | | | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | | Public | | | | | | Identity | | | | | | does not | | | | | | belong to | | | | | | an IRS, the | | | | | | value of | | | | | | this | | | | | | attribute | | | | | | shall be 0. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Ims | Boolean | Read | Mandatory | This | | SessBarrInd | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | whether the | | | | | | IMPU is | | | | | | barred for | | | | | | session | | | | | | est | | | | | | ablishment. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5], | | | | | | section | | | | | | 3.1.3. | | | | | | | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values are: | | | | | | | | | | | | TRUE -- | | | | | | Identity is | | | | | | barred | | | | | | | | | | | | FALSE -- | | | | | | Identity is | | | | | | not barred | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | I | Boolean | Read | Mandatory | This | | msIsDefault | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | whether | | | | | | this Public | | | | | | Identity is | | | | | | the default | | | | | | one within | | | | | | the IRS. | | | | | | See 3GPP TS | | | | | | 23.008 | | | | | | [5], | | | | | | section | | | | | | 3.1.7. | | | | | | | | | | | | Possible | | | | | | values are: | | | | | | | | | | | | TRUE -- The | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | the default | | | | | | within the | | | | | | IRS | | | | | | | | | | | | FALSE -- | | | | | | The | | | | | | identity is | | | | | | not the | | | | | | default | | | | | | within the | | | | | | IRS | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Editor's note: some more attributes in this object class are FFS.
#### 12.1.4.3 IMS Service Profile
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | IMS | | | | | Class | Ser | | | | | | viceProfile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Service | | | | | | Profile | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Im | String | Read | Naming | This | | sServProfId | | | Attribute | attribute | | | | | | identifies | | | | | Mandatory | this Object | | | | | | Class | | | | | si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A | String | Read | Optional | This | | liasGroupId | | | | attribute | | | | | Si | identifies | | | | | ngle-valued | co | | | | | | rresponding | | | | | | Alias | | | | | | Group, if | | | | | | any. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Editor's note: some more attributes in this object class are FFS.
#### 12.1.4.4 Alias Group
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Object | AliasGroup | | | | | Class | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Description | This class | | | | | | represents | | | | | | the Data | | | | | | Container | | | | | | for Alias | | | | | | Group | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Superior | IMS-Data | | | | | OCL | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Class Type | tbd | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Direct | tbd | | | | | Sup | | | | | | erclass(es) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Attribute | Type | HSS-FE | Properties | Description | | Name | | access | | | | | | rights | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | A | String | Read | Naming | This | | liasGroupId | | | Attribute | attribute | | | | | | identifies | | | | | Mandatory | this Object | | | | | | Class | | | | | Si | | | | | | ngle-valued | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Im | String | read | Mandatory | This | | sServProfId | | | | attribute | | | | | si | indicates | | | | | ngle-valued | the Service | | | | | | Profile | | | | | | associated | | | | | | to this | | | | | | Alias | | | | | | Group. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Editor's note: some more attributes in this object class are FFS.
## 12.2 Directory Information Tree
### 12.2.1 Alternative A
Figure 12.2.1-1: DIT Structure for IMS-Data with Alternative A
CoreNet-SubscribedMediaProfileId and CoreNet-ServiceIdList are optional
attributes in Service Profile entry.
The dotted arrow indicates the relationship between PublicIdentity and
PrivateIdentity which is expressed by the attributes PrivateIdList and
PublicIdList.
Multiple instances of ReferenceLocInfo (refLocInfo=xxx) is for future
releases.
Editor's note: The superior structural object class for IMS-Data and some more
detailed object classes are FFS.
Editor's note: Multiplicity and definition of IMSAuthData as entry are FFS.
### 12.2.2 Alternative B
Figure 12.2.2-1: DIT Structure for IMS-Data with Alternative B
CoreNet-SubscribedMediaProfileId, CoreNet-ServiceIdList and
SharedFilterCriteriaSets are optional attributes in Service Profile entry.
The dotted arrow indicates the relationship between PublicIdentity and
PrivateIdentity which is expressed by the attributes PrivateIdList and
PublicIdList.
Multiple instances of ReferenceLocInfo (refLocInfo=xxx) is for future
releases.
### 12.2.3 Alternative C
Figure 12.2.3-1: DIT Structure for IMS-Data with Alternative C
Editor's note: The concept of multiple IMS-Subscriptions within IMS-Data needs
further study.
If an ImplicitRegistrationSet contains a PublicIdentity which is a PSI then it
shall not contain any other PublicIdentity.
If an ImplicitRegistrationSet contains a single PublicIdentity, this Public
Identity is not implicitly registered with any other Public Identity and
therefore in stage 2 terms is not considered to belong to an Implicit
Registration Set.
### 12.2.4 Alternative D
Figure 12.2.4-1: DIT Structure for IMS-Data with Alternative D
Editor's note: The superior structural object class for IMS-Data and some more
detailed object classes are FFS.
## 12.3 UML model
This section covers the information model for IMS Data and all its permanent
data entities. The term IMS Data may also include temporary data as shown in
the corresponding DITs.
Some data entities are already defined in 3GPP TS 32.182 [3].
Figure 12.3-1 covers some basic IMS entities with two possible approaches:
  * Approach A: where IMPU and PSI are considered as different basic entities;
  * Approach B: where a Public Identity basic IMS entity may identify a Public User Identity or a Public Service Identity and a Private Identity basic IMS entity may identify a Private User Identity or a Private Service Identity. The rational of Approach B is that Public User Identity and Public Service Identity have many common points. They have the same inheritance diagram with SIP URI or Tel URI. Public User Identity or Public Service Identity have compatible associations with other entities such as IMS Data or IMS Service profile. This modelling reduces the number of IMS basic entities and associations. Then, the differentiation between a Public User Identity and a Public Service Identity may be done by an attribute within the Public identity.
Editor's notes: It is for further study to identify the most suited approach
according to the further model inputs, or if a common modelling can cover the
two approaches.
Figure 12.3-1A Information model for some IMS entities with approach A
Figure 12.3-1B Information model for some IMS entities with approach B
Figure 12.3-2 covers IMS Public User Identity and its relationship with other
IMS data entities.
Figure 12.3-2 Information model for IMS Public User Identity and some
surrounding entities
Figure 12.3-3 covers IMS Public Service Identity and its relationship with
other IMS data entities.
Figure 12.3-3 Information model for IMS Public Service Identity and some
surrounding entities
Figure 12.3-4 covers IMS Public User Identity Implicit Registration Set and
its relationship with Alias Group, and IMS Public User Identity.
NOTE: Alias Group is used as a simplification of the 3GPP TS 23.228 defined
term Alias Public User Identities. In 3GPP TS 23.228 this is referred
sometimes as well as Alias Public User Identity Group or Alias Public User
Identity Set.
Following constrains apply:
  * All Public User Identities of an Implicit Registration set must be associated to the same Private User Identities.
  * Each IMPU can only be included in one Alias Group
Figure 12.3-4 Information model for IMS Public User Identity Implicit
Registration Set and its relationship with IMS Public User Identity and Alias
Group
Figure 12.3-5 covers IMS Data and its relationship with Public Identity that
provides coherence between approach A and approach B, since IMPU and PSI are
derived entities from the more generic Public Identity
The figure implies that a Public Identity can not exist without IMS Data. On
the other hand, IMS Data is defined for IMPU(s) or PSI(s), but not for both at
the same time.
Figure 12.3-5 Information model for Public Identity
Figure 12.3-6 covers IMS Alias Group information model.
Figure 12.3-6 Information model for Alias Group
###### ### Annex \ (informative):
#