# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
## Motivation
The definition of GPRS class A mode of operation in Release 97 assumes a total
independence between the CS and PS domains. Thus the direct implementation of
the existent standards for class A would result in mobile stations that are
required to operate in two different frequencies either in the same timeslot,
in timeslots _n_ and _n_ \+ 3 or their adjacent ones. This complicates
enormously the internal architecture of the ME, resulting in a very high
development cost, which both operators and manufacturers would prefer to
avoid.
Nevertheless, operators have expressed their need for this type of mobiles,
since they want to offer services that demand the simultaneous existence of a
CS connection and a PS session. This is particularly important during the
coexistence of GSM/GPRS with UMTS, as these capabilities will exist in UMTS.
However, UMTS coverage may not be available in some areas where there is
GSM/GPRS coverage (e.g. deep inside buildings or when roaming to a 2G
network). As coverage is a vital service, in order for an operator to be able
to sell \"UMTS class A services\" it is necessary to be able to imitate class
A services in areas of only GSM coverage. On the other hand, the provision of
class A services with GERAN technology is also essential for operators without
UMTS coverage.
## Concept basis
A constant aim throughout this document is to reuse the existing functionality
when possible, in order to minimise the impact on current implementations. In
general, the changes proposed have little impact on the core network elements
(i.e. MSC and SGSN) and 3G TS 24.008 [11].
The solution outlined in this document overcomes the restrictions mentioned
above and makes possible to have simultaneous CS and PS active connections.
This is achieved by sending PS data (signalling and user data)
\- on the timeslot use by the CS connection
\- on timeslot(s) not used by the CS connection
The possible timeslot configurations are based on two restrictions in Release
99:
\- the number of timeslots allocated to the CS connection is limited to one;
\- the timeslots allocated in each direction are contiguous.
More flexible proposals are left for further study. In addition, for the
definition of DTM multislot classes, the restrictions in 3G TS 45.002 [6] for
multislot capabilities shall apply.
Figure 1 shows an example of a multislot configuration (2 uplink, 3 downlink).
{width="3.25in" height="1.875in"}
Figure 1: Example of multislot configuration of a GPRS _simple\_ class A
mobile station in dual transfer mode.
In a similar manner to UMTS, the A interface is modified so that the BSC knows
the IMSI associated with each SCCP connection to the MSC. This means that the
BSC is able to ensure that \'packet paging\' messages can be delivered to
mobile stations which have a connection to the MSC. The same functionality can
be reused to deliver MSC originated pages to mobiles in packet transfer mode
while the network is in mode of operation II (i.e. no Gs interface).
Mobility management is basically the same as is specified in 3GPP TS 23.060
[9] for class A mobiles, but using the same techniques as UMTS for control of
\"in connection\" cell, routeing area and location area updates (e.g. System
Information 6 message is extended to contain the Routing Area Code).
If GPRS signalling needs to be sent during a standalone voice call, then it is
proposed that these LLC frames can be sent on the main DCCH (FACCH or SDCCH)
with layer 2 SAPI 0. This uses a new Protocol Discriminator in 3GPP TS 24.007
for LLC: GTTP (GPRS Transparent Transport Protocol). The use of the main DCCH
for GPRS signalling is subject to certain restrictions to reduce the harm to
the speech quality.
Inter-BSC handover is planned to be controlled by A interface signalling. The
_Old BSS to New BSS_ information element is used to indicate to the target BSC
that the mobile station is in DTM.
DTM Handover procedure is realized by utilizing in parallel the handover
procedures that are defined in 3GPP TS43.129 [13] for the PS domain and in
3GPP TS 23.009 [14] for the CS domain.
## Class A mode of operation
For paging, the behaviour of the mobile station is as in class B mode of
operation: the PCH takes priority to PPCH, and both to CBCH.
The implementation described in this document also applies the restriction
that the mobile station shall not be required to operate in two different
frequencies in the same moment in time. However, GSM CS and GSM GPRS services
will be still supported simultaneously. Thus, the feature here described is a
subset of the GPRS class A capabilities.
The mentioned subset will be referred as DTM.
The specification of an _unrestricted_ class A mode of operation that requires
the mobile station to operate in different frequencies simultaneously shall
not be forbidden.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a description of the practical implementation of GSM-
GPRS class A mobiles and a basis for discussion on the changes and additions
to the current specifications.
This work is part of the Release 99 Work Item \"BSS co-ordination of Radio
Resource allocation for class A GPRS services - GSM Radio Access (R99)\" for
which M Mouly of Nortel Networks is rapporteur. This work item was supported
by Nortel, Motorola, Vodafone and Lucent.
In the following, GPRS refers to EGPRS, EGPRS2 and GPRS unless explicitly
stated otherwise.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \" Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications \".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 1\".
[3] 3GPP TS 44.013: \"Performance requirements on the mobile radio
interface\".
[4] 3GPP TS 44.018: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification, Radio
Resource Control Protocol\".
[5] 3GPP TS 44.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Mobile Station (MS)
- Base Station System (BSS) interface; Radio Link Control/ Medium Access
Control (RLC/MAC) protocol\".
[6] 3GPP TS 45.002: \"Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path\".
[7] 3GPP TS 45.008: \"Radio subsystem link control\".
[8] 3GPP TS 45.010: \"Radio subsystem synchronization\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and System Aspects; General Packet Radio Service
(GPRS); Service description; Stage 2\".
[10] 3GPP TS 23.121: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Services and Systems Aspects; Architectural Requirements
for Release 1999\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network; Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3;
General aspects\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Universal Mobile
Telecommunications System; Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification, Core
Network Protocols - Stage 3\".
[13] 3GPP TS 43.129: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Packet-switched
handover for GERAN A/Gb mode; Stage 2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.009: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Core Network and Terminals; Handover procedures; Stage
2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Radio Access Network; Radio Resource Control (RRC);
Protocol Specification\".
[16] 3GPP TS 25.413: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group Radio Access Network; UTRAN Iu interface RANAP
signaling\".
[17] 3GPP TS 48.008: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; Mobile Switching Centre -
Base Station System (MSC-BSS) interface; Layer 3 specification\".
[18] 3GPP TS 48.018: \"3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network; General Packet Radio
Service (GPRS); Base Station System (BSS) - Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN);
BSS GPRS Protocol (BSSGP)\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.216: \"Single Radio Voice Call Continuity (SRVCC);Stage 2\"
[20] 3GPP TS 23.251: \"Network Sharing; Architecture and functional
description\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Dual transfer mode:** It is only applicable for a mobile station that
supports GPRS. A mobile station in dual transfer mode has resources for an RR
connection and is simultaneously[^1] allocated resources for one or more TBFs,
provided that the BSS co-ordinates its allocation of radio resources. DTM is
optional both for the mobile station and the network. A DTM mobile is a class
A mobile. Hence all specifications/requirements for class A apply to this
mobile unless specifically altered by the present document. The procedures
specified for dedicated and packet transfer modes apply to a mobile station in
dual transfer mode unless specifically altered by the present document.
**Class A/class B:** In the present document \"class A\" and \"class B\" is
used as a short form of \"class A mode of operation\" and \"class B mode of
operation\", respectively.
**DTM Handover** : DTM handover is introduced in order to support the parallel
handover of circuit-switched and packet-switched domains of a mobile station
in dual transfer mode or RRC connected mode, from a source cell to a target
cell. The procedures specified for circuit-switched handover (see 3GPP TS
23.009 [14]) and packet-switched handover (see 3GPP TS 43.129 [13]) apply to
DTM handover unless specifically altered by the present document.
**Network sharing:** network sharing is an optional feature that allows
different core network operators to connect to the same shared radio access
network (see 3GPP TS 23.251 [20]). When network sharing is in use within a
given cell, the network broadcasts within system information the PLMN
identities of the PLMNs sharing the cell. A mobile station supporting network
sharing uses this information for its PLMN (re)selection processes and
indicates the selected PLMN to the BSS. When GERAN specifications have
statements referring to network sharing support/non-support, this refers to
whether or not the MS supports GERAN network sharing and (unless specified
otherwise) are not related to support of network sharing on other RATs.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
CS Circuit Switched
CN Core Network
DTM Dual Transfer Mode
PS Packet Switched
RAT Radio Access Technology
# 4 Class A capabilities
## 4.1 Main DCCH with SAPI=0
### 4.1.1 General
The main DCCH (with layer 2 SAPI=0) is used for GSM signalling. GPRS
signalling shall be able to use this resource. User data shall not be sent on
the main DCCH.
The use of the main DCCH is only allowed when the mobile station is in
dedicated mode. In dual transfer mode (i.e. the mobile station has resources
allocated for an RR connection and for one or more TBFs), the main DCCH shall
not be used and the current procedures described in 3GPP TS 44.060 [5] apply.
When upper layers request to send a message uplink, the mobile station shall
send the message on the main DCCH if:
\- the mobile station is in dedicated mode;
\- the information contained in the message is signalling; and
\- the number of LAPDm frames is smaller than a certain value specified by the
network. When the parameter defining the maximum number of LAPDm frames has
not been received by the MS in the serving cell (e.g. immediately after a
handover), the MS assumes the default value defined in 3GPP TS 44.018
Otherwise, the mobile station shall request an uplink TBF as specified in 3GPP
TS 44.018 [4]. Even though the mobile station shall not send messages on the
main DCCH in dual transfer mode, the network shall not reject the received
messages.
NOTE: This is needed to prevent erroneous cases caused by race conditions
(e.g. if an uplink message sent on the main DCCH is not completely
acknowledged on layer 2 level by the network before the mobile station leaves
the dedicated mode and enters the dual transfer mode, the network would reject
the message).
On the other hand, the network should not use the main DCCH to send messages
that exceed the maximum length specified for the uplink. The mobile station,
however, shall not reject messages that exceed the maximum length. Similarly,
the network should not use the main DCCH when the mobile station is in dual
transfer mode, although the mobile station shall not reject the received
messages.
NOTE: This is needed to prevent erroneous cases caused by race conditions
(e.g. if the mobile station leaves the dedicated mode and enters the dual
transfer mode at the same time as the network sends a downlink message on the
main DCCH, the mobile station would reject the message).
### 4.1.2 MS-SGSN tunnelling
The GPRS information from upper layers (i.e. GMM or SM) is always sent inside
an LLC frame. This LLC frame can now be passed down:
\- to RLC and transmitted on a TBF; or
\- to RR, if the MS is in dedicated mode, and transmitted on the main DCCH.
The procedures for the transmission of an LLC frame via RLC are defined in
3GPP TS 44.060 [5]. The procedures for the transmission of an LLC frame on the
main DCCH are defined in 3GPP TS 44.018 [4]. The new tunnelling mechanism for
the transmission of the LLC frame is shown graphically in figure 2.
{width="4.675in" height="2.1666666666666665in"}
Figure 2: Transmission of an LLC PDU on the main DCCH
In the uplink, the LLC PDU is inserted in a new Layer 3 message[^2]. This
Layer 3 message is sent to the BSC on the main DCCH, with the existing Layer 2
mechanisms. The BTS re-assemblies the Layer 3 message and sends it to the BSC.
The BSC extracts the TLLI and the LLC PDU, which are then put into a BSSGP UL-
UNITDATA.
In the downlink, when the BSS receives a downlink BSSGP PDU, it can identify:
\- if the PDU contains signalling information (\"T bit\" in the QoS profile
IE);
\- if the length of the LLC PDU meets the requirements; and
\- if it has an RR connection to the addressed MS (with the IMSI);
in which case, it sends the LLC using the same procedure as described above.
If any of the conditions above is not met, the BSC sends the information on a
downlink TBF.
## 4.2 Single slot operation
### 4.2.1 General
A mobile station in dual transfer mode has one timeslot allocated for the CS
services. It is possible to reuse the same timeslot for the transmission of
GPRS signalling and user data.
It is desirable to be able to use the same timeslot as the CS connection for
GPRS data, due to the impossibility for the network to allocate a TBF in some
circumstances (e.g. congested cell, multislot capabilities not supported in
the serving cell).
The proposed solution for single timeslot operation is the \"TCH/H + PDCH/H\"
configuration (see 3GPP TS 45.002 [6]).
### 4.2.2 TCH/H + PDCH/H
A \"TCH/H + PDCH/H\" configuration implies the multiplexing of CS information
and RLC/MAC blocks in the same timeslot of the TDMA frame. Which domain uses
each half shall be flexible and indicated in the assignment command.
On the \'TCH/H\' part, the support of AMR as the speech codec is mandatory.
Support of other circuit switched half rate traffic channels are indicated in
the bearer capability IE (see 3GPP TS 24.008).
The PDCH/H is a resource dedicated to the mobile station in both directions.
For instance, if an uplink TBF is established, the network may send a control
message in any of the downlink blocks. No downlink data, however, shall be
sent without a previous downlink assignment.
The existent RLC/MAC block format is used. In the downlink, the mobile station
shall only pass to upper layers those blocks with the TFI indicated in the
assignment message. In the uplink, the mobile station may transmit in any of
the blocks of the PDCH/H, irrespective of the USF in the previous blocks in
the dynamic allocation case, if the USF was present in the (uplink) assignment
message. The mobile station, however, stores the USF for possible multislot
configurations where dynamic allocation is supported.
The PDCH/H can be used for both GPRS signalling and user data. A PDCH/H shall
not be assigned to a DTM capable mobile station in packet transfer mode.
Apart from the different mapping onto physical resources, the PDCH/H has the
same characteristics as a PDCH/F. A PDCH/H is always used in exclusive
allocation.
If a mobile station and the network support multiple TBF procedures (see 3GPP
TS 44.060) and the mobile station is DTM capable, the network may establish
multiple downlink TBFs using the PDCH/H. Only one uplink TBF may be
established on a PDCH/H since exclusive allocation is used.
## 4.3 Multislot operation
### 4.3.1 General
In multislot operation, the packet data is sent on one or more PDCHs. The
number of timeslots (i.e. PDCHs) used to carry packet data is decided by the
network after taking into account the DTM multislot capabilities supported by
the mobile station.
### 4.3.2 Shared PDCH
The PDCH/F may be shared with other GPRS mobile stations. The existent
procedures in 3GPP TS 44.060 [5] apply. In the case of GPRS, EGPRS and EGPRS2
MSs multiplexed on the same PDCH, the same restrictions as described in 3GPP
TS 44.060 [5] shall apply.
If a mobile station and the network support multiple TBF procedures (see 3GPP
TS 44.060) and the mobile station is DTM capable, the network may establish
multiple downlink TBFs for that mobile station using one or more shared PDCHs.
In this case the mobile station may request the establishment of multiple
uplink TBFs and the network may allocate uplink TBF resources on one or more
shared PDCHs.
### 4.3.3 Exclusive use of PDCH/H
The PDCH/H shall not be shared with other GPRS mobile stations. An uplink
PDCH/H shall be assigned in exclusive mode, where the correspondent mobile
station is always granted the right to transmit. The existent RLC/MAC block
structure shall be kept. The procedures specified in 3GPP TS 44.060 [5] shall
apply.
Despite the dedicated characteristics of the uplink PDCH/H, the network shall
allocate and use a valid USF, in order to satisfy the signalling requirements
defined in 3GPP TS 44.060 [5].
### 4.3.4 TCH/H + PDCH/F
For this configuration, on the \'TCH/H\' part the support of AMR as the speech
codec is mandatory. Support of other circuit switched half rate traffic
channels is indicated in the Bearer Capability IE (see 3GPP TS 24.008).
### 4.3.5 Dual Carrier in the Downlink
DTM configurations which use two radio frequency channels in the downlink
shall obey the following restrictions:
\- Uplink PDCHs shall be assigned on the same radio frequency channel as the
uplink CS timeslot.
\- Only EGPRS or EGPRS2 TBFs shall be assigned to the packet resources.
## 4.4 Bearer capability
The decision of which of the class A capabilities shall be used shall be
always made by the network after considering:
\- the supported capabilities (by both the network and the mobile station);
\- the type of data to be sent;
\- the length of the data; and
\- the requested QoS parameters;
shows the GPRS data supported by the different class A capabilities.
Table 1: Support of GPRS data by the different class A capabilities
+---------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+-----+ | Bearer | Main DCCH | Single slot | **Multislot | | | | | operation | operation** | | | GPRS data | with SAPI 0 | | | | +---------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+-----+ | GPRS | Short frames | Yes | Yes | Yes | | signalling | | | | | +---------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+-----+ | | Long frames | No | | | +---------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+-----+ | User data | No | | | | +---------------+--------------+---------------+---------------+-----+
NOTE: The use of the main DCCH with SAPI 0 has the following properties:
\- it delays RR commands;
\- it harms speech quality;
\- it places load onto the A-bis LAPD signalling links;
\- it has a maximum length of 251 bytes.
## 4.5 Indication of the DTM capabilities supported by the MS
### 4.5.1 Definition of MS DTM classes
#### 4.5.1.1 MS DTM classes
Different mobile stations may support different DTM capabilities and thus they
need to be communicated to the network so that they can be taken into account
for the allocation of radio resources. The DTM multislot capabilities are
independent from the currently defined 3GPP TS 45.002 multislot capabilities.
When EGPRS is supported, DTM multislot capability for EGPRS operation
(applicable also to EGPRS2 operation if supported) is indicated independently
from DTM multislot capability for GPRS operation.
DTM multislot classes 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 31 to 33, 36 to 38 and 41 to 44 are
defined in this release (see 3GPP TS 45.002 [6]). Classes 31 to 33, 36 to 38
and 41 to 44 are supported only by mobile stations supporting DTM High
Multislot Class capability.
#### 4.5.1.2 Use of full and half rate
The mix of full and half rate packet data channels is not allowed in the
uplink. This mix is only defined for the downlink direction and only supported
by mobile stations indicating support for Extended GPRS DTM Multi Slot Class
or Extended EGPRS DTM Multi Slot Class respectively (See 3GPP TS 24.008). The
half rate packet data channel is only allowed on the same time slot as the
circuit switched channel. Due to the different rate of the full and half rate
channels used for GPRS during DTM, the network shall take care that the
RLC/MAC blocks are sent in such an order that the reception is in sequence
when using RLC unacknowledged mode.
#### 4.5.1.3 Incremental support
In order to reduce the number of possibilities and the length of the coding,
incremental support shall be used; that is, a mobile station that supports a
certain level of capabilities shall support the capabilities of the less
restrictive DTM classes. Annex B defines the incremental support for mobile
stations supporting Extended DTM GPRS Multi Slot Class or Extended DTM EGPRS
Multi Slot Class. For other mobile stations supporting DTM, the implicit
support of the less restrictive DTM classes shall be as indicated in Figure
2a; for these mobile stations the single slot DTM operation is optional and
supported if indicated by Single Slot DTM capability bit in the MS Classmark 3
and MS Radio Access Capability IEs.
Figure 2a -- Incremental support of DTM multislot classes
### 4.5.2 Options
The support of the following four capabilities has to be indicated
independently from the DTM class:
**\- Single Slot DTM** : single slot DTM operation supported or not;
**\- E-GPRS** : supported or not;
**\- Enhanced CS establishment and release** : supported or not;
**\- DTM Handover:** supported or not.
The mobile station also indicates support of the following capabilities which,
if supported, require the indication of an additional DTM class:
**\- Extended DTM** : supported or not. If supported, the Extended DTM
multislot class shall also be indicated; a separate indication is provided for
GPRS and EGPRS;
**\- DTM High Multislot Class** : supported or not. If supported, the DTM high
multislot class shall also be indicated; a separate indication is provided for
GPRS and EGPRS.
In addition the following rules apply:
\- exclusive allocation in the PDCH/H shall always be used; a mobile station
supporting E-GPRS shall support GPRS.
## 4.6 Indication of the capabilities
The mobile station DTM class is indicated in the MS Classmark 3 IE and MS
Radio Access Capability IE. The absence of this information shall indicate
that the mobile station does not support simple class A (i.e. either it
supports _unrestricted_ class A or it cannot operate in mode of operation A at
all). The support of enhanced CS establishment and release is indicated in the
MS Classmark 3 and MS Radio Access Capability IEs. For mobile stations
supporting DTM High Multislot Class capability, the mobile station DTM high
multislot class is indicated in the MS Classmark 3 and MS Radio Access
Capability IEs. The support of DTM handover is indicated in the MS Radio
Access Capability and MS Classmark 3 IEs.
## 4.7 Compatibility issues
The mobile station shall indicate in its capabilities whether it is DTM
capable or not and if so whether it supports enhanced CS establishment and
release or not. The mobile station shall indicate in the MS Radio Access
Capability and MS Classmark 3 IEs whether or not it supports DTM Handover. The
network shall not allocate resources for DTM operation unless the mobile is
DTM capable. The network shall not use enhanced CS establishment (respectively
release) unless the mobile supports it. The network shall not use DTM Handover
procedures unless the mobile station also supports it. The resources allocated
by the network shall meet the requirements imposed by the classmark.
The network indicates on the BCCH or PBCCH whether or not the cell supports
DTM and if so whether or not it supports enhanced CS establishment and
release. It shall also indicate it on the SACCH for DTM capable mobile
stations in dedicated mode or dual transfer mode. It may also indicate it on
the PACCH for DTM capable mobile stations in packet transfer mode. A cell
level indication is needed because adjacent BTSs may be in the same RA and LA
but may be parented by different BSCs (from different vendors or different
releases). The indication in the SACCH is needed to enable/suppress the
transmission of packet resource requests when the mobile is in dedicated mode
and cannot read the BCCH data. A mobile station shall not attempt to enter the
DTM unless DTM is supported in the cell.
The network shall allocate resources taking into account the capabilities
commonly supported with the mobile station. In order to avoid situations where
both the mobile station and the network are DTM capable but no class A
capabilities are shared, a _core set_ of capabilities has been defined and
shall be supported by the mobile station and the network, consisting of:
\- the main DCCH with SAPI 0 for GPRS signalling, with a length restriction
controlled by the network;
\- the TCH/F + PDCH/F configuration (DTM multislot class 5).
In addition, the mobile station supporting DTM shall support TCH/H + PDCH/F
configuration with AMR-HR.
# 5 Layer 1
Some modifications or extra requirements affect layer 1 areas:
1\. Timing advance;
2\. Measurement reporting;
3\. Power control.
These issues are dealt with in the following clauses.
## 5.1 Timing advance
A mobile station in DTM shall disable the timing advance features for the GPRS
side:
\- the mobile station shall inhibit the transmission of timing advance access
bursts;
\- the mobile station shall ignore the reception of GPRS timing advance
messages, if any.
The reporting period and the SACCH message block shall be the same as though
the mobile station was in dedicated mode.
## 5.2 Measurement reporting
The mobile station shall continue to send measurement reports for the circuit
switched part, but GPRS measurement reports shall not be sent. The mobile
station shall be able to send extended measurement reports when commanded by
the network.
## 5.3 Power control in multislot operation
### 5.3.1 General
The difference of C/I requirements and the possibility of using different
coding schemes in both domains may result in a difference in the power used in
adjacent timeslots. This difference in power needs further consideration,
which it is done in the following clauses.
### 5.3.2 Uplink multislot power control
On the network side, there is no restriction for the difference of power
received in adjacent timeslots.
On the mobile station side, the power control in different timeslots shall be
independent and with no restriction for the difference of power transmitted in
adjacent timeslots.
The MS shall measure the signal strength of each radio block monitored by the
MS. The C value used for the uplink power control is achieved by filtering the
signal strength with a running average filter. Upon the change from one RR
mode to another, the filtering shall be restarted if there is no valid C value
available. In case the mobile station and the network support enhanced DTM CS
establishment procedure, when entering DTM from packet transfer mode, the
filtering shall continue from the C value obtained during packet transfer mode
(see 3GPP TS 45.008[7]).
In single timeslot operation, the power control for both domains is performed
on the SACCH.
### 5.3.3 Downlink multislot power control
On the network side, there is no restriction for the difference of power
transmitted in adjacent timeslots.
As in normal GPRS power control and in addition to the cells present in SI5,
the mobile station shall also perform measurements of the serving cell if the
FH sequence does not include the BCCH carrier.
In DTM multislot configurations, if the BTS output power for the CS timeslot
is not within the range from the maximum downlink power allowed for the MS on
the PS timeslot(s) to a power level 10 dB lower, the MS is not required to
fulfil the requirements in 3GPP TS 45.005 on the CS timeslot and/or the PS
timeslot(s).
# 6 Signalling procedures
## 6.1 Establishment
### 6.1.1 General
The existent establishment procedures for class A mode of operation rely on
the capability of the mobile station to be able to operate in different
frequencies in the same timeslot, e.g. to listen to the (P)BCCH while in
dedicated mode. New procedures need to be added to the specifications to allow
mobile stations without such capabilities to be able to enter the dual
transfer mode.
The new cases are marked with \"\" in table 1 and explained in detail in this
clause.
Table 2: Summary of establishment cases
* * *
                     Requested                                                   
                     CS                     PS                                   
                                            MO   MT                              
                                                 Ready state     Standby state
Active Nothing Normal establishment  
CS Engaged     
PS MO  Same TBF Normal: PACCH Not applicable MT Normal: PACCH Same TBF
* * *
### 6.1.2 PS establishment while in dedicated mode
#### 6.1.2.1 Principles
The mobile station may request packet resources while in dedicated mode by
sending the **DTM Request** message to enter the dual transfer mode.
Two DTM assignment messages are defined:
\- the **DTM Assignment Command** message: this message shall describe both
the CS and packet resources when a reallocation of the CS resource is needed,
e.g. when a multislot configuration cannot be accommodated or when an \"TCH/H
+ PDCH/H\" configuration is to be used.
\- the **Packet Assignment** message: this message describes the allocated
packet resources when no reallocation of the CS resource is necessary, e.g. on
an adjacent timeslot.
A mobile station that supports multiple TBF procedures can determine whether
or not the network supports multiple TBF procedures by reading the _GPRS Cell
Options_ IE included within the DTM Assignment Command and the Packet
Assignment messages.
When there is reallocation of the CS timeslot:
\- if the mobile station successfully establishes the new CS connection, it
shall send an **Assignment Complete** message on the new main DCCH.
\- if the mobile station fails to establish the new CS connection, it shall go
back to the old timeslot, send a DTM **Assignment Failure** message on the
(old) main DCCH and continue the CS operation. The mobile station shall assume
that the old PS resources were released and attempt its re-establishment.
If the network wants to move the mobile station to another cell, it shall send
a **Handover Command** message on the main DCCH. After the handover procedure
is completed, the network supporting DTM shall send the **DTM Information**
message on the main DCCH in order to speed up the resumption of the dual
transfer mode of operation by the mobile station.
As described above, the main DCCH can be used in either direction with no
prior assignment provided that the required conditions are met. Otherwise, the
procedures here described apply.
#### 6.1.2.2 MO session: packet request procedure
If the serving cell of the CS connection indicates that supports DTM, the
mobile station may request the establishment of a PS session by sending a DTM
Request message on the main DCCH.
The network may answer the request with one of the two defined DTM assignment
messages, sent on the main DCCH. If the network cannot allocate the packet
resources, it shall answer with a **DTM Reject** message on the main DCCH. The
DTM Reject message shall indicate a waiting time after which the mobile
station is allowed to reattempt the packet establishment in the same cell.
Figure 3 shows the successful case of the allocation of an uplink TBF when the
reallocation of the CS timeslot is needed. The mobile station informs the
network about the correct seizure of the new CS resource by sending an
Assignment Complete message on the main DCCH of the new resource.
{width="5.166666666666667in" height="1.65625in"}
Figure 3: Establishment of a MO PS session while in dedicated mode\ with
reallocation of the CS resource; successful case
Figure 4 shows one failure case. If there is an error when establishing the
main signalling link in the new timeslot, the mobile station shall send a DTM
Assignment Failure message on the old main DCCH and then it may re-attempt the
establishment of the packet session. The timers in the assignment procedure
are reused.
{width="5.177777777777778in" height="1.9791666666666667in"}
Figure 4: Establishment of a MO PS session while in dedicated mode\ with
reallocation of the CS resource; failure case
In figure 5, the packet resource is mapped onto adjacent timeslot(s) and thus
the Packet Assignment message is used. There is no release/re-establishment of
the main signalling link, successful and failure messages are not needed. The
successful and failure cases for the establishment of the TBF are determined
as in normal GPRS (see 3G TS 04.60 [5]).
{width="5.166666666666667in" height="1.3958333333333333in"}
Figure 5: Establishment of a MO PS session in multislot configuration\ while
in dedicated mode; successful case
Figure 6 shows the case of the main DCCH being used as the uplink resource.
{width="5.166666666666667in" height="0.975in"}
Figure 6: Use of the main DCCH for GPRS information while in dedicated mode
#### 6.1.2.3 MT session
##### 6.1.2.3.1 Ready state: packet downlink assignment
If the mobile station is in the Ready state, the SGSN may send an LLC frame to
the BSS parenting the mobile station\'s serving cell. The downlink LLC PDU
shall include the IMSI if it is known. As the IMSI of the mobile station was
previously stored, the BSS is able to identify that the mobile station to
which the data is sent is in dedicated mode. The BSS shall use the main
signalling link to send the downlink assignment command instead of the
(P)CCCH. Note that a mobile station in dedicated mode does not listen to the
(P)CCCH unless it is \"unrestricted class A\" capable.
Editor\'s note : the consequences on the procedures currently defined for the
DTM feature shall be analysed if the IMSI can not be provided in the BSSGP DL-
UNITDATA PDU.
The assignment is done with one of the DTM assignment messages, sent on the
main DCCH.
Figure 7 shows the successful case, when a downlink TBF is assigned without
reallocation of the CS resource.
{width="4.497222222222222in" height="1.25in"}
Figure 7: Example of a successful establishment of a PS MT session\ while in
dedicated mode, packet idle mode and Ready state
##### 6.1.2.3.2 Standby state: packet notification
If the mobile station is in the Stand-by state and the SGSN has something to
send, it shall send a page to the BSS(s) parenting the RA where the mobile
station is, in order to find out the actual serving cell/BVCI. As the mobile
station has an established signalling connection with the BSS, the BSS shall
not page the mobile station. Instead, the BSS shall inform the mobile station
that it is being paged for packet services. This is done by sending the Packet
Notification message on the main DCCH. The mobile station shall answer the
notification with a Cell Update procedure: sending an LLC frame to act as a
\"Packet Paging Response\".
For that purpose, the GMM layer shall request the establishment of uplink
resources. If the LLC frame is _dummy_ (i.e. does not convey user data
information) and it is short enough, the mobile station shall send it on the
main DCCH. Otherwise, an uplink TBF is needed and its establishment shall be
done.
Once the LLC frame is sent, the mobile station moves to the GMM Ready state.
The SGSN understands the LLC frame as a valid page response and starts sending
the downlink information. In order to forward this information to the mobile
station, the BSS shall send a (second) assignment message as soon as it
receives the data from the SGSN.
The procedure is shown in figure 8.
{width="4.533333333333333in" height="2.1666666666666665in"}
Figure 8: Example of a successful establishment of a PS MT session\ while in
dedicated mode, packet idle mode and Standby state
### 6.1.3 CS establishment while in packet transfer mode
When in packet transfer mode, either the mobile station or the network may
initiate a CS connection establishment. In both cases, the packet session may
be aborted and the establishment of the CS connection is initiated.
When the establishment of the CS connection is initiated by the network, the
CS paging message may come directly from the MSC or via the SGSN if the Gs
interface is present. The BSS shall be able to verify in both cases if the
paged mobile station is in packet transfer mode and shall send the CS page on
the PACCH.
NOTE 1: This paging co-ordination can be reused for GPRS mobile stations in
mode of operation B, so that the mobile station does not need to listen to the
PCH.
NOTE 2: This feature breaks the link between the presence of the Gs interface
and the network capability to perform paging co-ordination. Alignment of 3G TS
23.060 is needed.
Once on the DCCH, the mobile station may request the re-establishment of the
packet resources by sending a DTM Request message. The procedure to re-
establish an aborted uplink TBF shall be identical to the MO session request.
The procedure to re-establish an aborted downlink TBF shall be identical to
the MT session request.
Figure 9 shows this procedure graphically.
NOTE: The IMSI is sent when available at the MSC and if the BSS supports the
DTM feature.
Figure 9: Successful establishment of a CS connection while in packet transfer
mode
Upon receiving the ASSIGNMENT REQUEST message from the MSC, the BSS may send
one of the following messages to the MS:
\- Channel Mode Modify message to modify the existing CS channel\'s mode, as
shown in Figure 9.
\- DTM ASSIGNMENT COMMAND message to reallocate the CS resource and maintain
some PS resources.
\- ASSIGNMENT COMMAND message to reallocate the CS resource and drop the PS
resources.
Figure 10: void (deleted)
If the mobile station and the network support enhanced CS establishment a CS
connection may be established while in packet transfer mode, without release
of the packet resources.
A mobile station that supports enhanced CS establishment can determine whether
or not the network supports enhanced CS establishment by reading the _GPRS
Cell Options_ IE included within system information messages (see 3GPP TS
44.018 and 44.060).
In the mobile-originated case, the MS requests a CS connection by sending the
PACKET CS REQUEST message on PACCH to the network.
If the contention resolution is not solved, the mobile station shall delay the
transmission of the PACKET CS REQUEST message until contention resolution is
solved.
If the countdown procedure has been started on all the ongoing uplink TBFs,
none of those TBFs is operating in extended uplink TBF mode and there is no
downlink TBF in progress, the mobile station may either send the PACKET CS
REQUEST message, or may immediately release the ongoing TBF(s) and start an RR
connection establishment as specified in 3GPP TS 44.018.
Upon receipt of the PACKET CS REQUEST message, the network replies to the MS
with a PACKET CS COMMAND message on PACCH that encapsulates one of (RR) DTM
ASSIGNMENT COMMAND, IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT, IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT REJECT messages
as defined below:
\- The network may allocate both PS and CS resources to the MS by sending a
(RR) DTM ASSIGNMENT COMMAND message. When the MS receives this message it
starts CS connection establishment and enters dual transfer mode. The network
may also reallocate PS resources in the DTM ASSIGNMENT COMMAND message. In
this case the resulting channel combination must be TCH + PDTCH, SDCCH + PDTCH
is not allowed. By omitting the PS resource description in the DTM ASSIGNMENT
COMMAND, the network indicates that the current PS Resources are maintained.
\- The network allocates only CS resources to the MS and orders the release of
PS resources by sending an (RR) IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message. When the MS
receives this message it releases the PS connection and establishes the CS
connection. When in dedicated mode the MS may request PS resources by using
the procedures specified in 3GPP TS 44.018.
\- The network rejects the CS request by sending an (RR) IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT
REJECT message. When the MS receives this message it continues in packet
transfer mode normally. The mobile station may later reinitiate the CS
connection request.
\- If the PS resources have been dropped before the network has a chance to
respond to the PACKET CS REQUEST, the network shall abort the current DTM
procedure. If the mobile station does not receive a PACKET CS COMMAND message
after it has sent a corresponding PACKET CS REQUEST message, the mobile
station will drop any PS resources and start CS access procedures on the RACH.
If the network and mobile both support the extended RLC/MAC control message
segmentation, the network may send the PACKET CS COMMAND message in more than
two radio blocks, see 3GPP TS 44.060. If not, the network is responsible for
ensuring that the PACKET CS COMMAND does not exceed two radio blocks in
length.
Figure 10a illustrates succesful MS originated RR connection request
procedure.
Figure 10a: MS originated RR connection request procedure
In the mobile-terminated case the BSS sends to the mobile station a PACKET CS
COMMAND message on PACCH when receiving a CS paging message from the core
network. The PACKET CS COMMAND message encapsulates one of (RR) DTM ASSIGNMENT
COMMAND, IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT messages as defined below:
\- The network may allocate both PS and CS resources to the MS by sending a
(RR) DTM ASSIGNMENT COMMAND message. The network may also reallocate PS
resources in the DTM ASSIGNMENT COMMAND message. In this case the resulting
channel combination must be TCH + PDTCH, SDCCH + PDTCH is not allowed. By
omitting the PS resource description in the DTM ASSIGNMENT COMMAND, the
network indicates that the current PS Resources are maintained.
\- The network allocates only CS resources to the MS and orders the release of
PS resources by sending an (RR) IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message. When the MS
receives this message it releases the PS connection and establishes the CS
connection. When in dedicated mode the MS may request PS resources by using
the procedures specified in 3GPP TS 44.018.
Figure 10b illustrates succesful MS terminated RR connection establishment.
Figure 10b: MS terminated RR connection establishment
### 6.1.4 PS establishment while in dual transfer mode
Once the mobile station is in dual transfer mode, the establishment of any
further packet sessions shall be done with the existent mechanisms (see 3GPP
TS44.060 [5]).
The network may send the DTM Assignment Command message to the mobile station
at any time to reallocate one or more ongoing TBFs and the resources required
for the RR connection. If the MS receives a DTM Assignment Command message
after sending a request for one or more uplink TBFs but before receiving any
uplink allocation in response to its request, it shall act on the DTM
Assignment Command message and after successful reallocation of resources wait
for the response from the network to the uplink TBF request on the newly
allocated resources. All ongoing TBFs not addressed by the DTM Assignment
Command message are released.
## 6.2 Release
### 6.2.1 Release of packet resources
The release of a TBF shall follow the current procedures in 3GPP TS 44.060
[5]. The use of the main DCCH as a packet resource is stopped when the
signalling connection is cleared (during a handover or assignment procedure)
or when the mobile station enters the dual transfer mode.
### 6.2.2 Release of CS resources
In the case of the release of the CS connection while in dual transfer mode,
the mobile station may abandon the packet resources.
Before the re-establishment of the packet resources, the mobile station may
need to read all the relevant information contained in the SI messages that
was not sent in the SACCH or the PACCH while in DTM. In order to reduce the
interruption of the GPRS session at call release, the network sends a new
message (PSI 14) on the PACCH when the mobile station is in dual transfer
mode. This message contains
\- most of the information in SI 13, if the PBCCH is not allocated; or
\- the location of the PBCCH, if this is present.
If both the mobile station and the network support enhanced CS release, the
network may delay the release of the CS connection until the mobile station
has received the needed system information, in order to maintain the packet
resources after release of the CS connection. The network shall initiate
enhanced CS release by sending PACKET CS RELEASE INDICATION message. System
information is provided to the mobile station with PACKET SERVING CELL SI
message on the PACCH. Packet system information messages can also be sent as
such on PACCH. The MS shall use PACKET SI STATUS or PACKET PSI STATUS message
to indicate which messages have been received correctly. When the mobile
station has received the required set of a system information it informs the
network which in turn sends a CS connection release message to the mobile
station. Upon release of the CS connection the mobile station enters packet
transfer mode.
If the network is not able to use enhanced CS release (e.g. due to scarce
radio resources, no support for enhanced CS release or no possibility to send
missing system information) it shall send a CS connection release message to
the mobile station indicating the mobile station shall abandon the packet
resources after the release of the CS connection.
Figure 10c shows the exchange of messages when a CS connection is released and
the MS maintains PS resources.
Figure 10c: Release of CS connection and maintaining PS resources
## 6.3 Handover
### 6.3.1 General
Another group of procedures that are affected by the definition a new GPRS
class A mode of operation are those related to the change of the serving cell
when the mobile station is in dual transfer mode. The term _handover_ in this
document refers to the network initiated change of serving cell for both
domains, unless explicit reference to the CS domain is made. The handover and
the cell change of the CS and PS domains respectively need to be performed at
the same time. As 3GPP TS 45.008 [7] states, the serving cell for a class A
mobile station while it is in dedicated mode \"is determined by the network
according to the handover procedures\", irrespective of the Network Control
measuring report mode (NC).
The Handover Command message sent from the network to the mobile station shall
describe the CS resources in the target cell.
The RAI, Cell Identity and information whether DTM is allowed or not shall be
sent to a DTM capable mobile station after handover in SI6 and/or the DTM
Information message. The RAI needs also to be included in the SI 6 message
sent to a DTM capable mobile station that is not in DTM so that it can detect
a change of the RA.
Handover failure cases are determined only from the CS timeslot. In the event
of a handover failure, the mobile station shall return to the CS resource in
the old cell and send a Handover Failure message on the main DCCH. If the
mobile station is in GMM Ready state, it shall then perform the Cell Update
procedure in order to notify the SGSN that downlink data flows can be
continued in the source cell. The mobile station shall assume that all the
packet resources were released during the handover and it shall try to re-
establish the uplink resources if there is uplink data ready to be sent.
Once the main DCCH is established in the cell, the network sends the DTM
Information message. This message contains:
\- the RAI and Cell Identity of the new cell: to detect changes of RA or cell
without waiting for the SI 6 message;
\- the length limitation for the use of the main DCCH.
Then the mobile station or the network may re-establish the packet
resource(s).
### 6.3.1a DTM Handover -- General
The term _DTM Handover_ in this document always refers to the network
initiated change of serving cell for both CS and PS domains, using DTM
Handover procedures.
The source and target cells may be managed by either the same BSS (Intra-BSS)
or different BSSs (Inter-BSS) within the same MSC (Intra-MSC) and the same
SGSN (Intra SGSN) or different SGSNs (Inter SGSN) or different MSCs (Inter-
MSC) and the same or different SGSNs.The DTM Handover in _A/Gb mode_ makes use
of existing CS handover procedures and PS Handover procedures. Unless
explicitly stated in the present document, the behaviour of the core network
entities is as specified for the respective handover procedures. The DTM
Handover procedure is controlled by the RR protocol.
The DTM Handover procedure is divided into:
\- a preparation phase including the allocation of CS and PS resources in the
target cell, consisting of parallel CS handover preparation phase as described
in 3GPP TS 23.009 [14] and PS handover preparation phase as described in 3GPP
TS 43.129 [13]; and
\- an execution phase which includes the sending of the (RR) DTM HANDOVER
COMMAND message from the network to the mobile station on PACCH. The (RR) DTM
HANDOVER COMMAND message shall describe both the CS and the PS resources in
the target cell.
In the case of a DTM Handover into a network sharing supporting target cell by
a MS supporting network sharing, the DTM HANDOVER COMMAND shall include PLMN
index information which, upon arriving in the target cell, the MS uses as
described in 3GPP TS 44.018 [5].
### 6.3.2 Internal handover
The network may send a Handover Command message requesting the mobile station
to switch to a different cell parented by the same BSC. Prior to that, the BSC
shall activate the channels in the target cell. At the receipt of the Handover
Command message the mobile station shall abandon the packet session and
initiate the access on the target cell, obeying the handover time requirements
of 3GPP TS 45.010 [8] clause 6 and 3GPP TS 44.013 [3] clause 5.2.6.
The re-establishment of the CS connection shall continue as a CS only
handover. When concluded, the BSC shall release the channels in the old cell.
The network immediately sends the DTM Information message, with information
needed to resume the GPRS operation in the new cell. Once the mobile station
has the necessary information, it shall perform a cell update or RA update
procedure.
If the mobile station also needs to (re-)establish an uplink packet session in
the new cell, the GMM signalling procedure shall take precedence and shall be
performed first. Once the update procedure is performed, the
(re-)establishment of the packet session may continue.
Figure 11 shows the exchange of messages in a successful internal handover.
Figure 11: Successful internal, dual handover procedure
### 6.3.2a Intra-BSS DTM Handover
#### 6.3.2a.1 General
The Intra-BSS DTM Handover procedure covers the scenarios where the source and
target cells are managed by the same BSS, the same MSC and the same SGSN. The
Intra-BSS with MSC involved or MSC not involved DTM Handover procedures may
use the optimized PS Handover procedure (see 3GPP TS 43.129) if allowed.
The Intra-BSS inter-cell DTM Handover using optimized PS Handover procedure
and MSC non-involved case and Intra-BSS inter-cell DTM Handover using non-
optimized PS Handover procedure and MSC involved case are described in sub-
clauses 6.3.2a.2, 6.3.2a.3 and 6.3.2a.4.
The Intra-BSS inter-cell DTM Handover using optimized PS Handover procedure
and MSC involved case and Intra-BSS inter-cell DTM Handover using non-
optimized PS Handover procedure and MSC not involved case are not explicitly
described in the current document as they are considered to be implicitly
covered by the cases that are described.
#### 6.3.2a.2 Preparation Phase -- using Optimized PS Handover procedure and
without MSC involved
The preparation phase consists of the BSS allocating CS and PS resources in
the target cell. The BSS shall select the same unique target cell for both the
CS and the PS domains. The BSS shall activate the DTM channel configurations
(CS channel and PS resources) in the target cell.
#### 6.3.2a.3 Preparation Phase -- using Non-Optimized PS Handover procedure
and with MSC involved
The preparation phase consists of the BSS sending a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUIRED
message to the MSC and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED PDU to the SGSN and
allocating CS and PS resources in the target cell upon receiving a (BSSMAP)
HANDOVER REQUEST message from the MSC and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST PDU
from the SGSN. The BSS shall select the same unique target cell for both the
CS and the PS domains. The handling of the messages between BSS and CN is
largely based on the Inter-BSS DTM Handover as described in section 6.3.3a.
#### 6.3.2a.4 Execution Phase
In case of Intra-BSS DTM Handover using the optimised PS Handover procedure
and without the MSC involved, the BSS may start the execution phase by sending
a (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message to the mobile station on the PACCH
requesting it to perform a DTM Handover and switch to a different cell managed
by the same BSS.
In case of Intra-BSS DTM Handover using the non-optimised PS Handover
procedure and with the MSC involved, the BSS may start the execution phase
after receiving the (BSSMAP) HANDOVER COMMAND message from the MSC and the
(BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED ACK PDU from the SGSN.
At the receipt of the (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message the mobile
station switches to the new configuration and initiates the access on the
target cell using the existing CS handover access procedures.
After successful establishment of the main signalling link in the target cell,
the mobile station sends the (RR) HANDOVER COMPLETE message to the BSS which
in turns sends either a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER PERFORMED message (in case of MSC
not involved) or a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER COMPLETE message (in case of MSC
involved) to the MSC and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER COMPLETE PDU to the SGSN
(regardless of whether or not optimised PS Handover was used) to indicate the
completion of the Intra-BSS DTM Handover. Upon successful completion of the
Intra-BSS DTM Handover, the BSS releases the DTM channel configurations (i.e.
CS channel and PS resources) in the old cell.
During Intra-BSS with MSC involved DTM Handover using non-optimized PS
Handover procedures, the mobile station shall start the Cell/RA Update
procedure immediately after sending the (RR) HANDOVER COMPLETE message to the
network.
If the mobile station is not able to act on or decode the (RLC/MAC) DTM
HANDOVER COMMAND message, it sends a (RR) HANDOVER FAILURE message to the
network on the main DCCH of the source cell.
If the mobile station acts on the (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message but
fails to establish the main signalling link in the target cell, the MS returns
to the old channels in the source cell and sends a (RR) HANDOVER FAILURE
message to the network on the main DCCH.
In case the responses received by the BSS do not consist of the combination of
both a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER COMMAND message and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED
ACK PDU, the Intra-BSS DTM Handover using non-optimized PS handover and with
MSC involved fails and the BSS and the mobile station proceed as per the
Inter-BSS DTM Handover described in section 6.3.3a.3
Figure 11a shows the exchange of messages in a successful inter-cell Intra-BSS
DTM Handover using optimized PS Handover procedure and MSC not involved case.
Figure 11b and Figure 11c show the exchange of messages in a successful inter-
cell Intra-BSS DTM Handover using non-optimized PS Handover procedure and MSC
involved scenario.
Figure 11a: Intra-BSS with MSC not involved DTM Handover using optimized PS
Handover procedures
Figure 11b: Intra-BSS with MSC involved DTM Handover using non-optimized PS
Handover procedures, preparation phase
Figure 11c: Intra-BSS with MSC involved DTM Handover using non-optimized PS
Handover procedures, execution phase
### 6.3.3 External handover
In the case of an external handover, the target BSS:
\- shall be provided with the IMSI of the mobile station;
\- shall be provided with information about the nature of the packet resources
in the serving cell, so that the CS resource is compatible with the packet
resources that are going to be requested in the new cell (e.g. transceiver
supporting AMR or EDGE, timeslot with a free, adjacent one). This information
is conveyed in the Old BSS to New BSS Information IE.
NOTE: This indication that the MS is in DTM in the source cell is also
included in the handover to GERAN from another RAT when the MS has resouces in
the source cell allocated towards the CS and PS domains simultaneously.
No changes are foreseen for an inter-MSC handover. Current implementations are
expected to be able to carry the extended Old BSS to New BSS Information IE
without modifications to 3GPP TS 49.008.
No changes are foreseen for an inter-SGSN handover. The mobile shall perform a
Routing Area Update procedure in the new cell. This may be as a result of the
SI 6 contents (RAC is now added) or caused by information contained in the DTM
INFORMATION message.
### 6.3.3a Inter-BSS DTM Handover
#### 6.3.3a.1 General
The Inter-BSS DTM Handover procedure covers the scenarios where the source and
target cells are managed by different BSSs. All four cases of Intra-/Inter-MSC
and Intra-/Inter-SGSN handovers use these procedures.
The Inter-BSS DTM Handover is initiated by the source BSS sending a (BSSMAP)
HANDOVER REQUIRED message and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED PDU to the MSC
and the SGSN respectively. The Inter-BSS DTM Handover requires synchronization
of the handovers in the CS and the PS domains in both the source BSS and the
target BSS through:
**-** Selection of the same unique target cell for both the CS and the PS
domains. In the preparation phase the source BSS selects the same target cell
ID for both the CS and the PS domains and indicates it to the MSC and the SGSN
in the (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUIRED message and (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED PDU
respectively.
\- Indications to the target BSS that the CS (respectively PS) handover is
ongoing at the same time as the PS (respectively CS) handover for the same
mobile station (see Figure 11d). These indications require the target BSS to
wait for both the (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST message and (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER
REQUEST PDU.
**_\- PS Indication IE_** is sent in the (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUIRED message
and (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST message within the Old BSS to New BSS
information.
**_\- CS Indication IE_** is sent in the (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED PDU and
(BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST PDU within the Source BSS to Target BSS
transparent container.
\- Management of synchronization timers in both the source BSS and the target
BSS that ensure the target receives both PS and CS domain resource allocation
requests and the source BSS receives both PS and CS domain resource allocation
responses from the target BSS before proceeding with the Inter-BSS DTM
Handover.
#### 6.3.3a.2 Preparation Phase
The Inter-BSS DTM Handover is initiated by the source BSS by sending a
(BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUIRED message and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED PDU to
the MSC and the SGSN respectively.
The target BSS, upon reception of a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST message
(respectively (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST PDU) containing an indication of an
ongoing PS handover (respectively CS handover) as described in sub-clause
6.3.3a.1, waits for reception of the corresponding (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST
PDU (respectively (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST message).
If the target BSS receives a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST message containing an
indication of an ongoing PS handover, but does not receive a corresponding
(BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST PDU within the expected time frame, the target BSS
may proceed with allocating a CS resource only, in which case it returns a
(BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message containing a (RR) HANDOVER
COMMAND message (within the L3 Information IE). Otherwise, if target BSS
decides not to continue with the handover of a CS resource it returns a
(BSSMAP) HANDOVER FAILURE message to the MSC. If the target BSS receives the
corresponding (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST PDU containing an indication of an
ongoing CS handover after the expected time frame, it shall return a (BSSGP)
PS HANDOVER REQUEST NACK PDU to the SGSN.
If the target BSS receives a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST PDU containing an
indication of an ongoing CS handover, but does not receive a corresponding
(BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST message within the expected time frame, it shall
return a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST NACK PDU to the SGSN and abort the DTM
Handover. If the target BSS receives the corresponding (BSSMAP) HANDOVER
REQUEST message containing an indication of an ongoing PS handover after the
expected time frame, it shall return a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER FAILURE message to
the MSC.
If the target BSS receives both a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST PDU and a
(BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST message within the expected time frame and is able
to allocate both the CS and PS resources, it returns a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER
REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message to the MSC and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST ACK
PDU to the SGSN. Both these messages contain the same (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER
COMMAND message.
If the target BSS receives both a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST PDU and a
(BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST message within the expected time frame and allocates
a CS resource but is unable to or chooses not to allocate any of the
corresponding PS resources, it returns a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST NACK PDU
to the SGSN. The target BSS may continue with the CS handover in which case it
returns a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message containing a (RR)
HANDOVER COMMAND message (within the L3 Information IE). Otherwise, if the
target BSS decides not to continue with the CS handover it returns a (BSSMAP)
HANDOVER FAILURE message to the MSC.
If the target BSS receives both a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST PDU and a
(BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUEST message within the expected time frame but is unable
to or chooses not to allocate a CS resource, it shall not allocate the
corresponding PS resources. The target BSS returns a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER FAILURE
message and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST NACK PDU to the MSC and the SGSN
respectively.
Figure 11d shows the exchange of messages in a successful Inter-BSS Intra-MSC
Intra-SGSN DTM Handover, preparation phase. The same procedures are also used
for an Inter-BSS Inter-MSC handover and/or Inter-SGSN DTM Handover.
Figure 11d: Inter-BSS DTM Handover, preparation phase
#### 6.3.3a.3 Execution Phase
If the source BSS receives both a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED ACK PDU and a
(BSSMAP) HANDOVER COMMAND message within the expected time frame, it sends the
(RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message to the mobile station.
The source BSS may instead send the (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message to
the mobile station as soon as it has received a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER COMMAND
message which contains the (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message.
NOTE: In this case, it is possible that the PS resources in the target cell
which are described in the (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message will not be
valid when the MS performs access in the target cell.
If the source BSS receives from the MSC a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER COMMAND message
containing a (RR) HANDOVER COMMAND message it may choose to proceed with the
CS handover immediately by stopping the synchronisation timer and sending the
contents of the L3 Information IE (i.e. the (RR) HANDOVER COMMAND message) to
the mobile station. If the source BSS chooses not to proceed with the CS
handover, it sends a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER FAILURE message to the MSC and nothing
is sent to the mobile station.
If the source BSS receives a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER COMMAND message containing a
(RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED NACK
PDU within the expected time frame, and the failure cause in (BSSGP) PS
HANDOVER REQUIRED NACK PDU indicates an SGSN failure, the source BSS shall
abort both the CS and PS handovers and send a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER FAILURE
message to the MSC and nothing is sent to the mobile station.
If the source BSS receives a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUIRED REJECT message and a
(BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED ACK PDU within the expected time frame, it shall
abort the PS handover by sending a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER CANCEL PDU to the SGSN
and nothing is sent to the mobile station.
If the source BSS receives both a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER REQUIRED REJECT message
and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUIRED NACK PDU then the DTM Handover fails and
nothing is sent to the mobile station**.**
On the receipt of the (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message the mobile
station switches to the new configuration and initiates the access on the
target cell using the existing CS handover access procedures. After successful
establishment of the main signalling link in the target cell, the mobile
station sends the (RR) HANDOVER COMPLETE message to the target BSS which in
turns sends both a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER COMPLETE message to the MSC and a (BSSGP)
PS HANDOVER COMPLETE PDU to the SGSN to indicate the completion of the
handover. Thereafter the release of the old DTM channel configurations (CS
channel and PS resources) is initiated by the MSC and the SGSN respectively.
The mobile station shall start the Cell/RA Update procedure immediately after
sending the (RR) HANDOVER COMPLETE message to the network.
If the mobile station is not able to act on or decode the (RLC/MAC) DTM
HANDOVER COMMAND message, it sends a (RR) HANDOVER FAILURE message to the
network on the main DCCH of the source cell.
If the mobile station fails to establish the main signalling link in the
target cell, the MS returns to the old channels in the source cell and sends a
(RR) HANDOVER FAILURE message to the network on the main DCCH.
If the source BSS receives a (RR) HANDOVER FAILURE message from the mobile
station, it cancels the current DTM Handover by sending a (BSSMAP) HANDOVER
FAILURE message and a (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER CANCEL PDU to the MSC and SGSN
respectively.
Figure 11e shows the exchange of messages in a successful Inter-BSS Intra-MSC
Intra-SGSN DTM Handover, execution phase. The same procedures are also used
for an inter-MSC handover and/or inter-SGSN DTM Handover.
Figure 11e: Inter-BSS DTM Handover, execution phase
### 6.3.4 Inter-RAT DTM Handover
#### 6.3.4.1 General
The Inter-RAT DTM Handover refers only to the DTM Handover performed between
GERAN A/Gb mode and UTRAN. The inter-RAT DTM handover from GERAN A/Gb mode to
E-UTRAN according to the DTM handover principles is not feasible as there is
no CS domain support in E-UTRAN. The handover from E-UTRAN to GERAN DTM is
described in 3GPP TS23.216 [19].
The source and target cells may be managed by either the GERAN BSS or the
UTRAN RNC. The BSS and RNC may be within the same MSC (Intra-MSC) and the same
SGSN (Intra SGSN) or different SGSNs (Inter SGSN) or different MSCs (Inter-
MSC).
The Inter-RAT DTM Handover between GERAN _A/Gb mode_ and UTRAN makes use of
existing Inter-RAT CS Handover procedures and Inter-RAT PS Handover
procedures. Unless explicitly stated in the present document, the behaviour of
the core network entities is as specified for the respective handover
procedures. The Inter-RAT DTM Handover procedure is controlled by the RR
protocol in GERAN _A/Gb mode_ and the RRC protocol in UTRAN.
The Inter-RAT DTM Handover procedure is divided into:
\- a preparation phase including the allocation of CS and PS resources in the
target cell, consisting of parallel Inter-RAT CS handover preparation phase as
described in 3GPP TS 23.009 [14] and Inter-RAT PS handover preparation phase
as described in 3GPP TS 43.129 [13]; and
\- an execution phase which includes the sending of a (RRC) HANDOVER FROM
UTRAN COMMAND message containing a (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message from
the network to the mobile station for Inter-RAT DTM Handover procedure from
UTRAN to GERAN _A/Gb mode_ or the sending of a (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND
message containing a (RRC) HANDOVER TO UTRAN COMMAND message for the Inter-RAT
DTM Handover from GERAN _A/Gb mode_ to UTRAN. The (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER
COMMAND message and the (RRC) HANDOVER TO UTRAN COMMAND message shall describe
both the CS and PS resources in the target cell.
Unless explicitly stated otherwise in the present document, the Inter-RAT DTM
Handover procedure follows the Inter BSS DTM Handover procedure defined in
sub-clause 6.3.3a and the UTRAN-UTRAN SRNS Relocation procedure (for two
signaling connections) as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413 [16]. The correspondence
between the messages/PDUs/IEs used over RANA P [16] and BSSMAP [17]/BSSGP [18]
is described in Tables 2a, 2b, 2c and 2d.
Table 2a. Messages/PDUs/IEs exchanged between network nodes in the direction
from the source BSS/RNC to the target BSS/RNC
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | → | Target | Target | MSC | SGSN | | | | BSS | RNC | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Source | CS | Old BSS | Source | Handover | N/A | | BSS** | | to New | RNC to | Required | | | | | BSS | Target | | | | | | Inf | RNC | | | | | | ormation | Tra | | | | | | IE (see | nsparent | | | | | | Note 1) | C | | | | | | | ontainer | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | PS | Source | | N/A | PS | | | | BSS to | | | Handover | | | | Target | | | Required | | | | BSS | | | | | | | Tra | | | | | | | nsparent | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | ontainer | | | | | | | IE (see | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **MSC** | CS | Handover | Re | N/A | N/A | | | | Request | location | | | | | | | Request | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **SGSN** | PS | PS | Re | N/A | N/A | | | | Handover | location | | | | | | Request | Request | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Source | CS | Old BSS | Source | Re | N/A | | RNC** | | to New | RNC to | location | | | | | BSS | Target | Required | | | | | Inf | RNC | | | | | | ormation | Tra | | | | | | IE (see | nsparent | | | | | | Note 1) | C | | | | | | | ontainer | | | | | | | (See | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | PS | Source | | N/A | Re | | | | BSS to | | | location | | | | Target | | | Required | | | | BSS | | | | | | | Tra | | | | | | | nsparent | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | ontainer | | | | | | | IE (see | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | > NOTE | | | | | | | > 1: | | | | | | | > This | | | | | | | > is an | | | | | | | > Inf | | | | | | | ormation | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | Element | | | | | | | > e | | | | | | | xchanged | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | > a | | | | | | | > source | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | BSS/RNC | | | | | | | > and a | | | | | | | > target | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | BSS/RNC | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | through | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | > Core | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | Network | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table 2b. Messages/PDUs/IEs exchanged between network nodes in the direction
from the target BSS/RNC to the source BSS/RNC
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | → | Source | Source | MSC | SGSN | | | | BSS | RNC | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | Target | CS | Layer 3 | Handover | N/A | | | BSS | | In | Request | | | | | | formation | Ac | | | | | | IE (see | knowledge | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | | | N/A | Handover | | | | | | | Failure | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | | PS | Target | N/A | PS | | | | | BSS to | | Handover | | | | | Source | | Request | | | | | BSS | | ACK | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | ansparent | | | | | | | Container | | | | | | | IE (see | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | | | N/A | | PS | | | | | | | Handover | | | | | | | Request | | | | | | | NACK | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | MSC | CS | Handover | R | N/A | N/A | | | | Command | elocation | | | | | | | Command | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | | | Handover | R | | | | | | Required | elocation | | | | | | Reject | Pr | | | | | | | eparation | | | | | | | Failure | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | SGSN | PS | PS | R | N/A | N/A | | | | Handover | elocation | | | | | | Required | Command | | | | | | ACK | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | | | PS | R | | | | | | Handover | elocation | | | | | | Required | Pr | | | | | | NACK | eparation | | | | | | | Failure | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | Target | CS | Target | R | N/A | | | RNC | | RNC to | elocation | | | | | | Source | Request | | | | | | RNC | Ac | | | | | | Tr | knowledge | | | | | | ansparent | | | | | | | Container | | | | | | | IE (see | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | | | N/A | R | | | | | | | elocation | | | | | | | Failure | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | | PS | Target | N/A | R | | | | | RNC to | | elocation | | | | | Source | | Request | | | | | RNC | | Ac | | | | | Tr | | knowledge | | | | | ansparent | | | | | | | Container | | | | | | | IE (see | | | | | | | Note 1) | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | | | N/A | | R | | | | | | | elocation | | | | | | | Failure | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+ | > NOTE 1: | | | | | | | > This is | | | | | | | > an | | | | | | | > In | | | | | | | formation | | | | | | | > Element | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | exchanged | | | | | | | > between | | | | | | | > a | | | | | | | > target | | | | | | | > BSS/RNC | | | | | | | > and a | | | | | | | > source | | | | | | | > BSS/RNC | | | | | | | > through | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | > Core | | | | | | | > Network | | | | | | +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----+
Table 2c. Messages/PDUs exchanged between the target BSS/RNC and the core
network upon successful handover
* * *
→ MSC SGSN  
Target BSS Handover Complete PS Handover Complete Target RNC Relocation
Complete Relocation Complete
* * *
Table 2d. Messages/PDUs exchanged between the source BSS/RNC and the core
network upon unsuccessful handovers
* * *
→ MSC SGSN  
**Source BSS** Handover Failure PS Handover Cancel **Source RNC** Relocation
Cancel Relocation Cancel
* * *
#### 6.3.4.2 Inter-RAT DTM Handover from GERAN _A/Gb mode_ to UTRAN
For the Inter-RAT DTM handover from GERAN _A/Gb mode_ to UTRAN procedure, the
behaviour of the source BSS (and the MS in the source cell) is as specified
for the Inter-BSS DTM Handover procedure described in sub-clause 6.3.3a and
the behaviour of the target RNC is as specified for the UTRAN-UTRAN SRNS
Relocation procedure (with two signaling connections) as defined in 3GPP TS
25.413 [16], using the messages/IEs/PDUs defined in tables 2a-2d above, with
the following exceptions:
_\- Number of Iu instances_ IE (set equal to 2) is used to indicate to the
target RNC that the CS (respectively PS) handover is ongoing at the same time
as the PS (respectively CS) handover for the same mobile station.
\- The (RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message sent to the MS containing the
(RRC) HANDOVER TO UTRAN COMMAND message.
\- If the mobile station fails to access the target cell, the MS shall return
to the old channel in the source cell and send a (RR) HANDOVER FAILURE message
to the network.
Figure 11f shows the exchange of messages in a successful Inter-RAT Intra-MSC
Intra-SGSN DTM Handover from _GERAN A/Gb mode_ to UTRAN, preparation phase.
The same procedures are also used for an Inter-RAT Inter-MSC or Inter-SGSN DTM
Handover from GERAN _A/Gb mode_ to UTRAN. .
Figure 11f: Inter-RAT DTM Handover from GERAN _A/Gb mode_ to UTRAN,
preparation phase
Figure 11g shows the exchange of messages in a successful Inter-RAT Intra-MSC
Intra-SGSN DTM Handover from GERAN _A/Gb mode_ to UTRAN, execution phase. The
same procedures are also used for an Inter-RAT Inter-MSC or Inter-SGSN DTM
Handover from GERAN _A/Gb mode_ to UTRAN.
Figure 11g: Inter-RAT DTM Handover from GERAN _A/Gb mode_ to UTRAN, execution
phase
#### 6.3.4.3 Inter-RAT DTM Handover from UTRAN to _GERAN A/Gb mode_
For the Inter-RAT DTM handover from UTRAN to GERAN _A/Gb mode_ , the behaviour
of the source RNC is as specified for the UTRAN-UTRAN SRNS Relocation
procedure (with two signaling connections) as defined in 3GPP TS 25.413 [16],
and the behaviour of the target BSS (and MS on performing access in the target
cell) is as specified for the Inter-BSS DTM Handover procedure described in
sub-clause 6.3.3a, using the messages/IEs/PDUs defined in tables 2a-2d above,
with the following exception:
\- The (RRC) HANDOVER FROM UTRAN COMMAND message sent to the MS contains the
(RLC/MAC) DTM HANDOVER COMMAND message.
\- If the mobile station fails to access the target cell, the MS shall return
to the old channel in the source cell and send a (RRC) HANDOVER FROM UTRAN
FAILURE message to the network.
Figure 11h shows the exchange of messages in a successful Inter-RAT Intra-MSC
Intra-SGSN DTM Handover _,_ preparation phase. The same procedures are also
used for an Inter-RAT Inter-MSC or Inter-SGSN DTM Handover from UTRAN to GERAN
_A/Gb mode_.
Figure 11h: Inter-RAT DTM Handover from UTRAN to GERAN _A/Gb mode_ ,
preparation phase
Figure 11i shows the exchange of messages in a successful Inter-RAT Intra-MSC
Intra-SGSN DTM Handover from UTRAN to GERAN _A/Gb mode_ , execution phase. The
same procedures are also used for an Inter-RAT Inter-MSC or Inter-SGSN DTM
Handover from UTRAN to GERAN _A/Gb mode_.
Figure 11i: Inter-RAT DTM Handover from UTRAN to GERAN _A/Gb mode_ , execution
phase
## 6.4 Location management
### 6.4.1 General
The behaviour of a mobile station in idle mode shall be the same as when
operating in class B, except that a GPRS simple class A mobile in idle mode
can perform the RA update procedure in a DCCH. When the mobile station is in
dedicated mode, the change of serving cell may trigger location procedures
that require both domains of the mobile station to become active.
In dedicated mode the mobile station shall check the roaming restrictions
(i.e. the LAI or the PLMN identity of the current cell is not contained in any
of the lists of \"forbidden LAs for roaming\", \"forbidden LAs for regional
provision of service\", \"forbidden PLMNs for GPRS service\" or \"forbidden
PLMNs\" respectively, see 3GPP TS 23.122 and 3GPP TS 24.008).
Table 3 contains a summary of the procedures to be carried out by a GPRS
mobile station operating in Class A when crossing a boundary.
Table 3: Location update procedures for a GPRS mobile station operating in
class A
* * *
Mode CS idle CS dedicated  
Boundary PS stand-by PS ready PS stand-by PS ready Cell; same RA Nothing Cell
Update Nothing Cell Update RA; same LA NMO I Combined RA/LA update RA update.
When the CS connection ends in a RA different than the original, a combined
RA/LA update with IMSI attach is performed II, III RA Update
LA NMO I Combined RA/LA update RA update. When the CS connection ends in a LA
different than the original, a combined RA/LA update with IMSI attach is
performed II, III Parallel RA and LA updates RA update. When the CS connection
ends in a LA different than the original an LA update is performed.
* * *
The request from GMM to perform a location management procedure may trigger
the request of packet resources, as described above. The contents of the
request message (e.g. DTM Request) should help the BSS decide the resources to
be allocated.
RA update and LA update procedures shall be supported in parallel in the main
DCCH with SAPI 0. This helps reduce the congestion caused by GPRS signalling
on GPRS TCHs that naturally exists in cells on the border of a RA or RA/LA
without noticeably affecting the QoS of the CS connection.
In addition to crossing cell boundaries, a DTM capable mobile station in GMM
Ready state shall perform a Cell Update procedure each time that it enters
dedicated mode from packet idle mode in a cell that supports dual transfer
mode.
The following clauses clarify how the mobile station performs the cell update
and location/routeing area update procedures while in dedicated mode. As
previously indicated, the request of the establishment of dual transfer mode
may trigger a change of the RR resources in the cell or a change of the
serving cell. To simplify the diagrams below, possible assignment or handover
procedures are ignored.
The following diagrams consider the _worst_ case (no packet resources
allocated) as it requires the establishment of uplink and -for RA Update-
downlink TBFs. If an uplink TBF already exists, the initial steps leading to
the uplink TBF establishment are not necessary. If a downlink TBF already
exists, the uplink TBF can also be established as currently by sending the
Channel Request Description information element in the Packet Downlink
Ack/Nack message on the PACCH; see 3GPP TS 44.060 [5].
In case of DTM Handover the cell update or (non-combined, as a CS connection
exists) RA update procedure is defined as in 3GPP TS 43.129 [13] and 3GPP TS
23.009 [14].
### 6.4.2 Cell update
Figure 12 and figure 13 show the exchange of messages involved in a Cell
Update procedure when the mobile station is in dedicated mode, packet idle
mode and Ready state. The mobile station shall request uplink resources,
indicating \"Cell Update\". Typically, the BSS will command the MS to perform
the Cell Update procedure in single timeslot operation (figure 12), although
it may allocate an uplink TBF on a different time slot (figure 13) if the LLC
frame contains user data. In the latter case, a change of the radio resources
as was described in the previous clauses may happen before the MS sends the
LLC frame on the TBF.
{width="5.166666666666667in" height="0.975in"}
Figure 12: Cell Update procedure in dedicated mode, packet idle mode\ and
Ready state; performed on the main DCCH
Figure 13: Cell Update procedure in dedicated mode, packet idle mode\ and
Ready state; performed ion a TBF
### 6.4.3 Routeing Area update
Figure 14 and figure 15 show the message flow during the Routeing Area Update
procedure under the same conditions (the MS in CS dedicated mode, packet idle
mode and Ready state). Figure 14 shows the procedures when the main DCCH is
allowed, whereas two TBFs are used in figure 15. In this case, the uplink TBF
is created to send the Routeing Area Update Request. The Routeing Area Update
Accept from the SGSN needs the previous establishment of a downlink TBF.
It should be noted that the steps performed after the RA Update Complete
message in Figure 15 are optional since it is not a requirement to move the
TCH/F back to its original position.
{width="4.958333333333333in" height="1.3840277777777779in"}
Figure 14: Routeing Area Update procedure in dedicated mode,\ packet idle mode
and Ready state; performed on the main DCCH
Figure 15: Routeing Area Update procedure in dedicated mode,\ packet idle mode
and Ready state; performed on TBFs
### 6.4.4 Location update
#### 6.4.4.1 Change of Location Area in dedicated mode
Figure 16 shows the exchange of messages when changing location area while in
dedicated mode. It is identical to the Routeing Area Update procedure except
for the final group of messages. As the CS domain is not updated in the MSC
while the MS is in a CS connection, a Location Area Update procedure is
initiated when the CS connection ends to align the MM contexts in the MSC and
the SGSN. This procedure consists of a Combined RA/LA Update with IMSI attach
when the network is in mode I or a Location Area Update for modes II and III.
If the MS and the network in mode I support enhanced DTM CS release procedure
and the location area of the MS has changed while in dual transfer mode, the
MS shall send an indication to the network that in this case the enhanced DTM
CS release procedure shall not be used. This indication is sent in the PACKET
SI STATUS or PACKET PSI STATUS message. After the receipt of the indication
the network shall release the RR connection and PS resources. Upon receipt of
a CHANNEL RELEASE message the MS shall initiate the Combined RA/LA Update
procedure with update type combined RA/LA updating with IMSI attach.
If the MS and the network in mode II or III support enhanced DTM CS release
procedure and the location area of the MS has changed while in dual transfer
mode, the MS may perform the enhanced DTM CS release procedure and, after the
release of the RR connection, request CS resources via the enhanced DTM CS
Establishment procedure for performing the Location Area Update procedure.
{width="4.528472222222222in" height="2.15625in"}
a) for Network Mode of Operation I;
b) for Network Mode of Operation II and III.
Figure 16: LA Update and RA Update procedures in CS dedicated mode,\ packet
idle mode and Ready state
#### 6.4.4.2 Simultaneous Location Area and Routeing Area update procedures
When the mobile station is in idle mode and crosses a LA boundary, and hence
an RA boundary, the mobile station can perform both location procedures (LA
and RA update) on the main DCCH. Figure 17 shows the case of the RAU procedure
finishing before the LAU. If the LAU procedure finishes before the RAU
procedure does, the SDCCH is released and the RAU is completed on standalone
TBF(s), as shown in figure 18.
NOTE: Alternatively, the BSC may hold the DCCH for a few seconds until the RAU
is finished. This is an improvement of the implementation and has not been
standardised.
{width="4.504166666666666in" height="2.0881944444444445in"}
Figure 17: Parallel LA and RA Update procedures: the RAU finishes first
{width="4.504166666666666in" height="2.777083333333333in"}
Figure 18: Parallel LA and RA Update procedures: the LAU finishes first
## 6.5 Provision of the IMSI to the BSC
### 6.5.1 General
To enable the described implementation of the GPRS class A mode of operation,
the BSS and the PCU are required to perform the co-ordination of the
allocation of radio resources for both domains. That co-ordination is
performed with the IMSI as it is described in the following clauses.
The IMSI shall be provided to the BSC during:
1\. call establishment;
2\. session establishment; and
3\. external handover.
### 6.5.2 Call establishment
The BSC triggers the establishment of the SCCP connection with the MSC. The
MSC shall provide the IMSI to the BSC in a new message: Common ID message.
This message can be sent either on the SCCP Connection Confirm message or
immediately after, once the connection is already established.
### 6.5.3 Session establishment
#### 6.5.3.1 Downlink session establishment
Both in the READY and the STANDBY states:
\- the IMSI is sent from the SGSN in the PS PAGING BSSGP PDUs;
\- the IMSI and the TLLI are sent from the SGSN in the DL-UNITDATA.
#### 6.5.3.2 Uplink session establishment
At the establishment of an uplink TBF, the BSC can identify whether it knows
the IMSI of a mobile station for which it has its TLLI. If the IMSI is not
known, the BSC can initiate the RA-Capability-Update procedure and request the
IMSI (and the RA capabilities) of the mobile to the SGSN.
\- If there is a change of cell and the mobile station was in packet transfer
mode, it performs a cell update procedure, which can be done with user data
and therefore hold for a long time, possibly with no downlink message. During
this time the mobile station may not be able to monitor the broadcast channels
and miss paging messages. This error situation is prevented by the BSS
initiating the RA-Capability-Update procedure.
\- The RA-Capability-Update procedure may fail if the SGSN does not have the
IMSI (or the RA Capabilities) of the mobile station. This may happen when
there is a change of SGSN (hence also of RA). In this case, the mobile station
sends the RAU Request message on the uplink TBF and then goes back to (packet)
idle mode, where it can receive possible paging messages. When the SGSN
answers with the RAU Accept message (after retrieving the PDP and MM contexts
from the old SGSN), the DL-UNITDATA message contains the IMSI and the TLLI.
### 6.5.4 External handover
During CS handover procedure, the IMSI is included in the (BSSMAP) HANDOVER
REQUEST message from the MSC to the target BSC. The identifiers included in
the (BSSGP) PS HANDOVER REQUEST message from the SGSN to the target BSC during
the PS Handover procedure are defined in 3GPP TS 43.129 [13].
## 6.6 In-band parameters
When the mobile station is in dedicated mode, packet transfer mode or both,
some information may need to be passed to the mobile station so that it can
enter or maintain the dual transfer mode. Most of that information consists of
parameters that are broadcast in the (P)BCCH, but that cannot be read by the
mobile station. Some new parameters are added.
Table 4 lists those parameters and indicates whether they have to be sent
while in dedicated mode, packet transfer mode or both. When the mobile station
is in idle mode, the parameters are sent on the BCCH. When the mobile station
is in dedicated mode, the parameters are sent on the SACCH. When the mobile
station is in packet transfer mode, they are sent on the PACCH.
While in dual transfer mode, the MS shall assume that the SGSN Release is
\"Release \'99 onwards\" and shall ignore the SGSNR information provided in
PSI 14.
Table 4: List of parameters to be passed in-band to the mobile station
+---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ | (P)BCCH | FACCH | SACCH | PACCH | Parameter | Description | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ |  |  |  | | DTM: bit(1) | **DTM support | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | cell**. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [(P)BCCH] | | | | | | | {.underline}: | | | | | | | to enable a | | | | | | | quick | | | | | | | resumption of | | | | | | | the GPRS | | | | | | | session in | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | transition | | | | | | | from dual | | | | | | | transfer mode | | | | | | | to packet | | | | | | | transfer | | | | | | | mode; t | | | | | | | enable the LA | | | | | | | and RA Update | | | | | | | procedures to | | | | | | | be performed | | | | | | | in parallel | | | | | | | on an SDCCH. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [FACCH] | | | | | | | {.underline}: | | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | | after a | | | | | | | handover | | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | | when the MS | | | | | | | was in DTM, | | | | | | | in order to | | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | session to be | | | | | | | resume | | | | | | | without long | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterruptions. | | | | | | | [DTM | | | | | | | Information] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [SACCH] | | | | | | | {.underline}: | | | | | | | to enable the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | procedures | | | | | | | while in | | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | | mode. [SI | | | | | | | 6] | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ | |  |  | | RAI : bit(48) | **Routeing | | | | | | | Area | | | | | | | Identity**. | | | | | | | It is needed | | | | | | | to enable the | | | | | | | MS to detect | | | | | | | changes of | | | | | | | routeing area | | | | | | | during a | | | | | | | handover in | | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | | mode [DTM | | | | | | | Information, | | | | | | | SI6] | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ | |  |  | | Cell Identity | **Cell | | | | | | : bit(16) | Identity**. | | | | | | | It is needed | | | | | | | to enable the | | | | | | | MS to detect | | | | | | | changes of | | | | | | | cell after a | | | | | | | handover in | | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | | mode [DTM | | | | | | | Information, | | | | | | | SI 6] | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ | |  |  | | MAX_LAPDm : | **Maximum | | | | | | bit(3) | number of | | | | | | | LAPDm | | | | | | | frames**. To | | | | | | | limit the use | | | | | | | of the main | | | | | | | DCCH when the | | | | | | | MS in | | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | | mode | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [FACCH] | | | | | | | {.underline}: | | | | | | | immediately | | | | | | | after a | | | | | | | handover | | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | | when the MS | | | | | | | was in DTM, | | | | | | | in order to | | | | | | | enable the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | session to be | | | | | | | resume | | | | | | | without long | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | nterruptions. | | | | | | | [DTM | | | | | | | Information] | | | | | | | | | | | | | | [SACCH] | | | | | | | {.underline}: | | | | | | | to enable the | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | request | | | | | | | procedures | | | | | | | while in | | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | | mode. [SI | | | | | | | 6] | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ | |  | | | GPRS Cell | **GPRS Cell | | | | | | Options | Options**. | | | | | | | Sent on the | | | | | | | DTM | | | | | | | assignment | | | | | | | message (DTM | | | | | | | ASSIGNMENT | | | | | | | COMMAND or | | | | | | | PACKET | | | | | | | ASSIGNMENT) | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ | |  | | | GPRS Power | **GPRS Power | | | | | | Control | Control | | | | | | Parameters | Parameters**. | | | | | | | Sent on the | | | | | | | DTM | | | | | | | assignment | | | | | | | message (DTM | | | | | | | ASSIGNMENT | | | | | | | COMMAND or | | | | | | | PACKET | | | | | | | ASSIGNMENT) | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ | | | |  | (P)SI 13 | **[(P)SI 13 | | | | | | Information | I | | | | | | | nformation]{. | | | | | | | underline}** : | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | information | | | | | | | is sent so | | | | | | | that the | | | | | | | mobile | | | | | | | station needs | | | | | | | not read SI | | | | | | | 13 at call | | | | | | | release | | | | | | | during dual | | | | | | | transfer mode | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ | |  |  | | Dedicated | **Dedicated | | | | | | Mode MBMS | Mode MBMS | | | | | | Notification | Notification | | | | | | Support | Support | | | | | | Indication | Indication.** | | | | | | | to enable the | | | | | | | mobile | | | | | | | station to | | | | | | | participate | | | | | | | in MBMS | | | | | | | procedures | | | | | | | while in | | | | | | | dedicated | | | | | | | mode (DTM | | | | | | | ASSIGNMENT | | | | | | | COMMAND, | | | | | | | PACKET | | | | | | | ASSIGNMENT or | | | | | | | DTM | | | | | | | INFORMATION, | | | | | | | SI 6) | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+ | | | | | | | +---------+-------+-------+-------+---------------+---------------+
## 6.7 MS behaviour in _heterogeneous_ networks
### 6.7.1 General
The support of DTM in a network is not likely to be homogeneous. Network
operators normally have more that one infrastructure supplier and different
manufacturers will support DTM with different time scales. In addition, the
rollout of a product release from a certain manufacturer is not performed
simultaneously across the network.
It is therefore difficult to avoid the fact that some cells in a network
support DTM whereas others do not, making necessary to ensure a consistent
behaviour of a DTM mobile station in such scenario. The existing GPRS
Suspension and Resume procedures are reused for this purpose.
Table 5 contains the four possible combinations when the mobile station is
handed over between two cells, where each of them may or not support DTM.
Table 5: Modification to CS handover to ensure a correct DTM behaviour\ when
DTM is not always supported
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **Support | | | | | | of DTM in | | | | | | new cell** | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **No** | **Yes** | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > **Support |** No**| The MS | | | | > of DTM in | | waits for | | | | > old | | the | | | | > cell** | | reception | | | | | | of the SI 6 | | | | | | message | | | | | | indicating | | | | | | whether the | | | | | | cell | | | | | | supports | | | | | | DTM. If DTM | | | | | | is | | | | | | supported, | | | | | | the same | | | | | | message | | | | | | contains | | | | | | the RAC. | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | _Normal_ CS | When the | | | | | handover. | SI6 message | | | | | | is | | | | | | received, | | | | | | the MS | | | | | | performs | | | | | | the Resume | | | | | | procedure: | | | | | | it performs | | | | | | the RR | | | | | | Packet | | | | | | Request | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | for the GMM | | | | | | RA Update | | | | | | procedure. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | **Yes** | MS in DM | The MS | The MS | | | | | waits until | waits for | | | | | the | the | | | | | reception | reception | | | | | of the SI 6 | of the SI 6 | | | | | message | message | | | | | indicating | indicating | | | | | that the | that the | | | | | cell does | cell | | | | | not support | supports | | | | | DTM. Then, | DTM and | | | | | if GPRS is | containing | | | | | supported, | the RAC. | | | | | the MS | When the | | | | | performs | SI6 message | | | | | the GPRS | is | | | | | suspension | received, | | | | | procedure. | the MS | | | | | | performs | | | | | | the Cell | | | | | | Update (MS | | | | | | in READY), | | | | | | the RA | | | | | | Update | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | (change of | | | | | | RA) or none | | | | | | of both (MS | | | | | | in STANDBY | | | | | | and both | | | | | | cells in | | | | | | the same | | | | | | RA). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | MS in DTM | | The network | | | | | | sends the | | | | | | DTM | | | | | | Information | | | | | | message | | | | | | (implicitly | | | | | | implying | | | | | | the support | | | | | | of DTM) | | | | | | containing | | | | | | the RAC and | | | | | | any other | | | | | | information | | | | | | needed to | | | | | | perform the | | | | | | Packet | | | | | | Request | | | | | | procedure. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 6.7.1 Suspension procedure
The GPRS Suspension procedure is defined in the standards to be used when a
mobile station in mode of operation B and in packet transfer mode is paged for
circuit switched services.
The GPRS Suspension procedure can be used without modifications when:
\- a DTM mobile in dedicated or dual transfer mode is handed over from a cell
that supports DTM to one that does not; or
\- a DTM mobile in packet transfer mode on a cell that does not support DTM is
paged for circuit switched services.
The GPRS Suspension procedure is initiated by the mobile station by sending a
GPRS SUSPENSION REQUEST message to the BSS after it has entered dedicated
mode.
### 6.7.2 Resume procedure
The Resume procedure is used for the resumption of GPRS service when the
conditions for suspension have disappeared (e.g. a suspended class B mobile
station has cleared the resources allocated for the circuit switched service).
The procedure is initiated:
a) by the **BSS** , when it detects the change of conditions: the BSS
indicates the resumption to the SGSN and then the mobile station;
b) by the **mobile station** , when it detects the change of conditions and
the BSS has not resumed GPRS: the mobile station performs a RA Update
procedure that resumes GPRS with the SGSN.
For the two new causes for GPRS suspension, there is no message from the BSS
to the mobile station and, thus, the Resume procedure is initiated by the
mobile station (b).
# 7 DTM operation
Once the mobile stations enters the DTM, the existent RLC/MAC procedures
apply, with the exception of the case of an exclusive allocation of an uplink
PDCH (including the PDCH/H of a \"TCH/H + PDCH/H\" configuration). In that
case, the mobile station is always granted the transmission of uplink RLC/MAC
blocks, which keep the current format. Thus, the mobile station shall ignore
the USF mechanism for dynamic allocation.
Other exceptions to the existent RLC/MAC procedures are:
\- The mobile station shall not accept a packet assignment command (addressed
to it on the PACCH) that changes the frequency definition of the PDCH. Such
change shall be done by means of a DTM Assignment Command message on the main
DCCH (changing both TCH and PDCH configurations). A modification of the
timeslot allocation may occur by means of a Packet Assignment message. Any
violation of the frequency restrictions or the multislot class of the mobile
station (taking both TCH and PDCH resources into account) shall be treated as
an abnormal case and the TBF(s) shall then be aborted.
NOTE 1: the PCU should know that the mobile station is in dual transfer mode
and therefore format the messages correctly.
\- When all TBFs have been released (or aborted), the mobile station returns
to dedicated mode.
\- When the mobile station is in dual transfer mode, it shall ignore a Packet
Cell Change Order or a RR-Cell Change Order message and shall remain in dual
transfer mode.
NOTE 2: the PCU should know that the mobile station is in dual transfer mode
and therefore not send these messages.
\- When a mobile station in dual transfer mode receives a valid RRBP field in
a downlink RLC/MAC block , if it has been assigned PDCH/H, where the
_exclusive allocation is required,_ the mobile station shall use normal bursts
and not access bursts, irrespective of the value of the CONTROL_ACK_TYPE field
received in the DTM Assignment Command message or Packet Assignment message.
If the mobile station has not been assigned PDCH/H, it shall either use normal
bursts or access bursts to transmit the Packet Control Acknowledgement message
depending on the value of CONTROL_ACK_TYPE received in the DTM Assignment
Command message or Packet Assignment message.
The mobile station remains in DTM until the CS connection or all the TBFs are
released.
# 8 GPRS attach procedure while in dedicated mode and packet idle mode
In this procedure, the mobile station sends a (non-combined) GPRS Attach
Request message to the SGSN. The sequence of messages is very similar to the
Routeing Area Update procedure, shown in figure 14 and figure 15.
# 9 Security
The current procedures apply.
NOTE: LLC frames containing GPRS signalling messages and sent on the main DCCH
are therefore ciphered twice, but that has been confirmed by SMG10 not to be a
security problem. In \"TCH/H + PDCH/H\" and other multislot configurations,
current GPRS ciphering is kept.
# 10 Header and Data Compression
Because this is done at SNDCP layer, there is assumed to be no impact.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Possible improvements for future releases
* * *
No. Description 1 New 3G TS 04.60 procedure for the establishment of a CS
connection without interruption of the packet services 2 Support of multislot
operation comprising single timeslot operation and additional PDCH(s) in the
same direction in the uplink 3 Multislot configurations where the CS
connection is using more than one timeslot 4 Multislot configurations where
the timeslots allocated to the PS session are not contiguous 5 Power control
for EGPRS while in DTM
* * *
###### ## Annex B (normative): Incremental support of extended DTM multislot
classes
As for other DTM multislot classes, for extended DTM multislot classes
incremental support (see subclause 4.5.1.3) shall apply: the MS only indicates
the support of one multislot class and the support of less restrictive classes
is also assumed by the network. This is depicted for mobile stations
supporting Extended DTM GPRS Multi Slot Class or Extended DTM EGPRS Multi Slot
Class, in Figure 19.
Mobile stations not supporting high multislot classes may indicate support
only for the Extended DTM GPRS Multi Slot Classes or Extended DTM EGPRS Multi
Slot Classes 5, 6, 9, 10 and 11 (indicated by solid boxes on the left of the
dashed line in Figure 19).
NOTE: High multislot classes are multislot classes 30-45 (see 3GPP TS 45.002
[6]).
For mobile stations supporting high multislot classes, the Extended DTM GPRS
Multi Slot Class shall always be the same as the DTM GPRS Multi Slot Class and
the Extended DTM EGPRS Multi Slot Class shall always be the same as the DTM
EGPRS Multi Slot Class (indicated by solid boxes on the right of the dashed
line in Figure 19). The support of the mix of full and half rate packet data
channels is indicated by the presence of the Extended DTM GPRS Multi Slot
Class field and, where applicable, the Extended DTM EGPRS Multi Slot Class
field in the MS Classmark 3 and MS Radio Access Capability IEs, regardless of
the value of these fields.
Figure 19 -- Incremental support of extended DTM multislot classes.
#