# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS specifies the procedures used at the radio interface for normal
operation and invocation of MultiParty supplementary services within the 3GPP
system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 0 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures used at the radio interface
(Reference point Um as defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal operation and
invocation of MultiParty supplementary services.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004 and the 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x‑series.
3GPP TS 22.084 is related specially to MultiParty supplementary services.
Technical realization of supplementary services is described in 3GPP TS 23.011
and the 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x‑series.
3GPP TS 23.084 is related specially to MultiParty supplementary services.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary service belongs to the MultiParty supplementary
services and is described in the present document:
\- MultiParty service (MPTY) (clause 1).
## 0.1 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.081: \"Line identification supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services - Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 22.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[7] 3GPP TS 22.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services - Stage
1\".
[8] 3GPP TS 22.086: \"Advice of charge (AoC) supplementary services - Stage
1\".
[9] 3GPP TS 22.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services - Stage 1\".
[10] 3GPP TS 22.090: \"Unstructured Supplementary Services Data (USSD) \-
Stage 1\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[12] 3GPP TS 23.081: \"Line identification supplementary services - Stage 2\".
[13] 3GPP TS 23.082: \"Call Forwarding (CF) supplementary services - Stage
2\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services - Stage 2\".
[15] 3GPP TS 23.084: \"MultiParty (MPTY) supplementary services - Stage 2\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.085: \"Closed User Group (CUG) supplementary services \- Stage
2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.086: \"Advice of Charge (AoC) supplementary services - Stage
2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.088: \"Call Barring (CB) supplementary services - Stage 2\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.090: \"Unstructured supplementary services operation - Stage
2\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) Access
Reference Configuration\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3\".
[22] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[23] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3; Supplementary services
specification\".
[24] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification; Formats and coding\".
[25] 3GPP TS 24.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services - Stage 3\".
## 0.2 Abbreviations
Abbreviations used in the present document are listed in 3GPP TR 21.905.
# 1 MultiParty service (MPTY)
## 1.1 Beginning the MultiParty service
The served mobile subscriber A may initiate an active MultiParty call from an
active call C and a held call B.
The mobile station invokes the service by sending a FACILITY message to the
network containing the BuildMPTY request. This BuildMPTY request indicates to
the network that the mobile subscriber wishes all his calls to be connected
together in a MultiParty call. The network will normally accept the request
and connect the mobile subscriber with the other existing connections (active
call C and held call B). If the request is not accepted, the network will
indicate the error to the served mobile (see figure 1.1). The network confirms
with the same transaction identifier. Error values are specified in 3GPP TS
24.080.
During the BuildMPTY operation the MS shall run a timer T(BuildMPTY). This
timer is started when the operation is sent, and stopped when a response is
received from the network. If this timer expires the MS shall assume that the
operation has failed, locally release the invokeID, and may re-attempt the
operation or inform the user of the failure.
MS Network
FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------>
Facility (Invoke = BuildMPTY)
FACILITY (TI A-B/A-C)
\
Facility (Invoke = HoldMPTY)
FACILITY (TI A-X)
\
Facility (Invoke = SplitMPTY)
FACILITY (TI A-X)
\
Facility (Invoke = RetrieveMPTY)
FACILITY (TI A-X)
\ New Version Subject/Comment Apr 1999 GSM
04.84 6.0.0 Transferred to 3GPP CN1 CN#03 24.084 R99 3.0.0 Approved at CN#03
CN#11 24.084 3.0.0 Rel-4 4.0.0 Release 4 after CN#11 CN#16 24.084 4.0.0 Rel-4
4.0.1 References updated CN#16 24.084 4.0.1 Rel-5 5.0.0 Release 5 created
after CN#16 CN#26 24.084 5.0.0 Rel-6 6.0.0 Release 6 created after CN#26 CT#36
24.084 6.0.0 Rel-7 7.0.0 Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6 CT#42 24.084 7.0.0
Rel-8 8.0.0 Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7 CT#46 24.084 8.0.0 0002r1 Rel-9
9.0.0 MPTY notifications -- remote SIP parties 2011-03 24.084 9.0.0 - Rel-10
10.0.0 Update to Rel-10 version (MCC) 2012-09 24.084 10.0.0 - Rel-11 11.0.0
Update to Rel-11 version (MCC)