# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3GPP.
This TS gives the stage 3 description of the Completion of Calls to Busy
Subscriber (CCBS) supplementary service within the 3GPP system.
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of this TS, it will be re-released by the TSG with an identifying
change of release date and an increase in version number as follows:
Version 3.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 Indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the specification;
# 1 Scope
The present dcoument gives the stage 3 description of the Completion of Calls
to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) supplementary service. The present document
specifies the procedures used at the radio interface (Reference point Um as
defined in 3GPP TS 24.002) for normal operation, activation, deactivation,
invocation and interrogation of the completion of calls to busy subscriber
supplementary services. Provision and withdrawal of supplementary services is
an administrative matter between the mobile subscriber and the service
provider and cause no signalling on the radio interface.
In 3GPP TS 24.010 the general aspects of the specification of supplementary
services at the layer 3 radio interface are given.
3GPP TS 24.080 specifies the formats and coding for the supplementary
services.
Definitions and descriptions of supplementary services are given in 3GPP TS
22.004, 3GPP TS 22.08x and 3GPP TS 22.09x-series. Technical specification 3GPP
TS 22.093 is related specifically to the Completion of Calls to Busy
Subscriber supplementary service.
The technical realization of supplementary services is described in technical
specifications 3GPP TS 23.011, 3GPP TS 23.08x and 3GPP TS 23.09x-series. 3GPP
TS 23.093 is related specifically to Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber
supplementary service.
The procedures for Call Control, Mobility Management and Radio Resource
management at the layer 3 radio interface are defined in 3GPP TS 24.007 and
3GPP TS 24.008.
The following supplementary services belong to the call completion
supplementary services and are described in the present document:
\- Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) (see clause 4).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 22.004: \"General on supplementary services\".
[3] 3GPP TS 22.007: \"Mobile Stations (MS) features\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.030: \"Man-Machine Interface (MMI) of the Mobile Station
(MS)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 22.093: \"Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber (CCBS) Service
description, Stage 1\".
[6] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Technical realization of supplementary services\".
[7] 3GPP TS 23.093: \"Technical realization of Completion of Calls to Busy
Subscriber (CCBS)\".
[8] 3GPP TS 24.002: \"GSM-UMTS Public Land Mobile Network (PLMN) access
reference configuration\".
[9] 3GPP TS 24.007: \"Mobile radio interface signalling layer 3 General
aspects\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 specification\".
[11] 3GPP TS 24.010: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 Supplementary services
specification General aspects\".
[12] 3GPP TS 24.080: \"Mobile radio interface layer 3 supplementary services
specification Formats and coding\".
[13] 3GPP TS 24.083: \"Call Waiting (CW) and Call Hold (HOLD) supplementary
services ‑ Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations {#definitions-and-abbreviations .list-
paragraph}
## 3.1 Definitions {#definitions .list-paragraph}
For the purposes of the present document the following definitions apply.
**Subscriber A:** The user of MS A, requesting CCBS.
**Destination B:** The entity addressed in the original call set up, which is
busy when first called by subscriber A.
## 3.2 Abbreviations {#abbreviations .list-paragraph}
For the purposes of the present document the following abbreviations apply:
CCBS Completion of Calls to Busy Subscriber
MS A Mobile Station of subscriber A
NDUB Network Determined User Busy
Further related abbreviations are given in 3GPP TR 21.905
# 4 General {#general .list-paragraph}
## 4.1 Overview {#overview .list-paragraph}
CCBS allows a calling subscriber A, encountering a Network Determined User
Busy (NDUB) called destination B, to be notified when destination B is idle
and to have the network reinitiate the call to destination B, if subscriber A
desires.
All of the radio signalling specific to CCBS is at the subscriber A-side. Each
procedure is described in turn. There is no radio signalling specific to CCBS
at destination B-side. The radio signalling on the destination B-side uses
basic call signalling procedures only.
A mobile station that supports CCBS shall support the requirements of the
following options used in 3GPP TS 24.008:
1) Prolonged Clearing Procedure;
2) Network Initiated Mobile Originated Connection Management (MO CM)
Connection Request;
3) Network initiated MO call.
A network supporting CCBS shall support the requirements of the following
options used in 3GPP TS 24.008:
1) CCBS Request activation; and
2) Network initiated MO call.
## 4.2 Activation {#activation .list-paragraph}
When CCBS is allowed the network shall give subscriber A the option of
activating a CCBS Request.
The network shall send a DISCONNECT message to MS A (cause #17 (User Busy) or
cause #34 (no circuit / channel available)) with diagnostic field indicating
CCBS is Possible and allowed actions indicating CCBS is Possible. The network
starts the retention timer T1 when it sends the DISCONNECT message. The MS
shall not release the connection with the network if allowed actions is
present.
If subscriber A attempts to activate a CCBS Request, MS A shall send a RELEASE
message, with the Facility information element indicating CCBSRequest and the
network shall stop T1. If the subscriber A does not accept CCBS activation,
the MS shall send normal RELEASE message and the network shall stop T1 and
continue normal call clearing. If the timer T1 expires before the RELEASE
message is received from the MS, the network shall continue normal call
clearing.
If the network accepts the activation attempt, it shall acknowledge it by
sending a RELEASE COMPLETE message containing the Facility information element
with the CCBS index and optionally the AddressOfB, SubAddressOfB and the
BasicServiceCode. If the network rejects the activation attempt, it shall send
a RELEASE COMPLETE message containing the Facility information element with a
return error indication.
If a TCH has been allocated for the initial call and there are no further need
for this channel configuration, the network may reconfigure the ongoing
connection from TCH(s) mode to SDCCH only mode while waiting for further user
input activity.
It is a network option to maintain the ongoing connection in TCH mode while
waiting for further user input activity.
SS Version Indicator value 3 or above has to be used.
* * *
MS A NETWORK\ SETUP (Note 1)\
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->\
(Bearer capability, CC capabilities, Called party BCD number)
DISCONNECT (Note 2)\
\
RELEASE COMPLETE\ \
RELEASE\
\--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->\
Facility (Invoke = AccessRegisterCCEntry)
RELEASE COMPLETE\
\\ | | \ | | CM SERVICE PROMPT\ | | \\ | | \ | | MM_STATUS\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - ->\ | | (Cause #32 (Service option not supported) / Cause #34 (Service | | option temporarily out of order) /\ | | Cause #97 (message type non-existent or not implemented))\ | | \ | | CC ESTABLISHMENT\ | | \\ | | (BC'(s)), (Note 1) | | | | RELEASE COMPLETE\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - ->\ | | (Cause #29 (facility rejected) / Cause #88 (incompatible | | destination) / Cause #17 ( User Busy)) (Note 2)\ | | \ | | RECALL\ | | \\ | | (Cause #21 (call rejected) / Cause #17 (User Busy) / Cause #68 | | (ACM ≥ ACMmax)) (Note 4)\ | | \ | | RELEASE COMPLETE\ | | \\ | | (Note 6) | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 4.3.1: CCBS Call Set-up for supporting MSs - subscriber A idle when
RECALL arrives
NOTE 1: The BC may be modified by the MS as long as the same Basic Service
Group is maintained.
NOTE 2: The MS releases the transaction if the BC,HLC,LLC received in the CC
ESTABLISHMENT message are incompatible with the MS, the MS cannot decode the
contents of the \"advanced recall alignment\" Facility information element
correctly (see 3GPP TS 24.010) or the MS responds by indicating UDUB.
NOTE 3: MS shall start CCBS Recall alerting on receiving the RECALL message.
The CCBS timer T4 is started when the RECALL message is sent to the MS.
Sub_Address information may be included. The Alerting Pattern parameter may be
included by the network to give some indication about alerting (category or
level). If supported in the MS, this optional parameter is to be used by the
MS as specified in 3GPP TS 22.007.
NOTE 4: Subscriber A explicitly rejects the CCBS Recall or subscriber A
responds to the CCBS Recall by indicating UDUB or ACM ≥ ACMmax.
NOTE 5: The network releases the transaction if CCBS timer T4 expires.
NOTE 6: The information elements within the SETUP message are derived from the
Setup container in the CC ESTABLISHMENT Message. The SETUP message must
contain the same BC(s) that was (were) sent to the network in the CC
ESTABLISHMENT CONFIRMED message.
### 4.3.2 CCBS Call Set-up (MS A not idle) {#ccbs-call-set-up-ms-a-not-idle
.list-paragraph}
If a CCBS Recall is offered to MS A and MS A is not idle, subscriber A may
accept the CCBS Recall and either release the existing call or put the
existing call on hold.
#### 4.3.2.1 Existing call released {#existing-call-released .list-paragraph}
* * *
MS A NETWORK\ CM SERVICE PROMPT\
\
MM_STATUS\ \- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- ->\ (Cause #32 (Service option not supported) / Cause #34 (Service option
temporarily out of order) /\ Cause #97 (message type non-existent or not
implemented))\ \ CC ESTABLISHMENT (TI = CCBS call)\
\\
(BC'(s), Cause #17 ( User Busy)) (Note 2)\ \ RELEASE COMPLETE (TI = CCBS
call)\ \- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ->\
(Cause #29 (facility rejected) / Cause #88 (incompatible destination) / Cause
#17 (User Busy)) (Note 3)\ \ RECALL (TI = CCBS call)\
\\ (Cause #21 (call rejected) / Cause #17 (User Busy) / Cause
#68 (ACM ≥ ACMmax)) (Note 5)\ \ RELEASE COMPLETE (TI = CCBS call)\ \\
(Cause #16 (normal clearing)) (Note 1, Note 7)\ \ SETUP (TI = CCBS call)\
\---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->\
(Note 8)
* * *
Figure 4.3.2: CCBS Recall arrives while MS involved in a call, the existing
call is released on acceptance of the CCBS Recall
**Notes to figure 4.3.2:**
NOTE 1: A new TI value indicated by \"TI = CCBS call\" is allocated by the MS
for the subsequent CCBS call. The already existing call is referred to by the
TI value \"TI = existing call\".
NOTE 2: The BC may be modified by the MS as long as the same Basic Service
Group is maintained. The MS shall indicate \"User Busy\" if it is not idle.
NOTE 3: The MS releases the transaction if the BC,HLC,LLC received in the CC
ESTABLISHMENT message are incompatible with the MS, the MS cannot decode the
contents of the \"advanced recall alignment\" Facility information element
correctly (see 3GPP TS 24.010) or the MS responds by indicating UDUB.
NOTE 4: MS shall start CCBS Recall alerting on receiving the RECALL message.
The CCBS timer T10 is started when the RECALL message is sent to the MS.
Sub_Address information may be included. The Alerting Pattern parameter may be
included by the network to give some indication about alerting (category or
level). If supported in the MS, this optional parameter is to be used by the
MS as specified in 3GPP TS 22.007.
NOTE 5: Subscriber A explicitly rejects the CCBS Recall or subscriber A
responds to the CCBS Recall by indicating UDUB or ACM ≥ ACMmax.
NOTE 6: The network releases the transaction if CCBS timer T10 expires.
NOTE 7: The existing call is released to make resources available for the CCBS
call. The existing call is released according to normal call clearing
procedures (see 3GPP TS 24.008).
NOTE 8: The information elements within the SETUP message are derived from the
Setup container in the CC ESTABLISHMENT message. The SETUP message must
contain the same BC(s) that was (were) sent to the network in the CC
ESTABLISHMENT CONFIRMED message.
#### 4.3.2.2 Existing call placed on hold {#existing-call-placed-on-hold
.list-paragraph}
If the existing call is a telephony call, subscriber A may place this call on
hold in order to accept the CCBS Recall.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS A NETWORK | | | | CM SERVICE PROMPT\ | | \ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MM_STATUS\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - ->\ | | (Cause #32 (Service option not supported) / Cause #34 (Service | | option temporarily out of order) /\ | | Cause #97 (message type non-existent or not implemented))\ | | \ | | CC ESTABLISHMENT(TI = CCBS call)\ | | \\ | | (BC'(s), Cause #17 ( User Busy)) (Note 2)\ | | \ | | RELEASE COMPLETE (TI = CCBS call)\ | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - | | - - - >\ | | (Cause #29 (facility rejected) / Cause #88 (incompatible | | destination) / Cause #17 (User Busy)) (Note 3)\ | | \ | | RECALL (TI = CCBS call)\ | | \\ | | (Cause #21 (call rejected) / Cause #17 (UDUB) / Cause #68 (ACM ≥ | | ACMmax)) (Note 5)\ | | \ | | RELEASE COMPLETE (TI = CCBS call)\ | | \\ | | \ | | HOLD ACKNOWLEDGE (TI = existing call)\ | | \ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
Figure 4.3.3: CCBS Recall arrives while MS involved in a call, the existing
call is placed on hold on acceptance of the CCBS Recall
**Notes to figure 4.3.3:**
NOTE 1: A new TI value indicated by \"TI = CCBS call\" is allocated by the MS
for the subsequent CCBS call. The already existing call is referred to by the
TI value \"TI = existing call\".
NOTE 2: The BC may be modified by the MS as long as the same Basic Service
Group is maintained. The MS shall indicate \"User Busy\" if it is not idle.
NOTE 3: The MS releases the transaction if the BC,HLC,LLC received in the CC
ESTABLISHMENT message are incompatible with the MS, the MS cannot decode the
contents of the \"advanced recall alignment\" Facility information element
correctly, or the MS responds by indicating UDUB.
NOTE 4: MS shall start CCBS Recall alerting on receiving the RECALL message.
The CCBS timer T10 is started when the RECALL message is sent to the MS.
Sub_Address information may be included. The Alerting Pattern parameter may be
included by the network to give some indication about alerting (category or
level). If supported in the MS, this optional parameter is to be used by the
MS as specified in 3GPP TS 22.007.
NOTE 5: Subscriber A explicitly rejects the CCBS Recall or subscriber A
responds to the CCBS Recall by indicating UDUB or ACM ≥ ACMmax.
NOTE 6: The network releases the transaction if CCBS timer T10 expires.
NOTE 7: The existing call is placed on hold to make resources available for
the CCBS call. The existing call is placed on hold according to normal call
hold procedures (see 3GPP TS 24.083).
NOTE 8: The information elements within the SETUP message derived from the
Setup container in the CC ESTABLISHMENT Message. The SETUP message must
contain the same BC(s) that was (were) sent to the network in the CC
ESTABLISHMENT CONFIRMED message.
## 4.4 Deactivation {#deactivation .list-paragraph}
Subscriber A can perform the following operations:
\- deactivate all outstanding CCBS requests;
\- deactivate a specific CCBS request.
MS A shall send a REGISTER message, with the Facility information element,
indicating EraseCCEntry.
SS Version Indicator value 3 or above has to be used.
* * *
MS A NETWORK\ REGISTER\
\-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->\
Facility (Invoke = EraseCCEntry (CCBS))
RELEASE COMPLETE\
\\
Facility (Invoke = EraseCCEntry (CCBS, CCBS Index))
RELEASE COMPLETE\
\\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CCBS))
RELEASE COMPLETE\
\\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS (CCBS))
RELEASE COMPLETE\
\\
Facility (Invoke = InterrogateSS(CCBS))
RELEASE COMPLETE\
\\
Facility (Invoke = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme, ussd-
String))
RELEASE COMPLETE (PD = SS)\
\
RELEASE COMPLETE (PD = CC)\ \
* * *
Figure A.1: Activation of CCBS for non supporting MSs
NOTE 1: If Subscriber A rejects the CCBS Possible indication or ends the call
having received either a successful or unsuccessful indication following an
activation attempt, then the MS shall send a RELEASE message.
NOTE 2: If the call control timer expires (T306) or if T1 expires, then
network shall send a RELEASE message to MS.
# A.2 CCBS Call Set-up for non-supporting MSs
The CCBS recall shall be treated as a mobile terminated call set-up. The
network shall send a SETUP message to MS A, which causes the MS to ring
indicating that destination B is now idle. If subscriber A accepts the CCBS
recall, MS A shall establish a new call with the CONNECT message.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | MS A NETWORK | | | | SETUP\ | | \ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | ALERTING\ | | ----------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------> | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | CONNECT\ | | ----------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------\ | | ----------------------------------> | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | CONNECT ACKNOWLEDGE\ | | \ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | START DTMF ACKNOWLEDGE\ | | \ | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | STOP DTMF ACKNOWLEDGE\ | | \\
Facility (Invoke = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme, ussd-
String))
RELEASE COMPLETE\
\\
Facility (Invoke = ProcessUnstructuredSS-Request (ussd-DataCodingScheme, ussd-
String))
RELEASE COMPLETE\
\ New Version Subject/Comment Apr 1999 GSM
04.93 6.1.1 Transferred to 3GPP CN1 CN#03 24.093 R99 3.0.0 Approved at CN#03
CN#11 24.093 3.0.0 Rel-4 4.0.0 Approved at CN#11 CN#16 24.093 4.0.0 Rel-4
4.0.1 References updated CN#16 24.093 4.0.1 Rel-5 5.0.0 Rel-5 created after
CN#16 CN#26 24.093 5.0.0 Rel-6 6.0.0 Rel-6 created after CN#26 CT#36 24.093
6.0.0 Rel-7 7.0.0 Upgraded unchanged from Rel-6 CT#42 24.093 7.0.0 Rel-8 8.0.0
Upgraded unchanged from Rel-7 2009-12 24.093 8.0.0 - Rel-9 9.0.0 Update to
Rel-9 version (MCC) 2011-03 24.093 9.0.0 - Rel-10 10.0.0 Update to Rel-10
version (MCC) 2012-09 24.093 10.0.0 - Rel-11 11.0.0 Update to Rel-11 version
(MCC)