# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the stage 3 aspects of the architecture
enhancements for broadcast TV service (see 3GPP TS 23.246 [2]).
The present document specifies:
\- the requirements on the device in Receive only mode;
\- the procedure for selecting a network to receive broadcast TV service; and
\- the usage of the information configured in the TV service configuration.
The clause 4 applies to a device in Receive only mode only. The remaining
clauses are applicable to:
\- a 3GPP UE wishing to receive broadcast TV service; and
\- a device in Receive only mode.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.246: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Architecture and functional description\".
[3] 3GPP TS 24.117: \"TV service configuration Management Object (MO)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) functions related to Mobile
Station (MS) in idle mode\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.304: \"E-UTRAN UE procedures in idle mode\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"UE procedures in idle mode and cell reselection
procedures in connected mode\".
[7] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS); Protocols
and codecs\".
[8] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber Identity
Module (USIM) application\".
[9] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile radio interface Layer 3 specification; Core
network protocols; Stage 3\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**UE in receive only mode:** device capable only of receiving eMBMS broadcast
on a pre-determined range of TMGIs and not capable of establishing unicast
connectivity with the network. This mode operation does not require UICC or
USIM.
**UE in receive only mode with independent unicast:** device capable of
operating both as UE in receive only mode for eMBMS broadcast and as a normal
UE for unicast connectivity with the network. This mode of operation requires
USIM.
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in TS 23.246 [2] apply:
**Receive Only mode**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
MO Management object
TV Television
# 4 Receive only mode
Device in Receive only mode shall:
\- be able to receive MBMS broadcast as described in 3GPP TS 23.246 [2]; and
\- select the network using the procedure in clause 5.
Device in Receive only mode shall not:
\- initiate any signalling procedures with the network; or
\- follow the PLMN selection procedures in 3GPP TS 23.122 [4], except for
device in Receive only mode with independent unicast, which may perform PLMN
selection procedures in 3GPP TS 23.122 [4] for the unicast connection.
NOTE 1: Because of the above requirements, device in Receive only mode does
camp on a network as defined in 3GPP TS 36.304 [5] and in 3GPP TS 25.304 [6].
Device in Receive only mode may have:
\- USIM with TV service configuration.
NOTE 2: The USIM does not imply the ability to follow the PLMN selection
procedures in 3GPP TS 23.122 [4].
The Receive only mode is enabled in the device using implementation-specific
means (e.g. factory configuration, user interface).
The requirements for support of MBMS **User** Service **Discovery/**
Announcement service for Receive only mode are specified in 3GPP TS 26.346
[7].
# 5 Network selection procedure for broadcast TV service
In order to select a network to receive broadcast TV service, device performs
the following steps:
a) PLMN search, during which the device may use the information in the RAN
information in the TV service configuration;
b) Eliminate all PLMNs discovered in step a) that do not offer MBMS service on
any of the TMGIs from the reserved TMGI range for Receive only mode. The
determination of whether a PLMN offers MBMS service on TMGIs from the reserved
range is based on:
\- Information configured in the TMGI List node of the TV service
configuration; and
\- TMGI broadcast by the PLMN; and
c) If there are more than one PLMN surviving the elimination in step b),
select one PLMN based on implementation-specific criteria as PLMN selected for
broadcast TV service.
The reserved TMGI range for Receive only mode is defined in subclause 6.3.
# 6 Service-related aspects
## 6.1 General
Broadcast TV service can be available in a PLMN. In order to receive the
service, the device performs the network selection for broadcast TV service as
described in clause 5 and selects the PLMN for broadcast TV service. Stage 2
requirements on this service are specified in 3GPP TS 23.246 [2] and 3GPP TS
26.346 [7].
To facilitate the discovery of the broadcast TV service, the device may
support being provisioned with the TV service configuration in one or more of
the following ways:
\- Implementation-specific way (e.g. factory configuration);
\- USIM (see EF~TVCONFIG~ file in 3GPP TS 31.102 [8]); or
\- TV service configuration MO (see 3GPP TS 24.117 [3]).
NOTE: TV service configuration MO can be provisioned using e.g. Bluetooth,
WLAN etc. or using unicast 3GPP connectivity for the device in Receive only
mode with independent unicast (see 3GPP TS 23.246 [2]).
There is no defined prioritization among the above provisioning methods in
this release of the specification.
## 6.2 Information provided in the TV service configuration
TV service configuration contains a list of PLMN. For each entry of the list,
the following information is configured:
\- PLMN ID of the PLMN for which the configuration applies;
\- RAN information with EARFCN on which the broadcast TV service is available,
to assist in PLMN search;
\- List of TMGI on which the broadcast TV service is available, along with the
associated User Service Description information for the MBMS User Service. If
TMGI and User Service Description information for the MBMS User Service is
configured in the TV service configuration for the selected PLMN, the UE uses
the information configured therein to acquire the broadcast TV service; and
\- List of TMGI on which the Service Announcement for broadcast TV service is
available along with the associated User Service Description information for
the MBMS User Service Announcement service. If TMGI and User Service
Description information for MBMS User Service Announcement is configured in
the TV service configuration for the selected PLMN, use the information
configured therein to acquire the Service Announcement for broadcast TV
service.
## 6.3 Reserved TMGI for services for Receive only mode
### 6.3.1 General
Services for Receive only mode are assigned a TMGI from the range specified in
this subclause.
NOTE: The structure of TMGI is specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [9]. The encoding
of the TMGI information element is specified in 3GPP TS 24.008 [10].
### 6.3.2 MCC/MNC
TMGI assigned to a service for Receive only mode shall have the values of MCC
= 901 and MNC = 56.
### 6.3.3 MBMS Service ID
The four most significant bits of the MBMS Service ID assigned to a service
for Receive only mode shall designate the type of service. For broadcast TV
service for Receive only mode, the type of service is set to 0000. In this
version of the specification, only the broadcast TV type of service is
supported. The TMGI values for Receive only mode with the type of service
other than 0000 are spare values.
For each type of service, 16 smallest values of the MBMS Service ID shall be
used only for TMGIs associated with the Service Announcement User Service for
Receive only mode.
EXAMPLE: MBMS Service ID assigned to the Service Announcement User Service for
broadcast TV service is in the range between 000000H and 00000FH.
#