# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies a Reliable Data Service (RDS) protocol between
the UE and Service Capability Exposure Function (SCEF).
The present document defines the frame structure, format of fields and
procedures for operation of the RDS protocol. RDS is mainly intended to be
used for acknowledged data transfer, but it also supports unacknowledged data
transfer.
The present document is applicable to the UE and to the SCEF in the Evolved
Packet System (EPS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
given in 3GPP TS 23.682 [2] apply:
**SCEF**
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
RDS Reliable Data Service
# 4 Overview
## 4.1 General
The Reliable Data Service (RDS) protocol supports the following requirements:
\- RDS supports peer-to-peer data transfers and shall provide reliable data
delivery between the UE and the SCEF. The data is transferred via a PDN
connection between the UE and SCEF.
\- A UE can connect to multiple SCEFs. A UE can connect to multiple SCS/AS via
the SCEF.
\- RDS shall support multiple applications on the UE to simultaneously conduct
data transfers with their peer entities on the SCEF using a single PDN
connection between the UE and SCEF.
\- RDS shall support both acknowledged and unacknowledged data transfers.
\- RDS shall support variable-length frames and shall allow detection and
elimination of duplicate frames at the receiving endpoint.
## 4.2 Reference Model
Figure 4.2-1: Protocol layering for reliable data transfer between UE and SCEF
via E-UTRAN
The reference model showing the protocol layering for reliable data transfer
between UE and SCEF is illustrated in figure 4.2-1. The RDS operates above the
NAS and Diameter layers in the reference architecture.
## 4.3 Description of RDS protocol
### 4.3.1 Protocol functions
RDS establishes a peer-to-peer logical link between the UE and SCEF. The
logical link is identified by a pair of port numbers and EPS bearer ID. Each
port number is used to identify an application on the UE side or SCEF side and
is carried in the address field of each frame. The source port number
identifies the application on the originator and the destination port number
identifies the application on the receiver. When a single application on the
originator conducts data transfer with a single application on the receiver,
the source port number and destination port number need not be used. Each RDS
frame shall consist of a header and an information field of variable length.
The header shall contain information about port numbers and the frame number
that is used to identify the frame and provide reliable transmission. The
information field contains the payload to be transferred between the UE and
SCEF.
The UE establishes a PDN connection with the SCEF either during Attach or
through UE requested PDN connectivity. The UE shall use the EPS bearer ID to
select the bearer to transfer RDS PDUs to the SCEF. The EPS bearer ID
identifies the destination (at the UE or SCEF) and is not carried in the frame
as it is already included in the NAS ESM message header. Once the UE and
network successfully negotiate to use RDS for a particular PDN connection, the
PDN connection shall transfer data only using RDS protocol.
RDS shall support both single and multiple applications within the UE. RDS
shall provide fuctionality for flow control and sequence control to maintain
the sequential order of frames across the logical link.
### 4.3.2 Acknowledged operation
In acknowledged operation the information is transmitted in order in numbered
Information (I) frames. The I frames are acknowledged at the RDS layer. Error
recovery and reordering mechanisms based on retransmission of acknowledged I
frames are specified. Several I frames can be acknowledged at the same time.
Flow control is implemented via a sliding window mechanism.
The procedure for establishment of acknowledged transfer is described in
clause 6.
### 4.3.3 Unacknowledged operation
In unacknowledged operation the information is transmitted in numbered
Unconfirmed Information (UI) frames. The UI frames are not acknowledged at the
RDS layer. Error recovery and reordering mechanisms are not defined. Duplicate
UI frames are discarded. Flow control procedures are not defined.
# 5 Frame structure and format of fields
## 5.1 General
The peer-to-peer transfers using RDS shall conform to the frame format as
shown in figure 5.1-1. The frame header shall consist of the Address and
Control field and is a minimum of 1 octet and a maximum of 3 octets long. The
Information field is of variable length.
* * *
8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Address and Control field  
(variable length, max. 3 octets)
Information field  
(variable length, max. N201 octets)
* * *
Figure 5.1-1: RDS frame format
## 5.2 Address and Control field
### 5.2.1 Address and Control field format
The Address and Control field identifies the type of frame and consists of
minimum of 1 octet and maximum of 3 octets. The following types of control
field frames are specified:
\- confirmed information transfer (I frame);
\- supervisory functions (S frame);
\- unconfirmed information transfer (UI frame); and
\- control functions (U frame).
The address and control field format for RDS is shown in figure 5.2.1-1.The
description of address and control field bits is shown in Table 5.2.1-1.
Figure 5.2.1-1: Address and Control field format
Table 5.2.1-1: Address and Control field bits description
* * *
Control field bits Description A Acknowledgement request bit M~n~ Unnumbered
function bit N(R) Receive sequence number N(S) Send sequence number N(U)
Unconfirmed sequence number S~n~ Supervisory function bit R~n~ Selective
acknowledgement bitmap bit PD Protocol Discriminator bit C/R Command /
Response bit ADS Address bit Source Port Source port number Destination Port
Destination port number X Spare bit
* * *
### 5.2.2 Protocol Discriminator bit (PD)
The PD bit indicates whether a frame is an RDS frame or belongs to a different
protocol. RDS frames shall have the PD bit set to 0. If a frame with the PD
bit set to 1 is received, then it shall be treated as an invalid frame.
### 5.2.3 Address bit (ADS)
The ADS bit controls if the Source Port and Destination Port are included in
the frame format. When a single application on UE side conducts data transfer
with a single application on SCEF side, the source and destination port
numbers need not be used. The source and destination port numbers enable
multiple applications on the UE side to simultaneously communicate with their
peer entities on the SCEF side using the same PDN connection. Source Port and
Destination Port are included in the frame format only if the ADS bit is set
to 1.
### 5.2.4 Source port number (Source Port)
When a UE application starts to use the PDN connection to transmit RDS frames,
the UE and the SCEF establish which source port number will be used for the
application on the UE side for MO traffic and which destination port number
will be used for the application intended to receive the frames on the SCEF
side. Similarly for MT traffic when an application in the network starts to
use the PDN connection to transmit RDS frames, the UE and the SCEF establish
which source port number will be used for the application on the SCEF side and
which destination port number will be used for the application intended to
receive the frames on the UE side. How the applications on the originator side
and their peer entities on receiver side synchronize port numbers is outside
the scope of this specification.
Source Port is included only if the ADS bit is 1. Source Port shall have
values from 0 to 15.
### 5.2.5 Destination port number (Destination Port)
The Destination Port is used to identify the destination application on the
receiver that is receiving the frame.
Destination Port is included only if the ADS bit is 1. Destination Port shall
have values from 0 to 15.
### 5.2.6 Information transfer frame - I
The I frame shall be used to perform an information transfer between peer
entities with acknowledgement. Each I frame has a send sequence number N(S), a
receive sequence number N(R) and an acknowledgement request bit A, that may be
set to 0 or 1. The use of N(S), N(R), and A is defined in clause 6.
Each I frame also contains supervisory function bits S(n) and the Selective
Acknowledgement bitmap R(n) which are defined in subclause 5.3.2.
### 5.2.7 Supervisory frame - S
The S frame shall be used to perform supervisory control functions such as
acknowledge I frames. The supervisory frame has supervisory function bits S(n)
that are used for encoding commands and responses which perform the
supervisory control functions. Each supervisory frame has a receive sequence
number N(R) and an acknowledgement request bit A, that may be set to 0 or 1.
In acknowledged operation, all I and S frames contain R(n), the Selective
Acknowledgement bitmap. The commands and responses are defined in subclause
5.4 and the use of S(n), N(R), A and R(n) is defined in clause 6.
### 5.2.8 Unconfirmed Information frame - UI
The UI frame shall be used to perform an information transfer between peer
entities without acknowledgement. The UI frames contain N(U), the unconfirmed
sequence number of transmitted UI frames. No verification of sequence numbers
is performed for UI frames.
### 5.2.9 Unnumbered frame ‑ U
The U frame shall be used to provide additional link control functions. Each U
frame has Unnumbered function bits M(n) that are used to encode link control
commands and response. The U frame has Command/Response bit (C/R) that
identifies a U frame as either a command or a response. The U fame contains no
sequence number. The commands and responses are defined in subclause 5.4 and
the use of M(n) is defined in clause 6.
### 5.2.10 Command / Response bit (C/R)
The C/R bit identifies a frame as either a command or a response. The UE side
shall send commands with the C/R bit set to 0, and responses with the C/R bit
set to 1. The SCEF side shall do the opposite; i.e., commands are sent with
C/R set to 1, and responses are sent with C/R set to 0. The combinations for
the SCEF side and UE side are shown in table 5.2.10-1.
Table 5.2.10-1: C/R field bit usage
* * *
Type Direction C/R value Command SCEF side to UE side 1 Command UE side to
SCEF side 0 Response SCEF side to UE side 0 Response UE side to SCEF side 1
* * *
## 5.3 Control field parameters and associated state variables
The various parameters associated with the control field frames are described
in this subclause.
### 5.3.1 Acknowledgement request bit (A)
All I and S frames contain the Acknowledgement Request (A) bit.
The A bit set to 1 is used to solicit an acknowledgement (i.e., an I frame or
S frame) from the receiver. The A bit set to 0 is used to indicate that the
receiver is not requested to send an acknowledgement.
### 5.3.2 Acknowledged operation variables and parameters
#### 5.3.2.1 Send state variable V(S)
In acknowledged operation, each originator shall have an associated send state
variable V(S) when using I frames. V(S) denotes the sequence number of the
next in-sequence I frame to be transmitted. V(S) can take on the value 0
through (MAX SEQUENCE NUMBER -1). The value of V(S) shall be incremented by 1
with each successive I frame transmission, and shall not exceed acknowledge
state variable V(A) by more than the maximum number of outstanding I frames k.
The value of k may be in the range 1 ≤ k ≤ (MAX SEQUENCE NUMBER/2 -1). V(S)
shall not be incremented when an I frame is retransmitted.
#### 5.3.2.2 Acknowledge state variable V(A)
In acknowledged operation, each peer originator shall have an associated
acknowledge state variable V(A) when using I frame and supervisory frame
commands and responses. V(A) identifies the first I frame in the transmit
window, so that V(A) ‑ 1 equals N(S) of the last in-sequence acknowledged I
frame. V(A) can take on the value 0 through (MAX SEQUENCE NUMBER -1). The
value of V(A) shall be updated by the valid N(R) values received from its peer
(see subclause 5.3.2.5). A valid N(R) value is in the range V(A) ≤ N(R) ≤
V(S).
#### 5.3.2.3 Send sequence number N(S)
In acknowledged operation, only I frames contain N(S), the send sequence
number of transmitted I frames. At the time that an in-sequence I frame is
designated for transmission, the value of N(S) is set equal to the value of
the send state variable V(S).
#### 5.3.2.4 Receive state variable V(R)
In acknowledged operation, each receiver shall have an associated receive
state variable V(R) when using I frame and supervisory frame commands and
responses. V(R) denotes the sequence number of the next in-sequence I frame
expected to be received. V(R) can take on the value 0 through (MAX SEQUENCE
NUMBER -1). The value of V(R) shall be incremented by one with the receipt of
an error-free, in-sequence I frame whose send sequence number N(S) equals
V(R).
#### 5.3.2.5 Receive sequence number N(R)
In acknowledged operation, all I frames and S frames contain N(R), the
expected send sequence number of the next in-sequence received I frame. At the
time that a frame of the above types is designated for transmission, the value
of N(R) is set equal to the value of the receive state variable V(R). N(R)
indicates that the receiver transmitting the N(R) has correctly received all I
frames numbered up to and including N(R) ‑ 1.
#### 5.3.2.6 Selective Acknowledgement (SACK) bitmap R(n)
In acknowledged operation, all I frames and S frames contain R(n), the SACK
bitmap. At the time that a S frame is designated for transmission, the value
of each bit R(n) in the bitmap shall be set to 0 or 1 depending on whether I
frame number N(R) + n has been received or not. R(n) = 1 indicates that the
receiver transmitting the S frame has correctly received I frame number N(R) +
n. R(n) = 0 indicates that the receiver transmitting the S frame has not
correctly received I frame number N(R) + n. The SACK bitmap contains (k) bits.
### 5.3.3 Unacknowledged operation variables and parameters
#### 5.3.3.1 Unconfirmed send state variable V(U)
Each peer entity shall have an associated unconfirmed send state variable V(U)
when using UI frame commands. V(U) denotes the sequence number of the next UI
frame to be transmitted. V(U) can take on the value 0 through 7. The value of
V(U) shall be incremented by 1 with each successive UI frame transmission.
#### 5.3.3.2 Unconfirmed sequence number N(U)
Only UI frames contain N(U), the unconfirmed sequence number of transmitted UI
frames. At the time that a UI frame is designated for transmission, the value
of N(U) is set equal to the value of the unconfirmed send state variable V(U).
#### 5.3.3.3 Unconfirmed receive state variable V(UR)
Each peer entity shall have an associated unconfirmed receive state variable
V(UR) when using UI frame commands. V(UR) denotes the sequence number of the
next in-sequence UI frame expected to be received. V(UR) can take on the value
0 through 7.
#### 5.3.3.4 Other parameters and variables
The only other parameter defined for unacknowledged operation is the number of
octets (N201) in the information field of the UI frame. See subclause 6.4.6.
## 5.4 Commands and responses
### 5.4.1 General
The following commands and responses are used by the UE side and SCEF side as
shown in table 5.4.1-1. Each link connection shall support the appropriate set
of commands and responses for the type of operation desired.
Table 5.4.1-1: Commands and responses
+---------+-----------------+-----------------+----------+----+----+----+----+----+ | Frame | Commands | Responses | Encoding | | | | | | +---------+-----------------+-----------------+----------+----+----+----+----+----+ | | | | S1 | S2 | M4 | M3 | M2 | M1 | +---------+-----------------+-----------------+----------+----+----+----+----+----+ | S Frame | SACK | SACK | 1 | 1 | - | - | - | - | | | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | I Frame | | | | | | | | | +---------+-----------------+-----------------+----------+----+----+----+----+----+ | U Frame | ERROR | ERROR | - | - | 0 | 0 | 0 | 1 | +---------+-----------------+-----------------+----------+----+----+----+----+----+ | U Frame | DISCONNECT | - | - | - | 0 | 1 | 0 | 0 | +---------+-----------------+-----------------+----------+----+----+----+----+----+ | U Frame | - | ACCEPT | - | - | 0 | 1 | 1 | 0 | +---------+-----------------+-----------------+----------+----+----+----+----+----+ | U Frame | SET_ACK_MODE | - | - | - | 0 | 1 | 1 | 1 | +---------+-----------------+-----------------+----------+----+----+----+----+----+ | U Frame | SET_PARAMETERS | SET_PARAMETERS | - | - | 1 | 0 | 1 | 1 | +---------+-----------------+-----------------+----------+----+----+----+----+----+
### 5.4.2 Unnumbered (U) frames
#### 5.4.2.1 SET_ACK_MODE command
The originator shall use the SET_ACK_MODE command to initiate acknowledged
operation between the UE and SCEF.
The receiver shall confirm acceptance of a SET_ACK_MODE command by the
transmission of an ACCEPT response. Upon acceptance of SET_ACK_MODE command,
the send state variable V(S), acknowledge state variable V(A), and receive
state variable V(R), shall be set to 0. The transmission of a SET_ACK_MODE
command indicates the clearance of any exception conditions.
Previously transmitted I frames that are unacknowledged when this command is
sent shall be discarded. It is the responsibility of higher layers to recover
from the possible loss of the contents of such I frames.
#### 5.4.2.2 DISCONNECT command
The DISCONNECT command shall be transmitted in order to terminate the
acknowledged operation.
No information field is permitted with the DISCONNECT command. Prior to
executing the command, the receiver side receiving the DISCONNECT command
shall confirm the acceptance of a DISCONNECT command by the transmission of an
ACCEPT response. The originator that sends the DISCONNECT command shall
terminate the acknowledge mode operation when it receives the ACCEPT or ERROR
response.
Previously transmitted I frames that are unacknowledged when this command is
executed shall remain unacknowledged and shall be discarded. It is the
responsibility of higher layers to recover from the possible loss of the
contents of such I frames.
#### 5.4.2.3 ACCEPT response
The ACCEPT response shall be used by the originator to acknowledge the receipt
and acceptance of the SET_ACK_MODE or DISCONNECT commands. The SET_ACK_MODE or
DISCONNECT commands are acted upon only after the ACCEPT response is
transmitted.
#### 5.4.2.4 ERROR command / response
The ERROR unnumbered command shall be used by the originator to report to the
receiver that the originator is in a state such that acknowledged operation
cannot be performed. The receiver shall transmit an ERROR response to any
valid command received that it cannot execute. No information field is
permitted with the ERROR command or ERROR response.
#### 5.4.2.5 SET_PARAMETERS command / response
The SET_PARAMETERS command and response is used to negotiate values of
parameters between originator and receiver in both acknowledged and
unacknowledged mode of transfer. These parameters shall include the version of
the RDS.
If the originator wants to negotiate the value of parameters, the originator
shall send a SET_PARAMETERS command including the set of parameters along with
their values to the receiver. The receiver shall send a SET_PARAMETERS
response, either confirming these parameter values by returning the requested
values, or proposing different ones in their place. Both, the originator and
the receiver shall use the negotiated values after the completion of the
negotiation process.
Table 5.4.2.5-1 lists the negotiable RDS layer parameters. Figure 5.4.2.5-1
shows the SET_PARAMETERS field format. A parameter item consists of Type and
Length octets followed by the value of that parameter. The Length octet
indicates the number of octets that the value actually occupies.
Figure 5.4.2.5-1: SET_PARAMETERS field format
Table 5.4.2.5-1: RDS layer parameters
* * *
Parameter Name Type Length Format (87654321) Range RDS_Version 0 1 bbbbbbbb 0
through 255
* * *
### 5.4.3 Information (I) and Supervisory (S) frames
#### 5.4.3.1 General
The function of the information (I) frame is to transfer, sequentially-
numbered frames containing information fields provided by upper layers. This
frame shall only be used in acknowledge operation.
Numbered I frames shall also carry supervisory information. A separate S frame
is sent when there is no information field to be transferred. Whether an I or
S frame is transmitted as a command or as a response is insignificant in the
acknowledge operation.
#### 5.4.3.2 Selective Acknowledgement (SACK) command / response
The supervisory frame containing the SACK bitmap shall be used by a receiver
to acknowledge a single or multiple I frames. Frames up to and including N(R)
‑ 1, and frames indicated by the SACK bitmap, are deemed to have been received
correctly. The format of the SACK control field is shown in figure 5.2.1-1.
In addition to indicating the status of received I frames, the I or S frame
containing the SACK bitmap with the A bit set to 1 may be used by the
originator to request an acknowledgement from receiver.
# 6 Protocol procedures
## 6.1 Overview
This clause describes the RDS protocol procedures between the UE and SCEF for
acknowledged data service.
## 6.2 Procedures
### 6.2.1 Types of RDS procedures
The following RDS protocol procedures are defined:
\- Establishment of acknowledged transfer;
\- Acknowledged information transfer;
\- Termination of acknowledged transfer; and
\- Unacknowledged information transfer.
### 6.2.2 Establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure
#### 6.2.2.1 General
The purpose of the establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure is for the
originator to establish acknowledged transmission of information with the
receiver. All frames other than U and UI frames received during the
establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure shall be ignored.
#### 6.2.2.2 Establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure initiation
The originator shall initiate the establishment of acknowledged transfer
procedure when upper layers indicate information is to be transmitted using
acknowledged operation. The originator and the receiver identify the source
and destination port numbers before initiating establishment of acknowledged
transfer procedure.
The originator initiates the establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure
by transmitting a SET_ACK_MODE command to receiver. When a single application
on the originator conducts data transfer with a single application on the
receiver, the Source Port and Destination Port numbers need not be used;
otherwise the originator shall set the Source Port to the port number of the
source application on the originator and the Destination Port to the port
number of the destination application on the receiver. The originator shall
clear all exception conditions, discard all queued I frames, reset the
retransmission counter and timer T200 shall be set.
If a logical link between the UE and SCEF identified without port numbers
exists and the originator needs to initiate establishment of an additional
acknowledged transfer procedure, the additional logical link between the UE
and SCEF shall be identified with port numbers while the first logical link
can remain without port numbers.
Figure 6.2.2.2-1: Establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure
#### 6.2.2.3 Establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure accepted by
receiver
Upon receiving a SET_ACK_MODE command, the receiver checks if the Destination
Port number contained in the SET_ACK_MODE command corresponds to an
application on the receiver.
If the check is successful and if the application accepts to enter
acknowledged transfer mode, the receiver shall send an ACCEPT response to the
originator. When a single application on the originator conducts data transfer
with a single application on the receiver, the Source Port and Destination
Port numbers need not be used; otherwise the receiver shall set the Source
Port to the port number of the application on the receiver and the Destination
Port to the port number of the application on the originator. The receiver
shall reset timer T200 if active, clear all exception conditions and set V(S),
V(R) and V(A) to 0.
#### 6.2.2.4 Establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure completed by
originator
Upon receipt of the ACCEPT response and if the Destination Port number
corresponds to the application which initiated the establishment of
acknowledged transfer procedure, the originator enters acknowledged mode
transfer. The originator shall reset timer T200 if active, clear all exception
conditions and set V(S), V(R) and V(A) to 0 and the establishment of
acknowledged transfer procedure is successfully completed.
#### 6.2.2.5 Establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure not accepted by
receiver
Upon receiving a SET_ACK_MODE command if the Destination Port number contained
in the SET_ACK_MODE command,
\- is not supported by the receiver; or
\- corresponds to an application that is not able to perform acknowledged
transfer mode,
then the receiver shall send an ERROR response to the originator.
### 6.2.3 Acknowledged information transfer procedure
#### 6.2.3.1 General
The purpose of the acknowledged information transfer procedure is for the
originator to transfer I frames to receiver and receive acknowledgements for
these frames from receiver.
The originator shall store the history of the transmitted I frames, and shall
remember the I‑frame transmission sequence. The history is used to decide
which I frames to retransmit. Due to retransmission, the history is not
necessarily an in-order sequence.
A frame within the receive window is either:
\- received: the frame has been correctly received; or
\- not received: the frame has not been correctly received.
A frame within the transmit window is either:
\- not yet transmitted: the frame has not yet been transmitted;
\- transmitted: the frame has been (re‑) transmitted, but the originator does
not know if the frame has been received by the receiver;
\- acknowledged: the frame has been acknowledged by the receiver; or
\- marked for retransmission: the originator has decided to retransmit this I
frame.
I frames shall be transmitted in ascending N(S) order. When I frames are
retransmitted, the frame with the lowest N(S) shall be retransmitted first.
This is used by the receiver to detect lost frames.
#### 6.2.3.2 Transmitting I frames and requesting acknowledgements
If the originator has received information to be transmitted from upper
layers, the information is inserted in an I frame. The control field
parameters N(S) and N(R) shall be assigned the values V(S) and V(R),
respectively. V(S) shall be incremented by 1 at the end of the transmission of
the I frame.
The originator shall request an acknowledgement from the receiver by
transmitting an I or S frame with the A bit set to 1. The originator may
request an acknowledgement at any time. An acknowledgement shall be requested
when:
\- the last I frame in a sequence of one or more I frames is transmitted; or
\- V(S) = V(A) + k as a result of the transmission of the I frame.
The originator shall transmit a frame in the following order of priority:
\- If there are any I frames marked for retransmission then the originator
shall increment by 1 the retransmission count variable for the I frame with
the lowest send sequence number N(S). If the retransmission count variable
exceeds the value of N200, then the originator shall initiate the
Establishment of acknowledged operation procedure as described in subclause
6.2.2. If the retransmission count variable does not exceed the value of N200,
then the originator shall retransmit the I frame.
\- If the originator has a new I frame to transmit, if V(S) \< V(A) + k (where
k is the maximum number of outstanding I frames) then the new I frame shall be
transmitted.
\- If the originator has an acknowledgement to transmit then the originator
shall transmit an S frame.
When requesting an acknowledgement, the originator shall set timer T201 and
associate the timer with the I frame currently being transmitted, or, if the A
bit is transmitted in an S frame, with the I frame last transmitted.
Figure 6.2.3.2-1: Acknowledged information transfer procedure
#### 6.2.3.3 Receiving I frames and sending acknowledgements
When the receiver receives a valid I frame whose N(S) is equal to the current
V(R), the receiver shall:
\- pass the contents of the Information field to the appropriate upper layer
entity;
\- increment its V(R) by 1; and
\- respond with a I or S frame containing the SACK bitmap, if the A bit of the
received I frame was set to 1.
When the receiver receives a valid I frame whose N(S) is not in the range V(R)
≤ N(S) \< V(R) + k, the receiver shall discard the frame as a duplicate.
When the receiver receives a valid I frame where V(R) \< N(S) \< V(R) + k,
then the receiver shall store the I frame until all frames from V(R) to N(S) ‑
1 inclusive are correctly received. Once all the frames are correctly received
the receiver shall then:
\- pass the contents of the Information field to the appropriate upper layer
entity; and
\- set its V(R) = N(S) + 1.
Whenever the receiver detects an error in the sequence of received I frames,
it shall transmit an I or S frame.
If the receiver receives an I frame with a higher N(S) than the N(S) of the
previously received I frame, and if there are I frames missing between these
two N(S) values, then the receiver shall assume that the missing I frames have
been lost. If the receiver receives an I frame with a lower N(S) than the N(S)
of the previously received I frame, it can assume that its peer originator has
(re‑) started retransmission due to the reception of an acknowledgement.
#### 6.2.3.4 Receiving acknowledgements
On receipt of a valid I or S frame , the originator shall, if N(R) is valid,
treat the N(R) contained in this frame as an acknowledgement for all the I
frames it has transmitted with an N(S) up to and including the received N(R) ‑
1. A valid N(R) value is one that is in the range V(A) ≤ N(R) ≤ V(S). If N(R)
is not valid, then the received SACK bitmap shall be disregarded.
V(A) shall then be set to N(R).
On receipt of a valid I or S frame containing the SACK bitmap, the originator
shall consider all I frames with the corresponding bit set to 1 in the SACK
bitmap as acknowledged.
If timer T201 is active and associated with an acknowledged I frame, then
timer T201 shall be reset.
The originator shall determine which I frames to retransmit by analysing it's
I frame transmission sequence history and the acknowledgements received. An
unacknowledged I frame that was transmitted prior to an acknowledged I frame
shall be considered lost and shall be marked for retransmission. Acknowledged
I frames shall be removed from the I frame transmission sequence history.
### 6.2.4 Termination of acknowledged transfer procedure
#### 6.2.4.1 General
The purpose of the termination of acknowledged transfer procedure is to
terminate the acknowledged transmission of information between the UE side and
the SCEF side. All frames other than U and UI frames received during the
termination of acknowledged transfer procedure shall be ignored and all queued
I frames shall be discarded.
#### 6.2.4.2 Termination of acknowledged transfer procedure initiation
The originator or receiver shall initiate the termination of acknowledged
transfer procedure when upper layers indicate termination of acknowledged
operation.
The originator initiates the termination of acknowledged transfer procedure by
transmitting a DISCONNECT command. When a single application on the originator
conducts data transfer with a single application on the receiver, the Source
Port and Destination Port numbers need not be used; otherwise the originator
shall set the Source Port to the port number of the source application on the
originator and the Destination Port to the port number of the destination
application on the receiver. The originator shall reset the retransmission
counter and timer T200 shall be set.
Figure 6.2.4.2-1: Termination of acknowledged transfer procedure
#### 6.2.4.3 Termination of acknowledged transfer procedure accepted by
receiver
Upon receiving a DISCONNECT command, the receiver checks if the Destination
Port number contained in the DISCONNECT command corresponds to an application
on the receiver.
If the check is successful the receiver shall send an ACCEPT response to the
originator. When a single application on the originator conducts data transfer
with a single application on the receiver, the Source Port and Destination
Port numbers need not be used; otherwise the receiver shall set the Source
Port to the port number of the application on the receiver and the Destination
Port to the port number of the application on the originator.
#### 6.2.4.4 Termination of acknowledged transfer procedure completed by
originator
Upon receipt of the ACCEPT response and if the Destination Port number
corresponds to the application which initiated the termination of acknowledged
transfer procedure, the originator terminates acknowledged transfer mode. The
originator shall reset timer T200 if active, and the termination of
acknowledged transfer procedure is successfully completed.
#### 6.2.4.5 Termination of acknowledged transfer procedure not accepted by
receiver
Upon receiving a DISCONNECT command if the Destination Port number contained
in the DISCONNECT command
\- is not supported by the receiver; or
\- corresponds to an application that is not in acknowledged transfer mode,
then the receiver shall send an ERROR response to the originator.
### 6.2.5 Unacknowledged information transfer procedure
#### 6.2.5.1 General
The purpose of the unacknowledged information transfer procedure is for the
originator to perform unacknowledged transmission of information to the
receiver. No error recovery mechanisms are defined for unacknowledged
operation
#### 6.2.5.2 Unacknowledged information transfer procedure initiation
The originator shall initiate the unacknowledged information transfer
procedure when information from upper layers is to be transmitted using
unacknowledged operation. The originator and the receiver negotiate the use of
source and destination port numbers before initiating unacknowledged
information transfer.
The originator initiates the unacknowledged information transfer procedure by
transmitting a UI frame to receiver. When a single application on the
originator conducts data transfer with a single application on the receiver,
the Source Port and Destination Port numbers need not be used; otherwise the
originator shall set the Source Port to the port number of the source
application on the originator and the Destination Port to the port number of
the destination application on the receiver. The originator shall set the
unconfirmed sequence number N(U) in UI frame to the value of unconfirmed send
state variable V(U).
Figure 6.2.5.2-1: Unacknowledged information transfer procedure
#### 6.2.5.3 Unacknowledged information transfer procedure accepted by
receiver
Upon receiving a UI frame the receiver passes the contents of the Information
field to the appropriate upper layer corresponding to the Destination Port.
The receiver shall set the unconfirmed receive state variable V(UR) to N(U) +
1.
#### 6.2.5.4 Unacknowledged information transfer procedure completed by
originator
Upon transmission of the UI frame the unacknowledged information transfer
procedure is completed by the originator.
#### 6.2.5.5 Unacknowledged information transfer procedure not accepted by
receiver
Upon receiving a UI frame,
\- if the Destination Port number is not in use by the receiver; or
\- if N(U) of the received UI frame is in the range ( V(UR) -- k' ) ≤ N(U) \<
V(UR) and if a UI frame with the same N(U) has already been received,
then the UI frame is discarded by the receiver without any further action. The
value of k\' may be in the range 1 \< k\' \< MAX SEQUENCE NUMBER/2.
## 6.3 Abnormal cases
### 6.3.1 Expiry of timer T200
Timer T200 is set when a U frame with any of the following commands is
transmitted.
\- SET_ACK_MODE;
\- DISCONNECT; and
\- SET_PARAMETERS.
If timer T200 expires before a response to the sent command is received then
the originator shall retransmit the command, and shall reset and start timer
T200 and increment the retransmission counter. After retransmission of the
command N200 times, the originator shall abort the operation and notify the
upper layers.
### 6.3.2 Expiry of timer T201
On expiry of timer T201, the originator shall increment by 1 the
retransmission count variable for the I frame associated with timer T201. If
the value of the retransmission count variable does not exceed N200, the
originator shall reset and start timer T201, and retransmit the I frame with
the A bit set to 1. If the value of the retransmission count variable exceeds
N200, the originator shall send the ERROR command to the receiver and initiate
the establishment of acknowledged transfer procedure to re-establish the
acknowledged transfer mode with the receiver.
## 6.4 List of RDS Parameters
### 6.4.1 General
The following parameters are applicable for Reliable Data Service (RDS).
### 6.4.2 RDS version number (Version)
The RDS version number (Version) is an RDS layer parameter. The default
version number is 0.
### 6.4.3 Retransmission timers (T200 and T201)
The default value of timers T200 and T201 is 250 seconds.
### 6.4.4 Maximum number of retransmissions (N200)
The default value of N200 is 3.
### 6.4.5 Maximum number of outstanding I frames (k)
k is the maximum number of sequentially-numbered I frames that may be
outstanding (i.e. unacknowledged) at any given time. k is also denoted as
window size. The default value of k is 3. The value of MAX SEQUENCE NUMBER is
8.
### 6.4.6 Maximum length of Information Field (N201)
The default value of N201 is 1520 octets.
#