# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the signalling procedures for accessing the
3GPP Evolved Packet Core network and handling the mobility between 3GPP and
non-3GPP accesses via the S2c reference point defined in 3GPP TS 23.402 [3].
The present document is applicable to the User Equipment (UE) and the network
node implementing the Home Agent functionality.
In addition the present document specifies the procedures used for the DSMIPv6
Home Agent discovery, for bootstrapping the DSMIPv6 security association
between the UE and the Home Agent and for managing the DSMIPv6 tunnel. The
specification of these procedures is compliant to IETF RFCs.
DSMIPv6 procedures can be used independently of the underlying access
technology.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 5555 (June 2009): \"Mobile IPv6 support for Dual Stack Hosts and
Routers\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture Enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[4] IETF RFC 4877 (April 2007): \"Mobile IPv6 Operation with IKEv2 and the
Revised IPsec Architecture\".
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] IETF RFC 5026 (October 2007): \"Mobile IPv6 bootstrapping in split
scenario\".
[11] IETF RFC 4303 (December 2005): \"IP Encapsulating Security Payload
(ESP)\".
[12] IETF RFC 6610 (May 2012): \"DHCP Options for Home Information Discovery
in Mobile IPv6 (MIPv6)\".
[13] IETF RFC 3736 (April 2004): \"**Stateless Dynamic Host Configuration
Protocol (DHCP) Service for IPv6** \".
[14] IETF RFC 5996 (September 2010): \"Internet Key Exchange Protocol Version
2 (IKEv2)\".
[15] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\".
[16] Void.
[17] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[18] 3GPP TS 33.402: \"3GPP System Architecture Evolution (SAE); Security
aspects of non-3GPP accesses\".
[19] IETF RFC 5846 (June 2010): \"Binding Revocation for IPv6 Mobility\".
[20] 3GPP TS 29.273: \"3GPP EPS AAA interfaces\".
[21] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via non-3GPP
access networks; Stage 3\".
[22] Void.
[23] IETF RFC 4739 (November 2006): \"Multiple Authentication Exchanges in the
Internet Key Exchange (IKEv2) Protocol\".
[24] 3GPP TS 33.234: \"Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) interworking
security\".
[25] Void.
[26] IETF RFC 4039 (March 2005): \"Rapid Commit Option for the Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol version 4 (DHCPv4)\".
[27] IETF RFC 6275 (July 2011): \"Mobility Support in IPv6\".
[28] IETF RFC 4187 (January 2006): \"Extensible Authentication Protocol Method
for 3rd Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP AKA)\".
[29] IETF RFC 3963 (January 2005): \"Network Mobility (NEMO) Basic Support
Protocol\".
[30] IETF RFC 5685 (November 2009): \"Redirect Mechanism for the Internet Key
Exchange Protocol Version 2 (IKEv2)\".
[31] IETF RFC 5648 (October 2009): \"Multiple Care-of Addresses
Registration\".
[32] IETF RFC 6089 (January 2011): \"Flow Bindings in Mobile IPv6 and Network
Mobility (NEMO) Basic Support\".
[33] IETF RFC 6088 (January 2011): \"Traffic Selectors for Flow Bindings\".
[34] 3GPP TS 23.261: \"IP flow mobility and seamless Wireless Local Area
Network (WLAN) offload; Stage 2\".
[35] IETF RFC 6276 (July 2011): \"DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation for Network
Mobility (NEMO)\".
[36] 3GPP TS 24.312: \"Access Network Discovery and Selection Function (ANDSF)
Management Object (MO)\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. The following terms used in this
Technical Specification are defined in IETF RFC 6275 [27]: Home Address, Care-
of Address, binding cache, binding cache entry.
The following terms used in this Technical Specification are defined in IETF
RFC 5648 [31], and IETF RFC 6089 [32]: Binding Identification Number, Flow,
Flow Binding, Flow Identifier, and Traffic Selector.
The following term used in this Technical Specification is defined in 3GPP TS
23.402 [3]: IFOM capable UE.
The following terms used in this Technical Specification are defined in 3GPP
TS 23.261 [34]: routing address, routing filter, routing rule.
**Home network prefix:** An IPv6 prefix allocated by the Home Agent to the UE
and used by the UE to configure the Home Address. The Home network prefix is
uniquely allocated to a UE.
**Home Agent:** The Home Agent functionality consists in the DSMIPv6 anchor
point functionality described in IETF RFC 5555 [2] and IETF RFC 4877 [4].
Based on 3GPP TS 23.402 [3] the HA functionality is implemented in the PDN
Gateway.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.
BID Binding Identification Number
DSMIPv6 Dual-Stack MIPv6
EPC Evolved Packet Core
ePDG Evolved Packet Data Gateway
EPS Evolved Packet System
FID Flow Identifier
GW Gateway
HA Home Agent
MIPv6 Mobile IP version 6
TSi Traffic Selector - Initiator
TSr Traffic Selector - Responder
UE User Equipment
# 4 General
## 4.1 Mobility management based on Dual-Stack Mobile IPv6
DSMIPv6 is specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27] and IETF RFC 5555 [2]. The purpose
of the DSMIPv6 procedures is to establish, manage and tear down a mobility
tunnel between the UE and the HA function. The mobility tunnel establishment
is always initiated by the UE, while the mobility tunnel tear down can be
initiated either by the UE or the network. Communication between the UE and a
correspondent node shall use the bidirectional mode of operation. Route
optimization mode of operation is not supported by EPC in this release.
In this specification, the IETF RFC 4877 [4] is used to secure DSMIPv6
signalling. For this purpose, the UE performs an IKEv2 exchange with the HA
before establishing the mobility tunnel as described in subclause 5.1.2.2. The
details of the security aspects are specified in 3GPP TS 33.402 [18].
The mobility tunnel procedures are performed by the UE for each PDN
connection, meaning that if multiple PDNs are accessed by the UE, multiple
instances of the procedures are needed. The multiple PDN connections behaviour
is specified more in detail in subclause 4.3.
In this specification, the IETF RFC 3963 [29] is used for prefix preservation.
For this purpose, the UE uses the implicit mode as stated in IETF RFC 3963
[29] to tell the HA that the home network prefix would be preserved during
mobility. The support of this operation is limited to the sending and
receiving of IPv6 packets containing IPv6 addresses auto-configured from the
home network prefix, in addition to the IPv6 Home Address.
In this specification, the IETF RFC 5648 [31], IETF RFC 6089 [32] and IETF RFC
6088 [33] are used for IFOM. The general principles of IFOM are listed in 3GPP
TS 23.261 [34]. For this purpose, the UE can decide if IFOM is to be applied
to a PDN connection. The procedures used by the UE to determine which PDN
connection IFOM is to be applied and how the IP flows are distributed are
specified in 3GPP TS 24.302 [21].
## 4.2 Identities
The UE shall use Network Access Identifier (NAI) as identification towards the
HA in the IKEv2 exchange. During this process, the IPsec security association
between the UE and the HA is tied to the user identity, set to the NAI, and to
an SPI uniquely identifying this security association. The NAI is structured
according to 3GPP TS 23.003 [17]. The NAI can be either a root NAI, a fast re-
authentication NAI or pseudonym identity as specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [17].
The UE shall use the HA-APN to identify the desired HA in the DNS-based and
DHCPv6-based HA discovery procedures. The HA-APN is constructed according to
3GPP TS 23.003 [17].
NOTE: The operator is responsible to configure the DNS system so that the same
PDN GW can be discovered via HA-APN and APN. A possible way of configuring the
mapping between HA-APN and APN is to create the HA-APN from the respective APN
by using the same Network Identifier and by adding the prefix \"ha-apn\" to
the Operator Identifier.
The Binding Update and Binding Acknowledgement shall not explicitly carry an
NAI as the IPsec security association is tied to the user identity.
## 4.3 Multiple PDN connectivity
This specification supports multiple PDN connectivity. The UE can setup
multiple PDN connections with a given APN or multiple APNs using multiple
DSMIPv6 sessions. There is one DSMIPv6 session per each PDN connection.
NOTE: When a UE is associated to multiple PDN connections, it is possible for
the UE to create a tunnel loop amongst the HAs by binding home addresses to
each other. This results in the possibility of HA being flooded with packets.
Packet flooding is not specific to DSMIPv6 and there exist current
implementations to deal with the packet flooding issue. As for the formation
of tunnel loop, the solution to solve it in this current specification
(Release 9) is implementation specific until a standardized solution emerges.
The procedures described in clause 5 shall be interpreted as procedures which
are executed for each PDN connection the UE established. This implies that:
\- For the initial attachment of a PDN connection, the UE shall perform a Home
Agent address discovery (subclause 5.1.2.1), a security association
establishment via IKEv2, including the EAP-AKA authentication and the IPv6
Home Network Prefix assignment (subclause 5.1.2.2), and the initial binding
registration (subclause 5.1.2.4).
\- The handover procedure shall be performed for each PDN connection
separately as described in subclause 5.2.2.
\- The re-registration procedure shall be performed for each PDN connection
separately as described in subclause 5.3.2.
\- The detach procedure shall be performed for each PDN connection separately
as described in subclause 5.4.2 or in subclause 5.4.3.
In addition to the above procedures, the following procedures described for an
IFOM capable UE configured for IFOM shall be interpreted as procedures which
are executed for each PDN connection that the UE has decided to apply the IFOM
procedures. This implies that:
\- The attach to additional access network procedure, as described in
subclause 5.6.2, shall be performed by the UE separately for each PDN
connection to which the access is to be the added.
\- The inter-access flow mobility procedure, as described in subclause 5.7.2,
shall be performed by the UE separately for each PDN connection when IP flows
are to be moved amongest access networks.
\- The removal of an access network procedure, as described in subclause
5.8.2, shall be performed by the UE separately for each PDN connection using
the access network to be removed.
# 5 Dual-Stack Mobile IPv6 Procedures
## 5.1 Dual-Stack Mobile IPv6 initial attach
### 5.1.1 General
The DSMIPv6 initial attach is performed by the UE to establish a DSMIPv6
connection with the node acting as HA. This is also known as the bootstrapping
procedure as the UE establishes the security association with the HA. The
initial attach involves the following tasks:
**\- Discovery of the Home Agent address**. The UE needs to discover the IPv6
address as well as the IPv4 address of the HA.
**\- Security association establishment**. The UE needs to establish an IPsec
security association with the HA in order to secure the DSMIPv6 signalling.
IKEv2 (IETF RFC 4877 [4]) is used to establish this security association.
**\- IPv6 Home Network Prefix assignment**. The UE needs to be assigned an
IPv6 Network Prefix of its home network in order to configure the global
unicast Home Address to be used in DSMIPv6. The HA is responsible of assigning
the IPv6 Home Network Prefix to the UE.
**\- IPv4 Home Address assignment**. Optionally, a dual-stack UE can also
request to be assigned an IPv4 Home Address to be used for IPv4-only
applications. The HA is responsible of assigning the IPv4 Home Address to the
UE.
**\- Home link detection**. The UE needs to perform Home Link Detection before
initiate registration with the HA. The DSMIPv6 Home Link Detection Function is
used by the UE to detect if it is attached to the home link from a DSMIPv6
perspective.
**\- Initial binding registration**. Unless the home link detection procedure
indicates the UE is at home, the UE sends a Binding Update message to perform
its initial registration with the HA.
If the UE is an IFOM capable UE the DSMIPv6 initial attach involves also the
IFOM capability discovery.
If the UE requires additional configuration parameters, e.g. Vendor-specific
options, stateless DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 as defined in IETF RFC 4039 [26] and IETF
RFC 3736 [13] can be run over the DSMIPv6 tunnel.
### 5.1.2 UE procedures
#### 5.1.2.1 Discovery of the Home Agent address
##### 5.1.2.1.1 General
The first procedure the UE needs to perform for DSMIPv6 initial attach is the
discovery of the node acting as the HA.
The UE can discover the IP addresses of the HA in one of the four following
ways:
\- via DNS;
\- via attach procedure for 3GPP access or trusted non-3GPP access (if
supported) based on protocol configuration options;
\- via IKEv2 during tunnel setup to ePDG for untrusted non-3GPP accesses;
\- via DHCPv6.
If the UE does not obtain the IP addresses of the HA via PCO during the 3GPP
or trusted non-3GPP (if supported) attach or via IKEv2 signalling, it shall
follow either the procedures described in subclause 5.1.2.1.5 or the
procedures described in subclause 5.1.2.1.2. The UE may be configured to
perform both procedures in parallel or one of the two procedures only in case
the other failed.
##### 5.1.2.1.2 Home agent address discovery based on DNS
A UE performing Home Agent discovery based on DNS shall support the
implementation of standard DNS mechanisms.
The UE shall perform DNS Lookup by Home Agent Name as specified in IETF RFC
5026 [10].The QNAME shall be set to the requested HA-APN. The HA-APN shall be
constructed as specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [17]. If a HA has both an IPv4 and
an IPv6 address, the corresponding DNS record should be configured with both
\'AAAA\' and \'A\' records. Accordingly the UE should perform one DNS lookup
procedure to retrieve both \'AAAA\' and \'A\' records. The DNS server replies
with one \'AAAA\' and one \'A\' record.
##### 5.1.2.1.3 Home agent address discovery based on protocol configuration
options
The UE may request the IPv6 address and optionally the IPv4 address of the
dual stack HA using the Protocol configuration options IE during the attach
procedure for 3GPP or trusted non-3GPP access or the additional PDN
connectivity procedure. The details of this procedure for the case of attach
for 3GPP access are described in 3GPP TS 24.301 [15]. The details of this
procedure for the case of attach for trusted non-3GPP access are described in
3GPP TS 24.302 [21].
##### 5.1.2.1.4 Home agent address discovery based on IKEv2 signalling
The UE may request the IPv6 and optionally the IPv4 address of the HA during
the tunnel establishment procedure with the ePDG. The details of this
procedure are described in 3GPP TS 24.302 [21].
##### 5.1.2.1.5 Home agent address discovery based on DHCPv6
The HA address discovery via DHCPv6 is possible in the following cases:
\- in 3GPP access, or
\- in trusted non-3GPP access, when a DHCPv6 relay exists in the trusted
non-3GPP access and the PDN GW is the DHCPv6 server, or
\- in trusted non-3GPP access, when the DHCPv6 server is in the trusted
non-3GPP access and it has the HA addresse information from static
configuration, or received via STa reference point as specified in 3GPP TS
29.273 [20].
A UE performing HA discovery based on DHCPv6 shall support the implementation
of stateless DHCPv6 as specified in IETF RFC 3736 [13] and the DHCPv6 options
as specified in IETF RFC 6610 [12].
In order to discover the address of the HA the UE shall send an Information-
Request message including the \"MIP6 Home Network ID FQDN Option\" as
described in IETF RFC 6610 [12].
In order to connect to a HA for a specific target PDN, the UE shall include
the desired HA-APN in the Home Network Identification FQDN field contained in
the \"MIP6 Home Network ID FQDN Option\" as described in IETF RFC 6610 [12].
NOTE: The new options described in IETF RFC 6610 [12] are applicable to
DSMIPv6.
The HA information is provided to the UE as described in IETF RFC 6610 [12] in
the sub-option contained in the \"MIP6 Identified Home Network Information
Option\". The sub-option can be:
\- a \"MIP6 Home Agent Address Network Information Option\" (the IPv6 address
and if available, the IPv4 address of the HA); or
\- a \"MIP6 Home Agent FQDN Network Information Option\" (the HA FQDN) as
described in IETF RFC 6610 [12].
In the latter case the UE shall perform a DNS Lookup by Home Agent Name as
specified in IETF RFC 5026 [10]. The QNAME shall be set to the received HA
FQDN.
If a HA has both an IPv4 and an IPv6 address, the corresponding DNS record
should be configured with both \'AAAA\' and \'A\' records. Accordingly the UE
should perform one DNS lookup procedure to retrieve both \'AAAA\' and \'A\'
records. The DNS server replies with one \'AAAA\' and one \'A\' record.
#### 5.1.2.1a IFOM capability discovery
An IFOM capable UE shall perform HA IFOM capability discovery, i.e. an IFOM
capable UE shall discover whether the HA supports IFOM or not. The HA IFOM
capability can be performed using the following methods:
\- as part of attach procedure for 3GPP access based on protocol configuration
options;
\- as part of a IKEv2 tunnel setup procedure with the HA; or
\- using the information received from ANDSF.
The IFOM capable UE shall support HA IFOM capability discovery performed
through IKEv2 tunnel setup procedure. The HA IFOM capability discovery
performed within IKEv2 tunnel setup procedure with the HA is described in
subclause 5.1.2.2.
If the IFOM capable UE supports IPv6 Home Network Prefix assignment via PCO,
the IFOM capable UE shall support HA IFOM capability discovery via PCO.
The IFOM capable UE may use inter system routing policies (see 3GPP TS 24.302
[21] and 3GPP TS 24.312 [36]) to perform the HA IFOM capability discovery for
a specific APN. If the IFOM capable UE uses inter system routing policies to
perform HA IFOM capability discovery, the UE may skip performing the HA IFOM
capability discovery via PCO or the HA IFOM capability discovery via IKEv2.
#### 5.1.2.2 Security association establishment and IPv6 Home Network Prefix
assignment
The UE shall support the IKEv2 protocol (see IETF RFC 5996 [14]) for
negotiating the IPsec security association to secure DSMIPv6 signalling and
shall support EAP over IKEv2 as described in IETF RFC 5996 [14] to perform
authentication with an AAA server. In a case an additional authentication and
authorization of the IPSec security association is needed with an external AAA
server, then the additional authentication steps during the IKEv2 exchange
shall be supported as specified in IETF RFC 4739 [23] and the UE shall follow
the WLAN UE procedure described in 3GPP TS 33.234 [24].
The UE shall support IPsec ESP (see IETF RFC 4303 [11]) in order to provide
authentication of Binding Update and Binding Acknowledgement messages as
specified in IETF RFC 4877 [4]. The UE shall support multiple authentication
exchanges in the IKEv2 protocol as specified in IETF RFC 4739 [23] in order to
support authentication with an external AAA server. The UE shall support the
redirect mechanism as defined in IETF RFC 5685 [30].
The UE shall initiate the security association establishment procedure by
sending the IKE_SA_INIT request message defined in IETF RFC 5996 [14] to the
HA. The UE shall indicate support for the HA reallocation by including a
REDIRECT_SUPPORTED payload in the IKE_SA_INIT request as specified in IETF RFC
5685[30]. On receipt of an IKE_SA_INIT response, the UE shall send an IKE_AUTH
request message including the MN-NAI in the IDi payload and the Access Point
Name (APN) of the target PDN the UE wants to connect to in the IDr payload.
The APN shall be formatted as defined in 3GPP TS 23.003 [17]. The username
part of the MN-NAI included in \"IDi\" payload may be an IMSI, pseudonym or
re-authentication ID. The UE shall include in the IDi payload the same MN-NAI
it includes in the EAP-Response/Identity within the EAP-AKA exchange.
In the very first EAP-Response/Identity within the IKEv2 exchange the UE shall
include a NAI whose username is derived from IMSI. In subsequent exchanges the
UE should use pseudonyms and re-authentication identities provided by the 3GPP
AAA server as specified in IETF RFC 4187 [28].
NOTE: Fast re‑authentication mechanism is optional, and therefore is an
implementation option in the UE and operator configuration issue (i.e. it also
depends on whether the AAA server sent a re-authentication ID during previous
EAP authentication) whether to use it during security association
establishment.
EAP-AKA over IKEv2 shall be used to authenticate UE in the IKE_AUTH exchange,
while public key signature based authentication with certificates shall be
used to authenticate the HA.
During the IKEv2 exchange, the HA may trigger the UE to perform the HA
reallocation procedure. If the UE receives as part of the IKE_AUTH response
message a REDIRECT payload containing the IP address of a target HA as
specified in subclause 5.1.3.1, the UE shall initiate a new IKEv2 security
association with the target HA. The UE shall terminate the IKEv2 security
association with the initial HA by sending an IKEv2 Informational message with
a DELETE payload as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [14].
During the IKEv2 exchange, the UE shall request the allocation of an IPv6 home
prefix through the Configuration Payload in the IKE_AUTH request message.
Since in EPS a unique IPv6 prefix is assigned to the UE, the UE shall include
a MIP6_HOME_PREFIX attribute in the CFG_REQUEST payload of the IKE_AUTH
request message as described in IETF RFC 5026 [10]. In addition the UE may
include the INTERNAL_IP6_DNS attribute in the CFG_REQUEST as described in IETF
RFC 5996 [14] to request the DNS server IPv6 address of the PLMN it is
connecting to via DSMIPv6. In the same way the UE may include the
INTERNAL_IP4_DNS attribute in the CFG_REQUEST payload to request the IPv4
address of the DNS server.
During the IKEv2 exchange, if the UE receives an IKE_AUTH response message
containing a Notify Payload with a Private Notify Message Type
MAX_CONNECTION_REACHED as specified in 3GPP TS 24.302 [21], the UE shall close
the related IKEv2 security association states. As long as none of existing
IKEv2 security association is released, the UE shall not attempt to establish
any additional IKEv2 security association.
The UE shall then auto-configure a Home Address from the IPv6 prefix received
from the HA and shall run a CREATE_CHILD_SA exchange to create the security
association for the new Home Address. In the CREATE_CHILD_SA exchange the UE
shall include the Home Address and the appropriate selectors in the TSi
(Traffic Selector-initiator) payload to negotiate the IPsec security
association for protecting the Binding Update and Binding Acknowledgement
messages as specified in IETF RFC 4877 [4].
If the UE knows the IPv6 Home Network Prefix of a PDN connection for which the
security association is to be setup, the UE shall insert a PDN Identifier
notify payload, as defined in annex B, in the IKE_AUTH request message. The
PDN Identifier notify payload shall contain the IPv6 Home Network Prefix of
the PDN connection for which the security association is being set up. If the
UE does not know the IPv6 Home Network Prefix of the PDN connection for which
the security association is to be set up, the UE shall not include the PDN
Identifier notify payload in the IKE_AUTH request message.
If an IFOM capable UE performs HA IFOM capability discovery via IKEv2
procedure, the IFOM capable UE shall include the IFOM Capability notify
payload (as specified in the Annex B.2) in the IKE_SA_INIT request message to
perform HA IFOM capability discovery. If the IFOM capable UE receives in the
IKE_SA_INIT response message the IFOM Capability notify payload, the IFOM
capable UE shall behave as an IFOM capable UE configured for IFOM as the
received payload indicates that the HA supports IFOM. If the IFOM capable UE
does not receive in the IKE_SA_INIT response message the IFOM Capability
notify payload, the IFOM capable UE shall behave as a UE which is not IFOM
capable as the received payload indicates that the HA does not support IFOM.
#### 5.1.2.3 Home Link Detection
The DSMIPv6 Home Link Detection Function is used by the UE to detect if an
access interface is on the home link for a PDN connection from a DSMIPv6
perspective. The Home Link Detection function shall be performed before
sending DSMIPv6 Binding Update via the same access interface.
To perform the Home Link Detection procedure, the UE shall compare the
assigned Home Network Prefix for a PDN connection with the IPv6 prefix or
prefixes included in the Prefix Information Option in the Router
Advertisements received on the local link. The Home Network Prefix can be
assigned in a 3GPP access via PCO, as specified in 3GPP TS 24.301 [15], or via
IKEv2 as specified in subclause 5.1.2.2. If there is a match between the Home
Network Prefix and one of the local prefixes, the UE is attached on the home
link over the respective access interface and shall not send a Binding Update
to the HA unless the UE currently has a valid DSMIPv6 Binding Update list
entry. If the UE has a valid DSMIPv6 Binding Update list entry, the UE shall
proceed to perform the action specified in subclause 5.2.2.4. If there is not
any match, the UE shall proceed as specified in subclause 5.1.2.4.
NOTE: The UE does not need to run IKEv2 for home link detection if the Home
Network prefix is dynamically received in a PCO Information Element.
If the IFOM capable UE performs the Home Network Prefix assignment via
Protocol Configuration Option, the IFOM capable UE shall perform in the PDN
CONNECTIVITY REQUEST message both Home Network Prefix assignment and the IFOM
capability discovery.
#### 5.1.2.4 Initial binding registration and IPv4 Home Address assignment
After establishing the security association and obtaining the IPv6 Home
Address, the UE shall send a Binding Update message as specified in IETF RFC
6275 [27] and IETF RFC 5555 [2] in order to register its Home Address and
Care-of Address at the HA, if it detects it is in the foreign network.
If both IPv4 and IPv6 Care-of Address are received at the foreign network, the
UE shall first attempt to use the IPv6 Care-of Address for its binding
registration.
If IPv6 Care-of Address is used for initial binding registration, the UE shall
send the Binding Update message to the IPv6 address of the HA. In this Binding
Update message the H (home registration) and A (acknowledge) bits shall be
set. If the UE needs an IPv4 Home Address, the UE shall include the 0.0.0.0
address in the IPv4 Home Address option to request a dynamic IPv4 Home
Address.
When IPv6 Care-of Address is used for initial binding registration, the
Alternate Care-of Address option shall be used by the UE to carry the Care-of
Address inside a Mobility Header which is protected by ESP. If this option is
present, the address included in this option is the same address present in
the source address of the IPv6 packet. The Alternate Care-of Address option
shall not be included if a BID mobility option is added in the same Binding
Update message.
If IPv4 Care-of Address is used for initial binding registration, the UE shall
send the Binding Update as follows (see IETF RFC 5555 [2]):
\- The IPv6 packet, with the IPv6 Home Address as the Source Address field of
the IPv6 header, shall be encapsulated in UDP.
\- The UE shall include the IPv4 Care-of Address as the Source Address field
of the IPv4 header and the HA IPv4 address as the Destination Address field of
the IPv4 header.
\- The UE shall include the IPv4 Care-of Address option containing the IPv4
Care-of Address. The IPv4 Care-of Address option shall not be included if a
BID mobility option is added in the same Binding Update message.
\- The UE shall set the H (home registration) and A (acknowledge) flags.
\- The UE shall set the F (UDP encapsulation required) flag to 0.
\- The UE shall set the R (Mobile Router Flag) flag to 1.
\- If the UE needs an IPv4 Home Address, the UE shall include an IPv4 Home
Address option with the 0.0.0.0 address in the Binding Update message, as
defined in IETF RFC 5555 [2].
If the UE is an IFOM capable UE configured for IFOM, the UE extends the
Binding Update with the following options:
a) The UE shall set the O (Overwrite) flag to \"1\";
b) The UE shall include a BID identifier mobility option in the Binding Update
as specified in IETF RFC 5648 [31];
\- The UE shall set the BID-PRI field to assign the priority to the BID as
indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32]; and
c) The UE may create one or more routing rules with the HA. For each routing
rule that the UE wants to register with the HA, the UE shall include a FID
mobility option containing one traffic selector as specified in IETF RFC 6089
[32].
\- The FID field shall be set to an arbitrary value;
\- The FID-PRI field shall be set to the assigned priority of the FID as
indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32];
\- A Binding Reference suboption shall be included as defined in IETF RFC 6089
[32]. As indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32] the value assigned to the BID is the
same included in the BID mobility option included in the Binding Update; and
\- Traffic selector suboption shall be set as specified in IETF RFC 6089 [32]
and IETF RFC 6088 [33]. The parameters described in the traffic selector
suboption represent the routing filter that corresponds to the routing rule
that the UE wants to register with the HA.
According to IETF RFC 6089 [32], traffic selector suboption contains
parameters identifying downlink traffic, hence routing rules registered with
the HA bind either a Care-of Address or a Home Address to the downlink
traffic. The same bound IP address shall be used by the IFOM capable UE
configured for IFOM to route the corresponding uplink traffic (i.e.
asymmetrical routing is not allowed in this version of the specification).
When the UE receives the Binding Acknowledgement from the HA, it shall
validate it based on the rules described in IETF RFC 6275 [27] and IETF RFC
5555 [2]. If the Binding Acknowledgement contains the successful status code 0
(\"Binding Update Accepted\"), the UE shall create an entry for the registered
Home Address in its Binding Update List and may start sending packets
containing its IPv6 Home Address or other IPv6 addresses auto-configured from
the assigned home network prefix.
If the Binding Acknowledgement contains a value of 128, the UE may re-send the
BU as specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27]. If the Binding Acknowledgement contains
a value from 129 to 133 as specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27] or a value from 140
to 143 as specified in IETF RFC 3963 [29], the UE shall not send the BU to the
HA and should discover another HA.
If the Binding Acknowledgment contains an IPv4 Address Acknowledgement option
with status code value from 0 to 127 (indicating success), the UE shall create
two entries in its Binding Update List, one for the IPv6 Home Address and
another for the IPv4 Home Address. If the Binding Acknowledgement contains an
IPv4 Address Acknowledgment option with status code indicating error (i.e. 128
or higher), the UE shall create an entry only for the IPv6 HoA in its binding
update list. Moreover, if the status code is 129 (\"Administratively
prohibited\") or 132 (\"Dynamic IPv4 home address assignment not available\"),
the UE shall not re-send the Binding Update and it shall use only the IPv6
HoA. If the Binding Acknowledgement contains an IPv4 Address Acknowledgement
option with status 128 (\"Failure, reason unspecified\"), 130 (\"Incorrect
IPv4 home address\"), 131 (\"Invalid IPv4 address\") or 133 (\"Prefix
allocation unauthorized\") it shall re-send the Binding Update including the
0.0.0.0 address in the IPv4 Home Address option. If the Binding
Acknowledgement does not contain an IPv4 Address Acknowledgment option, the UE
shall create an entry only for the IPv6 HoA in its binding update list.
NOTE 1: The value to be used to identify the IPv4 address acknowledgement
option in the mobility header is 30;
If the Binding Acknowledgment contains a BID mobility option, the UE shall
process it as specified in IETF RFC 5648 [31]. If the Binding Acknowledgment
contains one or more flow mobility options, the UE shall process it as
specified in IETF RFC 6089 [32].
If the status field of the BID mobility option is set to zero, the IFOM
capable UE configured for IFOM applies to every examined BID option the status
code contained in the status field of the Binding Acknowledgement message as
indicated in IETF RFC 5648 [31]. If the value of the status field assigned to
a BID mobility option is equal to 4 (\"MCOA NOTCOMPLETE\"), 164 (\"MCOA
MALFORMED\"), 165 (\"MCOA NON-MCOA\") or 167 (\"MCOA UNKOWN COA\"), the IFOM
capable UE configured for IFOM performs the operations described in IETF RFC
5648 [31].
NOTE 2: the above error cases, e.g. 165 (\"MCOA NON-MCOA BINDING EXISTS\"),
that do not apply to the case of initial attach can apply to other use cases
(e.g. attach to additional access).
When processing a FID mobility option, if the value of the status field of the
FID mobility option is 129 (\"Flow binding rejected\"), 130 (\"Flow
identification mobility option malformed\"), 131 (\"BID not found\") or 132
(\"FID not found\"), the IFOM capable UE configured for IFOM performs the
operations described in IETF RFC 6089 [32].
The UE may then send data traffic either with the IPv6 Home Address or with
the IPv4 Home Address. If the UE is located on an IP6-enabled link, it shall
send IPv6 packets as described in IETF RFC 6275 [27]; IPv4 traffic shall be
encapsulated in IPv6 packets as described in IETF RFC 5555 [2]. If the UE is
located on an IPv4-only link and the Binding Acknowledgement contains the NAT
detection option with the F flag set, the UE shall send IPv6 and IPv4 packets
following the vanilla UDP encapsulation rules specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2].
Otherwise the UE shall send IPv6 and IPv4 packets encapsulated in IPv4 as
specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2].
Once the DSMIPv6 tunnel is established, the UE may build a DHCPv4 or DHCPv6
message as described in IETF RFC 4039 [26] or IETF RFC 3736 [13] respectively
and send it via the DSMIPv6 tunnel as described in IETF RFC 6275 [27] in order
to retrieve additional parameters, e.g. Vendor-specific options. The UE may
also request additional IPv6 prefix(es) with length of /64 or shorter by using
DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation as defined in IETF RFC 6276 [35].
### 5.1.3 HA procedures
#### 5.1.3.1 Security association establishment and IPv6 Home Network Prefix
assignment
The HA shall support the IKEv2 protocol (see IETF RFC 5996 [14]) for
negotiating the IPsec security association to secure DSMIPv6 signalling and
shall support EAP over IKEv2 as described in IETF RFC 5996 [14] to perform UE
authentication with an AAA server. If an additional authentication and
authorization of the IPSec security association were needed with an external
AAA server, then the additional authentication steps during the IKEv2 exchange
shall be supported as specified in IETF RFC 4739 [23] and the HA shall follow
the PDG procedure defined in 3GPP TS 33.234 [24].
The HA shall support IPsec ESP (see IETF RFC 4303 [11]) in order to provide
authentication of Binding Update and Binding Acknowledgement messages as
specified in IETF RFC 4877 [4]. The HA shall support multiple authentication
exchanges in the IKEv2 protocol as specified in IETF RFC 4739 [23] in order to
support authentication with an external AAA server.
The HA shall complete the IKE_SA_INIT exchange as specified in IETF RFC 5996
[14]. The HA shall include in the IDr the same value included by the UE in the
IDr payload of the request.
Upon successful authorization and authentication, the HA shall accept the
security association establishment request by sending the IKE_AUTH response
message with the CFG_REPLY payload including the IPv6 Home Network Prefix
allocated to the UE in the MIP6_HOME_PREFIX attribute. This prefix information
shall include the prefix length as specified in IETF RFC 5026 [10]. If the UE
included the INTERNAL_IP6_DNS or the INTERNAL_IP4_DNS in the CFG_REQUEST
payload, the HA shall include the same attribute in the CFG_REPLY payload
including zero or more DNS server addresses as specified in IETF RFC 5996
[14].
If the HA needs to reject a IKEv2 security association establishment due to
the network policies or capabilities to indicate that no more IKEv2 security
association establishment request with any APN can be accepted for the UE, the
HA shall include in the IKE_AUTH response message containing the IDr payload a
Notify Payload with a Private Notify Message Type MAX_CONNECTION_REACHED as
specified in 3GPP TS 24.302 [21].
If the UE included a PDN Identifier notify payload within the IKE_AUTH request
message, the HA may apply the following procedure:
1) Process the PDN Identifier notify payload according to IETF RFC 5996 [14];
and
2) Use the IPv6 prefix contained in the payload to identify the PDN connection
for which the security association is being set up and
\- if the HA is able to identify the PDN connection for which the security
association is being set up, the HA shall insert the previously assigned IPv6
Home Network Prefix in the MIP6_HOME_PREFIX attribute in the CFG_REPLY
payload; or
\- if the HA is not able to identify the PDN connection for which the security
association is being set up, the HA shall ignore the content of the received
PDN Identifier notify payload and allocate an IPv6 Home Network Prefix as
described below.
When allocating an IPv6 Home Network Prefix, the HA shall apply one of the
following procedures:
\- If the IKEv2 message is received over an existing PDN connection, the
assigned IPv6 network prefix of the PDN connection shall be sent to the UE as
IPv6 Home Network Prefix in the MIP6_HOME_PREFIX attribute; or,
\- If the IKEv2 message is not received over an existing PDN connection, and
the UE has an existing PDN connection which has no IPSec security association
established, the assigned IPv6 network prefix of the PDN connection shall be
sent to the UE as IPv6 Home Network Prefix in the MIP6_HOME_PREFIX attribute;
or,
\- If the IKEv2 message is not received over an existing PDN connection, and
the UE does not have an existing PDN connection which has no IPSec security
association established, a new IPv6 network prefix shall be allocated and sent
to the UE as IPv6 Home Network Prefix in the MIP6_HOME_PREFIX attribute.
An IFOM capable Home Agent shall implement the IFOM Capability notify payload.
If the UE included the IFOM Capability notify payload within the IKE_SA_INIT
request message, the HA shall perform the following procedures:
\- process the IFOM Capability notify payload according to IETF RFC 5996 [14];
\- if the HA is IFOM capable, the HA includes the IFOM Capability notify
payload in the IKE_SA_INIT response message; and
\- if the HA is not IFOM capable, the HA ignores the IFOM Capability notify
payload received from the UE and in the IKE_SA_INIT response message will not
include the IFOM Capability notify payload.
If the 3GPP AAA server triggers the HA to perform a HA reallocation procedure
as specified in 3GPP TS 33.402 [18], the HA learns the IP address of the
target HA as specified in 3GPP TS 29.273 [20]. The HA shall provide to the UE
the target HA IP address in the REDIRECT payload during IKE_AUTH exchange as
specified in 3GPP TS 33.402 [18]. The encoding of the REDIRECT payload in the
IKE_AUTH response message is specified in IETF RFC 5685 [30]. The HA shall not
assign an IPv6 prefix to the UE in the IKE_AUTH exchange. The HA shall remove
the states of the IKEv2 security association with the UE after receiving an
IKEv2 Informational message with a DELETE payload from the UE.
#### 5.1.3.2 Initial binding registration and IPv4 Home Address assignment
When the HA receives a Binding Update message from the UE, it shall validate
it as described in IETF RFC 6275 [27] and in IETF RFC 5555 [2]. If the
Alternate Care-of Address option is present, the HA shall verify the
correctness of the Alternate Care-of Address option. If the Care-of Address
specified in the Alternate Care-of Address option and in the Source Address
field of the IPv6 header of the Binding Update packet are different, the HA
shall reject the request by returning a Binding Acknowledgement with status
code 128. If the HA accepts the Binding Update message, it shall create a new
entry in its binding cache for UE, marking it as a home registration. The
lifetime of this binding cache entry is set based on operator\'s policies. The
HA shall not perform a Duplicate Address Detection on the IPv6 Home Address of
the UE because of the uniqueness of the IPv6 prefix assigned by the HA to the
UE. Then the HA shall send a Binding Acknowledgement with R bit set to \"1\"
as specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27] and IETF RFC 3963 [29]. The HA may include
the Binding Refresh Advice mobility option following rules defined in IETF RFC
6275 [27] to indicate the remaining time until the UE should send a new home
binding update.
If the Binding Update contains an IPv4 Home Address option with the 0.0.0.0
IPv4 address, the HA shall assign an IPv4 Home Address to the UE, including an
IPv4 Address Acknowledgement option in the Binding Acknowledgement message, as
specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2]. If no IPv4 addresses are available at the HA,
the HA shall send a Binding Acknowledgement with status code 132 in the IPv4
address acknowledgement option.
If in the received Binding Update the IPv4 Care-of Address in the IPv4 Care-of
Address option is not the same as the IPv4 address in the Source Address in
the outer IPv4 header then a NAT was in the path. This information shall be
included in the Binding Acknowledgement within a NAT Detection option with the
F flag set and the Binding Acknowledgement shall be encapsulated based on the
vanilla UDP encapsulation specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2].
If a NAT was not detected, the HA shall send the Binding Acknowledgement
without any UDP encapsulation; the message shall be encapsulated in an IPv4
header if the Care-of Address is IPv4 or in an IPv6 header if the Care-of
Address is IPv6 as specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2].
If the Binding Update contains a BID mobility option, the HA shall process it
as specified in IETF RFC 5648 [31]. If one or more FID mobility options are
included in the received Binding Update, the HA shall process it as specified
in IETF RFC 6089 [32] and IETF RFC 6088 [33]. If binding update is accepted
and IP flow mobility is supported, the HA shall insert the BID mobility option
into the Binding Acknowledgement message as specified in IETF RFC 5648 [31].
In addition, if the received Binding Update contains FID mobility option, the
HA shall create the flow bindings accordingly and insert the FID mobility
option into the Binding Acknowledgement message as specified in IETF RFC 6089
[32].
If the binding update is accepted for both IPv4 and IPv6 home addresses, the
HA creates two bindings, one for each home address as specified in IETF RFC
5555 [2]. The HA shall link the IPv4 home address binding to the IPv6 home
address binding.
NOTE: How the linkage between the two bindings (e.g. separate or single
binding cache entry) is performed is implementation specific.
When the binding cache entry is created for the UE, the HA shall tunnel all
packets destined to the IPv6 Home Address, the home network prefix and all
packets destined to the IPv4 Home Address (if present) to the UE\'s Care-of
Address. If a NAT was detected, packets shall be encapsulated in UDP and IPv4
based on vanilla UDP encapsulation specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2]. If the
Care-of Address is an IPv6 address, IPv4 and IPv6 packets shall be
encapsulated in an IPv6 header as specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27] and in IETF
RFC 5555 [2]; otherwise, if the Care-of Address is an IPv4 address, IPv4 and
IPv6 packets shall be encapsulated in an IPv4 header as specified in IETF RFC
6275 [27] and in IETF RFC 5555 [2]. If the HA has multiple binding cache
entries with flow bindings (see 3GPP TS 23.261 [34]), the HA shall route all
packets destined to the IPv6 Home Address, the home network prefix, the IPv6
prefix(es) assigned through DHCP prefix delegation (if present) and all
packets destined to the IPv4 Home Address (if present) as described in IETF
RFC 6089 [32].
After the DSMIPv6 tunnel is established, if DHCPv6 Prefix Delegation request
is received, the HA may assign additional IPv6 prefix(es) with length of /64
or shorter to the UE as defined in IETF RFC 6276 [35]. Once the DHCPv6 Prefix
Delegation procedure has been completed, the HA shall add the assigned
delegated prefix(es) into the binding cache entry as defined in IETF RFC 6276
[35]. When the delegated prefix(es) is included in the binding cache entry for
UE, the HA shall tunnel all the packets destined to the delegated prefix(es)
to the UE\'s Care-of Address.
#### 5.1.3.3 Binding Error message
When the HA receives a Binding Update and detects an unrecognized Mobility
Header, the HA shall send a Binding Error message with status value 2
\"Unrecognized MH Type value\" as specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27]. The HA
shall include the Home address that was contained in the Home Address
destination option.
If NAT was not detected, the HA shall send the Binding Error without any UDP
encapsulation; the message shall be encapsulated in an IPv4 header if the
Care-of Address is IPv4 or in an IPv6 header if the Care-of Address is IPv6 in
the same manner as the Binding Acknowledgement encapsulation specified in IETF
RFC 5555 [2].
If NAT was detected, the HA shall send the Binding Error encapsulated in UDP
and IPv4 based on vanilla UDP encapsulation specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2].
## 5.2 Dual-Stack Mobile IPv6 handover
### 5.2.1 General
The DSMIPv6 handover procedure is performed by the UE to update its Care-of
Address at the HA after a movement between two different accesses (e.g. a
movement from a 3GPP to a non-3GPP access). The procedure is also used when
the Care-of Address is changed for other reasons (e.g. re-allocation of a
local IP address or equivalent). When this procedure takes place, the UE has
already a valid registration at the HA, which implies that the HA has an entry
in its binding cache for that UE and a security association to secure DSMIPv6
signalling is in place between the UE and the HA.
The procedure involves performing the Home Link Detection, setup a security
association with the HA if there is no security association existing, and the
exchange of a Binding Update and a Binding Acknowledgement between the UE and
the HA. For the handover procedure, at the previous access the UE shall
already perform discovery of the HA address, and may set up a security
association with it, as these steps are part of the initial attach procedure
described in subclause 5.1.2.
There are different handover scenarios:
\- handover from home link to a foreign link;
\- handover from a foreign link to another foreign link; and
\- handover from a foreign link to a home link.
### 5.2.2 UE procedures
#### 5.2.2.1 General
Following a change of access, the UE configures an IP address on the target
access system. The details of IP address configuration can be access specific.
The handling of the received Binding Acknowledgement is the same as specified
in subclause 5.1.2.4.
#### 5.2.2.2 Handover from home link to a foreign link
If the access network supports IPv6, as soon as the UE has received via a
Router Advertisement at least an IPv6 prefix which is not present in its
Prefix List, the UE shall perform the Home Link detection as specified in
subclause 5.1.2.3.
If the UE detects that it is moving from home link to foreign link, and if
there is no security association existing with the HA, the UE shall perform
the Security association establishment and Home Address assignment procedure
with the HA as specified in subclause 5.1.2.2.
Then the UE shall perform the initial binding registration and IPv4 Home
Address assignment as specified in subclause 5.1.2.4. In order to maintain IP
address preservation for the IPv4 address used in the home link, the UE shall
include the IPv4 address used on the home link in an IPv4 Home Address option
in the same Binding Update message. The IFOM capable UE configured for IFOM
shall extend the Binding Update message as described in subclause 5.1.2.4.
If the UE does not have an IPv4 Home Address but wants to configure one, the
UE shall include the IPv4 Home Address option with the 0.0.0.0 address as
specified in subclause 5.1.2.4.
If the access network supports only IPv4, as soon as the UE has configured an
IPv4 Care-of Address, the UE shall send a Binding Update tunnelled in UDP as
specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2]. The UE shall set the F flag to \"0\". The UE
shall set the R flag to \"1\".
Independent of an IPv6 or IPv4 access network the UE shall set the Key
Management Capability (K) bit in the Binding Update message.
If the UE receives, as response to an outstanding binding registration, a
binding acknowledgment having a status code equal to 135 (\"Sequence number
out of window\") and a sequence number different from the one used in the
outstanding binding registration, the UE shall accept the binding
acknowledgment and process it as specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27].
#### 5.2.2.3 Handover from a foreign link to another foreign link
If the access network supports IPv6, as soon as the UE has received via a
Router Advertisement at least an IPv6 prefix which is not present in its
Prefix List, the UE shall perform the Home Link detection as specified in
subclause 5.1.2.3.
If the UE detects it is not attached to the home link, the UE shall send a
Binding Update to the HA including the newly configured IP address as the
Care-of Address in the Source IP address of the packet and optionally in the
Alternate Care-of Address Option IETF RFC 6275 [27]. The UE build the Binding
Update message as specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27].
If the UE has been assigned also an IPv4 Home Address and wants to update also
the binding for it, the UE shall include the IPv4 Home Address option
including the assigned IPv4 Home Address in the same Binding Update message.
If the UE has been assigned also an IPv4 Home Address and wants to release it,
the UE shall not include any IPv4 Home Address option in the same Binding
Update.
If the UE does not have an IPv4 Home Address but wants to configure one, the
UE shall include the IPv4 Home Address option with the 0.0.0.0 address as
specified in subclause 5.1.2.4.
If the access network supports only IPv4, as soon as the UE has configured an
IPv4 Care-of Address which is different from the previous Care-of Address, the
UE shall send a Binding Update tunnelled in UDP as specified in IETF RFC 5555
[2]. The UE shall set the F flag to \"0\". The UE shall set the R flag to
\"1\".
Independent of an IPv6 or IPv4 access network the UE shall set the Key
Management Capability (K) bit in the Binding Update message.
If the UE is an IFOM capable UE configured for IFOM, the UE extends the
Binding Update with the following options:
a) the UE shall set the O (Overwrite) flag to \"0\";
b) the UE shall include a BID identifier mobility option in the Binding Update
as specified in IETF RFC 5648 [31];
\- the UE shall set the BID field to the value registered with the Home Agent;
\- the UE shall set the BID-PRI field to assign the priority to the BID as
indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32];
\- if the newly configured IP address used as Care-of Address is an IPv6
address, the UE shall not insert any Alternate Care-of Address option in the
Binding Update message;
\- if the newly configured IP address used as Care-of Address is an IPv4
address, the UE shall not insert any IPv4 Care-of Address option in the
Binding Update message; and
\- the UE shall insert the newly configured IP address used as Care-of Address
in the Care-of Address field of the BID identifier mobility option insertd in
the Binding Update message;
c) the UE may create one or more routing rules. For each routing rule that the
UE wants to register with the HA, the UE shall include a FID mobility option
containing one traffic selector as specified in IETF RFC 6089 [32]. Traffic
selectors are defined in IETF RFC 6088 [33]:
\- the UE shall set the FID field to an arbitrary value;
\- the UE shall set the FID-PRI field to assign the priority to the routing
filter as indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32];
\- the UE shall include a Binding Reference suboption as indicated in IETF RFC
6089 [32]. The value assigned to the BID identifies the routing address that
the UE wants to use to exchange the packets matching the routing filters; and
\- traffic selector suboption shall be set as specified in IETF RFC 6089 [32]
and IETF RFC 6088 [33]. The parameters described in the traffic selector
suboption represent the routing filter that corresponds to the routing rule
that the UE wants to register with the HA;
d) The UE may insert a flow summary mobility option (as described in IETF RFC
6089 [32]).
\- If the UE wants to keep some routing rules previously registered
unmodified, i.e. no flow handover, the UE lists the values of the FIDs
identifying the routing rules that the UE wants to keep unmodified in the flow
summary mobility option; and
\- If the UE wants to remove one or more previously registered routing rules,
the UE does not include in the flow summary mobility option the FIDs
identifying the routing rules that the UE wants to remove; and
e) the UE may modify one or more routing rules with the HA. For each routing
rule that the UE wants to modify, the UE shall include a FID mobility option
as specified in IETF RFC 6089 [32].
\- the UE shall set the FID field to the value identifying the routing filter
the UE wants to handover;
\- the UE shall set the FID-PRI field to assign the priority to the BID as
indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32]; and
\- the UE shall include a Binding Reference suboption as indicated in IETF RFC
6089 [32]. The value assigned to the BID identifies the routing address that
the UE wants to use to exchange the packets matching the routing filters.
The UE shall process the binding acknowledge message as described in subclause
5.1.2.4.
#### 5.2.2.4 Handover from a foreign link to a home link
If the access network supports IPv6, as soon as the UE has received via a
Router Advertisement message at least an IPv6 prefix which is not present in
its Prefix List, the UE shall perform the Home Link detection as specified in
subclause 5.1.2.3 to detect if the UE is attaching to the home link. If the UE
detects it is attached to the home link and there is a valid DSMIPv6 Binding
Update list entry at the UE, the UE shall send a Binding Update with the
Lifetime field set to \"0\" in order to remove the binding at the HA, as
specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27]. If an IPv4 home address was assigned to the
UE, as an optimization the UE may not include the IPv4 home address option as
the binding for the IPv4 home address will be removed by the HA. Independent
of an IPv6 or IPv4 access network the UE shall set the Key Management
Capability (K) bit in the de-registration Binding Update message. The UE may
preserve the IKEv2 session in order to avoid re-establishing the session when
the next handover occurs. If there is not a safe assumption that the UE will
remain in the home link (e.g. switching off the non-3GPP radio interface in
case of a dual radio terminal), the UE should preserve the IKEv2 session.
If the UE receives a Binding Revocation Indication message from the HA while
there is an outstanding unacknowledged Binding Update with Lifetime field set
to \"0\" message, the UE need not send a Binding Revocation Acknowledgement as
specified in subclause 5.4.2.1.
### 5.2.3 HA procedures
#### 5.2.3.1 Handover from home link to a foreign link
In case of UE handover from home link to foreign link, the HA shall support
the initial registrstion procedure as specified in subclause 5.1.3.
The error codes used in the Binding Acknowledgement are the same as specified
in subclause 5.1.3.2.
#### 5.2.3.2 Handover from a foreign link to another foreign link
When the HA receives a Binding Update from the UE, the HA shall validate it as
described in IETF RFC 6275 [27] and in IETF RFC 5555 [2]. If the validation is
successful, the HA shall update the binding cache entry related to the Home
Address included in the Binding Update.
If the Binding Update is an IPv6 packet, with the Alternate Care-of Address
option present, the HA shall verify the correctness of the Alternate Care-of
Address option. If the Care-of Address specified in the Alternate Care-of
Address option and in the Source Address field of the IPv6 header of the
Binding Update packet are different, the HA shall reject the request by
returning a Binding Acknowledgement with status code 128. If the option is
valid, the HA shall update the binding cache entry with the Care-of Address in
the Source Address of the IPv6 header.
If the Binding Update outer header is an IPv4 header and the IPv4 Care-of
Address in the IPv4 Care-of Address option is the same as the IPv4 address in
the Source Address in the outer IPv4 header, the HA shall update the binding
cache entry with the Care-of Address in the IPv4 Care-of Address option and
shall send a Binding Acknowledgment encapsulated in IPv4 as specified in IETF
RFC 5555 [2].
If in the received Binding Update the IPv4 Care-of Address in the IPv4 Care-of
Address option is not the same as the IPv4 address in the Source Address in
the outer IPv4 header then a NAT was in the path. This information shall be
included in the Binding Acknowledgement within a NAT Detection option with the
F bit set. The Binding Acknowledgment shall be encapsulated in UDP and the
binding cache updated as specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2].
If the Binding Update contains an IPv4 Home Address option with an IPv4 Home
Address previously assigned, the HA shall update also the binding cache entry
related to the IPv4 Home Address to the UE. If the Binding Update contains no
IPv4 Home Address option, the HA shall remove the binding cache entry related
to the IPv4 Home Address of the UE if present.
If the Binding Update contains an IPv4 Home Address option with the 0.0.0.0
IPv4 address, the HA shall assign an IPv4 Home Address to the UE, including an
IPv4 Address Acknowledgement option in the Binding Acknowledgement message.
The error codes used in the Binding Acknowledgement are the same as specified
in subclause 5.1.3.2.
If the Binding Update contains a BID mobility option and (optionally) a Flow
summary mobility option, the HA shall process the received Binding Update
message and send a Binding Acknowledgement message as described in subclause
5.1.3.2.
If the Key Management Mobility Capability (K) bit is set in the Binding Update
and the HA supports the feature, the HA updates its IKEv2 security
associations to include the UE's Care-of Address as the peer address and the
Binding Acknowledgement is returned with the K bit set.
The HA shall set the R bit to \"1\" in the Binding Acknowledgement.
#### 5.2.3.3 Handover from a foreign link to a home link
When a UE hands over from a foreign link to its home link, a network based
mobility protocol (PMIPv6 or GTP) in the home link creates a binding cache
entry for the UE. The DSMIPv6 binding cache entry that was created by the UE
on the foreign link shall not be overwritten. The downlink UE packets shall be
processed by the HA based on the DSMIPv6 binding cache entry before the
DSMIPv6 binding cache entry is removed.
The DSMIPv6 binding cache entry shall be removed when a Binding Update with
lifetime field set to \"0\" is received by the HA from the UE. The HA shall
process the message as per IETF RFC 5555 [2] and IETF RFC 6275 [27], removing
the associated binding cache entry and sending the Binding Acknowledge message
with the Status field set to \"0\" (Binding Update accepted). If an IPv4 home
address was assigned to the UE, the HA shall also remove the binding for the
IPv4 home address tied to the IPv6 home address included in the Binding
Update.
If the HA decides to remove the DSMIPv6 binding cache entry of the UE, prior
to receiving a binding update with lifetime set to \"0\" from the UE , the HA
shall send a Binding Revocation Indication message as specified in subclause
5.4.3.1.
NOTE: As described above, if the HA receives a Binding Update with Lifetime
field set to \"0\", the HA removes the associated binding cache entry, but
additionally the HA can store some data of the binding cache entry for a
certain time in order to allow the HA to identify a delayed Binding Update
registration message arriving at the HA after the Binding Update de-
registration.
## 5.3 Dual Stack Mobile IPv6 Re-Registration
### 5.3.1 General
The DSMIPv6 Re-Registration procedure can occur at any time when the UE is
already registered at the HA. The procedure is initiated by the UE when it
wishes to extend the lifetime of an existing registration, e.g. in case the
lifetime is expiring. The procedure can also be initiated by the UE when it
wishes to request an IPv4 home address or to release the IPv4 binding while
maintaining the IPv6 binding. The procedure may also be initiated by the UE as
a mechanism to refresh the NAT bindings in order to be reachable from the HA.
NOTE: The usage of BU messages for keepalive purposes can have impacts to the
battery life of the UE. The UE can be configured to rate limiting or avoid NAT
keepalive as specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2].
### 5.3.2 UE procedures
As specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27], if the UE wants to extend the validity of
an existing binding at the HA, the UE shall send a new Binding Update to the
HA before the expiration of the lifetime indicated in the received Binding
Acknowledgement, even if it is not changing its primary Care-of Address. This
Binding Update is usually referred as periodic Binding Update.
The UE shall follow the rules described in IETF RFC 6275 [27], IETF RFC 5555
[2] and in subclause 5.1.2.4 to send a periodic Binding Update and handle the
associated Binding Acknowledgement. As the UE has not performed any handover,
the UE shall confirm the already registered Care of Address and shall indicate
the desired lifetime value. In a periodic Binding Update the UE may request an
IPv4 Home Address.
If a NAT was detected and the UE is not exchanging data traffic, the UE may
send a re-registration Binding Update in order to refresh the NAT binding. The
Binding Update shall be sent with the interval contained in the Refresh Time
field of the NAT detection option received when the NAT was detected. If the
Refresh Time field was set to all 1s, the UE shall use the Binding Acknowledge
lifetime as reference interval to send NAT keepalives Binding Updates.
The UE may also send a re-registration Binding Update with the purpose of
requesting an IPv4 Home Address.
The UE may also send a re-registration Binding Update for the purpose of
releasing the IPv4 Home Address previoulsy assigned. For this purpose, the UE
shall follow the rules described in IETF RFC 5555 [2] sending a re-
registration Binding Update containing no IPv4 Home Address option.
If the UE is an IFOM capable UE configured for IFOM, the UE extends the
Binding Update with the following options:
a) the UE shall set the O (Overwrite) flag to \"0\";
b) the UE shall include a BID identifier mobility option in the Binding Update
as specified in IETF RFC 5648 [31];
\- the UE shall set the BID field to the value identifying the Binding it
wants to re-register;
\- the UE shall set the BID-PRI field to assign the priority to the BID as
indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32]; and
c) if the UE previously registered in the HA one or more routing filters, the
UE shall include a flow summary mobility option as specified in IETF RFC 6089
[32] listing the values of the FIDs identifying the registered routing filter.
### 5.3.3 HA procedures
When the HA receives a periodic Binding Update message from the UE, it shall
validate it as described in subclause 5.1.3.2, in IETF RFC 6275 [27], IETF RFC
5555 [2] and IETF RFC 5648[31].
In processing a periodic Binding Update the HA shall follow the rules
described in subclause 5.1.3.2. In addition if the Binding Update does not
include the IPv4 home address option the HA shall remove any associated IPv4
binding cache entry and continue to maintain the IPv6 binding.
If the HA accepts the Binding Update message, it shall update the lifetime and
sequence number of the existing entry in its binding cache for the Home
Address. If the Binding Update contains a BID mobility option, the HA shall
process it as specified in IETF RFC 5648 [31] and IETF RFC 6089 [32]. If
binding update is accepted, the HA shall insert the BID mobility option into
the Binding Acknowledgement message as specified in IETF RFC 5648 [31]. The
Care-of Address is not updated as the periodic Binding Update is not used to
update the Care-of Address.
## 5.4 Dual-Stack Mobile IPv6 detach
### 5.4.1 General
The DSMIPv6 detach is performed by the UE to close the DSMIPv6 session and the
respective IKEv2 session or by the network to inform the UE that it does not
have access to a specific PDN through DSMIPv6 any longer. After the DSMIPv6
detach procedure, the UE still has IP connectivity provided by the access
network.
There are two explicit detach procedures:
\- UE-initiated detach procedure: in this case the UE performs a DSMIPv6 de-
registration with the HA and closes the IKEv2 session.
\- HA-initiated detach procedure: in this case the HA informs the UE that the
DSMIPv6 binding is no more valid. The UE shall then perform the network-
initiated detach procedure.
### 5.4.2 UE procedures
#### 5.4.2.1 Network-initiated detach
Upon receiving a Binding Revocation Indication (BRI) message according to IETF
RFC 5846 [19] from the HA, the UE first shall perform the required validity
checks on the BRI according to IETF RFC 5846 [19].
The UE shall send a Binding Revocation Acknowledgement (BRA) as specified in
IETF RFC 5846 [19]. In this message the UE shall set the status field to
'Success' to reflect that it has received the BRI message. The BRA message may
be tunnelled in UDP or IPv4 as specified in subclause 5.1.2.4 for Binding
Update messages.
The UE then shall remove the entry identified in the BRI as deregistered from
its binding update list and shall use the procedures defined in IETF RFC 5996
[14] to remove the IPsec security associations associated with the DSMIPv6
registration as described in subclause 5.4.2.2.
#### 5.4.2.2 UE-initiated detach
To detach from a specific PDN to which it is connected through a DSMIPv6
session, the UE shall send a Binding Update with the Lifetime field set to 0
as specified in IETF RFC 6275 [27].
The UE shall use the procedures defined in the IKEv2 protocol in IETF RFC 5996
[14] to remove the IPsec security associations associated with the DSMIPv6
registration. The UE shall close the security associations associated with the
DSMIPv6 registration and instruct the HA to do the same by sending the
INFORMATIONAL request message including a DELETE payload. The Protocol ID in
the DELETE payload shall be set to \"1\" (IKE) to indicate that all IPsec ESP
security associations that were negotiated within the IKEv2 exchange shall be
deleted.
### 5.4.3 HA procedures
#### 5.4.3.1 Network-initiated detach
As soon as it receives a trigger for network-initiated detach procedure (see
3GPP TS 29.273 [20]) the HA shall send a Binding Revocation Indication (BRI)
message according to IETF RFC 5846 [19] to the UE. The message shall contain
the Home Address, corresponding to the PDN connection which shall be removed.
The HA shall set the P (Proxy Binding) bit to 0 (Not Proxy MIPv6 binding), G
bit (Global) to 0 (only the PDN Connection specified by the HoA is removed)
and V bit (IPv4 HoA Binding Only) to 0 (Not to terminate the IPv4 Home Address
binding only). The revocation trigger value shall be set to 1 (Unspecified).
The HA shall include the UE home address in the Type 2 routing header as per
IETF RFC 5846 [19] and shall not include any mobility option. The HA shall not
include a BID option in the BRI message. The BRI message may be tunnelled in
UDP or IPv4 as specified in subclause 5.1.3.2 for Binding Acknowledgement
messages.
The HA shall follow procedures according to IETF RFC 5846 [19] to await the
receipt of a Binding Revocation Acknowledgment (BRA) message from the UE.
These procedures are based on the timer MINDelayBRIs defined in IETF RFC 5846
[19]. The HA shall not remove the entry from its binding cache before
receiving the BRA.
If the HA receives a Binding Update with Lifetime set to 0 after initiating
the network-initiated detach procedure, the HA should treat the BU as
acknowledgement to the BRI for the purposes of completing the revocation
procedures that are defined in IETF RFC 5846 [19]; in this case, the HA shall
remove the respective entry in its binding cache, deleting the timer
MINDelayBRIs and respond with a Binding Acknowledgement according to IETF RFC
5555 [2] and IETF RFC 6275 [27].
#### 5.4.3.2 UE-initiated detach
When the HA receives a Binding Update with the Lifetime field set to 0, it
shall delete any existing entry for the Home Address included in the Binding
Update. Then the HA shall send a Binding Acknowledgement as specified in IETF
RFC 5555 [2] and IETF RFC 6275 [27].
On receipt of the INFORMATIONAL request message including a DELETE payload
indicating that the UE is deleting the IPsec security associations associated
with the DSMIPv6 registration, the HA shall close the IKE security
association, and all IPsec ESP security associations that were negotiated
within it towards the UE.
## 5.5 Void
## 5.5A Protection of data traffic
### 5.5A.1 General
UE and HA can use the IKEv2 CREATE_CHILD_SA exchange procedure to create a
child security association to be used to provide integrity protection,
confidentiality protection or both, to all data traffic exchanged within the
DSMIPv6 tunnel. The procedure can be initiated by the HA or by the UE at any
time after the security association between UE and HA has been set up. If both
UE and HA independently decide to initiate the child security association
establishment, the procedure described in IETF RFC 5996 [14] applies. The
profiles for tunnel mode IPsec ESP are defined in 3GPP TS 33.402 [18].
### 5.5A.2 UE procedures
After establishing the IPsec security association with the HA as described in
subclause 5.1.2.2, the UE may initiate the creation of child security
association pair to provide integrity protection, confidentiality protection
or both. If the UE determines that the trust relationship of the non-3GPP
access network is \"untrusted\" (see 3GPP TS 24.302 [21]), the UE shall not
initiate the creation of child security association. If the UE initiates the
creation of child security association pair, the UE shall send to the HA a
CREATE_CHILD_SA request as described in IETF RFC 4877 [4] and IETF RFC 5996
[14] with the following additions:
a) the content of the Security Association payload is set accordingly for
integrity protection, confidentiality protection or both as indicated in IETF
RFC 5996 [14] using the IPsec profiles defined in 3GPP TS 33.402 [18]; and
b) the TSi shall contain all the Home Network Prefix assigned to the UE. If
prefix delegation is used, the TSi shall also contain all the prefix(es)
provided to the UE. If the UE received an IPv4 Home Address, the TSi shall
also contain the IPv4 Home Address.
When the UE receives a CREATE_CHILD_SA request from the HA with selectors
indicating the DSMIPv6 tunnel traffic, if the UE supports integrity
protection, confidentiality protection or both, the UE shall reply with a
CREATE_CHILD_SA response selecting the preferred transform proposed by the HA
as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [14].
If the child SA is created successfully, the UE shall start encapsulating all
the uplink packets in the DSMIPv6 tunnel in an IPsec ESP tunnel as negotiated
with the HA during the CREATE_CHILD_SA procedure.
The UE can stop using integrity protection, confidentiality protection or
both, for the DSMIPv6 tunnel traffic. In order to do that, the UE shall delete
the respective child security association by sending an INFORMATIONAL request
message including the DELETE payload as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [14].
### 5.5A.3 HA procedures
After establishing the IPsec security association with the UE as described in
subclause 5.1.3.1, the HA may initiate the creation of child security
association pair to provide integrity protection, confidentiality protection
or both. If the HA receives the trust relationship indication as \"untrusted\"
from the 3GPP AAA server during the authentication and authorization procedure
or the authorization procedure (see 3GPP TS 29.273 [20]), the HA shall not
initiate the creation of child security association procedure. If the trust
relationship indication is not received, the initiation of the creation of the
child security association is implementation dependent (e.g. based on
configuration). If the HA initiates the creation of child security association
pair, the HA shall send to the UE a CREATE_CHILD_SA request as described in
IETF RFC 4877 [4] and IETF RFC 5996 [14] with the following additions:
a) the content of the Security Association payload is set accordingly for
integrity protection, confidentiality protection or both as indicated in IETF
RFC 5996 [14] using the IPsec profiles defined in 3GPP TS 33.402 [18]; and
b) the TSi shall contain all the Home Network Prefix assigned to the UE. If
prefix delegation is used, the TSi shall also contain all the prefix(es)
provided to the UE. If the UE received an IPv4 Home Address, the TSi shall
also contain the IPv4 Home Address.
When the HA receives a CREATE_CHILD_SA request from the UE with selectors
indicating the DSMIPv6 tunnel traffic, if the HA supports integrity
protection, confidentiality protection or both, the HA shall check whether the
child security association establishment can be accepted or not. If the HA
receives the trust relationship indication set to \"untrusted\" indication
from the 3GPP AAA server (see 3GPP TS 29.273 [20]), the HA shall reject the
child security association establishment by using the NOTIFY payload of type
\"NO_ADDITIONAL_SAS\" in the CREATE_CHILD_SA response. If HA does not receive
the trust relationship indication, whether to accept or reject the child
security association is implementation dependent. Otherwise, the HA shall
reply with a CREATE_CHILD_SA response selecting the preferred transform
proposed by the HA as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [14].
If the child SA is created successfully, the HA shall start encapsulating, all
the uplink packets in the DSMIPv6 tunnel in an IPsec ESP tunnel as negotiated
with the UE during the CREATE_CHILD_SA procedure.
The HA can stop using integrity protection, confidentiality protection or
both, for the DSMIPv6 tunnel traffic. In order to do that, the HA shall delete
the respective child security association by sending an INFORMATIONAL request
message including the DELETE payload as specified in IETF RFC 5996 [14].
## 5.6 Attach to additional access network
### 5.6.1 General
The operations defined within subclause 5.6 apply to an IFOM capable UE
configured for IFOMand a HA supporting IFOM.
The attach to additional access network procedure is performed by a UE
supporting IFOM that has already established a PDN connection through an
access network and decides to extend the PDN connection to another access
network.
There can be two possible scenarios:
\- the existing access network is a home link and the added access network is
a foreign link; or
\- the existing access network is a foreign link and the added access network
is a home link.
The attach to additional access network procedure involves performing the
following:
\- access specific procedure to connect and configure an IP address for the
added access network;
\- discovery of a HA IP address if the UE has not obtained the IP address of
the HA;
\- home link detection;
\- setting up a security association if there is no security existing
association between the UE and HA; and
\- exchange of Binding Update and Binding Acknowledgement with the BID
mobility option and FID mobility option between the UE and HA.
### 5.6.2 UE procedures
#### 5.6.2.1 General
For the attach to additional access network procedure, the UE is already
attached to either a home link or foreign link and discovers a new link. The
UE applies the DSMIPv6 Home Link Detection Function as specified in subclause
5.1.2.3 to determine if the new link will be a home link or a foreign link. If
the new link is a home link, the UE follows the procedure as specified in
subclause 5.6.2.2. If the new link is a foreign link, the UE follows the
procedure as specified in subclause 5.6.2.3.
#### 5.6.2.2 Attach to additional access network acting as home link
The UE shall perform the DSMIPv6 Home Link Detection Function as specified in
subclause 5.1.2.3.
In addition, the UE shall perform the initial binding registration and IPv4
Home Address assignment as specified in subclause 5.1.2.4 with the following
additional rules:
a) the UE shall send a Binding Update through the home link;
b) the O (Overwrite) flag in the Binding Update shall be set to \"0\";
c) the UE shall insert a BID mobility option in this Binding Update with:
\- the \'H\' flag in the BID mobility option set to \"1\";
\- the Care-of Address field set to the IPv6 Home Address of the binding; and
\- the BID-PRI field set to assign the priority to the BID as indicated in
IETF RFC 6089 [32];
d) if routing filters were previously registered with the HA, the UE shall
include a flow summary mobility option as specified in IETF RFC 6089 [32]
listing the values of the FIDs identifying the routing filter that were
previously registered; and
e) if the UE creates one or more routing rules as specified in subclause
5.1.2.4, for each FID mobility option, the value of the BID field in the
Binding Reference suboption identifies the routing address that the UE wants
to use to exchange packets matching the routing filter.
When the UE receives the Binding Acknowledgment from the HA, the UE shall
process the Binding Acknowledgment as specified in subclause 5.1.2.4.
#### 5.6.2.3 Attach to an additional access acting as foreign link
The UE shall perform the same procedures described in subclause 5.1.2.4. The
UE shall send the Binding Update message through the added link. In addition,
the UE shall register the binding for the home link by including a BID
mobility option in the Binding Update message. The BID mobility option fields
for the binding for the home link are those indicated in IETF RFC 5648 [31]
for home binding with the following distinctions:
(a) the H flag shall be set to \"1\";
(b) the Care-of Address field shall be set to the IPv6 HoA of the binding; and
(c) the BID-PRI field shall be set to the assigned priority of the BID as
indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32].
The UE shall process the received Binding Acknowledgement as specified in
subclause 5.1.2.4.
### 5.6.3 HA procedures
#### 5.6.3.1 General
The following subclauses describe the detailed HA procedures for the case when
a UE is attaching to an additional access network.
#### 5.6.3.2 Attach to an additional access network acting as home link
When receiving a Binding Update from the UE, the HA performs the same
procedure as specified in subclause 5.2.3.2. In addition, the HA shall
validate the Binding Update as described in IETF RFC 5648 [31], IETF RFC 6089
[32] and IETF RFC 6088 [33].
#### 5.6.3.3 Attach to additional access acting as foreign link
When receiving a Binding Update from the UE, the HA performs the same
procedures described in subclause 5.2.3.2 and in addition the HA shall
validate the Binding Update as described in IETF RFC 5648 [31], and IETF RFC
6089 [32] and IETF RFC 6088 [33]. As described in IETF RFC 5648 [31], the HA
shall:
\- process the IPv6 address contained in the BID option with the H flag set to
0 as the Care-of Address; and
\- process the IPv4 address contained in the BID option with the H flag set to
0 in the same way as the HA process the address contained in the IPv4 Care-of
Address option in subclause 5.2.3.2.
## 5.7 Inter-access flow mobility
### 5.7.1 General
The operations defined within this sub-clause apply to an IFOM capable UE
configured for IFOM and to HA supporting IFOM.
The inter-access flow mobility is performed by the UE supporting IFOM that
already established a PDN connection and exchanges packets belonging to the
PDN connection through multiple access networks. The UE has previously
registered one or more routing rules with the HA.
In this procedure, the UE updates the HA by performing any of the following
operations:
\- assigning one or more routing filters to an access network different from
the one those routing filters were previously assigned;
\- adding one or more new routing rules to the HA; or
\- removing one or more previously registered routing rules from the HA.
The procedure involves the exchange of a Binding Update and a Binding
Acknowledgement with BID and FID options between the UE and the HA.
### 5.7.2 UE procedures
The UE performs the same procedures described in subclause 5.3.2 with the
following exceptions:
\- the UE shall set the O (Overwrite) flag to 0;
\- the UE shall not include any Alternate Care-of Address option in the
Binding Update message; and
\- the UE shall not include any IPv4 Care-of Address option in the Binding
Update message.
In addition, the UE shall extend the Binding Update message with the following
options (see IETF RFC 5648 [31], IETF RFC 6089 [32] and IETF RFC 6088 [33]):
a) The UE shall include a BID identifier mobility option:
\- the BID field is set to the value identifying the routing address used as
IP Source Address of the Binding Update message;
> \- if the Binding Update message is sent over a home link, the \"H\" flag is
> set to 1;
>
> \- if the Binding Update message is sent over a foreign link, the \"H\" flag
> is set to 0;
\- the BID-PRI priority field is set to the priority assigned to the BID as
indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32]; and
\- if the routing address is an IPv4 address, a NAT was detected and the UE is
not exchanging data traffic, the UE may insert the routing address in the
Care-of Address field of the BID mobility option;
b) the UE may create one or more routing rules. For each routing rule that the
UE wants to register with the HA, the UE shall include a FID mobility option
containing one traffic selector as specified in IETF RFC 6089 [32]. Traffic
selectors are defined in IETF RFC 6088 [33]:
\- the UE shall set the FID field to an arbitrary value;
\- the UE shall set the FID-PRI field to assign the priority to the routing
filter as indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32];
\- the UE shall include a Binding Reference suboption as indicated in IETF RFC
6089 [32]. The value assigned to the BID identifies the routing address that
the UE wants to use to exchange the packets matching the routing filters; and
\- traffic selector suboption shall be set as specified in IETF RFC 6089 [32]
and IETF RFC 6088 [33]. The parameters described in the traffic selector
suboption represent the routing filter that corresponds to the routing rule
that the UE wants to register with the HA;
c) The UE may insert a flow summary mobility option (as described in IETF RFC
6089 [32]).
\- If the UE wants to keep some routing rules previously registered
unmodified, i.e. no flow handover, the UE lists the values of the FIDs
identifying the routing rules that the UE wants to keep unmodified in the flow
summary mobility option; and
\- If the UE wants to remove one or more previously registered routing rules,
the UE does not include in the flow summary mobility option the FIDs
identifying the routing rules that the UE wants to remove; and
d) the UE may modify one or more routing rules with the HA. For each routing
rule that the UE wants to modify, the UE shall include a FID mobility option
as specified in IETF RFC 6089 [32].
\- the UE shall set the FID field to the value identifying the routing filter
the UE wants to handover;
\- the UE shall set the FID-PRI field to assign the priority to the BID as
indicated in IETF RFC 6089 [32]; and
\- the UE shall include a Binding Reference suboption as indicated in IETF RFC
6089 [32]. The value assigned to the BID identifies the routing address that
the UE wants to use to exchange the packets matching the routing filters.
The handling of the received Binding Acknowledgement message is the same as
specified in subclause 5.1.2.4. In addition, the UE handles the FID and BID
mobility options contained in the received Binding Acknowledgment message as
specified in IETF RFC 5648 [31], IETF RFC 6089 [32] and IETF RFC 6088 [33].
### 5.7.3 HA procedures
When receiving a Binding Update from the UE, the HA performs the same
procedures described in subclause 5.3.3 and in addition the HA shall validate
the Binding Update as described in IETF RFC 5648 [31], IETF RFC 6089 [32] and
IETF RFC 6088 [33].
## 5.8 UE-initiated removal of an access network from a PDN connection
### 5.8.1 General
The operations defined within this sub-clause apply to an IFOM capable UE
configured for IFOM and to HA supporting IFOM.
The removal of an access network from a PDN connection procedure is initiated
by a UE which has a PDN connection through multiple access networks. In this
procedure, the UE stops using one of the access network for the PDN
connection.
The procedure involves the exchange of a Binding Update and a Binding
Acknowledgement between the UE and the HA.
There can be two possible scenarios:
\- home link access network is removed and foreign link access network is
maintained; or
\- foreign link access network is removed and home link access network is
maintained.
### 5.8.2 UE procedures
#### 5.8.2.1 General
The removal of an access network from a PDN connection is performed by a UE
attached to multiple access networks. The UE sends a Binding Update message in
order to update the HA binding cache removing the entry corresponding to the
removed access network. If the removed access network is a home link, the UE
follows the procedure as specified in subclause 5.8.2.2. If the removed access
network is a foreign link, the UE follows the procedure as specified in
subclause 5.8.2.3.
#### 5.8.2.2 Removal of Home link access
If the UE removes the home link from a specific PDN connection, the UE shall
perform one of the following operations:
(a) the UE sends a Binding Update with the Lifetime field set to 0 as
specified in IETF RFC 5555 [2] and IETF RFC 6275 [27] and with a BID mobility
option. The UE populates the BID mobility option as follows (see IETF RFC 5648
[31]):
\- the BID identifier field is set to the BID corresponding to the access
network the UE wants to remove;
\- the H flag is set to 0; and
\- the Care-of Address field in the BID mobility option is omitted;
or:
(b) the UE sends a Binding Update message as indicated in subclause 5.1.2.4
with the following additions:
\- the Binding Update message shall be exchanged through the maintained access
network;
\- the BID identifier field is set to the value identifying the maintained
access network; and
\- the Care-of Address field in the BID mobility option is omitted.
NOTE: The choice of the operation to follow is up to UE implementation.
#### 5.8.2.3 Removal of foreign link from a PDN connection
If the UE removes an access network acting as foreign link from a specific PDN
connection and maintains the connection to the PDN through the home link, the
UE shall send a Binding Update message with the Lifetime field set to 0 as
specified in subclause 5.4.2.2.If the UE decides to close the security
association set up with the HA, the UE shall send the INFORMATIONAL request
message including a DELETE payload as specified in subclause 5.4.2.2.
### 5.8.3 HA procedures
#### 5.8.3.1 General
The following subclauses describe the detailed HA procedures for the case when
a UE is removing an access network from a PDN connection.
#### 5.8.3.2 Removal of home link access from a PDN connection
In case of removal of a home link from a PDN connection executed by the UE,
the HA shall perform the following operations:
\- if the Lifetime field of the received Binding Update is set to 0, the HA
processes the received Binding Update message as described in IETF RFC 5555
[2] and IETF RFC 6275 [27] and IETF RFC 5648 [31]; and
\- if the Lifetime field of the received Binding Update is not set to 0, the
HA shall perform the same procedures described in subclause 5.6.3.3.
#### 5.8.3.3 Removal of foreign link from a PDN connection
When the HA receives a Binding Update with the Lifetime field set to 0, the HA
shall perform the same procedures described in subclause 5.4.3.2.
## 5.9 Network-initiated removal of an access network from a PDN connection
### 5.9.1 General
The operations defined within this subclause apply to IFOM capable UE
configured for IFOM and to HA supporting IFOM.
The removal of an access network from a PDN connection procedure is initiated
by the HA for a UE that has an established PDN connection through multiple
access networks with the HA. In this procedure, the HA informs the UE that an
entry in the binding cache is no more valid over one of the access network for
the PDN connection. The UE then performs the network-initiated removal of an
access network from a PDN connection procedure.
The procedure involves the exchange of a Binding Revocation Indication (BRI)
message and a Binding Revocation Acknowledgement (BRA) between the UE and the
HA as specified in IETF RFC 5846 [19].
Once the procedure is completed, the UE uses the maintained access network for
the PDN connection.
There can be two possible scenarios:
\- home link access network is removed and foreign link access network is
maintained; or
\- foreign link access network is removed and home link access network is
maintained.
### 5.9.2 UE procedures
#### 5.9.2.1 General
The following subclauses describe the detailed UE procedures for the case when
the HA removes an access network from a PDN connection.
#### 5.9.2.2 Removal of home link access from a PDN connection
Upon receiving a BRI message with a BID option, the UE shall perform the
procedure as specified in subclause 5.4.2.1 with the following additions:
\- the UE shall process the BID mobility option as specified in IETF RFC 5846
[19];
\- the UE shall include the received BID mobility option in the BRA as
specified in IETF RFC 5846 [19]; and
\- the UE shall not close the security associations set up with the HA.
#### 5.9.2.3 Removal of foreign link from a PDN connection
Upon receiving a BRI message without a BID mobility option from the HA, the UE
shall process the BRI message as specified in subclause 5.4.2.1. If the UE
decides to close the security association set up with the HA, the UE shall
send the INFORMATIONAL request message including a DELETE payload as specified
in subclause 5.4.2.2.
### 5.9.3 HA procedures
#### 5.9.3.1 General
The following subclauses describe the detailed HA procedures for the case when
the HA removes an access network from a PDN connection.
#### 5.9.3.2 Removal of home link access from a PDN connection
In order to remove the home link access from a PDN connection, the HA shall
perform the procedure as specified in subclause 5.4.3.1 with the following
additions:
\- the HA shall include a BID mobility option of the home link access in the
BRI message sent to the UE; and
\- the HA shall only remove the home binding of the the PDN connection from
the HA binding update cache, when a BRA message with the same BID mobility
option is received.
#### 5.9.3.3 Removal of foreign link from a PDN connection
In order to remove the foreign link access network from a PDN connection, the
HA shall perform the network initiated detach procedure by sending a BRI
message without a BID mobility option as described in subclause 5.4.3.1.
If an INFORMATIONAL request message including a DELETE payload is received,
the HA shall perform the procedure as specified in subclause 5.4.3.2.
###### ## Annex A (normative): Message Details
# A.1 General
Only the message fields and the mobility options used in the DSMIPv6
procedures defined in this TS are present in this annex. Unspecified message
fields and mobility options are not used by this specification.
The IP header, the home address destination option, and type 2 routing header
option of the DSMIPv6 signalling messages are not included in this annex. They
shall be set in the message as defined in the IETF RFC 6275 [27], IETF RFC
5555 [2] and IETF RFC 5846 [19].
Only the message fields and mobility options used for normal cases in this TS
are present in this annex.
# A.2 Initial Binding Registration
## A.2.1 Binding Update
The fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding Registration
procedure are depicted in Table A.2.1-1.
The Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding
Registration procedure are depicted in Table A**.2.1-2**.
Table A.2.1-1: Fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding
Registration procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference Sequence Number Set to a monotonically
increasing value. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Lifetime Set to the requested number of
time in units of 4 seconds the binding shall remain valid. IETF RFC 6275 [27]
Home Registration (H) Set to \"1\" to indicate receiving node should act as
this node's HA IETF RFC 6275 [27] Link-local Address Compatibility (L) The
Link-Local Address Compatibility (L) bit is set when the home address reported
by the mobile node has the same interface identifier as the mobile node\'s
link-local address. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Key Management Mobility Capability (K)
Set to \"1\" to indicate IKEv2 SA ability to survive mobility IETF RFC 6275
[27] Acknowledge (A) Set to \"1\" to request an acknowledgement message. IETF
RFC 6275 [27] Force UDP encapsulation request (F) Flag Set to \"0\" to
indicate no forced UDP encapsulation IETF RFC 5555 [2] Mobile Router Flag (R)
Set to \"1\" to indicate home network prefix preservation for the UE. IETF RFC
3963 [29] Overwrite Flag (O) Set to \"1\" to indicate replacing all binding
cache entries at the HA with the entries listed in the Binding Update. IETF
RFC 5648 [31]
* * *
Table A.2.1-2: Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Initial
Binding Registration procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv4 Home Address | O | Set to the value | IE | | option | | \"0.0.0.0\" to | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | request | | | | | allocation for | | | | | the UE. The \"P\" | | | | | flag is set to | | | | | \'0\'. | | | | | | | | | | The Prefix Length | | | | | is set to the | | | | | requested prefix | | | | | length of \'32\'. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv 4 Care-of | C | Set to the IPv4 | IE | | Address | | Care-of address | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | when in an IPv4 | | | | | Access Network. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Alternate Care-of | C | Used (in addition | IETF RFC 6275 | | Address | | to the Source | [27] | | | | address of the | | | | | IPv6 packet) to | | | | | carry the IPv6 | | | | | care-of address | | | | | when in an IPv6 | | | | | access network. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | O | The BID and | IETF | | Identifier | | BID-PRI are set | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | to an arbitrary | IET | | | | value. | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | | | | | | For registration | | | | | of a home link, | | | | | the \"H\" flag is | | | | | set to \"1\" and | | | | | the value of the | | | | | CoA field is the | | | | | Home Address. | | | | | | | | | | For registration | | | | | of a foreign | | | | | link, the \"H\" | | | | | flag is set to | | | | | \"0\" and the | | | | | value of the CoA | | | | | field is the | | | | | Care-of Address. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Flow | O | The FID and | IETF | | Identification | | FID-PRI are set | RFC 6089 [32], | | mobility option | | to an arbitrary | IET | | | | value. | F RFC 6088 [33] | | | | | | | | | The Action field | | | | | is set to | | | | | indicate the | | | | | action taken by | | | | | the receiver of | | | | | the Binding | | | | | Update. | | | | | | | | | | The sub-option | | | | | field conveys the | | | | | Traffic Selector | | | | | sub-option. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Flow Summary | O | Contain one or | IET | | mobility option | | more FIDs present | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | in the binding | | | | | update list to | | | | | refresh the | | | | | respective flow | | | | | bindings. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
## A.2.2 Binding Acknowledgement
The fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding Registration
procedure are depicted in Table A.2.2-1.
The Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding
Registration procedure are depicted in Table A**.2.2-2**.
Table A.2.2-1: Fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding
Registration procedure
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fields | Fields Description | Reference | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | Set to indicate the | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | result. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Key Management | Set as per HA | IETF RFC 6275 | | Mobility Capability | ability to support | [27], | | (K) | the feature of | | | | updating the IKE SA | IETF RFC 5555 [2] | | | based on Binding | | | | Update processing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobile Router Flag | Set to \"1\" | IETF RFC 3963 [29] | | (R) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Number | Set to the value | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | received in the | | | | corresponding | | | | Binding Update. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lifetime | Set to the granted | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | number of time units | | | | of 4 seconds the | | | | binding shall remain | | | | valid. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table A.2.2-2: Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Initial
Binding Registration procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv4 Address | C | If IPv4 Home | IE | | Acknowledgment | | Address option is | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | option | | present in the | | | | | corresponding BU, | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | is set to the | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | allocated for the | | | | | UE. The | | | | | supporting Status | | | | | field is set | | | | | accordingly. | | | | | Pref-len field is | | | | | set to \"32\". | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | NAT Detection | C | When present the | IE | | Option | | option contains | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | the F Flag which | | | | | indicates to the | | | | | UE that UDP | | | | | encapsulation is | | | | | required. Option | | | | | contains an | | | | | optionally | | | | | Refresh Time for | | | | | the UE to refresh | | | | | the NAT binding. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding Refresh | O | Contains a | IETF RFC 6275 | | Advice | | Refresh Interval | [27] | | | | in units of 4 | | | | | seconds | | | | | indicating the | | | | | remaining time | | | | | until the UE | | | | | should send a new | | | | | home registration | | | | | to the HA. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | C | The option is | IETF | | Identifier | | present if the UE | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | sent a Binding | IET | | | | Identifier | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the | | | | | corresponding BU. | | | | | | | | | | The Status field | | | | | is set | | | | | accordingly. | | | | | | | | | | The BID, BID-PRI | | | | | and \"H\" flag | | | | | are set to the | | | | | value indicated | | | | | in the BID | | | | | mobility option | | | | | of the received | | | | | Binding Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Flow | C | The option is | IETF | | Identification | | present if the UE | RFC 6089 [32], | | mobility option | | sent a Flow | IET | | | | Identification | F RFC 6088 [33] | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the | | | | | corresponding BU. | | | | | | | | | | The Status field | | | | | is set | | | | | accordingly. | | | | | | | | | | The FID, FID-PRI, | | | | | Action field and | | | | | sub-option field | | | | | are set to the | | | | | value indicated | | | | | in the FID | | | | | mobility option | | | | | of the received | | | | | Binding Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
## A.2.3 Binding Error
The fields of a BE message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding Registration
procedure are depicted in Table A.2.3-1.
Table A.2.3-1: Fields of a BE message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding
Registration procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference Status Set to indicate the result. IETF
RFC 6275 [27] Home Address The home address that was contained in the Home
Address destination option IETF RFC 6275 [27]
* * *
# A.3 Re-Registration
## A.3.1 Binding Update
The fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Re-Registration procedure are
depicted in Table A.3.1-1.
The Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Re-Registration procedure
are depicted in Table A.3.1-2.
Table A.3.1-1: Fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Re-Registration
procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference Sequence Number Set to a monotonically
increasing value. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Lifetime Set to the requested number of
time units the binding shall remain valid. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Home
Registration (H) Set to \" 1\" to indicate receiving node should act as this
node's HA IETF RFC 6275 [27] Link-local Address Compatibility (L) The Link-
Local Address Compatibility (L) bit is set when the home address reported by
the mobile node has the same interface identifier as the mobile node\'s link-
local address. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Key Management Mobility Capability (K) Set
to \"1\" to indicate IKEv2 SA ability to survive mobility IETF RFC 6275 [27]
Acknowledge (A) Set to \"1\" to request an acknowledgement message. IETF RFC
6275 [27] Force UDP encapsulation request (F) Flag Set to \"0\" to indicate no
forced UDP encapsulation IETF RFC 5555 [2] Mobile Router Flag (R) Set to \"1\"
to indicate home network prefix preservation for the UE. IETF RFC 3963 [29]
Overwrite Flag (O) Set to \"0\" to maintain all binding cache entries at the
HA previously registered. IETF RFC 5648 [31]
* * *
Table A.3.1-2: Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Re-
Registration procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv4 Home Address | C | If the UE has | IE | | option | | previously | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | registered IPv4 | | | | | home address and | | | | | wants to keep it, | | | | | it is included in | | | | | the option. The | | | | | \"P\" flag is not | | | | | set. The Prefix | | | | | Length is set to | | | | | the requested | | | | | prefix length of | | | | | 32. | | | | | | | | | | If the UE has | | | | | previously | | | | | registered IPv4 | | | | | home address and | | | | | wants to release | | | | | it, it is not | | | | | included in the | | | | | BU. | | | | | | | | | | If the UE has no | | | | | IPv4 Home address | | | | | it may set the | | | | | value \"0.0.0.0\" | | | | | to request | | | | | allocation for | | | | | the UE. In this | | | | | case the \"P\" | | | | | flag is set to | | | | | \"0\". | | | | | | | | | | The Prefix Length | | | | | is set to the | | | | | requested prefix | | | | | length of 32. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv 4 Care-of | C | Set to the IPv4 | IE | | Address | | Care-of address | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | (same value as | | | | | was set in the | | | | | Initial BU) when | | | | | in an IPv4 Access | | | | | Network | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Alternate Care-of | C | Used (in addition | IETF RFC 6275 | | Address | | to the Source | [27] | | | | address of the | | | | | IPv6 packet) to | | | | | carry the IPv6 | | | | | care-of address | | | | | when in an IPv6 | | | | | access network. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | C | The option is | IETF | | Identifier | | present if the UE | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | included a | IET | | | | Binding | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | Identifier | | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the BU | | | | | previously sent | | | | | to the Home | | | | | Agent. | | | | | | | | | | The BID and | | | | | BID-PRI are set | | | | | to an arbitrary | | | | | value. | | | | | | | | | | For registration | | | | | of a home link, | | | | | the \"H\" flag is | | | | | set to \"1\" and | | | | | the value of the | | | | | CoA field is the | | | | | Home Address. | | | | | | | | | | For registration | | | | | of a foreign | | | | | link, the \"H\" | | | | | flag is set to | | | | | \"0\" and the | | | | | value of the CoA | | | | | field is the | | | | | Care-of Address. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Flow Summary | C | The option is | IET | | mobility option | | present if the UE | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | included a Flow | | | | | Summary mobility | | | | | option or at | | | | | least one Flow | | | | | Identification | | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the BU | | | | | previously sent | | | | | to the Home | | | | | Agent. | | | | | | | | | | Contain one or | | | | | more FIDs present | | | | | in the binding | | | | | update list to | | | | | refresh the | | | | | respective flow | | | | | bindings. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
## A.3.2 Binding Acknowledgement
The fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Re-Registration procedure are
depicted in Table A.3.2-1.
The Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Re-Registration procedure
are depicted in Table A.3.2-2.
Table A.3.2-1: Fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Re-Registration
procedure
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fields | Fields Description | Reference | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | Set to indicate the | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | result. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Key Management | Set as per HA | IETF RFC 6275 | | Mobility Capability | ability to support | [27], | | (K) | the feature of | | | | updating the IKE SA | IETF RFC 5555 [2] | | | based on Binding | | | | Update processing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobile Router Flag | Set to \"1\" | IETF RFC 3963 [29] | | (R) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Number | Set to the value | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | received in the | | | | corresponding | | | | Binding Update or | | | | the last accepted | | | | sequence number in | | | | the case of Status | | | | 135 (\"Sequence | | | | Number out of window | | | | \"). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lifetime | Set to the granted | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | number of time units | | | | of 4 seconds the | | | | binding shall remain | | | | valid. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table A.3.2-2: Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Re-
Registration procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv4 Address | C | If IPv4 Home | IE | | Acknowledgment | | Address option is | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | option | | present in the | | | | | corresponding BU, | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | is set to the | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | previously | | | | | allocated for the | | | | | UE or to a | | | | | dynamically | | | | | allocated value | | | | | if the UE had no | | | | | previous IPv4 | | | | | home address and | | | | | requested one at | | | | | with the BU. The | | | | | supporting Status | | | | | field is set | | | | | accordingly. | | | | | Pref-len field is | | | | | set to \"32\". | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | NAT Detection | C | When present the | IE | | Option | | option contains | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | the F Flag which | | | | | indicates to the | | | | | UE that UDP | | | | | encapsulation is | | | | | required. Option | | | | | contains an | | | | | optionally | | | | | Refresh Time for | | | | | the UE to refresh | | | | | the NAT binding. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding Refresh | O | Contains a | IETF RFC 6275 | | Advice | | Refresh Interval | [27] | | | | in units of 4 | | | | | seconds | | | | | indicating the | | | | | remaining time | | | | | until the UE | | | | | should send a new | | | | | home registration | | | | | to the HA. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | C | The option is | IETF | | Identifier | | present if the UE | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | sent a Binding | IET | | | | Identifier | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the | | | | | corresponding BU. | | | | | | | | | | The Status field | | | | | is set | | | | | accordingly. | | | | | | | | | | The BID, BID-PRI | | | | | and \"H\" flag | | | | | are set to the | | | | | value indicated | | | | | in the BID | | | | | mobility option | | | | | of the received | | | | | Binding Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Flow | O | The Status field | IETF | | Identification | | is set | RFC 6089 [32], | | mobility option | | accordingly. | IET | | | | | F RFC 6088 [33] | | | | The FID, FID-PRI, | | | | | Action field and | | | | | sub-option field | | | | | are set to the | | | | | value indicated | | | | | in the Flow | | | | | Summary mobility | | | | | option of the | | | | | received Binding | | | | | Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
# A.4 Handover
## A.4.1 Binding Update
The fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Handover procedure are depicted in
Table A.4.1-1.
The Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Handover procedure are
depicted in Table A.4.1-2.
Table A.4.1-1: Fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Handover procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference Sequence Number Set to a monotonically
increasing value. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Lifetime Set to the requested number of
time units the binding shall remain valid. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Home
Registration (H) Set to \"1\" to indicate receiving node should act as this
node's HA IETF RFC 6275 [27] Link-local Address Compatibility (L) The Link-
Local Address Compatibility (L) bit is set when the home address reported by
the mobile node has the same interface identifier as the mobile node\'s link-
local address. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Key Management Mobility Capability (K) Set
to \"1\" to indicate IKEv2 SA ability to survive mobility. IETF RFC 6275 [27]
Acknowledge (A) Set to \"1\" to request an acknowledgement message. IETF RFC
6275 [27] Force UDP encapsulation request (F) Flag Set to \"0\" to indicate no
forced UDP encapsulation IETF RFC 5555 [2] Mobile Router Flag (R) Set to \"1\"
to indicate home network prefix preservation for the UE. IETF RFC 3963 [29]
Overwrite Flag (O) Set accordingly if the BID mobility option is present in
the Binding Update. The purpose is to indicate replacing all binding cache
entries at the HA with the entries listed in the Binding Update. IETF RFC 5648
[31]
* * *
Table A.4.1-2: Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 Handover
procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv4 Home Address | C | For dynamic | IE | | option | | allocation, set | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | to the value | | | | | \"0.0.0.0 \" to | | | | | request | | | | | allocation for | | | | | the UE. In this | | | | | case the \"P \" | | | | | flag is set to | | | | | \"0\". | | | | | | | | | | The Prefix Length | | | | | is set to the | | | | | requested prefix | | | | | length of \"32\". | | | | | | | | | | If the UE already | | | | | has an IPv4 Home | | | | | Address and wants | | | | | to keep on using | | | | | it, the IPv4 home | | | | | address is set to | | | | | the previously | | | | | allocated value. | | | | | The \"P\" flag is | | | | | not set. The | | | | | Prefix Length is | | | | | set to \"32\". | | | | | | | | | | If the UE already | | | | | has an IPv4 Home | | | | | Address and wants | | | | | to release it, | | | | | the option is not | | | | | inserted in the | | | | | BU, | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv 4 Care-of | C | Set to the IPv4 | IE | | Address | | Care-of address | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | when in an IPv4 | | | | | Access Network. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Alternate Care-of | C | Used (in addition | IETF RFC 6275 | | Address | | to the Source | [27] | | | | address of the | | | | | IPv6 packet) to | | | | | carry the IPv6 | | | | | care-of address | | | | | when in an IPv6 | | | | | access network. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | C | The option is | IETF | | Identifier | | present if the UE | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | included a | IET | | | | Binding | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | Identifier | | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the BU | | | | | previously sent | | | | | to the Home | | | | | Agent. | | | | | | | | | | The BID and | | | | | BID-PRI are set | | | | | to an arbitrary | | | | | value. | | | | | | | | | | For registration | | | | | of a home link, | | | | | the \"H\" flag is | | | | | set to \"1\" and | | | | | the value of the | | | | | CoA field is the | | | | | Home Address. | | | | | | | | | | For registration | | | | | of a foreign | | | | | link, the \"H\" | | | | | flag is set to | | | | | \"0\" and the | | | | | value of the CoA | | | | | field is the | | | | | Care-of Address. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Flow Summary | C | The option is | IET | | mobility option | | present if the UE | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | included a Flow | | | | | Summary mobility | | | | | option or at | | | | | least one Flow | | | | | Identification | | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the BU | | | | | previously sent | | | | | to the Home | | | | | Agent. | | | | | | | | | | Contain one or | | | | | more FIDs present | | | | | in the binding | | | | | update list to | | | | | refresh the | | | | | respective flow | | | | | bindings. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
## A.4.2 Binding Acknowledgement
The fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Handover procedure are depicted in
Table A.4.2-1.
The Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Handover procedure are
depicted in Table A.4.2-2.
Table A.4.2-1: Fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Handover procedure
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fields | Fields Description | Reference | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | Set to indicate the | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | result. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Key Management | Set as per HA | IETF RFC 6275 | | Mobility Capability | ability to support | [27], | | (K) | the feature of | | | | updating the IKE SA | IETF RFC 5555 [2] | | | based on Binding | | | | Update processing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobile Router Flag | Set to \"1\" | IETF RFC 3963 [29] | | (R) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Number | Set to the value | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | received in the | | | | corresponding | | | | Binding Update or | | | | the last accepted | | | | sequence number in | | | | the case of Status | | | | 135 (\" Sequence | | | | Number out of | | | | window\"). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lifetime | Set to the granted | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | number of time units | | | | of 4 seconds the | | | | binding shall remain | | | | valid. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table A.4.2-2: Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Handover
procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv4 Address | C | If IPv4 Home | IE | | Acknowledgment | | Address option is | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | option | | present in the | | | | | corresponding BU, | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | is set to the | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | either newly | | | | | allocated for the | | | | | UE or previously | | | | | assigned prior to | | | | | the Handover. The | | | | | supporting Status | | | | | field is set | | | | | accordingly. The | | | | | Pref-len is set | | | | | to \"32\". | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | NAT Detection | C | When present the | IE | | Option | | option contains | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | the F Flag which | | | | | indicates to the | | | | | UE that UDP | | | | | encapsulation is | | | | | required. Option | | | | | contains an | | | | | optionally | | | | | Refresh Time for | | | | | the UE to refresh | | | | | the NAT binding. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding Refresh | O | Contains a | IETF RFC 6275 | | Advice | | Refresh Interval | [27] | | | | in units of four | | | | | seconds | | | | | indicating the | | | | | remaining time | | | | | until the UE | | | | | should send a new | | | | | home registration | | | | | to the HA. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | C | The option is | IETF | | Identifier | | present if the UE | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | sent a Binding | IET | | | | Identifier | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the | | | | | corresponding BU. | | | | | | | | | | The Status field | | | | | is set | | | | | accordingly. | | | | | | | | | | The BID, BID-PRI | | | | | and \"H\" flag | | | | | are set to the | | | | | value indicated | | | | | in the BID | | | | | mobility option | | | | | of the received | | | | | Binding Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Flow | O | The Status field | IETF | | Identification | | is set | RFC 6089 [32], | | mobility option | | accordingly. | IET | | | | | F RFC 6088 [33] | | | | The FID, FID-PRI, | | | | | Action field and | | | | | sub-option field | | | | | are set to the | | | | | value indicated | | | | | in the Flow | | | | | Summary mobility | | | | | option of the | | | | | received Binding | | | | | Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
# A.5 UE-initiated Detach
## A.5.1 Binding Update
The fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 UE-Initiated Detach are depicted in
Table A.5.1-1.
The Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 UE-Initiated Detach are
depicted in Table A**.5.1** -2.
Table A.5.1-1: Fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 UE-Initiated Detach
procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference Sequence Number Set to a monotonically
increasing value. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Lifetime Set to a value of \"0\"
indicating that the Binding Cache entry for the UE is to be deleted. IETF RFC
6275 [27] Home Registration (H) Set to \"1\" to indicate receiving node should
act as this node's HA IETF RFC 6275 [27] Link-local Address Compatibility (L)
The Link-Local Address Compatibility (L) bit is set when the home address
reported by the mobile node has the same interface identifier as the mobile
node\'s link-local address. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Key Management Mobility
Capability (K) Set to \"1\" to indicate IKEv2 SA ability to survive mobility
IETF RFC 6275 [27] Acknowledge (A) Set to \"1\" to request an acknowledgement
message. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Force UDP encapsulation request (F) Flag Set to
\"0 \" to indicate no forced UDP encapsulation IETF RFC 5555 [2]
* * *
Table A.5.1-2: Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 UE-Initiated
Detach procedure
* * *
Mobility Option Cat. Mobility Option Description Reference IPv4 Home Address
option O Set to the UE's previously registered value. The \"P\" flag is set to
zero. The Prefix Length is set to 32. IETF RFC 5555 [2] IPv 4 Care-of Address
C Set to the IPv4 Care-of address when in an IPv4 Access Network. IETF RFC
5555 [2] Alternate Care-of Address C Used (in addition to the Source address
of the IPv6 packet) to carry the IPv6 care-of address when in an IPv6 access
network. IETF RFC 6275 [27]
* * *
## A.5.2 Binding Acknowledgement
The fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding Registration
procedure are depicted in Table A.5.2-1.
The Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 Initial Binding
Registration procedure are depicted in Table A**.5.2** -2.
Table A.5.2-1: Fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 UE-Initiated Detach
procedure
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fields | Fields Description | Reference | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | Set to indicate the | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | result. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Key Management | Set as per HA | IETF RFC 6275 | | Mobility Capability | ability to support | [27], | | (K) | the feature of | | | | updating the IKE SA | IETF RFC 5555 [2] | | | based on Binding | | | | Update processing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Number | Set to the value | **IETF RFC 6275 | | | received in the | [27]** | | | corresponding | | | | Binding Update or | | | | the last accepted | | | | sequence number in | | | | the case of Status | | | | 135 (\"Sequence | | | | Number out of | | | | window\"). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lifetime | Set to \"0\". | **IETF RFC 6275 | | | | [27]** | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table A.5.2-2: Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 UE-Initiated
Detach procedure
* * *
Mobility Option Cat. Mobility Option Description Reference IPv4Address
Acknowledgment option C If present in the BU the IPv4 Home Address is set to
the IPv4 Home Address that is now de-registered. The pref-len is set to \"32\"
and the supporting Status field is set accordingly. IETF RFC 5555 [2]
* * *
# A.6 Network-initiated detach
## A.6.1 Binding Revocation Indication Message
The fields of a Binding Revocation Indication message for the Network-
Initiated Detach are depicted in table A.6.1-1.
Table A.6.1-1: Fields of a BRI message for the Network-Initiated Detach
procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference B.R. Type Set to \"1\" to indicate B.R.I.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] Sequence Number Set to a monotonically increasing value and
is used to match with the returned Binding Revocation Acknowledge IETF RFC
5846 [19] Revocation Trigger Set to \"1\" IETF RFC 5846 [19] Proxy Binding (P)
Set to \"0\" IETF RFC 5846 [19] Global (G) Set to \"0\" IETF RFC 5846 [19]
IPv4 HoA Binding Only (V) Set to \"0\" IETF RFC 5846 [19]
* * *
## A.6.2 Binding Revocation Acknowledgement
The fields of a BRA message for the Network-Initiated Detach procedure are
depicted in Table A.6.2-1.
Table A.6.2-1: Fields of a BRA message for the Network-Initiated Detach
procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference B.R. Type Set to \"2\" to indicate B.R.A.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] Sequence Number Set to the value received in the
corresponding BRI. IETF RFC 5846 [19] Status Indicates the result of the BRI.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] Proxy Registration Flag (P) Set to \"0\" to indicate that
the Binding Revocation Acknowledgment is NOT for a proxy MIPv6 binding entry.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] Global (G) Set to \"0\"; the same value as for the BRI.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] IPv4 HoA Binding Only (V) Set to \"0\" IETF RFC 5846 [19]
* * *
# A.7 Void
# A.8 Attach to an additional access network
## A.8.1 Binding Update
The DSMIPv6 attach to additional access network procedure is described in
subclause 5.5 and the fields of a BU message used for this procedure are
depicted in table A.8.1-1.
The DSMIPv6 attach to additional access network procedure is described in
subclause 5.5 and the Mobility Options in a BU message used for this procedure
are depicted in table A**.8.1-2**.
Table A.8.1-1: Fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 attach to an additional
access network procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference Sequence Number Set to a monotonically
increasing value. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Lifetime Set to the requested number of
time in units of 4 seconds to indicate how long the binding will remain valid.
IETF RFC 6275 [27] Home Registration (H) Set to \"1\" to indicate receiving
node can act as this node's HA IETF RFC 6275 [27] Link-local Address
Compatibility (L) The Link-Local Address Compatibility (L) bit is set when the
home address reported by the mobile node has the same interface identifier as
the mobile node\'s link-local address. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Key Management
Mobility Capability (K) Set to \"1\" to indicate IKEv2 SA ability to survive
mobility IETF RFC 6275 [27] Acknowledge (A) Set to \"1\" to request an
acknowledgement message. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Force UDP encapsulation request
(F) Flag Set to \"0\" to indicate no forced UDP encapsulation IETF RFC 5555
[2] Mobile Router Flag (R) Set to \"1\" to indicate home network prefix
preservation for the UE. IETF RFC 3963 [29] Overwrite Flag (O) If the UE
attaches to a foreign link, set to \"1\" to indicate first registration IETF
RFC 5648 [31] If the UE attaches to the home link, set to \"0\" to maintain
all binding cache entries at the HA previously registered.
* * *
Table A.8.1-2: Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 attach to an
additional access network procedure
* * *
Mobility Option Cat. Mobility Option Description Reference IPv4 Home Address
option O Set to the value \"0.0.0.0\" to request allocation of an IPv4 Home
Address for the UE. IETF RFC 5555 [2] The \"P\" flag is set to \'0\'.  
The Prefix Length is set to the requested prefix length of \'32\'.  
Binding Identifier mobility option O The BID and BID-PRI are set to an
arbitrary value. IETF RFC 5648 [31], IETF RFC 6089 [32] For registration of a
home link, the \"H\" flag is set to \"1\" and the value of the CoA field is
the Home Address.  
For registration of a foreign link, the \"H\" flag is set to \"0\" and the
value of the CoA field is the Care-of Address.  
Flow Identification mobility option O The FID and FID-PRI are set to an
arbitrary value. IETF RFC 6089 [32], IETF RFC 6088 [33] The sub-option field
conveys the Traffic Selector sub-option.  
Flow Summary mobility option O Contain one or more FIDs present in the binding
update list to refresh the respective flow bindings. IETF RFC 6089 [32]
* * *
## A.8.2 Binding Acknowledgement
The DSMIPv6 attach to additional access network procedure is described in
subclause 5.5 and the fields of a BA message used for this procedure are
depicted in table A.8.2-1.
The DSMIPv6 attach to additional access network procedure is described in
subclause 5.5 and the Mobility Options in a BA message used for this procedure
are depicted in table A**.8.2-2**.
Table A.8.2-1: Fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 attach to an additional
access network procedure
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fields | Fields Description | Reference | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | Set to indicate the | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | result. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Key Management | Set as per HA | IETF RFC 6275 | | Mobility Capability | ability to support | [27], | | (K) | the feature of | | | | updating the IKE SA | IETF RFC 5555 [2] | | | based on Binding | | | | Update processing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobile Router Flag | Set to \"1\" | IETF RFC 3963 [29] | | (R) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Number | Set to the value | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | received in the | | | | corresponding | | | | Binding Update. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lifetime | Set to the granted | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | number of time units | | | | of 4 seconds to | | | | indicate how long | | | | the binding will | | | | remain valid. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table A.8.2-2: Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 attach to an
additional access network procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv4 Address | C | If IPv4 Home | IE | | Acknowledgment | | Address option is | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | option | | present in the | | | | | corresponding BU, | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | is set to the | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | allocated for the | | | | | UE. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | | The supporting | | | | | Status field is | | | | | set accordingly. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | | Pref-len field is | | | | | set to \"32\". | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | NAT Detection | C | When present the | IE | | Option | | option contains | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | the F Flag which | | | | | indicates to the | | | | | UE that UDP | | | | | encapsulation is | | | | | required. Option | | | | | contains an | | | | | optionally | | | | | Refresh Time for | | | | | the UE to refresh | | | | | the NAT binding. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding Refresh | O | Contains a | IETF RFC 6275 | | Advice | | Refresh Interval | [27] | | | | in units of 4 | | | | | seconds | | | | | indicating the | | | | | remaining time | | | | | until the UE | | | | | could send a new | | | | | home registration | | | | | to the HA. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | C | The option is | IETF | | Identifier | | present if the UE | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | sent a Binding | IET | | | | Identifier | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the | | | | | corresponding BU. | | | | | | | | | | The Status field | | | | | is set | | | | | accordingly. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | | The BID and | | | | | BID-PRI are set | | | | | to the value | | | | | indicated in the | | | | | BID mobility | | | | | option of the | | | | | received Binding | | | | | Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Flow | C | The option is | IETF | | Identification | | present if the UE | RFC 6089 [32], | | mobility option | | sent a Flow | IET | | | | Identification | F RFC 6088 [33] | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the | | | | | corresponding BU. | | | | | | | | | | The Status field | | | | | is set | | | | | accordingly. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | | The FID, FID-PRI | | | | | and sub-option | | | | | field are set to | | | | | the value | | | | | indicated in the | | | | | FID mobility | | | | | option of the | | | | | received Binding | | | | | Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
# A.9 Inter-access flow mobility
## A.9.1 Binding Update
The DSMIPv6 inter-access flow mobility procedure is described in subclause 5.5
and the fields of a BU message used for this procedure are depicted in table
A.9.1-1.
The DSMIPv6 inter-access flow mobility procedure is described in subclause 5.5
and the Mobility Options in a BU message used for this procedure are depicted
in table A**.9.1-2**.
Table A.9.1-1: Fields of a BU message for the DSMIPv6 inter-access flow
mobility procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference Sequence Number Set to a monotonically
increasing value. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Lifetime Set to the requested number of
time in units of 4 seconds to indicate how long the binding will remain valid.
IETF RFC 6275 [27] Home Registration (H) Set to \"1\" to indicate receiving
node can act as this node's HA IETF RFC 6275 [27] Link-local Address
Compatibility (L) The Link-Local Address Compatibility (L) bit is set when the
home address reported by the mobile node has the same interface identifier as
the mobile node\'s link-local address. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Key Management
Mobility Capability (K) Set to \"1\" to indicate IKEv2 SA ability to survive
mobility IETF RFC 6275 [27] Acknowledge (A) Set to \"1\" to request an
acknowledgement message. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Force UDP encapsulation request
(F) Flag Set to \"0\" to indicate no forced UDP encapsulation IETF RFC 5555
[2] Mobile Router Flag (R) Set to \"1\" to indicate home network prefix
preservation for the UE. IETF RFC 3963 [29] Overwrite Flag (O) Set to \"0\" to
indicate not replacing all binding cache entries at the HA with the entries
listed in the Binding Update IETF RFC 5648 [31]
* * *
Table A.9.1-2: Mobility Options in a BU message for the DSMIPv6 inter-access
flow mobility procedure
* * *
Mobility Option Cat. Mobility Option Description Reference IPv4 Home Address
option O For dynamic allocation, set to the value \"0.0.0.0\" to request
allocation for the UE. IETF RFC 5555 [2] If the UE already has an IPv4 Home
Address and wants to keep on using it, the IPv4 home address is set to the
previously allocated value.  
If the UE already has an IPv4 Home Address and wants to release it, the option
is not inserted in the BU.  
If the UE request allocation of IPv4 Home Address, the \"P\" flag is set to
\'0\'.  
If the UE already has an IPv4 Home Address and wants to keep on using it, the
\"P\" flag is not set.  
The Prefix Length is set to the requested prefix length of \'32\'.  
Binding Identifier mobility option O The BID is set to the value identifying
the routing address used as Source IP Address of the Binding Update. IETF RFC
5648 [31], IETF RFC 6089 [32] The BID-PRI is set to the value assigned to the
BID.  
If the Binding Update message is sent on a home link, the \"H\" flag is set to
\"1\".  
If the Binding Update message is sent on a foreign link, the \"H\" flag is set
to \"0\".  
If the routing address used as IP Source Address of the Binding Update message
is an IPv4 address, a NAT was detected and the UE is not exchanging data
traffic, the Care-of Address field is set to the routing address.  
Flow Identification mobility option O For creating routing rules, the FID and
FID-PRI are set to an arbitrary value. IETF RFC 6089 [32], IETF RFC 6088 [33]
For modifying routing rules, the FID and FID-PRI are set to the value
identifying the routing filter the UE wants to modify.  
The sub-option field conveys the Traffic Selector sub-option.  
Flow Summary mobility option O Contain one or more FIDs present in the binding
update list to refresh the respective flow bindings. IETF RFC 6089 [32]
* * *
## A.9.2 Binding Acknowledgement
The DSMIPv6 inter-access flow mobility procedure is described in subclause 5.5
and the fields of a BA message used for this procedure are depicted in table
A.9.2-1.
The DSMIPv6 inter-access flow mobility procedure is described in subclause 5.5
and the Mobility Options in a BA message used for this procedure are depicted
in table A**.9.2-2**.
Table A.9.2-1: Fields of a BA message for the DSMIPv6 inter-access flow
mobility procedure
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fields | Fields Description | Reference | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | Set to indicate the | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | result. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Key Management | Set as per HA | IETF RFC 6275 | | Mobility Capability | ability to support | [27], | | (K) | the feature of | | | | updating the IKE SA | IETF RFC 5555 [2] | | | based on Binding | | | | Update processing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobile Router Flag | Set to \"1\" | IETF RFC 3963 [29] | | (R) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Number | Set to the value | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | received in the | | | | corresponding | | | | Binding Update. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lifetime | Set to the granted | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | number of time units | | | | of 4 seconds to | | | | indicate how long | | | | the binding will | | | | remain valid. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table A.9.2-2: Mobility Options in a BA message for the DSMIPv6 inter-access
flow mobility procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | IPv4 Address | C | If IPv4 Home | IE | | Acknowledgment | | Address option is | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | option | | present in the | | | | | corresponding BU, | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | is set to the | | | | | IPv4 Home Address | | | | | either newly | | | | | allocated for the | | | | | UE or previously | | | | | assigned prior to | | | | | the Handover. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | | The supporting | | | | | Status field is | | | | | set accordingly. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | | Pref-len field is | | | | | set to \"32\". | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | NAT Detection | C | When present the | IE | | Option | | option contains | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | the F Flag which | | | | | indicates to the | | | | | UE that UDP | | | | | encapsulation is | | | | | required. Option | | | | | contains an | | | | | optionally | | | | | Refresh Time for | | | | | the UE to refresh | | | | | the NAT binding. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding Refresh | O | Contains a | IETF RFC 6275 | | Advice | | Refresh Interval | [27] | | | | in units of 4 | | | | | seconds | | | | | indicating the | | | | | remaining time | | | | | until the UE | | | | | could send a new | | | | | home registration | | | | | to the HA. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | C | The option is | IETF | | Identifier | | present if the UE | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | sent a Binding | IET | | | | Identifier | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the | | | | | corresponding BU. | | | | | | | | | | The Status field | | | | | is set | | | | | accordingly. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | | The BID and | | | | | BID-PRI are set | | | | | to the value | | | | | indicated in the | | | | | BID mobility | | | | | option of the | | | | | received Binding | | | | | Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Flow | C | The option is | IETF | | Identification | | present if the UE | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | sent a Flow | IET | | | | Identification | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the | | | | | corresponding BU. | | | | | | | | | | The Status field | | | | | is set | | | | | accordingly. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | | The FID, FID-PRI | | | | | and sub-option | | | | | field are set to | | | | | the value | | | | | indicated in the | | | | | FID mobility | | | | | option of the | | | | | received Binding | | | | | Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
# A.10 UE-initiated removal of an access network from a PDN connection
## A.10.1 Binding Update
The UE-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN connection
procedure is described in subclause 5.8 and the fields of a BU message used
for this procedure are depicted in table A.10.1-1.
The UE-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN connection
procedure is described in subclause 5.8 and the Mobility Options in a BU
message used for this procedure are depicted in table A**.10.1-2**.
Table A.10.1-1: Fields of a BU message for the UE-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of
an access network from a PDN connection procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference Sequence Number Set to a monotonically
increasing value. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Lifetime If the Binding Update is to de-
register binding of the access network, the Lifetime is set to a value of
\"0\". IETF RFC 6275 [27] If the Binding Update is to register the maintained
access network, the Lifetime is set to the requested number of time in units
of 4 seconds to indicate how long the binding will remain valid.  
Home Registration (H) Set to \"1\" to indicate receiving node can act as this
node's HA IETF RFC 6275 [27] Link-local Address Compatibility (L) The Link-
Local Address Compatibility (L) bit is set when the home address reported by
the mobile node has the same interface identifier as the mobile node\'s link-
local address. IETF RFC 6275 [27] Key Management Mobility Capability (K) Set
to \"1\" to indicate IKEv2 SA ability to survive mobility IETF RFC 6275 [27]
Acknowledge (A) Set to \"1\" to request an acknowledgement message. IETF RFC
6275 [27] Force UDP encapsulation request (F) Flag Set to \"0\" to indicate no
forced UDP encapsulation IETF RFC 5555 [2] Mobile Router Flag (R) If the
Binding Update is to register the maintained access network, the Mobile Router
Flag (R) is set to \"1\" to indicate home network prefix preservation for the
UE. IETF RFC 3963 [29] Overwrite Flag (O) Set to any value if the lifetime
field of the Binding Update is set to 0 IETF RFC 5648 [31] Set to \"1\" if the
lifetime field of the Binding Update is set to any value different from 0
* * *
Table A.10.1-2: Mobility Options in a BU message for the UE-initiated DSMIPv6
removal of an access network from a PDN connection procedure
* * *
Mobility Option Cat. Mobility Option Description Reference Binding Identifier
mobility option O For a Binding Update with Lifetime set to \"0\", the BID and
BID-PRI are set to the corresponding entry that the UE wants to remove. IETF
RFC 5648 [31], IETF RFC 6089 [32] For a Binding Update with Lifetime not set
to \"0\", the BID and BID-PRI are set to the corresponding entry that the UE
wants to maintain.
* * *
## A.10.2 Binding Acknowledgement
The UE-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN connection
procedure is described in subclause 5.8 and the fields of a BA message used
for this procedure are depicted in table A.10.2-1.
The UE-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN connection
procedure is described in subclause 5.8 and the Mobility Options in a BA
message used for this procedure are depicted in table A**.10.2-2**.
Table A.10.2-1: Fields of a BA message for the UE-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of
an access network from a PDN connection procedure
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Fields | Fields Description | Reference | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Status | Set to indicate the | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | result. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Key Management | Set as per HA | IETF RFC 6275 | | Mobility Capability | ability to support | [27], | | (K) | the feature of | | | | updating the IKE SA | IETF RFC 5555 [2] | | | based on Binding | | | | Update processing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Mobile Router Flag | If the Binding | **IE | | (R) | Update is to | TF RFC 3963 [29]** | | | register the | | | | maintained access | | | | network, the Mobile | | | | Router Flag (R) is | | | | set to \"1\" | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sequence Number | Set to the value | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | received in the | | | | corresponding | | | | Binding Update or | | | | the last accepted | | | | sequence number in | | | | the case of Status | | | | 135 (\"Sequence | | | | Number out of | | | | window\"). | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Lifetime | If the Binding | IETF RFC 6275 [27] | | | Update is to | | | | de-register binding | | | | of the access | | | | network, the | | | | Lifetime is set to a | | | | value of \"0\". | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | If the Binding | | | | Update is to | | | | register the | | | | maintained access | | | | network, the | | | | Lifetime is set to | | | | the granted number | | | | of time in units of | | | | 4 seconds to | | | | indicate how long | | | | the binding will | | | | remain valid. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table A.10.2-2: Mobility Options in a BA message for the UE-initiated DSMIPv6
removal of an access network from a PDN connection procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | NAT Detection | C | When present the | IE | | Option | | option contains | TF RFC 5555 [2] | | | | the F Flag which | | | | | indicates to the | | | | | UE that UDP | | | | | encapsulation is | | | | | required. Option | | | | | contains an | | | | | optionally | | | | | Refresh Time for | | | | | the UE to refresh | | | | | the NAT binding. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding Refresh | O | Contains a | IETF RFC 6275 | | Advice | | Refresh Interval | [27] | | | | in units of 4 | | | | | seconds | | | | | indicating the | | | | | remaining time | | | | | until the UE | | | | | could send a new | | | | | home registration | | | | | to the HA. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | C | The option is | IETF | | Identifier | | present if the UE | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | sent a Binding | IET | | | | Identifier | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | mobility option | | | | | in the | | | | | corresponding BU. | | | | | | | | | | The Status field | | | | | is set | | | | | accordingly. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | | | For a Binding | | | | | Update with | | | | | Lifetime not set | | | | | to \"0\", the BID | | | | | and BID-PRI are | | | | | set to the value | | | | | indicated in the | | | | | BID mobility | | | | | option of the | | | | | received Binding | | | | | Update. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
# A.11 Network-initiated removal of an access network from a PDN connection
## A.11.1 Binding Revocation Indication Message
The network-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN
connection procedure is described in subclause 5.9 and the fields of a BRI
message used for this procedure are depicted in table A.11.1-1.
The network-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN
connection procedure is described in subclause 5.9 and the Mobility Options in
a BRI message used for this procedure are depicted in table A**.11.1-2**.
Table A.11.1-1: Fields of a BRI message for the network-initiated DSMIPv6
removal of an access network from a PDN connection procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference B.R. Type Set to \"1\" to indicate BRI.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] Sequence Number Set to a monotonically increasing value and
is used to match with the returned Binding Revocation Acknowledge IETF RFC
5846 [19] Revocation Trigger Set to \"1\" IETF RFC 5846 [19] Proxy Binding (P)
Set to \"0\" IETF RFC 5846 [19] Global (G) Set to \"0\" IETF RFC 5846 [19]
IPv4 HoA Binding Only (V) Set to \"0\" IETF RFC 5846 [19]
* * *
Table A.11.1-2: Mobility Options in a BRI message for the network-initiated
DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN connection procedure
* * *
Mobility Option Cat. Mobility Option Description Reference Binding Identifier
mobility option O The BID and BID-PRI are set to the corresponding entry that
the UE wants to remove. IETF RFC 5648 [31], IETF RFC 6089 [32]
* * *
## A.11.2 Binding Revocation Acknowledgement
The network-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN
connection procedure is described in subclause 5.9 and the fields of a BRA
message used for this procedure are depicted in table A.11.2-1.
The network-initiated DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN
connection procedure is described in subclause 5.9 and the Mobility Options in
a BRA message used for this procedure are depicted in table A**.11.2-2**.
Table A.11.2-1: Fields of a BRA message for the network-initiated DSMIPv6
removal of an access network from a PDN connection procedure
* * *
Fields Fields Description Reference B.R. Type Set to \"2\" to indicate BRA.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] Sequence Number Set to the value received in the
corresponding BRI. IETF RFC 5846 [19] Status Indicates the result of the BRI.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] Proxy Registration Flag (P) Set to \"0\" to indicate that
the Binding Revocation Acknowledgment is NOT for a proxy MIPv6 binding entry.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] Global (G) Set to \"0\"; the same value as for the BRI.
IETF RFC 5846 [19] IPv4 HoA Binding Only (V) Set to \"0\" IETF RFC 5846 [19]
* * *
Table A.11.2-2: Mobility Options in a BRA message for the network-initiated
DSMIPv6 removal of an access network from a PDN connection procedure
+-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Mobility Option | Cat. | Mobility Option | Reference | | | | Description | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+ | Binding | C | This option may | IETF | | Identifier | | be included to | RFC 5648 [31], | | mobility option | | indicate the | IET | | | | specific BID that | F RFC 6089 [32] | | | | failded the | | | | | revocation | | | | | procedure. | | | | | | | | | | The BID and | | | | | BID-PRI are set | | | | | to the value | | | | | indicated in the | | | | | BID mobility | | | | | option of the | | | | | received Binding | | | | | Revocation | | | | | Indication. | | +-------------------+------+-------------------+-------------------+
###### ## Annex B (normative): Extensions specific to the present document
## B.1 PDN Identifier notify payload
The format of the PDN Identifier notify payload is shown in figure B-1-1.
The PDN Identifier notify payload type is 40960. The length of the PDN
Identifier notify payload is 21 octets. The IPv6 Home Network Prefix contains
the IPv6 prefix of a PDN connection. The Prefix Length field indicates the
length of the prefix contained in IPv6 Home Network Prefix field.
The other fields are defined by IETF RFC 5996 [14].
* * *
Bits  
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Octets Protocol ID 1  
SPI Size 2  
Notify Message Type 3-4  
IPv6 Home Network Prefix 5 -- 20  
Prefix Length 21
* * *
Figure B.1-1: PDN Identifier notify payload format
NOTE: As the notify payload notifies information relating an IKE_SA, SPI Size
field is set to 0 and there is no Security Parameter Index field.
## B.2 IFOM Capability notify payload
The format of the IFOM Capability notify payload is shown in figure B.2-1.
The IFOM Capability notify payload type is 16428. The length of the IFOM
Capability notify payload is 4 octets. The IFOM Capability notify payload is
used to indicate the IFOM capability.
The other fields are defined by IETF RFC 5996 [14].
* * *
**Bits**  
**7** **6** **5** **4** **3** **2** **1** **0** **Octets** Protocol ID 1  
SPI Size 2  
Notify Message Type 3-4
* * *
**Figure B.2-1: IFOM Capability notify payload format**
NOTE: As the notify payload notifies information relating to an IKE_SA, SPI
Size field is set to 0 and there is no Security Parameter Index field.
#