# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the stage 2 of the UE Positioning function of
E-UTRAN, which provides the mechanisms to support or assist the calculation of
the geographical position of a UE. UE position knowledge can be used, for
example, in support of Radio Resource Management functions, as well as
location-based services for operators, subscribers, and third-party service
providers. The purpose of this stage 2 specification is to define the E-UTRAN
UE Positioning architecture, functional entities and operations to support
positioning methods. This description is confined to the E-UTRAN Access
Stratum. It does not define or describe how the results of the UE position
calculation can be utilised in the Core Network (e.g., LCS) or in E-UTRAN
(e.g., RRM).
UE Positioning may be considered as a network-provided enabling technology
consisting of standardised service capabilities that enable the provision of
location applications. The application(s) may be service provider specific.
The description of the numerous and varied possible location applications
which are enabled by this technology is outside the scope of the present
document. However, clarifying examples of how the functionality being
described may be used to provide specific location services may be included.
This stage 2 specification covers the E-UTRAN positioning methods, state
descriptions, and message flows to support UE Positioning.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.271: \"Functional stage 2 description of Location Services
(LCS)\"
[3] 3GPP TS 22.071: \"Location Services (LCS); Service description, Stage 1\".
[4] 3GPP TS 23.032: \"Universal Geographical Area Description (GAD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.306: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
\"User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities\".
[6] IS-GPS-200, Revision D, Navstar GPS Space Segment/Navigation User
Interfaces, March 7^th^, 2006.
[7] IS-GPS-705, Navstar GPS Space Segment/User Segment L5 Interfaces,
September 22, 2005.
[8] IS-GPS-800, Navstar GPS Space Segment/User Segment L1C Interfaces,
September 4, 2008.
[9] Galileo OS Signal in Space ICD (OS SIS ICD), Draft 0, Galileo Joint
Undertaking, May 23^rd^, 2006.
[10] Global Navigation Satellite System GLONASS Interface Control Document,
Version 5, 2002.
[11] IS-QZSS, Quasi Zenith Satellite System Navigation Service Interface
Specifications for QZSS, Ver.1.0, June 17, 2008.
[12] Specification for the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), US Department
of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, DTFA01-96-C-00025, 2001.
[13] RTCM 10402.3, RTCM Recommended Standards for Differential GNSS Service
(v.2.3), August 20, 2001.
[14] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
\"Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\".
[15] 3GPP TS 25.331: \" Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
Specification\".
[16] 3GPP TS 44.031: \"Location Services (LCS); Mobile Station (MS) - Serving
Mobile Location Centre (SMLC) Radio Resource LCS Protocol (RRLP)\".
[17] OMA-AD-SUPL-V2_0: \"Secure User Plane Location Architecture Draft Version
2.0\".
[18] OMA-TS-ULP-V2_0: \"UserPlane Location Protocol Draft Version 2.0\".
[19] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access\".
[20] 3GPP TS 36.214: \" Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
\" Physical layer -- Measurements\".
[21] 3GPP TS 36.302: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
\"Services provided by the physical layer \".
[22] 3GPP TS 25.305: "Stage 2 functional specification of User Equipment (UE)
positioning in UTRAN"
[23] 3GPP TS 43.059: "Functional stage 2 description of Location Services in
GERAN"
[24] 3GPP TR 23.891: Evaluation of LCS Control Plane Solutions for EPS
[25] 3GPP TS 36.355: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)\"
[26] 3GPP TS 24.171: Control Plane Location Services (LCS) procedures in the
Evolved Packet System (EPS)
[27] 3GPP TS 29.171: \"Location Services (LCS); LCS Application Protocol (LCS-
AP) between the Mobile Management Entity (MME) and Evolved Serving Mobile
Location Centre (E-SMLC); SLs interface\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
[1] apply.
As used in this document, the suffixes "-based" and "-assisted" refer
respectively to the node that is responsible for making the positioning
calculation (and which may also provide measurements) and a node that provides
measurements (but which does not make the positioning calculation). Thus, an
operation in which measurements are provided by the UE to the E-SMLC to be
used in the computation of a position estimate is described as "UE-assisted"
(and could also be called "E-SMLC-based"), while one in which the UE computes
its own position is described as "UE-based".
Both standalone LMU and LMU integrated into an eNB are supported. As used in
this document, LMU refers to both cases of a standalone LMU and an LMU
integrated into an eNodeB unless explicitly mentioned otherwise.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply.
AoA Angle of Arrival
CID Cell-ID (positioning method)
E-SMLC Enhanced Serving Mobile Location Centre
E-CID Enhanced Cell-ID (positioning method)
ECEF Earth-Centered, Earth-Fixed
ECI Earth-Centered-Inertial
EGNOS European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
GAGAN GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation
GLONASS GLObal\'naya NAvigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema (Engl.: Global
Navigation Satellite System)
GMLC Gateway Mobile Location Center
GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System
GPS Global Positioning System
LCS LoCation Services
LCS-AP LCS Application Protocol
LMU Location Measurement Unit
LPP LTE Positioning Protocol
LPPa LTE Positioning Protocol Annex
MO-LR Mobile Originated Location Request
MT-LR Mobile Terminated Location Request
NI-LR Network Induced Location Request
PDU Protocol Data Unit
PRS Positioning Reference Signal
QZSS Quasi-Zenith Satellite System
RRM Radio Resource Management
SBAS Space Based Augmentation System
SET SUPL Enabled Terminal
SLP SUPL Location Platform
SUPL Secure User Plane Location
T~ADV~ Timing Advance
UE User Equipment
UTDOA Uplink Time Difference of Arrival
WAAS Wide Area Augmentation System
WGS-84 World Geodetic System 1984
# 4 Main concepts and requirements
## 4.1 Assumptions and Generalities
The stage 1 description of LCS at the service level is provided in [3]; the
stage 2 LCS functional description, including the LCS system architecture and
message flows, is provided in [2].
Positioning functionality provides a means to determine the geographic
position and/or velocity of the UE based on measuring radio signals. The
position information may be requested by and reported to a client (e.g., an
application) associated with the UE, or by a client within or attached to the
core network. The position information shall be reported in standard formats,
such as those for cell-based or geographical co-ordinates, together with the
estimated errors (uncertainty) of the position and velocity of the UE and, if
available, the positioning method (or the list of the methods) used to obtain
the position estimate.
Restrictions on the geographic shape encoded within the \'position
information\' parameter may exist for certain LCS client types. The EPS,
including E-UTRAN, shall comply with any shape restrictions defined in LTE
and, in a particular country, with any shape restrictions defined for a
specific LCS client type in relevant national standards. For example, in the
US, national standard J-STD-036-B restricts the geographic shape for an
emergency services LCS client to minimally either an \"ellipsoid point\" or an
\"ellipsoid point with uncertainty circle and confidence\" as defined in [4].
It shall be possible for the majority of the UEs (active or inactive) within a
network to use the LCS feature without compromising the radio transmission or
signalling capabilities of the E-UTRAN.
The uncertainty of the position measurement shall be network-implementation-
dependent, at the choice of the network operator. The uncertainty may vary
between networks as well as from one area within a network to another. The
uncertainty may be hundreds of metres in some areas and only a few metres in
others. In the event that a particular position measurement is provided
through a UE-assisted process, the uncertainty may also depend on the
capabilities of the UE. In some jurisdictions, there is a regulatory
requirement for location service accuracy that is part of an emergency
service. Further details of the accuracy requirements can be found in [3].
The uncertainty of the position information is dependent on the method used,
the position of the UE within the coverage area and the activity of the UE.
Several design options of the E-UTRAN system (e.g., size of cell, adaptive
antenna technique, pathloss estimation, timing accuracy, eNode B surveys)
shall allow the network operator to choose a suitable and cost-effective UE
positioning method for their market.
There are many different possible uses for the positioning information. The
positioning functions may be used internally by the EPS, by value-added
network services, by the UE itself or through the network, and by \"third
party\" services. The feature may also be used by an emergency service (which
may be mandated or \"value-added\"), but the location service is not
exclusively for emergencies.
The E-UTRAN is a new radio system design without a pre-existing deployment of
"legacy" UEs operating according to the radio interface. This freedom from
legacy equipment enables the location service feature design to make use of
appropriate techniques to provide the most accurate results. The technique
must also be a cost-effective total solution, must allow evolution to meet
evolving service requirements, and must be able to take advantage of advances
in technology over the lifetime of E-UTRAN deployments.
Design of the E-UTRAN positioning capability as documented in this
specification includes position methods, protocols and procedures that are
either adapted from capabilities already supported for UTRAN and GERAN, or
created separately from first principles. The proportion of the latter is
higher than if the UTRAN and GERAN capabilities had been designed to provide
forward compatibility to other access types. In contrast to GERAN and UTRAN,
the E-UTRAN positioning capabilities are intended to be forward compatible to
other access types and other position methods, in an effort to reduce the
amount of additional positioning support needed in the future. This goal also
extends to user plane location solutions such as OMA SUPL ([17], [18]), for
which E-UTRAN positioning capabilities are intended to be compatible where
appropriate.
As a basis for the operation of UE Positioning in E-UTRAN, the following
assumptions apply:
\- both TDD and FDD will be supported;
> \- the provision of the UE Positioning function in E-UTRAN and EPC is
> optional through support of the specified method(s) in the eNode B and the
> E-SMLC;
\- UE Positioning is applicable to any target UE, whether or not the UE
supports LCS, but with restrictions on the use of certain positioning methods
depending on UE capability (as defined within the LPP protocol);
\- the positioning information may be used for internal system operations to
improve system performance;
\- the UE Positioning architecture and functions shall include the option to
accommodate several techniques of measurement and processing to ensure
evolution to follow changing service requirements and to take advantage of
advancing technology;
\- LMU aspects are left for implementation and are not standardized in this
release.
## 4.2 Role of UE Positioning Methods
The E-UTRAN may utilise one or more positioning methods in order to determine
the position of an UE.
Positioning the UE involves two main steps:
\- signal measurements; and
\- Position estimate and optional velocity computation based on the
measurements.
The signal measurements may be made by the UE or the eNode B. The basic
signals measured for terrestrial position methods are typically the E-UTRA
radio transmissions; however, other methods may make use of other
transmissions such as general radio navigation signals including those from
Global Navigation Satellites Systems (GNSSs).
The positioning function should not be limited to a single method or
measurement. That is, it should be capable of utilising other standard methods
and measurements, as such methods and measurements are available and
appropriate, to meet the required service needs of the location service
client. This additional information could consist of readily available E-UTRAN
measurements.
The position estimate computation may be made by the UE or by the E-SMLC.
## 4.3 Standard UE Positioning Methods
The standard positioning methods supported for E-UTRAN access are:
\- network-assisted GNSS methods;
\- downlink positioning;
\- enhanced cell ID method;
\- uplink positioning.
Hybrid positioning using multiple methods from the list of positioning methods
above is also supported.
These positioning methods may be supported in UE-based, UE-assisted/E-SMLC-
based, eNB-assisted, and LMU-assisted/E-SMLC-based versions. Table 4.3-1
indicates which of these versions are supported in this version of the
specification for the standardised positioning methods.
Table 4.3‑1: Supported versions of UE positioning methods
* * *
Method UE-based UE-assisted, E-SMLC-based eNB- assisted LMU-assisted/ E-SMLC-
based SUPL A-GNSS Yes Yes No No Yes (UE-based and UE-assisted Downlink No Yes
No No Yes (UE-assisted) E-CID No Yes Yes No Yes (UE-assisted) Uplink No No No
Yes No
* * *
### 4.3.1 Network-assisted GNSS Methods
These methods make use of UEs that are equipped with radio receivers capable
of receiving GNSS signals.
Examples of GNSS include GPS, Modernized GPS, Galileo, GLONASS, Space Based
Augmentation Systems (SBAS), and Quasi Zenith Satellite System (QZSS).
In this concept, different GNSSs (e.g. GPS, Galileo, etc.) can be used
separately or in combination to determine the location of a UE.
The operation of the network-assisted GNSS methods is described in clause 8.1.
### 4.3.2 Downlink positioning
The downlink (OTDOA) positioning method makes use of the measured timing of
downlink signals received from multiple eNode Bs at the UE. The UE measures
the timing of the received signals using assistance data received from the
positioning server, and the resulting measurements are used to locate the UE
in relation to the neighbouring eNode Bs.
The operation of the downlink positioning method is described in clause 8.2.
### 4.3.3 Enhanced Cell ID Methods
In the Cell ID (CID) positioning method, the position of an UE is estimated
with the knowledge of its serving eNode B and cell. The information about the
serving eNode B and cell may be obtained by paging, tracking area update, or
other methods. Enhanced Cell ID (E‑CID) positioning refers to techniques which
use additional UE and/or E‑UTRAN radio resource and other measurements to
improve the UE location estimate.
Although E-CID positioning may utilise some of the same measurements as the
measurement control system in the RRC protocol, the UE generally is not
expected to make additional measurements for the sole purpose of positioning;
i.e., the positioning procedures do not supply a measurement configuration or
measurement control message, and the UE reports the measurements that it has
available rather than being required to take additional measurement actions.
In cases with a requirement for close time coupling between UE and eNode B
measurements (e.g., TADV type 1 and UE Tx-Rx time difference), the eNode B
configures the appropriate RRC measurements and is responsible for maintaining
the required coupling between the measurements.The operation of the Enhanced
Cell ID method is described in clause 8.3.
### 4.3.4 Uplink positioning
The uplink (e.g., UTDOA) positioning method makes use of the measured timing
at multiple LMUs of uplink signals transmitted from UE. The LMU measures the
timing of the received signals using assistance data received from the
positioning server, and the resulting measurements are used to estimate the
location of the UE.
The operation of the Uplink positioning method is described in clause 8.5.
# 5 E-UTRAN UE Positioning Architecture
Figure 5-1 shows the architecture in EPS applicable to positioning of a UE
with E-UTRAN access.
The MME receives a request for some location service associated with a
particular target UE from another entity (e.g., GMLC or UE) or the MME itself
decides to initiate some location service on behalf of a particular target UE
(e.g., for an IMS emergency call from the UE) as described in [2]. The MME
then sends a location services request to an E-SMLC. The E-SMLC processes the
location services request which may include transferring assistance data to
the target UE to assist with UE-based and/or UE-assisted positioning and/or
may include positioning of the target UE. For the Uplink method, the E-SMLC
processes the location services request which includes transferring
configuration data to the selected LMU(s). The E-SMLC then returns the result
of the location service back to the MME (e.g., a position estimate for the UE
and/or an indication of any assistance data transferred to the UE). In the
case of a location service requested by an entity other than the MME (e.g., UE
or E-SMLC), the MME returns the location service result to this entity.
The SLP is the SUPL entity responsible for positioning over the user plane.
Further details of the relationship of the user-plane positioning entities to
the E-UTRAN control-plane positioning architecture are described in Annex B.
Figure 5-1: UE Positioning Architecture applicable to E-UTRAN
## 5.1 UE Positioning Operations
To support positioning of a target UE and delivery of location assistance data
to a UE with E-UTRAN access in EPS, location related functions are distributed
as shown in the architecture in Figure 5-1 and as clarified in greater detail
in TS 23.271 [2]. The overall sequence of events applicable to the UE, E-UTRAN
and E-SMLC for any location service is shown in Figure 5.1-1.
Note that when the MME receives Location Service Request in case of the UE is
in ECM-IDLE state, the MME performs a network triggered service request as
defined in TS 23.401 [19] in order to establish a signalling connection with
the UE and assign a specific eNodeB. The UE is assumed to be in connected mode
before the beginning of the flow shown in the Figure 5.1-1; that is, any
signalling that might be required to bring the UE to connected mode prior to
step 1a is not shown. The signaling connection may, however, be later released
(e.g. by the eNode B as a result of signaling and data inactivity) while
positioning is still ongoing.
Figure 5.1-1: Location Service Support by E-UTRAN
1a. Either: the UE requests some location service (e.g. positioning or
delivery of assistance data) to the serving MME at the NAS level.
1b. Or: some entity in the EPC (e.g. GMLC) requests some location service
(e.g. positioning) for a target UE to the serving MME .
1c. Or: the serving MME for a target UE determines the need for some location
service (e.g. to locate the UE for an emergency call).
2\. The MME transfers the location service request to an E-SMLC.
3a. The E-SMLC instigates location procedures with the serving eNode B for the
UE -- e.g. to obtain positioning measurements or assistance data..
3b. In addition to step 3a or instead of step 3a, for downlink positioning the
E-SMLC instigates location procedures with the UE -- e.g. to obtain a location
estimate or positioning measurements or to transfer location assistance data
to the UE.
3c. For uplink positioning (e.g., UTDOA), in addition to performing step 3a,
the E-SMLC instigates location procedures with multiple LMUs for the target UE
-- e.g. to obtain positioning measurements.
4\. The E-SMLC provides a location service response to the MME and includes
any needed results -- e.g. success or failure indication and, if requested and
obtained, a location estimate for the UE.
5a. If step 1a was performed, the MME returns a location service response to
the UE and includes any needed results -- e.g. a location estimate for the UE.
5b. If step 1b was performed, the MME returns a location service response to
the EPC entity in step 1b and includes any needed results -- e.g. a location
estimate for the UE.
5c. If step 1c occurred, the MME uses the location service response received
in step 4 to assist the service that triggered this in step 1c (e.g. may
provide a location estimate associated with an emergency call to a GMLC).
Location procedures applicable to E-UTRAN occur in steps 3a, 3b and 3c in
Figure 5.1-2 and are defined in greater detail in this specification. Steps 1a
and 5a are also applicable to E-UTRAN support because of a capability to
tunnel signalling applicable to steps 3a and 3b. Other steps in Figure 5.1-2
are applicable only to the EPC and are described in greater detail and in TS
23.271 [2].
Steps 3a and 3b can involve the use of different position methods to obtain
location related measurements for a target UE and from these compute a
location estimate and possibly additional information like velocity.
Positioning methods supported in this release are summarized in clause 4.3 and
described in detail in clause 8.
The case that the eNode B functions as an LCS client is not supported in this
version of the specification.
## 5.2 E-UTRAN Positioning Operations
Separately from location service support for particular UEs, an E-SMLC may
interact with elements in the E-UTRAN in order to obtain measurement
information to help assist one or more position methods for all UEs.
### 5.2.1 Downlink Position Method Support
An E-SMLC can interact with any eNodeB reachable from any of the MMEs with
signaling access to the E-SMLC in order to obtain location related information
to support the downlink position method. The information can include timing
information for the eNodeB in relation to either absolute GNSS time or timing
of other eNodeBs and information about the supported cells including PRS
schedule.
Signalling access between the E-SMLC and eNodeB is via any MME with signalling
access to both the E-SMLC and eNodeB.
### 5.2.2 Uplink Position Method Support
An E-SMLC can interact with the Serving eNodeB for the UE in order to retrieve
target UE configuration information to support the uplink positioning method.
The configuration information may include information required by the LMUs in
order to obtain uplink time measurements; see clause 8.5.2. The E-SMLC can
indicate to the serving eNodeB the need to direct the UE to transmit SRS
signals (up to the maximum SRS bandwidth applicable for the carrier frequency)
for uplink positioning. If the requested resources are not available, the eNB
may assign other resources (or no resources e.g. if none are available) and
report the resource allocation to the E-SMLC.
The E-SMLC can also request multiple LMUs to perform uplink time measurements
and report the results.
## 5.3 Functional Description of Elements Related to UE Positioning in E-UTRAN
### 5.3.1 User Equipment (UE)
The UE may transmit the needed signals for uplink-based UE Positioning
measurements and may make measurements of downlink signals from E-UTRAN and
other sources such as different GNSS systems. The measurements to be made will
be determined by the chosen positioning method.
The UE may also contain LCS applications, or access an LCS application either
through communication with a network accessed by the UE or through another
application residing in the UE. This LCS application may include the needed
measurement and calculation functions to determine the UE\'s position with or
without network assistance. This is outside of the scope of this
specification.
The UE may also, for example, contain an independent positioning function
(e.g., GPS) and thus be able to report its position, independent of the
E-UTRAN transmissions. The UE with an independent positioning function may
also make use of assistance information obtained from the network.
### 5.3.2 eNode B
The eNode B is a network element of E-UTRAN that may provide measurement
results for position estimation and makes measurements of radio signals for a
target UE and communicates these measurements to an E-SMLC.
The eNode B makes its measurements in response to requests from the E-SMLC (on
demand or periodically).
The eNodeB may configure the target UE to transmit periodic SRS with multiple
transmissions (see 5.2.2) during uplink positioning.
### 5.3.3 Evolved Serving Mobile Location Centre (E-SMLC)
The E-SMLC manages the support of different location services for target UEs,
including positioning of UEs and delivery of assistance data to UEs. The
E-SMLC may interact with the serving eNode B for a target UE in order to
obtain position measurements for the UE, including uplink measurements made by
the eNode B and downlink measurements made by the UE that were provided to the
eNode B as part of other functions such as for support of handover. The E-SMLC
may also interact with the serving eNodeB to indicate to the serving eNodeB
the need to direct the UE to transmit SRS (see 5.2.2) signals to enable the
uplink positioning method and to acquire the target UE configuration data
needed by the LMUs to calculate the timing of these signals.
The E-SMLC will select a set of LMUs to be used for the UTDOA positioning. The
E-SMLC interacts with the selected LMUs to request timing meaurements.
The E-SMLC may interact with a target UE in order to deliver assistance data
if requested for a particular location service, or to obtain a location
estimate if that was requested.
For positioning of a target UE, the E-SMLC decides on the position methods to
be used, based on factors that may include the LCS Client type, the required
QoS, UE positioning capabilities, and eNode B positioning capabilities. The
E-SMLC then invokes these positioning methods in the UE and/or serving eNode
B. The positioning methods may yield a location estimate for UE-based position
methods and/or positioning measurements for UE-assisted and network-based
position methods. The E-SMLC may combine all the received results and
determine a single location estimate for the target UE (hybrid positioning).
Additional information like accuracy of the location estimate and velocity may
also be determined.
### 5.3.4 Location Measurement Unit (LMU)
The Location Measurement Unit (LMU) makes measurements and communicates these
measurements to an E-SMLC. All positioning measurements obtained by an LMU are
supplied to the E-SMLC that made the request.
A UE Positioning request may involve measurements by multiple LMUs.
# 6 Signalling protocols and interfaces
## 6.1 Network interfaces supporting positioning operations
### 6.1.1 General LCS control plane architecture
The general LCS control plane architecture in the EPS applicable to a target
UE with E-UTRAN access is defined in [2].
### 6.1.2 LTE-Uu interface
The LTE-Uu interface, connecting the UE to the eNode B over the air, is used
as one of several transport links for the LTE Positioning Protocol.
### 6.1.3 S1-MME interface
The S1-MME interface between the eNode B and the MME is transparent to all UE-
positioning-related procedures. It is involved in these procedures only as a
transport link for the LTE Positioning Protocol.
For eNode B related positioning procedures, the S1-MME interface transparently
transports both positioning requests from the E-SMLC to the eNode B and
positioning results from the eNode B to the E-SMLC.
### 6.1.4 SLs interface
The SLs interface, between the E-SMLC and the MME, is transparent to all UE
related and eNode B related positioning procedures. It is then used only as a
transport link for the LTE Positioning Protocols LPP and LPPa.
The SLs interface supports location sessions instigated by the MME as defined
in [2]. LPP and LPPa transport are then supported as part of any location
session.
### 6.1.5 SLm interface
The SLm interface between the E-SMLC and an LMU is used for uplink
positioning. It is used to transport SLmAP protocol messages over the E-SMLC-
LMU interface.
Network sharing should be supported. (Details FFS).
## 6.2 UE-terminated protocols
### 6.2.1 LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP)
The LTE Positioning Protocol (LPP) is terminated between a target device (the
UE in the control-plane case or SET in the user-plane case) and a positioning
server (the E-SMLC in the control-plane case or SLP in the user-plane case).
It may use either the control- or user-plane protocols as underlying
transport. In this specification, only control plane use of LPP is defined.
User plane support of LPP is defined in [17] and [18].
LPP is a point to point positioning protocol with capabilities similar to
those in UMTS RRC ([15]) and GERAN RRLP ([16]). Whereas RRLP supports
positioning of a target MS accessing GERAN and RRC supports positioning of a
target UE accessing UTRAN, LPP supports positioning and location related
services (e.g. transfer of assistance data) for a target UE accessing E-UTRAN.
To avoid creating new positioning protocols for future access types developed
by 3GPP, and to enable positioning measurements for terrestrial access types
other than E‑UTRAN, LPP is in principle forward-compatible with other access
types, even though restricted to E-UTRAN access in this specification.
LPP further supports the OMA user plane location solution SUPL 2.0, as defined
in the OMA SUPL 2.0 standards ([17], [18]), and is intended to be compatible
with the successor protocols of SUPL 2.0 as well.
LPP messages are carried as transparent PDUs across intermediate network
interfaces using the appropriate protocols (e.g., S1-AP over the S1-MME
interface, NAS/RRC over the Uu interface). The LPP protocol is intended to
enable positioning for LTE using a multiplicity of different position methods,
while isolating the details of any particular positioning method and the
specifics of the underlying transport from one another.
The protocol operates on a transaction basis between a target device and a
server, with each transaction taking place as an independent procedure. More
than one such procedure may be in progress at any given moment. An LPP
procedure may involve a request/response pairing of messages or one or more
"unsolicited" messages. Each procedure has a single objective (e.g., transfer
of assistance data, exchange of LPP related capabilities, or positioning of a
target device according to some QoS and use of one or more positioning
methods). Multiple procedures, in series and/or in parallel, can be used to
achieve more complex objectives (e.g., positioning of a target device in
association with transfer of assistance data and exchange of LPP related
capabilities). Multiple procedures also enable more than one positioning
attempt to be ongoing at the same time (e.g., to obtain a coarse location
estimate with low delay while a more accurate location estimate is being
obtained with higher delay).
An LPP session is defined between a positioning server and the target device,
the details of its relation with transactions are described in section 4.1.2
of [25].
A single LPP transaction may be realised as multiple procedures; e.g., a
single transaction for provision of assistance data might comprise several
Provide Assistance Data messages, with each such message constituting a
separate procedure (since there is no "multiple unsolicited messages"
procedure type).
For the 3GPP EPS Control Plane solution defined in [2], the UE is the target
device and the E-SMLC is the server. For SUPL 2.0 support, the SUPL Enabled
Terminal (SET) is the target device and the SUPL Location Platform (SLP) is
the server. The protocol does not preclude the possibility of future
developments in control plane and user plane solutions (e.g., possible
successors of SUPL 2.0, as well as possible future 3GPP control plane
solutions).
All LPP operations and procedures are defined with respect to the target and
server, and thus the LPP operations and procedures defined here with respect
to a UE and an E-SMLC can also be viewed in this more generic context by
substituting any target for the UE and any server for the E-SMLC.
LPP further supports multiple positioning methods as defined in section 4.3.
LPP supports hybrid positioning, in which two or more position methods are
used concurrently to provide measurements and/or a location estimate or
estimates to the server. LPP is forward compatible with the later addition of
other position methods in later releases (e.g., position methods associated
with other types of terrestrial access).
The operations controlled through LPP are described further in section 7.1.
### 6.2.2 Radio Resource Control (RRC)
The RRC protocol is terminated between the eNode B and the UE. In addition to
providing transport for LPP messages over the Uu interface, it supports
transfer of measurements that may be used for positioning purposes through the
existing measurement systems specified in [14].
## 6.3 eNB-terminated protocols
### 6.3.1 LTE Positioning Protocol Annex (LPPa)
The LTE Positioning Protocol Annex (LPPa) carries information between the
eNode B and the E-SMLC. It is used to support the following positioning
functions:
\- E-CID cases where assistance data or measurements are transferred from the
eNode B to the E-SMLC
\- data collection from eNodeBs for support of downlink OTDOA positioning
\- retrieval of UE configuration data from the eNodeBs for support of uplink
(e.g., UTDOA) positioning
The LPPa protocol is transparent to the MME. The MME routes the LPPa PDUs
transparently based on a short Routing ID corresponding to the involved E-SMLC
node over S1 interface without knowledge of the involved LPPa transaction. It
carries the LPPa PDUs over S1 interface either in UE associated mode or non-UE
associated mode.
### 6.3.2 S1 Application Protocol (S1-AP)
The S1-AP protocol, terminated between the MME and the eNode B, is used as
transport for LPP and LPPa messages over the S1-MME interface. The S1-AP
protocol is also used to instigate and terminate eNode B related positioning
procedures.
## 6.4 Signalling between an E-SMLC and UE
### 6.4.1 Protocol Layering
Figure 6.4.1-1 shows the protocol layering used to support transfer of LPP
messages between an E-SMLC and UE. The LPP PDU is carried in NAS PDU between
the MME and the UE.
Figure 6.4.1-1: Protocol Layering for E-SMLC to UE Signalling
### 6.4.2 LPP PDU Transfer
Figure 6.4.2-1 shows the transfer of an LPP PDU between an E-SMLC and UE, in
the network- and UE-triggered cases. These two cases may occur separately or
as parts of a single more complex operation.
{width="5.409722222222222in" height="1.6597222222222223in"}
{width="5.430555555555555in" height="1.6597222222222223in"}
Figure 6.4.2-1: LPP PDU transfer between E-SMLC and UE (network- and UE-
triggered cases)
1\. Steps 1 to 4 may occur before, after, or at the same time as steps 5 to 8.
Steps 1 to 4 and steps 5 to 8 may also be repeated. Steps 1 to 4 are triggered
when the E-SMLC needs to send an LPP message to the UE as part of some LPP
positioning activity. The E-SMLC then sends an LCS-AP PDU to the MME carrying
an LPP PDU comprising the message.
2\. If the UE is in ECM-IDLE state (e.g. if the S1 connection was previously
released due to data and signalling inactivity), the MME performs a network
triggered service request as defined in [19] in order to establish a
signalling connection with the UE and assign a serving eNode B.
3\. The MME includes a session identifier (a.k.a Routing identifier defined in
[26]), which is associated with the positioning session between the MME and
E-SMLC, and the LPP PDU in the NAS Transport Message and then forwards the NAS
Transport Message to the serving eNode B in an S1AP Downlink NAS Transport
message. The MME need not retain state information for this transfer; it can
treat any response in step 7 as a separate non-associated transfer.
4\. The eNode B forwards the NAS Transport Message to the UE in an RRC DL
Information Transfer message.
5\. Steps 5 to 8 are triggered when the UE needs to send an LPP PDU to the
E-SMLC as part of some LPP positioning activity. If the UE is in ECM-IDLE
state, the UE instigates a UE triggered service request as defined in [19] in
order to establish a signalling connection with the MME and assign a serving
eNode B.
6\. The UE includes the session identifier (a.k.a Routing identifier defined
in [26]), which has been received in step 4, and an LPP PDU to the serving
eNode B in an RRC UL Information Transfer message.
7\. The eNode B forwards the NAS Transport Message to the MME in an S1AP
Uplink NAS Transport message.
8\. The MME forwards the LPP PDU to the E-SMLC in an LCS-AP PDU.
## 6.5 Signalling between an E-SMLC and eNode B
### 6.5.1 Protocol Layering
Figure 6.5.1-1 shows the protocol layering used to support transfer of LPPa
PDUs between an E-SMLC and eNode B.
The LPPa protocol is transparent to the MME. The MME routes the LPPa PDUs
transparently based on a short Routing ID which corresponds to the involved
E-SMLC node over the S1 interface without knowledge of the involved LPPa
transaction. It carries the LPPa PDUs over S1 interface either in UE
associated mode or non-UE associated mode.
Figure 6.5.1-1: Protocol Layering for E-SMLC to eNode B Signalling
### 6.5.2 LPPa PDU Transfer for UE Positioning
Figure 6.5.2-1 shows LPPa PDU transfer between an E-SMLC and eNode B to
support positioning of a particular UE.
Figure 6.5.2-1: LPPa PDU Transfer between an E-SMLC and eNode B for UE
Positioning
1\. Steps 1 to 3 are triggered when the E-SMLC needs to send an LPPa message
to the serving eNode B for a target UE as part of an LPPa positioning
activity. The E-SMLC then sends an LCS-AP PDU (as specified in [27]) to the
MME including the Correlation ID corresponding to the UE and carrying an LPPa
PDU comprising the message.
2\. If the UE is in ECM-IDLE state (e.g. if the S1 connection was previously
released due to data and signalling inactivity), the MME performs a network
triggered service request as defined in TS 23.401 [19] in order to establish a
signalling connection with the UE and assign a serving eNode B.
3\. The MME forwards the LPPa PDU to the serving eNode B in an S1AP Downlink
UE Associated LPPa Transport message over the S1 signalling connection
corresponding to the UE and includes the Routing ID related to the E-SMLC. The
MME need not retain state information for this transfer -- e.g. can treat any
response in step 4 as a separate non-associated transfer.
4\. Steps 4 and 5 are triggered when a serving eNode B needs to send an LPPa
message to the E-SMLC for a target UE as part of an LPPa positioning activity.
The eNode B then sends an LPPa PDU to the MME in an S1AP Uplink UE Associated
LPPa Transport message and includes the Routing ID received in step 3.
5\. The MME forwards the LPPa PDU to the E-SMLC associated with the Routing ID
received in step 4 in an LCS-AP PDU (as specified in [27]) including the
Correlation ID corresponding to the UE. Steps 1 to 5 may be repeated.
### 6.5.3 LPPa PDU Transfer for Positioning Support
Figure 6.5.3-1 shows LPPa PDU transfer between an E-SMLC and eNode B when
related to gathering data from the eNodeB for positioning support for all UEs.
Figure 6.5.3-1: LPPa PDU Transfer between an E-SMLC and eNode B for obtaining
eNodeB Data
1\. Steps 1 and 2 are triggered when the E-SMLC needs to send an LPPa message
to an eNode B to obtain data related to the eNodeB. The E-SMLC determines an
MME with access to the eNodeB and then sends an LCS-AP PDU (as specified in
[27]) to the MME carrying an LPPa PDU, the global identity of the eNodeB and
the identity of the E-SMLC..
2\. The MME forwards the LPPa PDU to the identified eNode B in an S1AP
Downlink Non UE Associated LPPa Transport message and includes the Routing ID
related to the E-SMLC. The MME need not retain state information for this
transfer -- e.g. can treat any response in step 3 as a separate non-associated
transfer.
3\. Steps 3 and 4 are triggered when an eNode B needs to send an LPPa PDU to
an E-SMLC containing data applicable to the eNB. The eNode B determines an MME
with access to the E-SMLC and then sends an LPPa PDU to the MME in an S1AP
Uplink Non UE Associated LPPa Transport message. The eNodeB includes the
Routing ID related to the E-SMLC received at step 2.
4\. The MME forwards the LPPa PDU to the E-SMLC associated to the Routing ID
indicated in step 3 and includes the global identity of the eNB and the
identity of the E-SMLC in an LCS-AP PDU (as specified in [27]). Steps 1 to 4
may be repeated.
## 6.6 LMU-terminated protocols
### 6.6.1 SLm Application Protocol (SLmAP)
The SLmAP protocol, terminated between the E-SMLC and the LMU is used to
support the following functions:
\- delivery of target UE configuration data from the E-SMLC to the LMU
\- request positioning measurements from the LMU and delivery of positioning
measurements to the E-SMLC.
The SLmAP protocol is directly between the E-SMLC and the LMU.
## 6.7 Signalling between an E-SMLC and LMU
### 6.7.1 Protocol Layering
Figure 6.Y.1-1 shows the protocol layering used to support transfer of SLmAP
messages between an E-SMLC and LMU.
Figure 6.7.1-1: Protocol Layering for direct E-SMLC to LMU Signalling
# 7 General E-UTRAN UE Positioning procedures
## 7.1 General LPP procedures for UE Positioning
### 7.1.1 LPP Procedures
Positioning procedures in the E-UTRAN are modelled as transactions of the LPP
protocol using the procedures defined in this specification. A procedure
consists of a single operation of one of the following types:
  * Exchange of positioning capabilities;
  * Transfer of assistance data;
  * Transfer of location information (positioning measurements and/or position estimate);
  * Error handling;
  * Abort.
Parallel transactions are permitted (i.e. a new LPP transaction may be
initiated, while another one is outstanding).
As described in section 6.2.1, the protocol operates between a "target" and a
"server". In the control-plane context, these entities are the UE and E-SMLC
respectively; in the SUPL context they are the SET and the SLP. The terms
"target" and "server" are used in the flows in this section to avoid
redundancy between the two versions of the positioning operations. A procedure
may be initiated by either the target or the server. Both target initiated and
server initiated procedures are supported.
### 7.1.2 Positioning procedures
#### 7.1.2.1 Capability transfer
A UE request for capability from E-SMLC or delivery of the E-SMLC capability
to the UE is not supported in this version of the specification.
Capabilities in an LPP context refer to the ability of a target or server to
support different position methods defined for LPP, different aspects of a
particular position method (e.g. different types of assistance data for
A-GNSS) and common features not specific to only one position method (e.g.
ability to handle multiple LPP transactions) . These capabilities are defined
within the LPP protocol and transferred between the target and the server
using LPP transport.
The exchange of capabilities between a target and a server may be initiated by
a request or sent as "unsolicited" information. If a request is used, the
server sends an LPP Request Capabilities message to the target device with a
request for capability information. The target sends an LPP Provide
Capabilities message.
Figure 7.1.2.1‑1: LPP Capability Transfer procedure
1\. The server may send a request for the LPP related capabilities of the
target.
2\. The target transfers its LPP-related capabilities to the server. The
capabilities may refer to particular position methods or may be common to
multiple position methods.
LPP Capability Indication procedure is used for unsolicited capability
transfer.
Figure 7.1.2.1-2: LPP Capability Indication procedure
#### 7.1.2.2 Assistance data transfer
Assistance data may be transferred either by request or unsolicited. In this
version of the specification, assistance data delivery is supported only via
unicast transport from server to target.
Figure 7.1.2.2‑1: LPP Assistance Data Transfer procedure
1\. The target may send a request to the server for assistance data and may
indicate the particular assistance data needed.
2\. The server transfers assistance data to the target. The transferred
assistance data should match any assistance data requested in step 1.
3\. Optionally, the server may transfer additional assistance data to the
target in one or more additional LPP messages.
LPP Assistance Data Delivery procedure is used for unilateral assistance data
transfer.
Figure 7.1.2.2-2: LPP Assistance Data Delivery procedure
This procedure is unidirectional; assistance data are always delivered from
the server to the target.
#### 7.1.2.3 Location information transfer
The term "location information" applies both to an actual position estimate
and to values used in computing position (e.g., radio measurements or
positioning measurements). It is delivered either in response to a request or
unsolicited.
Figure 7.1.2.3‑1: LPP Location Information Transfer procedure
1\. The server may send a request for location information to the target, and
may indicate the type of location information needed and associated QoS.
2\. In response to step 1, the target transfers location information to the
server. The location information transferred should match the location
information requested in step 1.
3\. Optionally (e.g., if requested in step 1), the target in step 2 may
transfer additional location information to the server in one or more
additional LPP messages.
LPP Location Information Delivery procedure is used for unilateral location
information transfer.
NOTE: the LPP Location Information Delivery procedure can only be piggybacked
in the MO-LR request.
Figure 7.1.2.3‑2: LPP Location Information Delivery procedure
#### 7.1.2.4 Multiple transactions
Multiple LPP transactions may be in progress simultaneously between the same
target and server nodes, to improve flexibility and efficiency. However, no
more than one LPP procedure between a particular pair of target and server
nodes to obtain location information shall be in progress at any time for the
same position method.
In this example, the objective is to request location measurements from the
target, and the server does not provide assistance data in advance, leaving
the target to request any needed assistance data. A message flow is shown in
Figure 7.1.2.4-1.
Figure 7.1.2.4-1: Example of multiple LPP procedures
1\. The server sends a request to the target for positioning measurements.
2\. The target sends a request for particular assistance data.
3\. The server returns the assistance data requested in step 2.
4\. The target obtains and returns the location information (e.g., positioning
method measurements) requested in step 1.
#### 7.1.2.5 Sequence of Procedures
LPP procedures are not required to occur in any fixed order, in order to
provide greater flexibility in positioning. Thus, a UE may request assistance
data at any time in order to comply with a previous request for location
measurements from the E-SMLC; an E-SMLC may instigate more than one request
for location information (e.g., measurements or a location estimate) in case
location results from a previous request were not adequate for the requested
QoS; and the target device may transfer capability information to the server
at any time if not already performed.
Despite the flexibility allowed by LPP, it is expected that procedures will
normally occur in the following order:
1\. Capability Transfer;
2\. Assistance Data Transfer;
3\. Location Information Transfer (measurements and/or location estimate).
Specific examples for each positioning method are shown in clause 8.
#### 7.1.2.6 Error handling
The procedure is used to notify the sending endpoint by the receiving endpoint
that the receiving LPP message is erroneous or unexpected. This procedure is
bidirectional at the LPP level; either the target or the server may take the
role of either endpoint in Figure 7.1.2.6-1.
Figure 7.1.2.6-1: Error handling
1\. The target or server (indicated as "Target/Server" in Figure 7.1.2.6-1)
sends a LPP message to the other endpoint (indicated as "Server/Target").
2\. If the server or target ("Server/Target") detects that the receiving LPP
message is erroneous or unexpected, the server or target transfers error
indication information to the other endpoint ("Target/Server").
#### 7.1.2.7 Abort
The procedure is used to notify the other endpoint by one endpoint to abort an
ongoing procedure between the two endpoints. This procedure is bidirectional
at the LPP level; either the target or the server may take the role of either
endpoint in Figure 7.1.2.7-1.
Figure 7.1.2.7-1: Abort
1\. A LPP procedure is ongoing between target and server.
2\. If the server or target ("Server/Target") determines that the procedure
must be aborted, and then the server or target sends an LPP Abort message to
the other endpoint ("Target/Server") carrying the transaction ID for the
procedure.
## 7.2 General LPPa Procedures for UE Positioning
### 7.2.1 LPPa Procedures
Positioning and data acquisition transactions between an E-SMLC and eNodeB are
modelled by using procedures of the LPPa protocol. There are two types of LPPa
procedures:
  * UE associated procedure, i.e. transfer of information for a particular UE (e.g. positioning measurements)
  * Non UE associated procedure, i.e. transfer of information applicable to the eNodeB (e.g. eNB timing differences)
Parallel transactions between the same E-SMLC and eNodeB are supported; i.e. a
pair of E-SMLC and eNodeB may have more than one instance of an LPPa procedure
in execution at the same time.
For possible extensibility, the protocol is considered to operate between a
generic \"access node\" (e.g. eNodeB) and a \"server\" (e.g. E-SMLC). A
procedure is only initiated by the server.
Figure 7.2.1-1: A single LPPa transaction
Figure 7.2.1.1-1 shows a single LPPa transaction. The transaction is
terminated in step 2 in the case of a non UE associated procedure. For a UE
associated procedure to gather information concerning the access node,
additional responses may be allowed (e.g. sending of updated information
periodically and/or whenever there is some significant change). In this case,
the transaction may be ended after some additional responses. In the LPPa
protocol, the described transaction may be realized by the execution of one
procedure defined as a request and a response, followed by one or several
procedures initiated by the eNB (each procedure defined as a single message)
to realize the additional responses. The Correlation ID provided by the MME in
the LCS-AP PDU encapsulating the LPPa PDU may be used by the E-SMLC to
identify the target UE positioning session.
### 7.2.2 LPPa transaction types
#### 7.2.2.1 Location information transfer
The term "location information" applies both to an actual position estimate
and to values used in computing position (e.g., radio measurements or
positioning measurements). It is delivered in response to a request.
Figure 7.2.2‑1: Location information transfer
1\. The server sends a a request for location related information to the
eNodeB, and indicates the type of location information needed and associated
QoS. The request may refer to a particular UE.
2\. In response to step 1, the eNodeB transfers location related information
to the server. The location related information transferred should match the
location related information requested in step 1.
3\. If requested in step 1, the eNodeB may transfer additional location
related information to the server in one or more additional LPPa messages when
the positioning method is E-CID.
## 7.3 Service Layer Support using combined LPP and LPPa Procedures
As described in [2], UE-positioning-related services can be instigated from
the EPC in the case of an NI-LR or MT-LR location service, or from the UE in
the case of an MO-LR location service. The complete sequence of operations in
the EPC is defined in [2]. This subclause defines the overall sequences of
operations that occur in the E-SMLC, E-UTRAN and UE as a result of the EPC
operations.
Some flows in this scenario apply only in particular situations (e.g., only
when the UE is in connected mode). The lower-layer details of such cases are
not shown in the diagrams; for instance, the process of paging a UE to bring
it to connected mode from idle is not explicitly indicated in these diagrams.
### 7.3.1 NI-LR and MT-LR Service Support
Figure 7.3.1-1 shows the sequence of operations for an NI-LR or MT-LR location
service, starting at the point where the MME initiates the service in the
E-SMLC.
Figure 7.3.1-1: UE Positioning Operations to support an MT-LR or NI-LR
1\. The MME sends a location request to the E-SMLC for a target UE and may
include associated QoS.
2\. The E-SMLC may obtain location related information from the UE and/or from
the serving eNode B. In the former case, the E-SMLC instigates one or more LPP
procedures to transfer UE positioning capabilities, provide assistance data to
the UE and/or obtain location information from the UE. The UE may also
instigate one or more LPP procedures after the first LPP message is received
from the E-SMLC (e.g., to request assistance data from the E-SMLC).
3\. If the E-SMLC needs location related information for the UE from the eNode
B, the E-SMLC instigates one or more LPPa procedures. Step 3 is not
necessarily serialised with step 2; if the E-SMLC and eNode B have the
information to determine what procedures need to take place for the location
service, step 3 could precede or overlap with step 2.
4\. The E-SMLC returns a location response to the MME with any location
estimate obtained as a result of steps 2 and 3.
### 7.3.2 MO-LR Service Support
Figure 7.3.2-1 shows the sequence of operations for an MO-LR service, starting
at the point where an LCS Client in the UE or the user has requested some
location service (e.g., retrieval of the UE\'s location or transfer of the
UE\'s location to a third party).
Figure 7.3.2-1: UE Positioning Operations to support an MO-LR
1\. The UE sends a NAS level MO-LR request to the MME. The MO-LR request may
carry an LPP PDU to instigate one or more LPP procedures to transfer
capabilities, request assistance data, request location information and/or
transfer location information (e.g. location measurements).
2\. The MME sends a location request to the E-SMLC and includes any LPP PDU
received in step 1.
3\. The E-SMLC may obtain location related information from the UE and/or from
the serving eNode B. In the former case or if an immediate response is needed
to any LPP procedure instigated by the UE in step 1 (e.g., a request for
assistance data), the E-SMLC instigates one or more LPP procedures to transfer
UE positioning capabilities, provide assistance data to the UE and/or obtain
location information from the UE. The UE may also instigate further LPP
procedures after the first LPP message is received from the E-SMLC (e.g., to
request assistance data or to request further assistance data).
4\. If the E-SMLC needs location related information for the UE from the eNode
B, the E-SMLC instigates one or more LPPa procedures. Step 4 may also precede
step 3 or occur in parallel with it.
5\. The E-SMLC returns a location response to the MME with any location
estimate obtained as a result of steps 3 and 4, and/or with a final LPP
message (e.g., that could provide a location estimate to the UE if requested
by the UE in step 1).
6\. If the UE requested location transfer to a third party the MME transfers
the location received from the E-SMLC in step 5 to the third party as defined
in [2].
7\. The MME sends a NAS level MO-LR response to the UE, carrying any final LPP
PDU that was received in step 5.
## 7.4 General SLmAP Procedures for UE Positioning
### 7.4.1 SLmAP Procedures
SLmAP includes positioning procedures, such as:
\- Measurement request
\- Measurement Update
\- Measurement Abort
#### 7.4.1.1 Measurement request
The measurement request procedure is used by the E-SMLC to obtain timing
measurement for a particular target UE from an LMU.
Figure 7.4.1-1: Measurement request
1\. The E-SMLC sends a measurement request to the LMU. The measurement request
identifies the UE to be positioned and contains the data (including SRS
transmission configuration) needed to obtain the measurements.
2\. In response to step 1, the LMU transfers UL RTOA measurements to the
E-SMLC.
#### 7.4.1.2 Measurement Update
The Measurement Update procedure is used by the E-SMLC to inform the LMU of a
change in the UE SRS transmission configuration during an ongoing SLmAP
measurement reporting transaction.
Figure 7.4.1.2-1: Measurement update
1\. An SLmAP Measurement reporting transaction is ongoing between the E-SMLC
and LMU.
2\. The E-SMLC determines that the SRS transmission configuration data
previously sent to the LMU is no longer valid. The E-SMLC sends a Measurement
Update to the LMU containing the new SRS transmission configuration data. The
E-SMLC shall not send a Measurement Update after receiving a Measurement
Response from the LMU.
3\. The LMU continues UL RTOA measurements using the updated SRS
configuration.
#### 7.4.1.3 Measurement Abort
The measurement abort procedure is used by the E-SMLC to abort an ongoing
SLmAP measurement reporting transaction.
Figure 7.4.1.3-1: Measurement abort
1\. An SLmAP Measurement reporting transaction is ongoing between the E-SMLC
and LMU.
2\. The E-SMLC determines that the transaction should be aborted (e.g. due to
UE detach or inter-MME handover). The E-SMLC sends a measurement abort to the
LMU and the ongoing SLmAP Measurement reporting transaction is abandoned. The
E-SMLC shall not send a Measurement Abort after receiving a Measurement
response from the LMU.
## 7.5 Service Layer Support using combined SLmAP and LPPa Procedures
### 7.5.1 NI-LR and MT-LR Service Support
Figure 7.5.1-1 shows the sequence of operations for an NI-LR and MT-LR,
starting at the point where the MME initiates the service in the E-SMLC.
Figure 7.5.1-1: UE Positioning Operations to support NI-LR or MT-LR
1\. The MME sends a location request to the E-SMLC for a target UE and may
include associated QoS.
2\. The E-SMLC obtains target UE configuration information from the serving
eNode B.
3\. If the E-SMLC needs measurement results for the UE from multiple LMUs, the
E-SMLC instigates SLmAP procedures to each LMU.
4\. The E-SMLC returns a location response to the MME with any location
estimate obtained as a result of steps 2 and 3.
### 7.5.2 MO-LR Service Support
Figure 7.5.2-1 shows the sequence of operations for an MO-LR service, starting
at the point where an LCS Client in the UE or the user has requested some
location service (e.g., retrieval of the UE\'s location or transfer of the
UE\'s location to a third party).
Figure 7.5.2-1: UE Positioning Operations to support an MO-LR
1\. The UE sends a NAS level MO-LR request to the MME.
2\. The MME sends a location request to the E-SMLC.
3\. The E-SMLC obtains target UE configuration information from the serving
eNode B.
4\. If the E-SMLC needs measurement results for the UE from multiple LMUs, the
E-SMLC instigates SLmAP procedures to each LMU.
5\. The E-SMLC returns a location response to the MME with any location
estimate obtained as a result of steps 2 and 3.
6\. If the UE requested location transfer to a third party LCS Client, the MME
transfers the location received from the E-SMLC in step 5 to the third party
as defined in [2].
7\. The MME sends a NAS level MO-LR response to the UE carrying any location
estimate.
# 8 Positioning methods and Supporting Procedures
## 8.1 GNSS positioning methods
### 8.1.1 General
Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) is the standard generic term for
satellite navigation systems that provide autonomous geo-spatial positioning
with global or regional coverage. The following GNSSs are supported in this
version of the specification:
  * GPS and its modernization [6,7,8];
  * Galileo [9];
  * GLONASS [10];
  * Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS), including WAAS, EGNOS, MSAS, and GAGAN [12];
  * Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS) [11].
Each global GNSS can be used individually or in combination with others. When
used in combination, the effective number of navigation satellite signals
would be increased:
  * extra satellites can improve **availability** (of satellites at a particular location) and results in an improved ability to work in areas where satellite signals can be obscured, such as in urban canyons;
  * extra satellites and signals can improve **reliability** , i.e., with extra measurements the data redundancy is increased, which helps identify any measurement outlier problems;
  * extra satellites and signals can improve **accuracy** due to improved measurement geometry and improved ranging signals from modernized satellites.
When GNSS is designed to inter-work with the E-UTRAN, the network assists the
UE GNSS receiver to improve the performance in several respects. These
performance improvements will:
\- reduce the UE GNSS start-up and acquisition times; the search window can be
limited and the measurements speed up significantly;
\- increase the UE GNSS sensitivity; positioning assistance messages are
obtained via E-UTRAN so the UE GNSS receiver can operate also in low SNR
situations when it is unable to demodulate GNSS satellite signals;
\- allow the UE to consume less handset power than with stand-alone GNSS; this
is due to rapid start-up times as the GNSS receiver can be in idle mode when
it is not needed.
The network-assisted GNSS methods rely on signalling between UE GNSS receivers
(possibly with reduced complexity) and a continuously operating GNSS reference
receiver network, which has clear sky visibility of the same GNSS
constellation as the assisted UEs. Two assisted modes are supported:
  * _UE-Assisted_ : The UE performs GNSS measurements (pseudo-ranges, pseudo Doppler, etc.) and sends these measurements to the E-SMLC where the position calculation takes place, possibly using additional measurements from other (non GNSS) sources;
  * _UE-Based_ : The UE performs GNSS measurements and calculates its own location, possibly using additional measurements from other (non GNSS) sources.
The assistance data content may vary depending on whether the UE operates in
UE-Assisted or UE-Based mode.
The assistance data signalled to the UE can be broadly classified into:
\- _data assisting the measurements_ : e.g. reference time, visible satellite
list, satellite signal Doppler, code phase, Doppler and code phase search
windows;
\- _data providing means for position calculation_ : e.g. reference time,
reference position, satellite ephemeris, clock corrections.
A UE with GNSS measurement capability may also operate in an autonomous
(standalone) mode. In autonomous mode the UE determines its position based on
signals received from GNSS without assistance from the network.
### 8.1.2 Information to be transferred between E-UTRAN Elements
This subclause defines the information (e.g., assistance data, measurement
data) that may be transferred between E-UTRAN elements.
#### 8.1.2.1 Information that may be transferred from the E-SMLC to UE
Table 8.1.2.1-1 lists assistance data for both UE-assisted and UE-based modes
that may be sent from the E-SMLC to the UE.
NOTE: The provision of these assistance data elements and the usage of these
elements by the UE depend on the E‑UTRAN and UE capabilities, respectively.
Table 8.1.2.1-1: Information that may be transferred from the E-SMLC to UE
* * *
Assistance Data Reference Time Reference Location Ionospheric Models Earth
Orientation Parameters GNSS-GNSS Time Offsets Differential GNSS Corrections
Ephemeris and Clock Models Real-Time Integrity Data Bit Assistance Acquisition
Assistance Almanac UTC Models
* * *
##### 8.1.2.1.1 Reference Time
Reference Time assistance provides the GNSS receiver with coarse or fine GNSS
time information. The specific GNSS system times (e.g., GPS, Galileo, Glonass
system time) shall be indicated with a GNSS ID.
In case of coarse time assistance only, the Reference Time provides an
estimate of the current GNSS system time (where the specific GNSS is indicated
by a GNSS ID). The E-SMLC should achieve an accuracy of +/- 3 seconds for this
time including allowing for the transmission delay between E-SMLC and UE.
In case of fine time assistance, the Reference Time provides the relation
between GNSS system time (where the specific GNSS is indicated by a GNSS ID)
and E-UTRAN air-interface timing.
##### 8.1.2.1.2 Reference Location
Reference Location assistance provides the GNSS receiver with an apriori
estimate of its location (e.g., obtained via Cell-ID, downlink positioning,
etc.) together with its uncertainty.
The geodetic reference frame shall be WGS-84, as specified in [4].
##### 8.1.2.1.3 Ionospheric Models
Ionospheric Model assistance provides the GNSS receiver with parameters to
model the propagation delay of the GNSS signals through the ionosphere.
Ionospheric Model parameters as specified by GPS [6], Galileo [9], and QZSS
[11] may be provided.
##### 8.1.2.1.4 Earth Orientation Parameters
Earth Orientation Parameters (EOP) assistance provides the GNSS receiver with
parameters needed to construct the ECEF-to-ECI coordinate transformation as
specified by GPS [6].
##### 8.1.2.1.5 GNSS-GNSS Time Offsets
GNSS-GNSS Time Offsets assistance provides the GNSS receiver with parameters
to correlate GNSS time (where the specific GNSS is indicated by a GNSS-1 ID)
of one GNSS with other GNSS time (where the specific GNSS is indicated by a
GNSS-2 ID). GNSS-GNSS Time Offsets parameters as specified by GPS [6], Galileo
[9], Glonass [10], and QZSS [11] may be provided.
##### 8.1.2.1.6 Differential GNSS Corrections
Differential GNSS Corrections assistance provides the GNSS receiver with
pseudo-range and pseudo-range-rate corrections to reduce biases in GNSS
receiver measurements as specified in [13]. The specific GNSS for which the
corrections are valid is indicated by a GNSS-ID.
##### 8.1.2.1.7 Ephemeris and Clock Models
Ephemeris and Clock Models assistance provides the GNSS receiver with
parameters to calculate the GNSS satellite position and clock offsets. The
various GNSSs use different model parameters and formats, and all parameter
formats as defined by the individual GNSSs are supported by the signalling.
##### 8.1.2.1.8 Real-Time Integrity
Real-Time Integrity assistance provides the GNSS receiver with information
about the health status of a GNSS constellation (where the specific GNSS is
indicated by a GNSS ID).
##### 8.1.2.1.9 Data Bit Assistance
Data Bit Assistance provides the GNSS receiver with information about data
bits or symbols transmitted by a GNSS satellite at a certain time (where the
specific GNSS is indicated by a GNSS ID). This information may be used by the
UE for sensitivity assistance (data wipe-off) and time recovery.
##### 8.1.2.1.10 Acquisition Assistance
Acquisition Assistance provides the GNSS receiver with information about
visible satellites, reference time, expected code-phase, expected Doppler,
search windows (i.e., code and Doppler uncertainty) and other information of
the GNSS signals (where the specific GNSS is indicated by a GNSS ID) to enable
a fast acquisition of the GNSS signals.
##### 8.1.2.1.11 Almanac
Almanac assistance provides the GNSS receiver with parameters to calculate the
coarse (long-term) GNSS satellite position and clock offsets. The various
GNSSs use different model parameters and formats, and all parameter formats as
defined by the individual GNSSs are supported by the signalling.
##### 8.1.2.1.12 UTC Models
UTC Models assistance provides the GNSS receiver with parameters needed to
relate GNSS system time (where the specific GNSS is indicated by a GNSS ID) to
Universal Coordinated Time. The various GNSSs use different model parameters
and formats, and all parameter formats as defined by the individual GNSSs are
supported by the signalling.
#### 8.1.2.2 Information that may be transferred from the UE to E-SMLC
The information that may be signalled from UE to the E-SMLC is listed in table
8.1.2.2-1.
Table 8.1.2.2-1-2: Information that may be transferred from UE to the E-SMLC
* * *
Information UE‑assisted UE‑based/standalone Latitude/Longitude/Altitude,
together with uncertainty shape No Yes Velocity, together with uncertainty
shape No Yes Reference Time, possibly together with GNSS-E-UTRAN time
association and uncertainty Yes Yes Indication of used positioning methods in
the fix No Yes Code phase measurements Yes No Doppler measurements Yes No
Carrier phase measurements Yes No Measurement quality parameters for each
measurement Yes No Additional, non-GNSS related measurement information Yes No
* * *
##### 8.1.2.2.1 GNSS Measurement Information
The GNSS measurement information reported from the UE to the E-SMLC depends on
the GNSS mode (i.e., UE-based, autonomous (standalone), or UE-assisted).
###### 8.1.2.2.1.1 UE-based mode
In UE-based or standalone mode, the GNSS receiver reports the latitude,
longitude and possibly altitude, together with an estimate of the location
uncertainty, if available.
If requested by the E-SMLC and supported by the UE, the GNSS receiver may
report its velocity, possibly together with an estimate of the uncertainty, if
available.
If requested by the E-SMLC and supported by the UE, the GNSS receiver may
report the relation between GNSS system time (where the specific GNSS is
indicated by a GNSS ID; the specific GNSS system time may be selected by the
UE) and E-UTRAN air-interface timing. This information may be used by the
E-SMLC to assist other UEs in the network.
The UE should also report an indication of which GNSSs and possibly other
location methods have been used to calculate a fix.
###### 8.1.2.2.1.2 UE-assisted mode
In UE-assisted mode, the GNSS receiver reports the Code Phase and Doppler
measurements together with associated quality estimates. These measurements
enable the E-SMLC to calculate the location of the UE, possibly using other
measurements and data.
If requested by the E-SMLC and supported by the UE, the GNSS receiver may
report Carrier Phase measurements together with associated quality
measurements, if available.
If requested by the E-SMLC and supported by the UE, the GNSS receiver may
report the relation between GNSS system time (where the specific GNSS is
indicated by a GNSS ID; the specific GNSS system time may be selected by the
UE) and E-UTRAN air-interface timing. This information may be used by the
E-SMLC to assist other UEs in the network.
##### 8.1.2.2.2 Additional Non-GNSS Related Information
Additional non-GNSS measurements performed by E‑UTRAN or UE may be used by the
E-SMLC or UE to calculate or verify a location estimate. This information may
include downlink positioning measurements, pathloss and signal strength
related measurements, etc.
### 8.1.3 Assisted-GNSS Positioning Procedures
#### 8.1.3.1 Capability Transfer Procedure
The Capability Transfer procedure for Assisted-GNSS positioning is described
in subclause 7.1.2.1.
##### 8.1.3.1.1 Void
#### 8.1.3.2 Assistance Data Transfer Procedure
The purpose of this procedure is to enable the E-SMLC to provide assistance
data to the UE (e.g., as part of a positioning procedure) and the UE to
request assistance data from the E-SMLC (e.g., as part of a positioning
procedure or for autonomous self location (i.e., UE determines its own
location)).
##### 8.1.3.2.1 E-SMLC initiated Assistance Data Delivery
Figure 8.1.3.2.1-1 shows the Assistance Data Delivery operations for the
network-assisted GNSS method when the procedure is initiated by the E-SMLC.
Figure 8.1.3.2.1-1: E‑SMLC-initiated Assistance Data Delivery Procedure
(1) The E-SMLC determines that assistance data needs to be provided to the UE
(e.g., as part of a positioning procedure) and sends an LPP Provide Assistance
Data message to the UE. This message may include any of the GNSS assistance
data defined in subclause 8.1.2.1.
##### 8.1.3.2.2 UE initiated Assistance Data Transfer
Figure 8.1.3.2.2-1 shows the Assistance Data Transfer operations for the
network-assisted GNSS method when the procedure is initiated by the UE.
Figure 8.1.3.2.2-1: UE-initiated Assistance Data Transfer Procedure
(1) The UE determines that certain A-GNSS assistance data are desired (e.g.,
in case the UE requires its own location with autonomous self location or as
part of a positioning procedure when the E-SMLC provided assistance data are
not sufficient for the UE to fulfill the request) and sends a LPP Request
Assistance Data message to the E-SMLC. This request includes an indication of
which specific A-GNSS assistance data are requested for each GNSS, possibly
together with additional information (e.g., for which GNSS signal types, or
satellites, or times the assistance is requested, etc.). Additional
information concerning the UE\'s approximate location and serving and
neighbour cells may also be provided in the Request Assistance Data message
and/or in an accompanying Provide Location Information message to help the
E-SMLC provide appropriate assistance data. This additional data may include
the UE\'s last known location if available, the cell IDs of the UE serving
eNodeB and possibly neighbour eNodeBs, as well as E-CID measurements.
(2) The E-SMLC provides the requested assistance data in a LPP Provide
Assistance Data message, if available at the E-SMLC. The entire set of
assistance data may be delivered in one or several LPP messages, e.g., one
message per GNSS. In this case, this step may be repeated by the E-SMLC
several times. If any of the UE requested assistance data in step (1) are not
provided in step 2, the UE shall assume that the requested assistance data are
not supported, or currently not available at the E-SMLC. If none of the UE
requested assistance data in step (1) can be provided by the E-SMLC, return
any information that can be provided in an LPP message of type Provide
Assistance Data which includes a cause indication for the not provided
assistance data.
#### 8.1.3.3 Location Information Transfer Procedure
The purpose of this procedure is to enable the E-SMLC to request position
measurements or location estimate from the UE, or to enable the UE to provide
location measurements to the E-SMLC for position calculation (e.g., in case of
basic self location where the UE requests its own location).
##### 8.1.3.3.1 E-SMLC initiated Location Information Transfer Procedure
Figure 8.1.3.3.1-1 shows the Location Information Transfer operations for the
network-assisted GNSS method when the procedure is initiated by the E-SMLC.
Figure 8.1.3.3.1-1: E-SMLC-initiated Location Information Transfer Procedure
(1)The E-SMLC sends a LPP Request Location Information message to the UE for
invocation of A-GNSS positioning. This request includes positioning
instructions such as the GNSS mode (UE-assisted, UE-based, UE-based preferred
but UE-assisted allowed, UE-assisted preferred, but UE-based allowed,
standalone), positioning methods (GPS, Galileo, Glonass, etc. and possibly
non-GNSS methods, such as downlink positioning or E-CID), specific UE
measurements requested if any, such as fine time assistance measurements,
velocity, carrier phase, multi-frequency measurements, and quality of service
parameters (accuracy, response time).
(2) The UE performs the requested measurements and possibly calculates its own
location. The UE sends an LPP Provide Location Information message to the
E-SMLC before the Response Time provided in step (1) elapsed. If the UE is
unable to perform the requested measurements, or if the Response Time provided
in step 1 elapsed before any of the requested measurements have been obtained,
the UE returns any information that can be provided in an LPP message of type
Provide Location Information which includes a cause indication for the not
provided location information.
##### 8.1.3.3.2 UE-initiated Location Information Delivery Procedure
Figure 8.1.3.3.2-1 shows the Location Information delivery operations for the
UE-assisted GNSS method when the procedure is initiated by the UE.
Figure 8.1.3.3.2-1: UE-initiated Location Information Delivery Procedure
(1) The UE sends an LPP Provide Location Information message to the E-SMLC.
The Provide Location Information message may include any UE measurements (GNSS
pseudo-ranges, and other measurements) already available at the UE.
## 8.2 Downlink positioning method
### 8.2.1 General
In the downlink positioning method, the UE positioning is estimated based on
measurements taken at the UE of downlink radio signals from multiple eNodeBs,
along with knowledge of the geographical coordinates of the measured eNodeBs
and their relative downlink timing.
The specific positioning techniques used to estimate the UE's location from
this information are beyond the scope of this specification.
### 8.2.2 Transferred information
This subclause defines the information that may be transferred between E-SMLC
and UE/eNodeB.
#### 8.2.2.1 Assistance Data that may be transferred from the E-SMLC to UE
The following assistance data may be transferred from the E-SMLC to the UE:
\- Physical cell IDs (PCIs) and global cell IDs (GCIs) of candidate cells for
measurement;
\- Timing relative to the serving eNodeB of candidate cells;
#### 8.2.2.2 Assistance Data that may be transferred from the eNodeB to E-SMLC
The following assistance data may be transferred from the eNodeB to the
E-SMLC:
\- PCI and GCI of the cells under the eNodeB;
\- Timing information on the eNodeB;
\- Geographical candidates of the eNodeB.
An eNodeB may provide assistance data relating only to itself via LPPa
signalling, although assistance data from several eNodeBs may be acquired
through other mechanisms, see NOTE below.
NOTE: The assistance data described in this section are not necessarily
transferred only from the eNodeB, and in some deployment options may not be
delivered from the eNodeB at all; they may also be delivered to the E-SMLC
through OA&M or other mechanisms external to the E-UTRAN. In addition, in
cases where assistance data are delivered from the eNodeB, how the eNodeB
acquires the data is outside the scope of this specification.
#### 8.2.2.3 Location Information that may be transferred from the UE to
E-SMLC
The information that may be signalled from UE to the E-SMLC is listed in Table
8.2.2.3-1. The individual UE measurements are defined in [20].
Table 8.2.2.3-1: Information that may be transferred from UE to the E-SMLC
* * *
Information Measurements Downlink Measurement Results List for EUTRA Physical
cell IDs Global cell IDs Downlink timing measurements
* * *
### 8.2.3 Downlink Positioning Procedures
The procedures described in this subclause support downlink positioning
measurements obtained by the UE and provided to the E-SMLC using LPP, or
obtained by the eNode B and provided to the E-SMLC using LPPa.
In this version of the specification only the UE-assisted downlink positioning
is supported.
#### 8.2.3.1 Capability Transfer Procedure
The Capability Transfer procedure for Downlink positioning is described in
subclause 7.1.2.1.
##### 8.2.3.1.1 Void
#### 8.2.3.2 Assistance Data Transfer Procedure
##### 8.2.3.2.1 Assistance Data Transfer between E-SMLC and UE
The purpose of this procedure is to enable the E-SMLC to provide assistance
data to the UE (e.g., as part of a positioning procedure) and the UE to
request assistance data from the E-SMLC (e.g., as part of a positioning
procedure or for autonomous self location (i.e., UE determines its own
location)).
##### 8.2.3.2.1.1 E-SMLC-initiated assistance data delivery
Figure 8.2.3.2.1.1-1 shows the Assistance Data Delivery operations for the
downlink positioning method when the procedure is initiated by the E-SMLC.
Figure 8.2.3.2.1.1-1: E‑SMLC-initiated Assistance Data Delivery Procedure
(1) The E-SMLC determines that assistance data needs to be provided to the UE
(e.g., as part of a positioning procedure) and sends an LPP Provide Assistance
Data message to the UE. This message may include any of the downlink
positioning assistance data defined in subclause 8.2.2.1.
##### 8.2.3.2.1.2 UE-initiated assistance data transfer
Figure 8.2.3.2.1.2-1 shows the Assistance Data Transfer operations for the
downlink positioning method when the procedure is initiated by the UE.
Figure 8.2.3.2.1.2-1: UE-initiated Assistance Data Transfer Procedure
(1) The UE determines that certain downlink positioning assistance data are
desired (e.g., in case the UE requires its own location with autonomous self
location, or as part of a positioning procedure when the E-SMLC-provided
assistance data are not sufficient for the UE to fulfill the request) and
sends an LPP Request Assistance Data message to the E-SMLC. This request
includes an indication of which specific downlink assistance data are
requested. Additional information concerning the UE\'s approximate location
and serving and neighbour cells may also be provided in the Request Assistance
Data message and/or in an accompanying Provide Location Information message to
help the E-SMLC provide appropriate assistance data. This additional data may
include the UE\'s last known location if available, the cell IDs of the UE
serving eNodeB and possibly neighbour eNodeBs, as well as E-CID measurements.
(2) The E-SMLC provides the requested assistance in an LPP Provide Assistance
Data message, if available at the E-SMLC. If any of the UE requested
assistance data in step (1) are not provided in step 2, the UE shall assume
that the requested assistance data are not supported, or currently not
available at the E-SMLC. If none of the UE requested assistance data in step
(1) can be provided by the E-SMLC, return any information that can be provided
in an LPP message of type Provide Assistance Data which includes a cause
indication for the not provided assistance data.
##### 8.2.3.2.2 Assistance Data Delivery between E-SMLC and eNodeB
The purpose of this procedure is to enable the eNodeB to provide assistance
data to the E-SMLC, for subsequent delivery to the UE using the procedures of
sub clause 8.2.3.2.1 or for use in the calculation of positioning estimates at
the E-SMLC.
##### 8.2.3.2.2.1 Void
##### 8.2.3.2.2.2 E-SMLC-initiated assistance data delivery to the E-SMLC
Figure 8.2.3.2.2.2-1 shows the Assistance Data Delivery operation from the
eNodeB to the E-SMLC for the downlink positioning method, in the case that the
procedure is initiated by the E-SMLC.
Figure 8.2.3.2.2.2-1: E-SMLC-initiated Assistance Data Delivery Procedure
(1) The E-SMLC determines that certain downlink positioning assistance data
are desired (e.g., as part of a periodic update or as triggered by OAM) and
sends an LPPa OTDOA INFORMATION REQUEST message to the eNode B. This request
includes an indication of which specific downlink assistance data are
requested.
(2) The eNode B provides the requested assistance in an LPPa OTDOA INFORMATION
RESPONSE message, if available at the eNode B. If the eNode B is not able to
provide any information, it returns an OTDOA INFORMATION FAILURE message
indicating the cause of the failure.
#### 8.2.3.3 Location Information Transfer Procedure
The purpose of this procedure is to enable the E-SMLC to request position
measurements from the UE, or to enable the UE to provide location measurements
to the E-SMLC for position calculation (e.g., in case of basic self location
where the UE requests its own location).
##### 8.2.3.3.1 E-SMLC-initiated Location Information Transfer
Figure 8.2.3.3.1-1 shows the Location Information Transfer operations for the
downlink positioning method when the procedure is initiated by the E-SMLC.
Figure 8.2.3.3.1-1: E-SMLC-initiated Location Information Transfer Procedure
(1) The E-SMLC sends an LPP Request Location Information message to the UE.
This request includes indication of downlink measurements requested, including
any needed measurement configuration information, and required response time.
(2) The UE obtains downlink measurements as requested in step 1. The UE then
sends an LPP Provide Location Information message to the E-SMLC, before the
Response Time provided in step (1) elapsed, and includes the obtained downlink
measurements. If the UE is unable to perform the requested measurements, or
the Response Time elapsed before any of the requested measurements were
obtained, the UE returns any information that can be provided in an LPP
message of type Provide Location Information which includes a cause indication
for the not provided location information.
##### 8.2.3.3.2 UE-initiated Location Information Delivery procedure
Figure 8.2.3.3.2-1 shows the Location Information Delivery procedure
operations for the downlink positioning method when the procedure is initiated
by the UE.
Figure 8.2.3.3.2-1: UE-initiated Location Information Delivery Procedure.
(1) The UE sends an LPP Provide Location Information message to the E-SMLC.
The Provide Location Information message may include any UE downlink
measurements already available at the UE.
## 8.3 Enhanced cell ID positioning methods
### 8.3.1 General
In the Cell ID (CID)-based method, the UE position is estimated with the
knowledge of the geographical coordinates of its serving eNodeB. Enhanced Cell
ID (E-CID) positioning refers to techniques which use additional UE and/or
E‑UTRAN radio resource related measurements to improve the UE location
estimate. For E-UTRAN access, these measurements may include [20, 21]:
UE measurements ([20], [21]):
\- Reference signal received power (RSRP);
\- Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ);
\- UE Rx -- Tx time difference.
E-UTRAN measurements ([20], [21]):
\- eNB Rx -- Tx time difference
\- Timing Advance (T~ADV~):
\- Type1: T~ADV~ = (eNB Rx -- Tx time difference) + (UE Rx -- Tx time
difference)
\- Type2: T~ADV~ = eNB Rx -- Tx time difference;
\- Angle of Arrival (AoA).
Various techniques exist to use these measurements to estimate the location of
the UE. The specific techniques are beyond the scope of this specification.
### 8.3.2 Information to be transferred between E-UTRAN Elements
This sub clause defines the information (e.g., measurement data) that may be
transferred between E-UTRAN elements.
#### 8.3.2.1 Information that may be transferred from the E-SMLC to UE
UE-assisted Enhanced Cell-ID location does not require any assistance data to
be transferred from the E-SMLC to the UE.
UE-Based Enhanced Cell-ID location is not supported in this version of the
specification.
#### 8.3.2.2 Information that may be transferred from the UE to E-SMLC
The information that may be signalled from UE to the E-SMLC is listed in table
8.3.2.2-1.
Table 8.3.2.2-1: Information that may be transferred from UE to the E-SMLC
* * *
Information UE‑assisted Evolved Cell Global Identifier (ECGI)/Physical Cell ID
Yes Reference signal received power (RSRP) Yes Reference Signal Received
Quality (RSRQ) Yes UE Rx -- Tx time difference Yes
* * *
#### 8.3.2.3 Information that may be transferred from the eNodeB to E-SMLC
The information that may be signalled from eNodeB to the E-SMLC is listed in
table 8.3.2.3-1.
Table 8.3.2.3-1: Information that may be transferred from eNB to the E-SMLC
* * *
Information  
Timing Advance (T~ADV~)  
Angle of Arrival (AoA)  
E-UTRA Measurement Results List:  
\- Evolved Cell Global Identifier (ECGI)/Physical Cell ID \- Reference signal
received power (RSRP) \- Reference Signal Received Quality (RSRQ)
* * *
### 8.3.3 Downlink E-CID Positioning Procedures
The procedures described in this subclause support E-CID related measurements
obtained by the UE and provided to the E-SMLC using LPP. The term "downlink"
is intended to indicate that from the E-SMLC perspective the involved
measurements are provided by the UE; this set of procedures might also be
considered as "UE-assisted, E-SMLC-based E-CID".
#### 8.3.3.1 Capability Transfer Procedure
The Capability Transfer procedure for E-CID positioning is described in
subclause 7.1.2.1.
##### 8.3.3.1.1 Void
#### 8.3.3.2 Assistance Data Delivery Procedure
Assistance data delivery is not required for UE- or eNB-assisted forms of
E-CID positioning.
#### 8.3.3.3 Location Information Transfer Procedure
The purpose of this procedure is to enable the E-SMLC to request position
measurements from the UE, or to enable the UE to provide location measurements
to the E-SMLC for position calculation (e.g., in case of basic self location
where the UE requests its own location).
##### 8.3.3.3.1 E-SMLC-initiated Location Information Transfer
Figure 8.3.3.3-1 shows the Location Information Transfer operations for the
E-CID method when the procedure is initiated by the E-SMLC.
Figure 8.3.3.3-1: E-SMLC-initiated Location Information Transfer Procedure.
(1) The E-SMLC sends a LPP Request Location Information message to the UE for
invocation of E-CID positioning. This request includes the E-CID measurements
requested by the E-SMLC and supported by the UE as listed in Table 8.3.2.2-1
together with a required response time.
(2) The UE performs the requested measurements and sends an LPP Provide
Location Information message to the E-SMLC before the Response Time provided
in step (1) elapsed. If the UE is unable to perform the requested
measurements, or if the Response Time provided in step 1 elapsed before any of
the requested measurements have been obtained, the UE returns any information
that can be provided in an LPP message of type Provide Location Information
which includes a cause indication for the not provided location information.
##### 8.3.3.3.2 UE-initiated Location Information Delivery procedure
Figure 8.3.3.3.2-1 shows the Location Information Delivery procedure
operations for the E-CID method when the procedure is initiated by the UE.
Figure 8.3.3.3.2-1: UE-initiated Location Information Delivery Procedure.
(1) The UE sends an LPP Provide Location Information message to the E-SMLC.
The Provide Location Information message may include any UE measurements
already available at the UE.
### 8.3.4 Uplink E-CID Positioning Procedures
The procedures described in this sub clause support E-CID related measurements
obtained by the eNodeB and provided to the E-SMLC using LPPa. The term
\"uplink\" is intended to indicate that from the E-SMLC point of view, the
involved measurements are provided by the eNodeB; this set of procedures might
also be considered as "eNB-assisted E-CID". An example of this uplink E-CID
positioning method is AoA+T~ADV~.
NOTE: Uplink E-CID positioning not using T~ADV~ type 1 does not require LCS
support in the UE and therefore, works also with legacy UEs (assuming that any
involved measurements delivered in RRC are supported by the legacy UEs).
#### 8.3.4.1 Position Capability Transfer Procedure
The position capability transfer procedure is not applicable to uplink E-CID
positioning not using T~ADV~ type 1. For uplink E-CID positioning using T~ADV~
type 1, the Capability Transfer procedure for E-CID positioning is described
in subclause 7.1.2.1.
#### 8.3.4.2 Assistance Data Delivery Procedure
The assistance data delivery procedure is not applicable to uplink E-CID
positioning.
#### 8.3.4.3 Position Measurement Procedure
The purpose of this procedure is to enable the E-SMLC to request position
measurements from the eNodeB.
##### 8.3.4.3.1 E-SMLC-initiated Position Measurement
Figure 8.3.4.3.1-1 shows the Position Measurement operations for the uplink
E-CID method when the procedure is initiated by the E-SMLC.
Figure 8.3.4.3.1-1: E-SMLC-initiated Position Measurement Procedure
(1) The E-SMLC sends an LPPa E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION REQUEST message to
the eNodeB. This request includes indication of E-CID measurements requested
and whether the result is expected only once or periodically.
(2) If the E-SMLC in step (1) requested UE measurements (i.e., RSRP, RSRQ
measurements), or if the eNodeB requires UE measurements associated with the
measurements requested by the E-SMLC (e.g., T~ADV~ type 1, which requires a UE
Tx-Rx time difference measurement to be delivered from the UE to the eNodeB),
the eNodeB may configure the UE to report the measurement information
requested as specified in [14].
(3) If the result is expected only once and the eNodeB initiates at least one
of the E-CID measurements as requested, the eNodeB sends an LPPa E-CID
MEASUREMENT INITIATION RESPONSE to the E-SMLC, which includes the obtained
E-CID measurements. If the result is expected periodically and the eNodeB is
able to initiate at least one of the E-CID measurements as requested, the
eNodeB sends an LPPa E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION RESPONSE to the E-SMLC,
which does not include any result. The eNodeB reports then the obtained
measurements by initiating the E-CID Measurement Report procedure, with the
requested periodicity. If the eNodeB is unable to initiate any of the
requested measurements as requested from the E-SMLC, or is unable to instigate
any of the required RRC procedures to obtain the requested measurements from
the UE, the eNodeB sends an LPPa E-CID MEASUREMENT INITIATION FAILURE message
providing the error reason. If the failure occurs during a periodic reporting,
the eNodeB sends an LPPa E-CID MEASUREMENT FAILURE INDICATION message.
## 8.4 Downlink Supporting Procedures
### 8.4.1 General
An E-SMLC is enabled to request downlink location related information from the
E-UTRAN in order to support downlink positioning. LPPa is employed for this
between the E-SMLC and each eNodeB reachable from the E-SMLC via any of the
MMEs with signalling access to the E-SMLC.
### 8.4.2 Location Related Information
The information that may be transferred from an eNodeB to the E-SMLC to
support downlink positioning is listed in table 8.4.2-1.
Table 8.4.2-1: Information that may be transferred from an eNodeB to the
E-SMLC for the Downlink Position Method Support
* * *
Information UE‑assisted Global cell IDs (ECGIs) of eNodeB Yes Physical cell
IDs (PCIs) of eNodeB Yes PRS Scheduling Yes If synchronized: SFN
initialization time of eNB relative to time reference Yes
* * *
### 8.4.3 Location Related Information Acquisition Procedure
The purpose of this procedure is to enable an E-SMLC to request downlink
location related information from an eNodeB.
##### 8.4.3.1 On Demand Procedure
Figure 8.4.3.1-1 shows the location information acquisition operation for the
downlink positioning method when information is needed on demand in real time.
Figure 8.4.3.1-1: E-SMLC-initiated On Demand Procedure for Location
Information Applicable to Downlink
(1) The E-SMLC sends an LPPa message of type Request Location Information to
the eNodeB. This request includes an indication of the downlink related
information requested.
(2) The eNodeB obtains the information requested in step 1 using previously
configured or stored information and/or real time measurements in the case of
a request for timing information where recent timing information is not
already available. The eNodeB then sends an LPPa message of type Provide
Location Information to the E-SMLC. If the eNodeB is unable to obtain any of
the requested information, the eNodeB sends an LPPa failure message, providing
the error reason.
##### 8.4.3.2 Triggered Procedure
Figure 8.4.3.2-1 shows the location information acquisition operation for the
downlink positioning method when information is needed on a triggered basis.
Figure 8.4.3.2-1: E-SMLC-initiated Triggered Procedure for Location
Information Applicable to Downlink
(1) The E-SMLC sends an LPPa message of type Request Location Information to
the eNodeB. This request includes an indication of the downlink related
information requested, triggering criteria for responses (e.g. periodic time
interval).
(2) In response to step 1, the eNodeB obtains the information requested using
already available information and/or real time measurements. The eNodeB then
sends an LPPa message of type Provide Location Information to the E-SMLC
carrying this information. If the eNodeB is unable to obtain the requested
information partly or completely, the eNodeB sends an LPPa failure message.
(3) When the trigger criteria provided in step 1 indicate the need for a new
report the eNodeB obtains the latest information. The eNodeB then sends a
further LPPa message of type Provide Location Information to the E-SMLC
containing this information If the eNodeB is unable to obtain the requested
information, partly or completely, the eNodeB sends an LPPa failure message.
## 8.5 Uplink positioning method
### 8.5.1 General
In the uplink positioning method, the UE position is estimated based on timing
measurements of uplink radio signals taken at different LMUs , along with
knowledge of the geographical coordinates of the LMUs. The time required for a
signal transmitted by a UE to reach a LMU is proportional to the length of the
transmission path between the UE and the LMU. A set of LMUs is tasked to
sample the UE signal at the same time.
The specific of any uplink positioning methods or techniques used to estimate
the UE's location from these measurements are beyond the scope of this
specification.
In order to obtain uplink measurements, the LMUs need to know the
characteristics of the SRS signal transmitted by the UE for the time period
required to calculate uplink measurement. These characteristics should be
static over the periodic transmission of SRS during the uplink measurements.
Hence, the E-SMLC will indicate to the serving eNodeB the need to direct the
UE to transmit SRS (see 5.2.2) signals for uplink positioning. It is up to the
eNodeB to make the final decision on resources to be assigned and to
communicate this configuration information back to the E-SMLC so that E-SMLC
can configure the LMUs. The eNB may decide (e.g., in case no resources are
available) to configure no resources for the UE and report the empty resource
configuration to the E-SMLC.
### 8.5.2 Transferred information
This subclause defines the information that may be transferred between E-SMLC
and eNodeB/LMU.
UTDOA measurements are performed on Sounding Reference Signals (SRS),
configured as periodic SRS involving multiple SRS transmissions.
NOTE: The tables in sections 8.5.2.1, 8.5.2.2, and 8.5.2.3 will be updated if
needed.
#### 8.5.2.1 Configuration Data that may be transferred from the eNodeB to the
E-SMLC
The following configuration data may be transferred from the eNodeB to the
E-SMLC:
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter Category | Parameters | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | General | PCI of PCell ^Note\ 1^ | | | | | | UL-EARFCN of PCell | | | | | | _Timing advance measurement for | | | the UE in PCell [36.214] | | | ^Note\ 3^_ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SRS | For each serving cell in which | | | SRS is configured ^Note2^: | | | | | | - PCI | | | | | | - UL-EARFCN | | | | | | - UL cyclic prefix | | | | | | - UL system bandwidth of the | | | cell | | | | | | - Cell-specific SRS bandwidth | | | configuration | | | _srs-BandwidthConfig_ [36.211] | | | | | | - UE-specific SRS bandwidth | | | configuration _srs-Bandwidth_ | | | [36.211] | | | | | | - number of antenna ports for | | | SRS transmission | | | _srs-AntennaPort_ [36.211] | | | | | | - frequency domain position | | | [36.211] | | | | | | - SRS frequency hopping | | | bandwidth configuration | | | [36.211] | | | | | | - SRS-Cyclic shift [36.211] | | | | | | - Transmission comb [36.211] | | | | | | - SRS configuration index | | | [36.213] | | | | | | - _MaxUpPt_ , used for TDD only | | | [36.211] | | | | | | - _Group-hopping-enabled_ | | | [36.211] | | | | | | _\- | | | deltaSS_ , parameter $\Delta_{ | | | \text{ss}}$ [36.211, 5.5.1.3], | | | included when SRS sequence | | | hopping is used [36.211, | | | 5.5.1.4] and not included | | | otherwise | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1: Indicating PCell should | | | not imply configuring SRS on the | | | PCell | | | | | | Note 2: Multiple serving cells | | | are possible for a UE configured | | | with CA | | | | | | Note 3: Used for search window | | | calculation | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 8.5.2.2 Configuration Data that may be transferred from the E-SMLC to LMU
The following configuration data may be transferred from the E-SMLC to LMU:
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter Category | Parameters | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | General | Search window | | | parameters ^Note\ 2^: | | | | | | - expected propagation delay, | | | T, corresponding to distance | | | between LMU and PCell, | | | | | | - delay uncertainty ∆ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | SRS | For each serving cell in which | | | SRS is configured and to be | | | measured by LMU ^Note1^: | | | | | | - PCI | | | | | | - UL-EARFCN | | | | | | - UL cyclic prefix | | | | | | - UL system bandwidth of the | | | cell | | | | | | - Cell-specific SRS bandwidth | | | configuration | | | _srs-BandwidthConfig_ [36.211] | | | | | | - UE-specific SRS bandwidth | | | configuration _srs-Bandwidth_ | | | [36.211] | | | | | | - number of antenna ports for | | | SRS transmission | | | _srs-AntennaPort_ [36.211] | | | | | | - frequency domain position | | | [36.211] | | | | | | - SRS frequency hopping | | | bandwidth configuration | | | [36.211] | | | | | | - SRS-Cyclic shift [36.211] | | | | | | - Transmission comb [36.211] | | | | | | - SRS configuration index | | | [36.213] | | | | | | - _MaxUpPt_ , used for TDD only | | | [36.211] | | | | | | - _Group-hopping-enabled_ | | | [36.211] | | | | | | _\- | | | deltaSS_ , parameter $\Delta_{ | | | \text{ss}}$ [36.211, 5.5.1.3], | | | included when SRS sequence | | | hopping is used [36.211, | | | 5.5.1.4] and not included | | | otherwise | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Note 1: Multiple serving cells | | | are possible for a UE configured | | | with CA; SRS may be transmitted | | | on the PCell and/or SCell(s). | | | | | | Note 2: Search window is | | | calculated by the LMU as | | | [T-∆,T+∆], where ∆ may be e.g. | | | the timing advance measurement | | | provided by eNodeB. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 8.5.2.3 Location Information that may be transferred from the LMU to
E-SMLC
The information that may be transferred from LMU to the E-SMLC is listed in
Table 8.5.2.3-1. The individual measurements will be defined in [20].
Table 8.5.2.3-1: Information that may be transferred from LMU to the E-SMLC
* * *
Information Measurements Uplink Measurement Results List for EUTRA UL Relative
Time of Arrival Physical cell IDs
* * *
### 8.5.3 Uplink Positioning Procedures
The procedures described in this subclause support the uplink positioning
method.
#### 8.5.3.1 Uplink Information Request and Delivery Procedure
The Information Request procedure for Uplink positioning is used by the E-SMLC
to obtain measurement results from the LMU which it uses to calculate a
position for the UE. To do this, it needs to first indicate to the serving eNB
the need to configure the UE to transmit SRS (see 5.2.2) signals and retrieve
target UE configuration data from the eNodeB.
Figure 8.5.3.1-1 shows the messaging between the E-SMLC, the LMU and the
serving eNodeB to perform this procedure.
Figure 8.5.3.1-1: Uplink information request procedure
1\. The E-SMLC sends an Information Request message indicating to the eNodeB
the need to invoke periodic SRS (see 5.2.2) for target UE. The E-SMLC may
provide the eNB with a number of SRS transmissions. The final decision of SRS
transmissions to be performed and whether to take into account this
information is entirely up to the eNB implementation.
2\. The eNodeB determines the resources to be allocated for the UE and sends
an Information Response to the E-SMLC that includes the allocated resources
and the associated parameters. The eNB may decide (e.g., in case no resources
are available) to configure no resources for the UE and report the empty
resource configuration to the E-SMLC.
3\. If in step 2 the eNodeB determines that resources will be allocated, the
eNodeB then allocates the resources to the target UE.
4\. The E-SMLC selects a set of LMUs to be used for the UTDOA positioning and
sends a measurement request with the SRS configuration to each one of them
(via SLm).
5\. LMUs report back to E-SMLC the uplink measurement reports.
#### 8.5.3.2 Uplink Positioning Information Update Procedure
This procedure is used to notify the E-SMLC of a change to the UE SRS
transmission configuration for one or more cells with respect to a previously
sent UTDOA INFORMATION RESPONSE message. If the configured SRS transmission
for the target UE has been modified, or if a handover of the target UE has
been triggered, the eNB uses the Uplink Positioning Information Update
procedure to inform the E-SMLC.
Figure 8.5.3.2-1: Uplink Positioning Information Update Procedure
1\. If the SRS configuration changes or if a handover of the target UE has
been triggered prior to the expected completion time of the previously
communicated SRS configuration, the eNB initiates the Uplink Positioning
Information Update Procedure. In the case of handover, the source eNB sends
the update message after deciding to perform handover execution for the UE.
2\. If the UE SRS transmission configuration has changed for one or more
cells, the eNB sends an Uplink Positioning Information Update message to the
E-SMLC carrying the UE SRS transmission configuration information for all
cells with SRS configured.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Definitions and Terms
[FFS; intended for definitions and terminology more extensive than the acronym
definitions.]
###### ## Annex B (informative): Use of LPP with SUPL
The design goal of LPP is to enable it to be used in user plane location
solutions such as OMA SUPL ([17], [18]) and this informative annex shows how
LPP can be used in SUPL 2.0.
# B.1 SUPL 2.0 Positioning Methods and Positioning Protocols
The following table shows how the 3GPP positioning protocols are supported in
SUPL 2.0.
Table B.1-1: SUPL support of positioning methods
+---------------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+-------+ | Positioning Protocol: | RRLP | RRC | LPP | | | | | | | | (GSM/GPRS/WCDMA/\ | (WCDMA) | (LTE) | | | LTE/WLAN/WiMAX) | | | +---------------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+-------+ | Positioning Method: | | | | +---------------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+-------+ | A-GPS (A-GANSS) SET Assisted | **P** | **P** | **P** | +---------------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+-------+ | A-GPS (A-GANSS) SET Based | **P** | **P** | **P** | +---------------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+-------+ | Autonomous GPS/GANSS | **P** | **P** | **P** | +---------------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+-------+ | Enhanced Cell ID | **P** | **P** | **P** | +---------------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+-------+ | Enhanced Observed Time Difference (E-OTD) | **P (GSM only)** | NA | NA | +---------------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+-------+ | Observed Time Difference of Arrival (OTDOA) | NA | **P** | **P** | +---------------------------------------------+-------------------+---------+-------+
Note: What is referred to in the SUPL specifications as "Enhanced Cell ID is a
UE-Assisted positioning mode where the neighbouring cell measurements are
carried at the SUPL layer (in the SUPL_POS_INIT for example). For LTE, the
ASN.1 container for this mode is defined as follows:
LteCellInformation ::= SEQUENCE {
refMCC INTEGER(0..999), -- Mobile Country Code
refMNC INTEGER(0..999), -- Mobile Network Code
refCI BIT STRING(SIZE (29)), -- LTE Cell-Id including the CSG bit
tA INTEGER(0..255) OPTIONAL, -- Timing Advance as per 3GPP TS 36.321
measResultListEUTRA MeasResultListEUTRA OPTIONAL,
...}
MeasResultListEUTRA ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxCellReport)) OF SEQUENCE {
physicalCellIdentity INTEGER(0..504),
globalCellIdentity BIT STRING(SIZE (29)) OPTIONAL, -- includes the CSG bit
earfcn-DL INTEGER(0.. 32767), -- as per 3GPP TS 36.331
measResultEUTRA SEQUENCE {
rsrpResult INTEGER (0..97) OPTIONAL, -- as per 3GPP TS 36.331
rsrqResult INTEGER (0..33) OPTIONAL, -- as per 3GPP TS 36.331
...}
}
The IE \"MeasResultListEUTRA\" mirrors the equivalent IE from the RRC
specification:
MeasResultEUTRA ::= SEQUENCE {
physCellId PhysCellId,
cgi-Info SEQUENCE {
cellGlobalId CellGlobalIdEUTRA,
trackingAreaCode TrackingAreaCode,
plmn-IdentityList PLMN-IdentityList2 OPTIONAL
} OPTIONAL,
measResult SEQUENCE {
rsrpResult RSRP-Range OPTIONAL,
rsrqResult RSRQ-Range OPTIONAL,
...
}
}
It should be noted that in addition to the container provided by SUPL itself,
any E-CID positioning methods defined within LPP proper can be supported in
SUPL, via tunneling LPP as shown in this annex (in the same manner that A-GNSS
and OTDOA are supported).
# B.2 SUPL 2.0 and LTE Architecure
This section describes interworking between the control-plane LCS
architecture, as defined in the main body of this specification, and SUPL 2.0.
The E-SMLC either includes or has an interface to an SPC function as defined
in OMA SUPL V2.0 ([17], [18]). It can thus provide a consistent set of
positioning methods for deployments utilizing both control-plane and user-
plane.
The interworking does not enable use of user-plane signalling for part of a
control-plane positioning session. The user plane in the interworking here is
not intended as an alternative path for control-plane signalling that would be
needed between UE and eNodeB for mechanisms such as A-GPS in a standalone
C-plane solution.
This interworking does enable the SPC to retrieve measurements (e.g., GNSS-to-
RAN time relations) from eNodeB.
The underlying architecture is shown in Figure B.2-1. Note that, for
interworking between user-plane and control-plane positioning, no new
interfaces need to be defined as compared to those in the figure, assuming the
SPC is either integrated in the E-SMLC or attached to it with a proprietary
interface.
Figure B.2-1: System architecture underlying positioning
The Lup and Llp interfaces shown in this architecture are part of the user-
plane solution only and are not required for control-plane positioning. The
SLs interface is required for both control-plane and user-plane positioning,
and needs to be capable of querying eNode Bs for information not related to a
UE connection.
SUPL, including the use of LPP over SUPL, takes place as part of the general
user-plane protocol stack shown in Figure B.2-2. SUPL occupies the application
layer in the stack, with LPP (or another positioning protocol) transported as
another layer above SUPL.
{width="6.322222222222222in" height="2.9381944444444446in"}
Figure B.2-2: User-plane protocol stack
# B.3 LPP session procedures using SUPL
This section indicates how an LPP session relates to the SUPL structure.
Figure B.3-1 shows how SUPL and LPP can be combined within a SUPL positioning
session. Step 4 here is repeated to exchange multiple LPP messages between the
SLP and SET.
Figure B.3-1: LPP session over SUPL
For positioning operations which take place entirely within an LPP session
(step 4 in Figure x.3), the flow of LPP messages can be the same as in the
control-plane version of LPP; the role of the (LPP) target is taken by the
target SET, and that of the (LPP) server by the SLP. An example LPP flow,
including exchange of capabilities, request and delivery of assistance data,
and request and delivery of positioning information, is shown in Figure B.3-2.
Figure B.3-2: LPP session over SUPL
# B.4 Procedures combining C-plane and U-plane operations
Since SUPL is by definition carried over the user plane, it is not really
applicable to operations terminating at the eNode B. Thus, in some cases where
information from the eNode B and UE needs to be merged for a positioning
operation, SUPL operations must take place in combination with control-plane
procedures over LPPa.
This situation could arise in the case of UE-assisted OTDOA, for example, in
which the SLP needs to provide the UE (in a SUPL session) with assistance data
supplied by various eNode Bs. This section uses a UE-assisted OTDOA
positioning operation as a running example.
Although the positioning server in this operation is of course the SLP, the
existence of the Llp interface means that the SLP can communicate freely with
the E-SMLC via the SPC. In particular, this means that assistance data that
were delivered to the E-SMLC via LPPa can be transferred over to the SLP for
delivery to the UE via LPP over SUPL.
Several ways to realise this general behaviour are possible. In the simplest
case, the E-SMLC could be supplied with the necessary assistance data in
advance, so that they can be supplied to the SLP without any actual LPPa
procedures taking place in real time (and possibly even before the positioning
transaction begins).
Figure B.4-1: Transfer of OTDOA assistance data to UE via SUPL
In the event that the E-SMLC does not have the required assistance data
available, however, it would need to retrieve them from appropriate eNode Bs
once it was made aware that they were needed.
Figure B.4-2: Transfer to the UE via SUPL of OTDOA assistance data not already
available at the E-SMLC
In both cases, it should be noted that the retrieval of the assistance data is
transparent to the UE and to the actual SUPL session. This model is parallel
to the approach used with A-GNSS, in which assistance data such as satellite
ephemerides are retrieved from sources entirely external to the cellular
network. For purposes of LPP over SUPL, the delivery of assistance data _to
the SLP_ can be looked on as an independent external process.
The delivery of assistance data to the UE, however, takes place through the
same mechanisms as control-plane LPP, transported through SUPL.
#