# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards for Signalling Transport to be
used across X2 interface. X2 interface is a logical interface between eNBs.
The present document describes how the X2-AP signalling messages are
transported over X2.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[3] IETF RFC 791(1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services Field
(DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[5] IETF RFC 4960 (2007-09): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**X2** : logical interface between two eNBs.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
eNB E-UTRAN Node B
DiffServ Differentiated Service
IANA Internet Assigned Number Authority
IP Internet Protocol
PPP Point to Point Protocol
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
# 4\. X2 signalling bearer
## 4.1 Function and protocol stack
X2 signalling bearer provides the following functions:
\- Provision of reliable transfer of X2-AP message over X2 interface.
\- Provision of networking and routeing function
\- Provision of redundancy in the signalling network
\- Support for flow control and congestion control
The protocol stack for X2 Signalling Bearer is shown in figure 4.1 and details
on each protocol are described in the following sections.
Figure 4.1: X2 signalling bearer protocol stack
The Transport Network Layer is based on IP transport, comprising SCTP on top
of IP.
# 5 Data link layer
The support of any suitable Data Link Layer protocol, e.g. PPP, Ethernet, etc.
, shall not be prevented.
# 6 IP layer
The eNB shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [2]) and/or IPv4 (IETF RFC 791 [3]).
The IP layer of X2 only supports point-to-point transmission for delivering
X2-AP message.
The eNB shall support the Diffserv Code Point marking as described in IETF RFC
2474 [4].
# 7 Transport layer
SCTP (IETF RFC 4960 [5]) shall be supported as the transport layer of X2
signalling bearer. The Payload Protocol Identifier assigned by IANA to be used
by SCTP for the application layer protocol X2AP is 27.
SCTP refers to the Stream Control Transmission Protocol developed by the
Sigtran working group of the IETF for the purpose of transporting various
signalling protocols over IP network.
There shall be only one SCTP association established between one eNB pair. An
eNB shall use the Destination Port Number value 36422 assigned by IANA to be
used for X2AP and this value shall also be used in Source Port Number by all
eNBs within a network.
NOTE: A multi-homed eNB implementation should provide the correspondent eNB
with the set of IP addresses supported during SCTP association establishment
unless the correspondent eNB already has this information e.g. through IP
address management.
An arbitrary eNB shall be able to initiate the INIT procedure towards another
eNB for establishing the SCTP association.
Within the SCTP association established between one eNB pair;
\- A single pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the sole use of
X2AP elementary procedures that utilize non UE-associated signalling.
\- At least one pair of stream identifiers shall be reserved for the sole use
of X2AP elementary procedures that utilize UE-associated signalling. However a
few pairs (i.e. more than one) should be reserved.
\- A single UE-associated signalling shall use one SCTP stream and the stream
should not be changed during the communication of the UE-associated
signalling.
Transport network redundancy may be achieved by SCTP multi-homing between two
end-points, of which one or both is assigned with multiple IP addresses. SCTP
end-points shall support a multi-homed remote SCTP end-point. For **SCTP
endpoint redundancy an INIT may be sent from either of the eNBs, at any time
for an already established SCTP association, which shall be handled as defined
in IETF RFC 4960 [5] in subclause 5.2.**
The SCTP congestion control may, using an implementation specific mechanism,
initiate higher layer protocols to reduce the signalling traffic at the source
and prioritise certain messages.
#