# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
To evaluate conformance of a particular implementation, it is necessary to
have a statement of which capabilities and options have been implemented for a
telecommunication specification. Such a statement is called an Implementation
Conformance Statement (ICS).
The present document is part 2 of a multi-part conformance test specification
for User Equipment (UE).
3GPP TS 36.523-1 [19]: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 1: Protocol conformance specification\".
3GPP TS 36.523-2: **\"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification; Part
2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma specification\". (th**
e present document)
3GPP TS 36.523-3 [20]: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA)
and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance specification;
Part 3: Abstract Test Suite (ATS)\".
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS)
proforma for 3^rd^ Generation User Equipment (UE), in compliance with the
relevant EPS (E-UTRA/EPC) requirements, and in accordance with the relevant
guidance given in ISO/IEC 9646-1 [24] and ISO/IEC 9646-7 [25].
The present document also specifies a recommended applicability statement for
the test cases included in TS 36.523-1 [19]. These applicability statements
are based on the features implemented in the UE.
Special conformance testing functions can be found in TS 36.509 [6] and the
common test environments are included in 3GPP TS 36.508 [18].
The present document is valid for UE complying with EPS (E-UTRA/EPC) and
implemented according to 3GPP releases starting from Release 8 up to the
Release indicated on the cover page of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document in the same Release as the present document.
[1] to [46] (void)
[46] 3GPP TS 36.523-2 Release 12: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Packet Core (EPC); User Equipment (UE) conformance
specification; Part 2: Implementation Conformance Statement (ICS) proforma
specification"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 Recommended Test Case Applicability
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.523-2
Release 12 [46].
###### ## Annex A: Void
#