# Foreword
This Technical Report (TR) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document is related to the technical report for physical layer aspect of
the study item "Coordinated Multi-Point Operation for LTE" [1]. The purpose of
this TR is to help TSG RAN WG1 to define the physical layer features and
enhancements under consideration to operate multi-point coordination and
assess the performance benefits of those features and the required
specification support for both the downlink and the uplink.
This activity involves the Radio Access work area of the 3GPP studies and has
impacts both on the Mobile Equipment and Access Network of the 3GPP systems.
This document is intended to gather all information and draw a conclusion on
way forward.
This document is a 'living' document, i.e. it is permanently updated and
presented to TSG-RAN meetings.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] RP-101425: \"Revised SID Proposal: Coordinated Multi-Point Operation for
LTE\".
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.913: "Requirements for Evolved UTRA (E-UTRA) and Evolved UTRAN
(E-UTRAN)
[4] R1-111944: "RAN1 Phase 1 CoMP results"
[5] 3GPP TR 36.814: "Further Advancements for E-UTRA, Physical Layer
Aspects**".**
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Void
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] apply.
# 4 Introduction
At the 3GPP TSG RAN #50 meeting, the Study Item description on "Coordinated
Multi-Point Operation for LTE" was agreed for Release 11 [1]. Coordinated
multi-point (CoMP) transmission and reception is considered for LTE-Advanced
Rel. 11 as a tool to improve the coverage of high data rates, the cell-edge
throughput, and also to increase system throughput. The study item aims at
evaluating the performance benefits and the standardization impact of enhanced
CoMP operation. The detailed objectives are as follows.
  * Consider whether further refinements to the simulation assumptions > from the agreements reached during the LTE-Advanced study item are > needed to align with potential deployment scenarios, considering > possible antenna configurations, data traffic model, network > synchronization accuracy, and coordination capability including > centralized or distributed scheduler assumption and their message > exchange data rate and latency
  * Evaluate the performance benefits of CoMP operation and the required specification support for the following scenarios:
    * Inter- and intra-site CoMP in homogeneous macro networks
    * Coordination between a cell(s) and the distributed RRHs connected to the cell(s): negligible latency is assumed over the interface between a cell(s) and the RRHs connected to the cell(s). The RRHs may or may not form separate cells from the cell to which they are connected. The coordination between amongst different
    * Coordination between different cell layers and within a cell layer in heterogeneous networks: coordination is performed between a macro cell(s) and small cells in the coverage of the macro cell(s). The small cells may be non-uniformly distributed in the coverage of a macro cell(s).
  * Identify potential enhancements for DL-CoMP operation (relating to > JP and/or CB/CS) in the following areas:
    * Control signalling and procedures on Uu and network internal interfaces
    * UE feedback of downlink channel state information for multiple cells configured in the CoMP operation.
    * Uplink sounding
  * Identify potential standardization impact for UL-CoMP operation and evaluate its performance benefit.
This technical report covers the physical-layer aspects of these technology
components.
# 5 Downlink coordinated multiple point transmission
Downlink coordinated multi-point transmission implies dynamic coordination
among multiple geographically separated transmission points.
### 5.1 Terminology and definitions
### 5.1.1 General terminology
  * **Point: Set of geographically co-located transmit antennas. Note > that sectors of the same site correspond to different points.**
### 5.1.2 CoMP scenarios
The following scenarios were selected for the evaluation of DL and UL CoMP:
  * **Scenario 1: Homogeneous network with intra-site CoMP, as illustrated in Figure A.1-1**
  * **Scenario 2: Homogeneous network with high Tx power RRHs, as illustrated in Figure A.1-2**
  * **Scenario 3: Heterogeneous network with low power RRHs within the > macrocell coverage where the transmission/reception points created > by the RRHs have different cell IDs as the macro cell as > illustrated in Figure A.1-3.**
**Scenario 4: Heterogeneous network with low power RRHs within the macrocell
coverage where the transmission/reception points created by the RRHs have the
same cell IDs as the macro cell as illustrated in Figure A.1-4.**
### 5.1.2A CoMP deployment
For intra-eNB CoMP with ideal backhaul, two deployment cases can be considered
as follow:
  * **Case A: Macro/high power RRH + Macro/high power RRH CoMP scenario > (Scenario 1/2)**
    * **The macro/high power RRH cell-edge user may be configured as CoMP mode.**
  * **Case B: Macro + low power RRH CoMP scenario (Scenario 3/4)**
    * **The Macro or low power RRH user may be configured as CoMP mode.**
In Case A, typically a small propagation delay difference between CoMP TPs
could be assumed since CoMP would work for cell-edge user mainly thus similar
propagation distances to different TPs can be assumed. On Case B, however, a
larger propagation delay difference should be assumed due to propagation
distance difference e.g. when low power RRH is in Macro cell edge and
operating as a serving cell as shown in Figure 5.1-1.
{width="3.191666666666667in" height="1.4416666666666667in"}
Figure 5.1-1 CoMP deployment scenario (low power RRH cell are allocated to
macro cell edge)
Timing offset at the UE, which is defined as the observed timing of TP
transmitting PDSCH with respect to the serving cell, can be derived for DL
CoMP as follows:
Timing offset = difference of BS Timing Alignment Errors + difference of
Propagation delays
where the propagation delay difference can be computed as Cell radius / The
speed of light. In some cases, channel impact e.g. shadow fading may also
impact the TP selection for CoMP and hence impact the timing offset observed
by the UE.
In the context of Rel-11 DL CoMP, UE performance requirements are defined by
assuming a typical timing offset in the range [-0.5, 2] usec. During the
discussion, analysis also shows that offsets out of the tested range can also
occur due to various deployed scenario, channel status, etc. CoMP deployment
should take into considerations typical timing offset range and sites distance
which impact the propagation delay difference.
As an example, in case B (ISD = 500 m, cell radius = 289 m), the maximum
\|difference of the propagation delays\| = 0.96us (as defined in equation
(1)), Depending on network implementation, the total timing offset at the UE
can still be within the tested range.
### 5.1.3 CoMP categories
**Each CoMP scheme may be categorized into one of the following categories.**
  * **Joint Processing (JP): Data for a UE is available at more than one > point in the CoMP cooperating set (definition below) for a > time-frequency resource**
    * Joint Transmission (JT): Simultaneous data transmission from > multiple points (part of or entire CoMP cooperating set) to a > single UE or multiple UEs in a time-frequency resource
```{=html}
``` \- Data to a UE is simultaneously transmitted from _multiple_ points, >
e.g. to (coherently or non-coherently) improve the received signal > quality
and/or data throughput
    -   Dynamic point selection (DPS)/muting: Data transmission from one
        > point (within the CoMP cooperating set) in a time-frequency
        > resource. The transmitting/muting point may change from one
        > subframe to another including varying over the RB pairs within
        > a subframe. Data is available simultaneously at multiple
        > points.
  * This includes Dynamic cell selection (DCS)
    * DPS may be combined with JT in which case multiple points can be > selected for data transmission in the time-frequency resource.
```{=html}
``` \- **Coordinated Scheduling/Beamforming (CS/CB): Data for an UE is only >
available at and transmitted from one point in the CoMP > cooperating set (DL
data transmission is done from that point) for > a time-frequency resource but
user scheduling/beamforming > decisions are made with coordination among
points corresponding to > the CoMP cooperating set. The transmitting points
are chosen > semi-statically**
    -   Semi-static point selection (SSPS): Transmission to a specific
        > UE from one point at a time. The transmitting point may only
        > change in a semi-static manner
  * **Muting may be applied in dynamic and semi-static manner with > transmission schemes above.**
  * **Hybrid category of JP and CS/CB may be possible.**
    * Data for a UE may be available only in a subset of points in the > CoMP cooperating set for a time-frequency resource but user > scheduling/beamforming decisions are made with coordination > among points corresponding to the CoMP cooperating set. For > example, some points in the cooperating set may transmit data > to the target UE according to JP while other points in the > cooperating set may perform CS/CB.
### 5.1.4 CoMP sets
  * **CoMP cooperating set**
    * Set of (geographically separated) points directly and/or > indirectly participating in data transmission to a UE in a > time-frequency resource. Note that this set may or may not be > transparent to the UE. The CoMP cooperating set defines the > coordination area in Annex A.
```{=html}
``` \- Direct participation: point(s) actually transmitting data in the >
time-frequency resource
  * Indirect participation: candidate point(s) for data transmission > that do not transmit data but contribute in making decisions on > the user scheduling/beamforming in the time-frequency resource.
    * CoMP transmission point(s): point or set of points transmitting > data to a UE
  * CoMP transmission point(s) is (are) a subset of the CoMP cooperating > set
  * For JT, CoMP transmission points may include multiple points in the > CoMP cooperating set at each subframe for a certain frequency > resource.
  * For CS/CB, DPS, SSPS, a single point in the CoMP cooperating set is > the CoMP transmission point at each subframe for a certain > frequency resource.
    * For SSPS, this CoMP transmission point can change > semi-statically within the CoMP cooperating set.
```{=html}
``` \- **CoMP measurement set: set of points about which channel >
state/statistical information related to their link to the UE is > measured
and/or reported as discussed in clause 5.2.2**
    -   The UE reports may down-select points for which actual feedback
        > information is transmitted
    -   How to measure interference needs to be considered.
  * **RRM measurement set: The set of cells for which the RRM > measurements are performed (already in Rel-8). Additional RRM > measurement methods can be considered e.g. in order to separate > different points belonging to the same logical cell entity or in > order to select the CoMP measurement set.**
### 5.2 Radio interface aspects
DL CoMP should include the possibility of coordination between different
points and/or cells. From a radio-interface perspective, there is no
difference for the UE if the cells belong to the same eNodeB or different
eNodeBs. If inter-eNodeB coordination is supported, information needs to be
signalled between eNodeBs.
Potential impact on the radio-interface specifications is foreseen in mainly
four areas:
  * **Channel state information feedback from the UE and measurement > mechanisms at the UE**
    * Reporting dynamic channel conditions between points in the CoMP > measurement set and the UE
```{=html}
``` \- For TDD, channel reciprocity may be exploited
    -   Reporting to facilitate the decision on the set of participating
        > transmission points
  * For TDD, channel reciprocity may be exploited
```{=html}
``` \- Preprocessing schemes
    -   Coordination required prior to transmission of the signal over
        > the multiple transmission points
  * Reference signal design
    * Depending on the transmission scheme, specification of > additional reference signals may be required e.g. reference > signals for interference measurements
  * Control signalling design
    * Downlink control signalling to support the transmission scheme
```{=html}
``` \- Enhanced PDCCH and other DL control signalling performance >
improvements
New forms of feedback and signalling may be needed to support CoMP that are,
for example, configured by RRC for a given UE.
Part of features and procedures defined in Rel-10 specification related to
carrier aggregation and resource-restricted measurements may be adapted for
standardizing CoMP related downlink signalling, CSI measurement/feedback and
CoMP set management in the specification.
### 5.2.1 DL signalling support for DL CoMP
The following downlink control signalling may be required to support DL CoMP
schemes:
  * Downlink control signalling to support the transmission scheme
    * Semi-static or dynamic signalling of relevant parameters, e.g.
```{=html}
``` \- CoMP sets
  * CSI-RS configurations and zero-power CSI-RS configurations for CoMP > measurement set
  * Configurations if new RS is applicable for CoMP measurement
  * Transmission modes
  * Reporting modes including related uplink channel configuration
  * Control signaling to resolve problems related to different CRS > frequency shifts in different cells and the PDSCH/CRS collision
    * For efficient support of CoMP JP
  * Control signalling to resolve problems related to different PDCCH > region sizes in different cells
    * For efficient support of CoMP JP
  * Antenna ports and related scrambling sequences
  * Cross point scheduling
    * A UE receives a PDSCH assignment from one point and receives the > PDSCH from at least one other point.
```{=html}
``` \- Enhanced PDCCH and other control channel performance improvements, e,g
    -   E-PDCCH region to flexibly adjust (and possibly increase) the
        > number of resources available for the control channel
```{=html}
``` \- More REs can be assigned for control channels within a subframe. >
PDSCH resources could be re-assigned as E-PDCCH resources.
    -   The additional resource allocated could be either a plurality of
        > OFDM symbols, and/or a plurality of RBs in the legacy PDSCH
        > region.
```{=html}
``` \- How to multiplex UEs on the newly allocated E-PDCCH region needs
further investigation.
  * Integration of operational aspects with legacy control and with enhanced control needs further investigation.
    * MIMO/CoMP transmission to enhance the spectral efficiency of the > PDCCH transmission in legacy PDCCH region and/or E-PDCCH > region
```{=html}
``` \- A part(s) of R-PDCCH design could be reused for a certain >
component(s) of Release-11 E-PDCCH.
    -   Compact DCI format to reduce signaling overhead
    -   Other enhancements including e.g. the use of higher order of
        > modulation can be considered
### 5.2.2 Channel state information feedback for DL CoMP
The three main categories of CoMP feedback mechanisms have been identified to
be:
  * Explicit channel state/statistical information feedback
    * Channel as observed by the receiver, without assuming any > transmission or receiver processing
  * Implicit channel state/statistical information feedback
    * Feedback of a transmission format (e.g. CQI/PMI/RI) derived > using hypotheses of different transmission and/or reception > processing
  * UE transmission of SRS can be used for CSI estimation at eNB exploiting channel reciprocity.
Combinations of all or a subset of the above three mechanisms are possible in
the form of periodic or aperiodic reports.
For the CoMP schemes that require feedback, individual per-point feedback with
or without complementary inter-point feedback is considered as baseline.
Aggregated CoMP feedback is not precluded.
For the CoMP categories described in clause 5.1.3, different feedback schemes
may be applicable for different CoMP categories, or a single feedback scheme
may enable support of more than one CoMP categories.
  * CS/CB: CS/CB necessitates CSI feedback from multiple points. > Inter-point phase information is not required. It is possible to > configure multiple CSI feedback instances.
  * JT: As part of the CSI feedback from multiple points, coherent JT > requires inter-point phase information which is a new > specification aspect that needs to be defined. Additional > information such as inter-point amplitude information, which is > another new specification aspect, may be needed. Similar to CS/CB, > enhancements or modifications to the existing CSI reporting > procedures are not precluded.
  * DPS: Dynamic point selection requires similar CSI feedback as CS/CB > in the sense that no inter-point phase information is required > (some additional CQI report targeting other points may be needed). > Similarly to the other schemes, optimizations to existing CSI > reporting procedures are not precluded. DPS may require UE > recommendation on selected point(s)
A common feedback framework may be considered for downlink CoMP, i.e, JT can
be supported with CS/CB feedback with additional feedback of inter-point
properties; DPS/SSPS can be supported as a special case of data availability
of JT or CS/CB.
The UE CoMP feedback reports may contain CSI relative to one or more
individual points in the CoMP measurement set. What points the UE reports are
received at is a network implementation issue. The exchange of feedback
reports between individual points, subject to backhaul limitations when
applicable, is not precluded.
Feedback support for CoMP does not have to be confined to payload sizes
currently supported by PUCCH operation.
The following possibilities should be studied for the "container" of the DL
CoMP feedback:
  * Expand the supported PUCCH payload sizes
  * Use periodic/aperiodic reports on PUSCH
  * Other enhancements such as e.g. increased PUCCH reporting instances
UE procedures for feedback reporting may also require changes. Especially it
will need to be considered whether the 4 ms feedback processing time
requirement is reasonable in light of any specified CoMP feedback techniques.
#### 5.2.2.1 Explicit feedback
This clause lists different forms of explicit feedback in support of DL CoMP.
They are all characterized by having a channel part and a noise-and-
interference part.
**Channel part** :
  * For each point in the UE's measurement set that is reported in a > given subframe, one or several channel properties are reported
  * Channel properties include (but are not limited to) the following > ('i' is the point index):
    * Channel matrix (Hi) -- short term (instantaneous)
```{=html}
``` \- Full matrix Hi, or
  * Main eigen component(s) of Hi
    * Transmit channel covariance (Ri), where Ri = (sum{Hij†Hij})/J, > j=0,1,2,...,J-1, ('j' spans over time and/or frequency)
  * Full matrix Ri, or
  * Main eigen component(s) of Ri
    * Inter-point channel properties may also be reported
**Noise-and interference part** , e.g.,
  * Interference outside
    * The points reported by the UE
    * CoMP transmission points
  * Total receive power (Io) or total received signal covariance matrix
    * Covariance matrix of the noise-and-interference
    * Full matrix, or
    * Main eigen component(s)
It is noted that in case of explicit feedback, in addition to the actual
feedback schemes there is also expected to be specification impact from
revising current feedback testing methodology assumed by RAN4, which is
developed for implicit feedback.
#### 5.2.2.2 Implicit feedback
There are hypotheses at the UE and the feedback is based on one or a
combination of two or more of the followings, e.g.:
  * Single vs. Multi user MIMO
  * Single cell/point vs. coordinated transmission
    * Within coordinated transmission: Single point (CS/CB) vs. > multi-point (JP) transmission
```{=html}
``` \- Within JP CoMP:
    -   Subsets of transmission points or subsets of reported points in
        > the CoMP measurement set (JT)
    -   CoMP transmission point(s) (DPS)
```{=html}
``` \- Transmit precoder (i.e. tx weights)
    -   JT: multiple single-point PMI and inter-point amplitude and/or
        > phase information or multi-point aggregated PMI capturing
        > coherent or non-coherent channel across reported points
    -   CS/CB and DPS: multiple single-point or multiple point PMIs
        > capturing channel from the reported point(s) to the UE
    -   Other types of feedbacks may be considered, e.g.
```{=html}
``` \- PMI with finer quantization granularity than Rel. 8-10 PMI
    -   Wideband and subband based PMI feedback can be considered
```{=html}
``` \- Receive processing (i.e. rx weights)
  * Interference based on particular tx/rx processing
  * CQI feedback
    * CQI only accounting for interference outside the CoMP > measurement sets or relative received power between CoMP > transmission points
    * Wideband and subband based CQI feedback may be considered
    * CQI that accounts for post-CoMP channel quality under a certain > CoMP scheme assumption (e.g., interfering cell/point precoding > or muting)
There may be a need for the UE to convey to the network the hypothesis or
hypotheses used (explicit signalling of hypothesis to eNB). And/or, there may
be a semi-static hypothesis configuration e.g. grouping of hypotheses
(explicit signalling of hypothesis to the UE). And/or, precoded RS may be used
to allow UE to generate refined CQI/RI feedback
#### 5.2.2.3 SRS
This clause considers issues relating to UE transmission of SRS in support of
DL CoMP. UE transmission of SRS can be used for CSI estimation at multiple
cells/points exploiting channel reciprocity. Enhanced SRS schemes may be
considered for new scenarios and transmission mechanisms, including
enhancement of multi-cell/point orthogonality, SRS capacity and SRS power
control.
The associated CQI feedback(s) for the transmission point(s) in the CoMP
measurement set may be needed, when SRS transmission for CSI feedback is used
as a tool for transmission points to gather other CSI information. For CQI,
Rel-10 CQI feedback (TxD based) may be reused, while other methods are not
precluded. Also inter-point channel properties feedback is not precluded.
### 5.2.3 Decision on CoMP sets
_The management of the CoMP measurement set may be based on UL SRS/DMRS/PUCCH
transmission and/or DL RRM measurements (e.g., RSRP/RSRQ information).
Measurement based on CRS and/or CSI-RS may be considered._
_The CoMP cooperating set and the transmission points would be determined in
the higher layers based on the CSI measurement of points included in the CoMP
measurement set. Depending on the level of coordination, the cooperating set
could be determined at the RRC level or at the MAC scheduler level._
### 5.2.4 DL Reference signal design
Further consideration on reference signal design can be in the following
areas:
  * Non-zero-power and zero-power CSI-RS have been introduced in Rel-10 > for CSI measurement and reporting perspectives. CSI-RS may be > re-used for CoMP to identify and measure the downlink channel > status of multiple transmission points. Points can be allocated > orthogonal resources avoiding mutual interference between the > CSI-RS transmissions. New types of CSI-RS configurations may be > considered to facilitate CoMP CSI measurements. Enhancements to > CSI-RS for improved interference and/or timing estimation are not > precluded.
  * The reference signals for interference measurements for DL CoMP > feedback may be considered.
  * Enhancement of existing DMRS may be considered, e.g.
    * DMRS orthogonality enhancement
  * Consider performance requirements on CSI-RS and DM-RS to ensure > flexible mapping of antenna ports to transmission points.
## 5.3 Overhead in support of DL CoMP
Compared to Rel. 10,
  * DL overhead increase due to multiple CSI-RS and/or muting patterns > may be expected.
  * UL overhead increase due to CSI measurement related to multiple > points may be expected,
  * and/or UL overhead increase due to SRS transmissions related to > multiple points may be expected.
Most of the CoMP schemes considered in this study rely on TM9 for PDSCH
transmission for UEs beyond Rel-10. When comparing with baseline schemes,
especially ones that are not based on TM9, the additional overhead of DM-RS
and CSI-RS should be taken into account.
Due to the presence of CSI-RS REs in an RB, the puncturing of PDSCH
transmissions may lead to some performance degradation for Release 8 and 9
UEs. Scheduling restrictions may be applied to avoid performance degradations,
## 5.4 Receiver implementation consideration aspects
Several MMSE receiver implementations are possible, depending on the degree of
available interference information at the UE. It is generally understood that
cell edge performance is improved when directional structure of the
interference information is available at the receiver.
Coordinated transmission in support of interference aware receivers may
improve the UE interference estimation possibilities, leading to further
improved cell edge performance. The signalling needed for such coordinated
transmission techniques may require specification changes.
## 5.5 Inter/Intra-site backhauling support for downlink CoMP
In all scenarios described in Clause 5.1.2, points may be viewed as belonging
to the same eNB or different eNBs. Those scenarios encompass different
deployment architectures, depending on backhaul quality between points. Two
cases are being considered:
  * Point-to-point fiber (zero latency and infinite capacity backhaul) > applicable to scenarios 2, 3, 4.
  * Higher latency and limited capacity backhaul applicable to scenarios > 2 and 3. Backhaul links between macro eNodeBs may be used. > Backhauling links may include in-band relays, out-of-band relays > or a combination.
Depending on backhaul technology, latency and capacity may be asymmetric in
the two directions connecting two points.
For scenarios 2 and 3 described in Clause 5.1.2, points may also belong to
different eNBs. In this case, backhaul information exchanges may require some
standardization support. Note that the case of a higher latency and limited
capacity backhaul is most relevant for this deployment architecture.
In all scenarios, it may be beneficial to leverage existing backhaul
connections among macro eNBs (e.g., based on the X2 interface). This has the
potential to mitigate interference conditions at the boundaries of RRH
coordination areas.
# 6 Uplink coordinated multiple point reception
Coordinated multi-point reception implies coordination among multiple,
geographically separated points. Uplink CoMP reception can involve joint
reception (JR) of the transmitted signal at multiple reception points and/or
coordinated scheduling (CS) decisions among points to control interference and
improve coverage.
## 6.1 Terminology and definitions
### 6.1.1 General terminology
_See clause 5.1.1._
### 6.1.2 CoMP scenarios
_See clause 5.1.2._
### 6.1.3 CoMP categories
Each CoMP scheme may be categorized into one of the following categories.
  * Joint Reception (JR): PUSCH transmitted by the UE is received > jointly at multiple points (part of or entire CoMP cooperating > set) at a time, e.g., to improve the received signal quality
  * Coordinated Scheduling and Beamforming (CS/CB): user scheduling and > precoding selection decisions are made with coordination among > points corresponding to the CoMP cooperating set. Data is intended > for one point only.
### 6.1.4 CoMP sets
  * CoMP cooperating set
    * Set of (geographically separated) points that may be intended > for data reception from a UE.
    * CoMP reception point(s): point or set of points receiving data > from a UE
```{=html}
``` \- CoMP reception point(s) is (are) a subset of the CoMP cooperating > set
  * For JR, CoMP reception points may include multiple points in the > CoMP cooperating set at each subframe for a certain frequency > resource.
  * For CS/CB, a single point in the CoMP cooperating set is the CoMP > reception point at each subframe for a certain frequency resource.
## 6.2 Radio interface aspects
UL CoMP should include the possibility of coordination between different RX
points/cells for reception of data and reference signals from UEs. If inter-
eNodeB coordination is supported, information needs to be signalled between
the eNodeBs.
The eNodeB aspects and UE aspects of reception point selection need to be
discussed.
Enhancements to PUCCH, e.g., pseudo orthogonality (inter-cell and intra-cell
for scenario 4) and/or inter-cell orthogonality, may be considered to
  * improve resource utilization efficiency in the UL CoMP operation
  * avoid high inter-cell/point interference
Enhancements to the DM-RS (applicable to both PUCCH and PUSCH) and SRS design,
e.g., pseudo orthogonality (inter-cell and intra-cell for scenario 4) and/or
inter-cell orthogonality, may be considered to
  * increase the DM-RS and SRS capacity
  * improve the DM-RS and SRS reception
Enhancements to the uplink power control for open-loop as well as closed-loop
operation may be considered including e.g.
  * enhancement to support selection of intended reception point(s)
    * potentially take into account new interference environment
  * path-loss determination and signalling that targets intended > reception point(s)
    * reception point(s) may vary for different uplink physical > channels
To ensure accurate reception of SRS at the coordinating points, further
enhancements to the power control scheme for SRS may be considered.Enhancement
for the uplink timing advance control to support efficient JR CoMP operation
may be considered
  * including possible enhancement on RACH transmission
In addition, coexistence with legacy UEs should be considered in these UL CoMP
enhancements.
## 6.3 Overhead in support of UL CoMP
System SRS and control channel overhead may be increased if additional SRS and
control channel resources are used to support the UL CoMP operation, which may
require higher SRS and control channel capacity.
## 6.4 Inter/Intra-site backhauling support for uplink CoMP
See clause 5.5.
# 7 Evaluation of coordinated multiple point transmission/reception
RAN1 has performed extensive evaluations of CoMP techniques as part of the
CoMP study item. Clause 7.1 to 7.4 present the evaluation results obtained by
various sources in the following four agreed deployment scenarios (details
provided in Appendix A.1):
  * Scenario 1: Homogeneous network with intra-site CoMP
  * Scenario 2: Homogeneous network with high Tx power RRHs
  * Scenario 3: Heterogeneous network with low power RRHs within the > macrocell coverage where transmission/reception points created by > the RRHs have different cell IDs as the macro cell
  * Scenario 4: Heterogeneous network with low power RRHs within the > macrocell coverage where the transmission/reception points created > by the RRHs have the same cell IDs as the macro cell
In scenarios 1 and 2, simulation results from a total of 20 sources have been
collected [4]. In scenarios 3 and 4, simulation results from a total of 25
sources have been collected [5].
Even though there is a detailed evaluation methodology (Appendix A.1) that was
used by all sources in the evaluation campaign, we acknowledge that
performance differences among sources exist and could be explained by the fact
that different sources may use different assumptions on e.g. the channel
estimation error modelling , channel reciprocity modelling, the feedback/SRS
mechanisms, the scheduler, and the receiver. Detailed simulation assumptions
used by a specific source can be obtained by looking at the contribution
number referred in [4].
We also note that the evaluation assumptions used in this study item are
different from the one used in [1]. For instance, contrary to [1] where the
receiver was based on IRC, the baseline receiver for this study item is a
simplified MMSE receiver (see Appendix A.1).
Absolute performance and relative performance gain are provided.
In the full buffer evaluations of phase 1, cell average spectral efficiency
(denoted as "cell avg") [bits/s/Hz/cell] and 5% user spectral efficiency
(denoted as "Cell-edge") [bits/s/Hz/user] are provided.
In the non-full buffer evaluations of phase 1, served cell spectral efficiency
(denoted as "cell avg") [bits/s/Hz/cell], 5% user spectral efficiency (denoted
as "5% cell-edge") [bits/s/Hz/user] and mean user spectral efficiency (denoted
as "mean user") [bits/s/Hz/user] are provided.
\- Mean, 5%, user spectral efficiency
\- User spectral efficiency = amount of data (file size) / time needed to
download data / Bandwidth
\- time needed to download data starts when the packet is received in the
transmit buffer, and ends when the last bit of the packet is correctly
delivered to the receiver
\- Served cell spectral efficiency
\- Served cell spectral efficiency = total amount of data for all users /
total amount of observation time / number of cells / Bandwidth
In the full buffer evaluation of phase 2, macro cell area average spectral
efficiency [bits/s/Hz] and 5% worst user spectral efficiency [bits/s/Hz/user]
are provided.
In the non-full buffer evaluation of phase 2, macro cell area average spectral
efficiency [bits/s/Hz], 5% worst user spectral efficiency [bits/s/Hz/user],
and mean user spectral efficiency [bits/Hz/user] are provided.
For phase 1, in order to provide the reader with some observations on the
range of gains achievable by CoMP over single-cell processing, relative
performance gains are measured in terms of average relative gain, smallest
relative gain and largest relative gain. For a given source i, the relative
gain A~i~ vs. B~i~ is defined as A~i~/B~i~-1. The average relative gain is
obtained by averaging the relative gain among multiple sources. The number of
sources used for averaging is indicated in the following tables under the
label "number of sources". The smallest (resp. largest) relative gain is the
relative gain corresponding to the minimum (resp. maximum) value among the
relative gains of all sources available in the considered simulation set-up.
For phase 2, in order to provide the reader with some observations on the
range of gains achievable by CoMP over non-CoMP processing, relative
performance gains are measured in terms of average relative gain.
It is important to note that the impact of CoMP on the legacy UEs is not
addressed in those evaluations.
The simulation results for Scenarios 1, 2, 3, and 4 assume the following
overhead computation:
\- For DL FDD: 6 MBSFN subframes
\- 4 subframes out of 10 have an overhead of 3OFDM symbols (PDCCH) + 2CRS
ports outside PDCCH region + DMRS
\- 6 subframes out of 10 have an overhead of 2OFDM symbols for PDCCH + DMRS.
\- For DL TDD: configuration 1 with 2 MBSFN subframes
Baseline asymmetry during 5 subframes period:
2 full DL subframes (1 MBSFN and 1 non-MBSFN),
Special subframe: DwPTS 11symbol, GP 1 symbol, UpPTS 2 symbol,
2 full UL subframes
\- For UL, assume 4RB/10MHz PUCCH overhead + DMRS + SRS
Additional downlink overhead assumptions relative to zero-power and non-zero
power CSI-RS, as well as the number of DMRS, may be assumed by different
sources.
## 7.1 Scenario 1: Homogeneous network with intra-site CoMP
Performance evaluation for scenario 1 (intra-site 3-cells coordination) is
provided in Clause 7.1.1 for 3GPP case 1 channel model and 7.1.2 for ITU
channel model. In both clauses, cross-polarized antenna deployment and ULA
deployment are considered. As detailed in the Appendix A.1, 3GPP case 1 is
considered as the baseline channel model and dual-polarized antenna
deployments have higher priority over ULA deployments.
### 7.1.1 3GPP Case1 (3GPP spatial channel model)
#### 7.1.1.1 FDD, Downlink
Table 7.1.1.1-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.1-1: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP, cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.280555555555556in" height="3.2680555555555557in"}
Table 7.1.1.1-2 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.1-2: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="6.280555555555556in" height="1.78125in"}
Table 7.1.1.1-3 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel
model.
Table 7.1.1.1-3: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.470833333333333in" height="2.747916666666667in"}
Table 7.1.1.1-4 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.1-4: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="4.060416666666667in" height="2.9680555555555554in"}
Table 7.1.1.1-5 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.1-5: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="3.842361111111111in" height="1.4840277777777777in"}
Table 7.1.1.1-6 shows the relative gain of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and
full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.1-6: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="4.225in" height="2.1618055555555555in"}
Table 7.1.1.1-7 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for 3GPP
case 1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.1-7: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 1 with non-full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.189583333333333in" height="2.35625in"}
Table 7.1.1.1-8 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for 3GPP
case 1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.1-8: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 1 with non-full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.9784722222222224in" height="4.528472222222222in"}
Table 7.1.1.1-9 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel
model.
Table 7.1.1.1-9: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 1 with non-
full buffer [FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.299305555555556in" height="3.1868055555555554in"}
#### 7.1.1.2 TDD, Downlink
Table 7.1.1.2-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.2-1: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 1 with full buffer
[TDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.4340277777777777in" height="2.392361111111111in"}
Table 7.1.1.2-2 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.2-2: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 1 with full buffer
[TDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.172916666666667in" height="2.438888888888889in"}
Table 7.1.1.2-3 shows the relative gain of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel
model.
Table 7.1.1.2-3: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [TDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="4.954166666666667in" height="2.5375in"}
Table 7.1.1.2-4 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.2-4: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 1 with full buffer
[TDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="3.2270833333333333in" height="2.2in"}
Table 7.1.1.2-5 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and
full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.2-5: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [TDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="4.982638888888889in" height="1.5479166666666666in"}
#### 7.1.1.3 Uplink
Table 7.1.1.3-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JR schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Uplink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.3-1: Absolute performance of JR in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.2444444444444445in" height="2.6173611111111112in"}
Table 7.1.1.3-2 shows the relative gain of CoMP JR schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 FDD Uplink with closely--spaced cross-polarized antenna
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.3-2: Relative performance gain of UL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.180555555555555in" height="1.2770833333333333in"}
Table 7.1.1.3-3 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JR schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Uplink with closely--spaced ULA
antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel
model.
Table 7.1.1.3-3: Absolute performance of JR in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="2.147222222222222in" height="1.4986111111111111in"}
Table 7.1.1.3-4 shows the relative gains of CoMP JR schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 FDD Uplink with closely--spaced ULA antenna deployment
and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.1.1.3-4: Relative performance gain of UL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="4.692361111111111in" height="1.1715277777777777in"}
### 7.1.2 ITU channel model
#### 7.1.2.1 FDD, Downlink
Table 7.1.2.1-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.1.2.1-1: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.4611111111111112in" height="2.4090277777777778in"}
Table 7.1.2.1-2 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.1.2.1-2: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="4.651388888888889in" height="2.015972222222222in"}
Table 7.1.2.1-3 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.1.2.1-3: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [FDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="4.961111111111111in" height="2.1284722222222223in"}
Table 7.1.2.1-4 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.1.2.1-4: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,ITU,ULA]
{width="3.042361111111111in" height="2.363888888888889in"}
Table 7.1.2.1-5 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.1.2.1-5: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 1 with full buffer
[FDD,ITU, ULA]
{width="3.1333333333333333in" height="1.6666666666666667in"}
Table 7.1.2.1-6 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and
full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.1.2.1-6: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [FDD,ITU, ULA]
{width="4.809027777777778in" height="2.1131944444444444in"}
#### 7.1.2.2 TDD, Downlink
Table 7.1.2.2-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.1.2.2-1: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 1 with full buffer
[TDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="2.3895833333333334in" height="2.442361111111111in"}
Table 7.1.2.2-2 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.1.2.2-2: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 1 with full buffer
[TDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.38125in" height="2.4715277777777778in"}
Table 7.1.2.2-3 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.1.2.2-3: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [TDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.1097222222222225in" height="2.588888888888889in"}
Table 7.1.2.2-4 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.1.2.2-4: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 1 with full buffer
[TDD,ITU,ULA]
{width="2.261111111111111in" height="1.5520833333333333in"}
Table 7.1.2.2-5 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 1 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and
full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.1.2.2-5: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 1 with full
buffer [TDD,ITU,ULA]
{width="4.705555555555556in" height="1.1666666666666667in"}
## 7.2 Scenario 2: Homogeneous network with high Tx power RRHs
Performance evaluation for scenario2 is provided in Clause 7.2.1 for 3GPP case
1 channel model and 7.2.2 for ITU channel model. In both clauses, cross-
polarized antenna deployment and ULA deployment are considered. As detailed in
the Appendix A.1, 3GPP case 1 is considered as the baseline channel model and
dual-polarized antenna deployments have higher priority over ULA deployments.
Performance is provided for 9 cells coordination (denoted as "9 cells") and
for more than 9 cells (denotes as "> 9 cells") coordination. 9 cells
coordination is considered as the baseline.
### 7.2.1 3GPP Case1 (3GPP spatial channel model)
#### 7.2.1.1 FDD, Downlink
Table 7.2.1.1-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-1: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.2819444444444446in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-2 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-2: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="6.6875in" height="2.9895833333333335in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-3 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel
model.
Table 7.2.1.1-3: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.33125in" height="5.066666666666666in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-4 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-4: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="6.077083333333333in" height="3.2444444444444445in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-5 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-5: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="6.261111111111111in" height="3.404861111111111in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-6 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and
full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-6: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="5.045833333333333in" height="3.948611111111111in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-7 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for 3GPP
case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-7: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with non-full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.875in" height="3.8493055555555555in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-8 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for 3GPP
case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-8: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with non-full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.292361111111111in" height="8.365972222222222in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-9 shows relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel
model.
Table 7.2.1.1-9: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with non-
full buffer [FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.927777777777778in" height="8.040972222222223in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-10 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-10: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with non-full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="3.6805555555555554in" height="5.509027777777778in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-11 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-11: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with non-full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="4.4527777777777775in" height="7.791666666666667in"}
Table 7.2.1.1-12 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and
non-full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.1-12: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with non-
full buffer [FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="5.361805555555556in" height="7.029861111111111in"}
#### 7.2.1.2 TDD, Downlink
Table 7.2.1.2-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.2-1: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with full buffer
[TDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.6527777777777777in" height="3.13125in"}
Table 7.2.1.2-2 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.2-2: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with full buffer
[TDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="4.836805555555555in" height="3.082638888888889in"}
Table 7.2.1.2-3 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel
model.
Table 7.2.1.2-3: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [TDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="4.997222222222222in" height="3.7708333333333335in"}
Table 7.2.1.2-4 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.2-4: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with full buffer
[TDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="2.963888888888889in" height="2.3291666666666666in"}
Table 7.2.1.2-5 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.2-5: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with full buffer
[TDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="3.859027777777778in" height="2.8652777777777776in"}
Table 7.2.1.2-6 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and
full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.2-6: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [TDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="5.167361111111111in" height="3.0027777777777778in"}
#### 7.2.1.3 Uplink
Table 7.2.1.3-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JR schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Uplink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case
1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.3-1: Absolute performance of JR in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.520138888888889in" height="2.129166666666667in"}
Table 7.2.1.3-2 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 FDD Uplink with closely--spaced cross-polarized antenna
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.3-2: Relative performance gain of UL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.10625in" height="0.925in"}
Table 7.2.1.3-3 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JR schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Uplink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.3-3: Absolute performance of JR in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="2.9923611111111112in" height="2.1131944444444444in"}
Table 7.2.1.3-4 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 FDD Uplink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and full
buffer traffic model for 3GPP case 1 channel model.
Table 7.2.1.3-4: Relative performance gain of UL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [FDD,3GPP,ULA]
{width="4.688194444444444in" height="1.5027777777777778in"}
### 7.2.2 ITU channel model
#### 7.2.2.1 FDD, Downlink
Table 7.2.2.1-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-1: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="4.501388888888889in" height="3.011111111111111in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-2 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-2: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD, ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="4.60625in" height="3.442361111111111in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-3 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-3: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [FDD, ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="4.854861111111111in" height="3.667361111111111in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-4 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-4: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD,ITU,ULA]
{width="3.3493055555555555in" height="2.0868055555555554in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-5 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-5: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with full buffer
[FDD, ITU, ULA]
{width="3.027083333333333in" height="1.38125in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-6 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and
full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-6: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [FDD, ITU, ULA]
{width="5.120138888888889in" height="2.3409722222222222in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-7 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-7: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with non-full
buffer [FDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="4.157638888888889in" height="6.106944444444444in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-8 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-8: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with non-full buffer
[FDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.673611111111111in" height="9.259722222222223in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-9 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-9: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with non-
full buffer [FDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.008333333333334in" height="8.248611111111112in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-10 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-10: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with non-full
buffer [FDD,ITU,ULA]
{width="3.3694444444444445in" height="5.8805555555555555in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-11 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and non-full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-11: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with non-full
buffer [FDD,ITU,ULA]
{width="3.463888888888889in" height="6.339583333333334in"}
Table 7.2.2.1-12 shows the relative gains of CoMP CS/CB schemes versus single-
cell schemes in scenario 2 FDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment
and non-full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.1-12: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with non-
full buffer [FDD,ITU,ULA]
{width="5.732638888888889in" height="4.41875in"}
#### 7.2.2.2 TDD, Downlink
Table 7.2.2.2-1 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP CS/CB schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.2.2.2-1: Absolute performance of CS/CB in scenario 2 with full buffer
[TDD,ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="2.529166666666667in" height="2.1791666666666667in"}
Table 7.2.2.2-2 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced
cross-polarized antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU
channel model.
Table 7.2.2.2-2: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with full buffer
[TDD, ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="3.40625in" height="2.186111111111111in"}
Table 7.2.2.2-3 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced cross-polarized
antenna deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.2-3: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [TDD, ITU,cross-polarized deployment]
{width="5.021527777777778in" height="2.3027777777777776in"}
Table 7.2.2.2-4 shows the spectral efficiency results of CoMP JP schemes
versus single-cell schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA
deployment and full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.2-4: Absolute performance of JP in scenario 2 with full buffer
[TDD,ITU,ULA]
{width="2.602777777777778in" height="1.5569444444444445in"}
Table 7.2.2.2-5 shows the relative gains of CoMP schemes versus single-cell
schemes in scenario 2 TDD Downlink with closely--spaced ULA deployment and
full buffer traffic model for ITU channel model.
Table 7.2.2.2-5: Relative performance gain of DL CoMP in scenario 2 with full
buffer [TDD, ITU,ULA]
{width="4.545138888888889in" height="1.136111111111111in"}
## 7.3 Scenario 3 and 4: Heterogeneous network with low power RRHs within the
macrocell coverage
The relative performance gains of scenario3 and scenario4 over HetNet without
eICIC and HetNet with eICIC are provided in this clause. The relative
performance gains of scenario3 and scenario4 are provided in Clause 7.3.1 for
FDD downlink, Clause 7.3.2 for FDD uplink, and Clause 7.3.3 for TDD downlink.
The relative performance gains in Clause 7.3.1, Clause 7.3.2, Clause 7.3.3
were obtained by averaging the submitted relative performance gains for both
scenario3 and scenario4.
Disclaimer: Results for different cases and different schemes in Clause 7.3.1,
Clause 7.3.2, Clause 7.3.3 are not comparable due to averaging over different
companies and different set of schemes including different antenna
configurations.
### 7.3.1 FDD Downlink
Clause 7.3.1.1 provides evaluation results for the full buffer traffic model
and Clause 7.3.1.2 provides evaluation results for the FTP traffic model
#### 7.3.1.1 Full Buffer Traffic Model
Table 7.3.1.1-1 provides the relative performance gain of downlink CoMP in
scenarios 3 and 4 with full buffer traffic model for the uniform UE
distribution case (configuration 1).
Table 7.3.1.1-1: Relative performance gain of downlink CoMP in scenarios 3 and
4 with full buffer traffic model for configuration 1
* * *
**FDD DL Full Buffer** **CoMP JP Scn3/4 Gains** **CoMP CS/CB Scn3/4 Gains**  
**Macro Cell Area Avg** **5% Worst User** **Macro Cell Area Avg** **5% Worst
User** **Relative Gain vs HetNet without eICIC** 3.0% 24.1% 5.1% 24.8%
**Relative Gain vs HetNet with eICIC** 3.3% 52.8% 2.7% 19.7%
* * *
Table 7.3.1.1-2 provides the relative performance gain of downlink CoMP in
scenarios 3 and 4 with full buffer traffic model for the clustered UE
distribution case (configuration 4b).
Table 7.3.1.1-2: Relative performance gain of downlink CoMP in scenarios 3 and
4 with full buffer traffic model for configuration 4b
* * *
**FDD DL Full Buffer** **CoMP JP Scn3/4 Gains** **CoMP CS/CB Scn3/4 Gains**  
**Macro Cell Area Avg** **5% Worst User** **Macro Cell Area Avg** **5% Worst
User** **Relative Gain vs HetNet without eICIC** 6.2% 28.8% 5.2% 30.1%
**Relative Gain vs HetNet with eICIC** 2.3% 42.9% 1.6% 17.6%
* * *
#### 7.3.1.2 FTP Traffic Model
Table 7.3.1.2-1 provides the relative performance gain of FDD downlink CoMP in
scenarios 3 and 4 with FTP traffic model for the uniform UE distribution case
(configuration 1) when the resource utilization is below 35%.
Table 7.3.1.2-1: Relative performance gain of downlink CoMP in scenarios 3 and
4 with FTP traffic model for configuration 1 (resource utilization\ is sensitive to the delay between two transmission points.
  * Level of sensitivity depends on the CoMP schemes.
# 8 Conclusion
According to the discussions and the performance evaluation results captured
in the previous clauses, the following conclusion is made:
  * CoMP can offer performance benefits in homogeneous networks > (scenarios 1 and 2).
  * CoMP shows performance benefits in heterogeneous networks (scenarios > 3 and 4).
  * Performance of CoMP schemes relying on spatial information exchange > is sensitive to the delay between two transmission points.
    * Level of sensitivity depends on the CoMP schemes.
In view of the observed results, it is recommended to specify support for DL
CoMP operation and to investigate the extent to which specified support is
needed for UL CoMP.
Following the observations on CoMP performance benefits, which are based on
the evaluations of coherent joint transmission, coordinated
scheduling/beamforming, dynamic point selection, and dynamic point blanking,
the work for specifying CoMP support in Rel-11 should focus on
  * Joint transmission
  * Dynamic point selection, including dynamic point blanking
  * Coordinated scheduling/beamforming, including dynamic point blanking
All schemes will be developed assuming that the UE reports CSI feedback based
on the assumption of single-user transmission for the work specifying CoMP.
This assumption causes no restriction on the SU/MU scheduling decision at the
eNB when the PDSCH is demodulated based on UE-specific RS.
###### ### Annex A: Simulation model
_Editor\'s note: This annex will capture the evaluation model agreed for
performance evaluation of CoMP in RAN WG1. The text colored in yellow will be
updated based on RAN1 decisions._
## A.1 CoMP system-level simulation assumptions
The system simulation baseline parameters for the homogeneous and
heterogeneous deployment models are as specified in [TR 36.814], with Table
A.2.3-1 modified as Table A.1-1. For Uplink CoMP, some additional simulation
assumptions are provided in Table A.1-2.
Table A.1-1: System simulation parameters for CoMP Evaluation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values used for evaluation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Performance metrics** | - **Full buffer traffic: Cell | | | > capacity, Cell-edge user | | | > throughput** | | | | | | - **Non full buffer traffic as | | | > defined in Clause | | | > A.2.1.3.2 in [TR | | | > 36.814]** | | | | | | - **Jain Index may be provided | | | > for information.** | | | > $J = \frac{{\ove | | | rline{T}}^{2}}{{\overline{T}}^{2 | | | } + \text{var}\lbrack T\rbrack}$ | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Deployment scenarios** | 1. **Scenario 1: Homogeneous | | | network with intra-site | | | CoMP, as illustrated in | | | Figure A.1-1** | | | | | | 2. **Scenario 2: Homogeneous | | | network with high Tx power | | | RRHs, as illustrated in | | | Figure A.1-2** | | | | | | - **The central entity can | | | coordinate 9 cells as a | | | baseline, with the reference | | | layout as in Figure A.1-3** | | | | | | > Choose between 3, 19, 21 cells | | | > as a potential optional value. | | | > Interested reader can refer to | | | > **[R1-110585]** for some | | | > layout examples**.** | | | > | | | > **Method for modelling of the | | | > out-of-coordinated area | | | > interference is to be | | | > described** | | | | | | 3. **Scenario 3: Heterogeneous | | | network with low power RRHs | | | within the macrocell | | | coverage (Figure A.1-4).** | | | | | | - **transmission/reception | | | points created by the RRHs | | | have different cell IDs as | | | the macro cell** | | | | | | - Coordination area includes: | | | | | | > \- 1 cell with N low-power | | | > nodes as starting point | | | | | | - 3 intra-site cells with 3*N | | | low-power nodes | | | | | | - Benchmark is non-CoMP Rel. | | | 10 eICIC framework with the | | | different cell ID | | | | | | 4. **Scenario 4: Network with | | | low power RRHs within the | | | macrocell coverage where the | | | transmission/reception | | | points created by the RRHs | | | have the same cell IDs as | | | the macro cell (Figure | | | A.1-4).** | | | | | | - Coordination area includes: | | | | | | > \- 1 cell with N low-power | | | > nodes as starting point | | | | | | - 3 intra-site cells with 3*N | | | low-power nodes | | | | | | - Benchmark is non-CoMP Rel. | | | 10 eICIC framework with the | | | different cell ID | | | | | | Baseline for association bias | | | values, | | | | | | 0 dB only applied for RSRP as | | | baseline | | | | | | Any other values applied either | | | for RSRP or RSRQ as optional | | | | | | These association values are | | | applied for non-CoMP simulation | | | and those for CoMP simulation | | | can be decided independently | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Simulation case** | **Deployment scenarios 1, 2:** | | | | | | **Baseline:** | | | | | | 3GPP-**Case1** | | | | | | **Recommended:** | | | | | | **ITU UMi channel** model (200m | | | ISD) with **eNB/high power RRH | | | Tx power (Ptotal) as 41/44 dBm | | | in a 10/20 MHz carrier** | | | | | | **Deployment scenarios 3, 4:** | | | | | | **Baseline:** | | | | | | ITU UMa for Macro, UMi for low | | | power node | | | | | | - **UMa** | | | | | | > \- UE speed : 3km/hr | | | > | | | > \- No outdoor in-car | | | > penetration loss | | | | | | - UMi | | | | | | > \- Carrier Frequency : 2GHz | | | > | | | > \- 100% UE dropped outdoors | | | | | | - No outdoor to indoor | | | penetration loss | | | | | | - **Antenna Height: Applied | | | > for ITU UMa (Macro), ITU | | | > UMi (LPN)** | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | - 10m for RRH/Hotzone Node | | | | | | - 25m for Macro Node | | | | | | - 3D antenna tilt for | | | calibration (for 25m) : 12 | | | degrees | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | - **UE noise figure: | | | > Applicable to all the | | | > channel models** | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | - 9dB | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | - **Minimum Distance:** | | | > Applicable to all the | | | > channel models | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | - Macro -- RRH/Hotzone: >75m | | | | | | - Macro -- UE : >35m | | | | | | - RRH/Hotzone -- | | | RRH/Hotzone: >40m | | | | | | - RRH/Hotzone -- UE : >10m | | | | | | {width="2.1034722222222224in" | | | height="2.1222222222222222in"} | | | | | | - Modeling Conventions | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | - Distance measure | | | | | | 1. Distance _d_ is measured | | | in 2 dimensions | | | | | | - Applies to both path | | | loss formula, as | | | well as minimum | | | Node/UE distances | | | | | | - Introduce an efficiency loss | | | parameter, Peff, that is | | | appended to the path-loss of | | | all deployment layers | | | | | | 1. Enables modeling of | | | coverage limited | | | scenarios | | | | | | 2. Default value of Peff is | | | 0 dB | | | | | | 3. Optional value of Peff | | | is 7 dB, corresponding | | | to a coverage limited | | | deployment | | | | | | - This can also be | | | implemented by | | | increasing the UE | | | noise figure | | | accordingly | | | | | | `{=html} | | |  | | |` | | | - Additional Clarifications | | | | | | > \- ITU UMa and UMi | | | > penetration, pathloss, and | | | > shadowing generation | | | > methodology is used for Macro | | | > to UE and Pico/RRH to UE | | | > repectively | | | > | | | > \- Do not use values in | | | > TR36.814 for pathloss, | | | > penetration and shadowing | | | | | | Optional enhancement: | | | | | | - Indoor-outdoor modeling | | | | | | - Indoor/Outdoor UE | | | distribution | | | | | | 1. 80% of users are dropped | | | indoor | | | | | | 2. Applies to both UE | | | placing configuration 1 | | | and 4b | | | | | | - Indoor penetration loss for | | | UMa | | | | | | 1. Reuse the model from UMi | | | | | | 2. {width="2.5416666666666665in" | | | | | | height="0.16666666666666666in"} | | | | | | 3. {width="1.8645833333333333in" | | | height="0.15625in"} | | | | | | 4. d : distance between UE | | | and transmission node | | | | | | 5. d~in~ : independent | | | uniform random value | | | between [ 0, min(25,d) | | | ] for each link | | | | | | 6. PL~LOS/NLOS~ : pathloss | | | of LOS or NLOS computed | | | using the LOS | | | probability for the | | | given link. | | | | | | - Note that ITU UMi | | | LOS probability (to | | | the wall) is also | | | used for indoor | | | users. | | | | | | - Channel Model Parameters for | | | > UMa O-to-I | | | | | | - Reuse Channel Model | | | Parameters of UMa NLOS for | | | UMa O-to-I | | | | | | 1. To be used as starting | | | point | | | | | | 2. Some parameters, | | | including delay spread, | | | standard deviation of | | | shadow fading, number of | | | clusters, cluster ASA, | | | may need to be revised, | | | based on measurements | | | and other observations | | | | | | - Chanel Model Parameters of | | | extended UMa are given in | | | the following tables. | | | | | | > {width="4.30625in" | | | > height="4.513888888888889in"} | | | | | | {width="4.050694444444445in" | | | height="2.488888888888889in"} | | | | | | Optional: | | | | | | 3GPP Case 1 Model1 for TR36.814, | | | SCME Urban Macro 15 degrees | | | angle spread for fast fading | | | (both Macro-to-UE and low power | | | node-to-UE) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Number of low power node per | Configuration #4b [TR 36.814] | | macro-cell** | with N low power nodes per macro | | | cell | | | | | | Configuration #1 [TR 36.814] | | | with N low power nodes per macro | | | cell | | | | | | Baseline: N = 4 | | | | | | Optional: N = 1, 2, 10 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **High power RRH Tx power |** 46/49dBm in a 10/20MHz | | (Ptotal)**| carrier** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Low power node TX power |** 30 dBm and 37 dBm for both FDD | | (Ptotal)**| and TDD in 10MHz carrier, with | | | higher priority for 30 dBm** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Number of UEs per cell** | **Full buffer traffic model: 10 | | | for Homogeneous networks; | | | dependent on the targeted | | | resource utilization for | | | non-full-buffer traffic model.** | | | | | | **Same as TR 36.814 for | | | Heterogeneous networks** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **System bandwidth** | **10 MHz, 20MHz** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Possible transmission schemes | -** SU-MIMO**| | in DL** | | | | - **MU-MIMO** | | | | | | - **SU-MIMO with intra-eNB | | | CS/CB** | | | | | | - **MU-MIMO with intra-eNB | | | CS/CB** | | | | | | - **SU-MIMO with intra-eNB | | | JP-CoMP** | | | | | | - **MU-MIMO with intra-eNB | | | JP-CoMP** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Impairments modelling** | The following impairments are | | | modelled. The modelling needs to | | | be described. | | | | | | **\- impairments of JP-CoMP** | | | | | | **\- Collision between CRS and | | | PDSCH** | | | | | | **\- Different control regions** | | | | | | - Modeling of actual | | | propagation delay differences | | | depending on UE location would | | | need to be included as a | | | multipath effect | | | | | | Baseline timing error is 0us; | | | recommended to provide results | | | for additional case with | | | non-zero timing error, for which | | | the details of the timing error | | | modeling are to be described | | | | | | Methods that offset the | | | propagation delay are not | | | precluded | | | | | | - Frequency offset sensitivity | | | analysys is recommended | | | | | | - Analysis of PDCCH and SRS | | | overhead/capacity is recommended | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Network synchronization** | **Synchronized** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Number of antennas at |** Macro and high Tx power RRH: | | transmission point**| 1, 2, 4, 8 (2 and 4 antennas are | | | baseline for FDD, 2 and 8 | | | antennas are baseline for TDD)** | | | | | | **Low power node: 1, 2, 4 (2 and | | | 4 antennas are baseline).** | | | | | | **Values for combinations | | | (number of antennas at macro | | | node, number of antennas at | | | low-power node) are** (2, 2), | | | (4, 4) for FDD, (2, 2), (8, 2) | | | for TDD as baseline, (2, 4) for | | | FDD, (4, 2) for TDD as optional | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Number of antennas at UE** | **2, 4, with higher priority for | | | 2 antennas.** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Antenna configuration** | **For macro eNB and high power | | | RRH, in priority order for each | | | number of antennas:** | | | | | | - **2 Tx antennas** | | | | | | 1. **1 column, | | | cross-polarized: X** | | | | | | 2. **2 columns, | | | closely-spaced | | | vertically-polarized: \| | | | \|** | | | | | | - **4 Tx antennas** | | | | | | 1. **2 columns, cross-polarized | | | on each column, | | | closely-spaced: X X** | | | | | | 2. **2 columns, cross-polarized | | | on each column, | | | widely-spaced: X X** | | | | | | 3. **4 columns, | | | vertically-polarized, | | | closely-spaced: \| \| \| | | | \|** | | | | | | - **8 Tx antennas** | | | | | | 1. **4 columns, cross-polarized | | | on each column, | | | closely-spaced: X X X X** | | | | | | 2. **4 columns, cross-polarized | | | on each column, 2 | | | widely-spaced sets of | | | closely-spaced columns: X X | | | X X** | | | | | | 3. **8 columns, | | | vertically-polarized, | | | closely-spaced: \| \| \| \| | | | \| \| \| \|** | | | | | | **For low power node** | | | | | | - **1 Tx antenna: | | | vertically-polarized** | | | | | | - **2 Tx antennas:** | | | | | | 1. **cross-polarized: X** | | | | | | 2. **vertically-polarized: \| | | | > \|** | | | | | | - **4 Tx antennas:** | | | | | | 1. **1\. 0.5 λ-spaced | | | cross-polarized: X X** | | | | | | 2. **2\. 0.5 λ-spaced | | | vertically-polarized: \| | | | \| \| \|** | | | | | | **Array orientation needs to be | | | defined (e.g., random for 4 | | | Tx)** | | | | | | When cross-polarized antenna | | | configuration is applied to | | | transmission point, it is also | | | applied to the receiver. When | | | co-polarized antenna | | | configuration is applied to | | | transmission point, it is also | | | applied to the receiver. | | | | | | For scenarios 3 and 4 and more | | | that 1 antenna at the low power | | | node, when cross-polarized | | | antenna configuration is | | | applied at the macro, it is also | | | applied at the low power node; | | | when co-polarized antenna | | | configuration is applied at the | | | macro, it is also applied at the | | | low power node | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Antenna pattern** | **For macro eNB and high-power | | | RRH:** | | | | | | **3D as baseline and 2D as | | | additional** | | | | | | **Follow Annex A 2.1.1.1 Table | | | A.2.1.1-2 in TR36.814** | | | | | | **For low-power node:** | | | | | | **2D as baseline and** 3D as | | | optional | | | | | | **Horizontal plane: | | | omnidirectional** | | | | | | **Vertical plane:** | | | | | | $\theta_{3\text{dB}}$ = 40 | | | degrees, _SLA~v~_ = 20 dB | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **eNB Antenna tilt** | **For macro eNB and high-power | | | RRH: Different downtilt values | | | may be evaluated.** | | | | | | **For low-power node: 0 or 10 | | | degrees** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Antenna gain + connector |** For macro eNB and high-power | | loss**| RRH: 17 dBi in ITU, 14 dBi in | | | 3GPP Case 1** | | | | | | **For low power node: 5 dBi** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Feedback scheme (e.g. |** Overhead is to be reported**| | CQI/PMI/RI/SRS)** | | | | **The following benchmarks may | | | be used:** | | | | | | - **Rel-10 feedback (baseline) | | | (with overhead as close as | | | possible to overhead of CoMP | | | scheme)** | | | | | | - **If CoMP scheme requires | | | more feedback overhead than | | | is possible in Rel-10, | | | benchmark is a | | | sin | | | gle-transmission/reception-point | | | scheme (to be fully | | | described) with same | | | feedback overhead as CoMP | | | scheme** | | | | | | **Baseline:** | | | | | | **Per-transmission-point | | | feedback is implicit** | | | | | | **Inter-cell information | | | feedback mechanism to be | | | described** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Channel estimation** | **Non-ideal** | | | | | | **Clarify in detail the | | | following on CoMP evaluation:** | | | | | | **\- CSI knowledge of eNB** | | | | | | **\- Feedback scheme and/or UL | | | sounding scheme** | | | | | | **\- Accuracy of CSI** | | | | | | **. Quantization error** | | | | | | **. Channel estimation error | | | based on CSI-RS and SRS** | | | | | | > **1\. Describe the way to model | | | > the CSI channel estimation | | | > errors** | | | > | | | > **2\. K different CDF curves | | | > are provided, where K = number | | | > of transmission points in the | | | > CoMP cluster. A curve | | | > corresponds to statistics over | | | > all UEs of average SINR of the | | | > estimated channel for the k:th | | | > strongest transmission point | | | > for a UE** | | | | | | - Try to capture common | | | mis-calibration modelling for | | | TDD by June 3rd | | | | | | > Until RAN1 #65, no antennas | | | > mis-calibration for UL-DL | | | > channel reciprocity as | | | > mandatory and antennas | | | > mis-calibration for UL-DL | | | > channel reciprocity as | | | > recommended for TDD | | | > | | | > \- Antennas mis-calibration | | | > for DL Tx antennas with 0.5λ | | | > spacing as optional for FDD | | | | | | **\- Channel estimation error for | | | demodulation** | | | | | | **\- Any channel reciprocity | | | modelling to be described.** | | | | | | **\- Any antenna calibration | | | mechanism to be described** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UE receiver** | **Mandatory (in context of the | | | simulations): 'MMSE receiver'** | | | | | | **Recommended: 'Advanced MMSE | | | receiver and/or IRC receiver'** | | | | | | **Description for the 'MMSE | | | receiver' assumption** | | | | | | - **DM-RS Channel estimation** | | | | | | - **only across layers in | | | which the UE being | | | scheduled** | | | | | | - **No knowledge of | | | channel estimate | | | coefficients of other | | | co-scheduled DM-RS | | | ports** | | | | | | - **Assume that the total | | | interference (i.e. including | | | all signals other than the | | | intended data signal) has | | | diagonal covariance matrix** | | | | | | **For more 'advanced MMSE | | | receiver and/or IRC receiver', | | | the MMSE/IRC modeling should be | | | described in detail** | | | | | | - **Details such as covariance | | | matrix, and frequency | | | selectivity of the | | | covariance matrix, etc** | | | | | | **More details are described in | | | [R1-110586]** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **DL overhead assumption** | **Should be clarified for each | | | transmission scheme, taking into | | | account CSI-RS and PDSCH muting | | | overhead, as well as PDCCH | | | overhead corresponding to | | | scheduling** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Placing of UEs** | **Uniform distribution for | | | homogeneous networks** | | | | | | **For heterogeneous networks, | | | placement according to the | | | configuration.** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Traffic model** | **Full buffer** | | | | | | **Non-full-buffer according to | | | Clause A.2.1.3.1 in TR36.814, | | | with the following | | | modifications:** | | | | | | - Model 1 with file size of 2 | | | Mbytes is preferred, however | | | Model 1 with file size of | | | 0.5 Mbytes and Model 2 with | | | file size of 0.5 Mbytes can | | | be evaluated instead | | | | | | - **Simulations are run for | | | various λ (for model 1) or K | | | (for model 2) that lead to | | | covering at least the range | | | [10 - 70]% of RU (See | | | A.2.1.3.2) in non-CoMP | | | SU-MIMO, and the metrics | | | described in A.2.1.3.2 are | | | computed for each λ (for | | | model 1) or K (for model 2) | | | value** | | | | | | - **The RU is computed over | | | the entire network, i.e. the | | | RU is the average of the RUs | | | per transmission point** | | | | | | > For full buffer traffic model | | | > and non-full buffer traffic | | | > model 2 | | | > | | | > \- Fix the total number of | | | > users, N~users~, dropped | | | > within each macro geographical | | | > area, where N~users~ is 30 or | | | > 60 in fading scenarios and 60 | | | > in non-fading scenarios. | | | > | | | > \- Randomly and uniformly drop | | | > the configured number of low | | | > power nodes, N, within each | | | > macro geographical area (the | | | > same number N for every macro | | | > geographical area, where N may | | | > take values from {1, 2, 4, | | | > 10}). | | | > | | | > \- Randomly and uniformly drop | | | > N~users~_~lpn~ users within a | | | > 40 m radius of each low power | | | > node, where | | | > {width="1.3041666666666667in" | | | > | | | height="0.20416666666666666in"} | | | > with P^hotspot^ defined in | | | > Table A.2.1.1.2-5, where | | | > P^hotspot^ is the fraction of | | | > all hotspot users over the | | | > total number of users in the | | | > network. | | | > | | | > \- Randomly and uniformly drop | | | > the remaining users, N~users~ | | | > \- N~users~_~lpn~*N, to the | | | > entire macro geographical area | | | > of the given macro cell | | | > (including the low power node | | | > user dropping area). | | | > | | | > For non-full buffer traffic | | | > model 1 | | | > | | | > \- Randomly and uniformly drop | | | > the configured number of low | | | > power nodes, N, within each | | | > macro geographical area (the | | | > same number N for every macro | | | > geographical area, where N may | | | > take values from {1, 2, 4, | | | > 10}). | | | | | | - - Generate users based on | | | traffic load. Chose the | | | geographical area in which | | | user will be dropped | | | randomly and with | | | probability of P^hotspot^ | | | for the low power node | | | geographical area, and 1- | | | P^hotspot^ for the the | | | entire macro cell | | | geographical area (including | | | the low power node user | | | dropping area). | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Backhaul assumptions** | **For deployment scenarios 1, 2, | | | 3, and 4:** | | | | | | **Step 1: [point-to-point | | | fiber, zero] latency and | | | infinite capacity** | | | | | | **Step 2: higher latency and | | | limited capacity for scenarios 2 | | | and 3** | | | | | | **• The latency values used for | | | CoMP evaluation are | | | {0ms,2ms,10ms}** | | | | | | - **The latency value here | | | > refers to the one-way | | | > delay incurred when a | | | > message is conveyed from | | | > one node to another** | | | | | | **The capacity requirement | | | associated with the proposed | | | scheme should be indicated** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Link adaptation** | **Non-ideal; details to be | | | provided** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The objective of uplink CoMP evaluation is to clarify the performance gain of
intra-site and inter-site CoMP schemes over single reception point schemes.
Same assumptions for scenarios, UE dropping, antenna configuration, and
channel model, etc. as for downlink CoMP evaluation (Table A.1-1) are applied.
In addition, the assumptions in Table A.1-2 apply.
Table A.1-2: System simulation parameters for UL CoMP Evaluation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Parameter | Values used for evaluation | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Access scheme** | SC-FDMA (mandatory), Clustered | | | DFT-S-OFDM (optional) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Number of Tx antenna at the | 1, 2, 4, with higher priority to | | UE** | 1 antenna | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Number of Rx antenna at the | - Macro: 2, 4, 8 (2 and 4 | | eNB/RRH/Pico nodes** | antennas are baseline for | | | FDD, 2 and 8 antennas are | | | baseline for TDD) | | | | | | - Low Tx power RRH/Pico (in | | | applicable scenarios) : 2, 4 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UL power control** | - Power control parameters (P0 | | | > and alpha) are chosen | | | > according to the | | | > deployment scenario. (IoT | | | > reported with simulation | | | > results.) | | | | | | - Details of the power | | | > control formula used | | | > in evaluations are to | | | > be supplied together | | | > with the evaluation | | | > results. | | | | | | - Total maximum transmission | | | > power (sum over all Tx | | | > antennas): 23 dBm | | | | | | - Companies to state: alpha | | | > value, P0 value, open or | | | > close loop, K_s value | | | > (Macro and pico may use | | | > different values) | | | | | | - α=1.0, P0=-106 for both | | | > macro & pico UEs | | | > (suggested value for | | | > calibration and/or | | | > benchmarking) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UL receiver type** | **specify the modelling of the | | | receiver type** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **UL overhead assumption** | - **SRS overhead according to | | | UL scheduler and | | | transmission scheme** | | | | | | - **4 PRBs for PUCCH** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Channel estimation for DMRS & | **Non-ideal (mandatory)**| | SRS** | | | | **Ideal (for calibration)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **HARQ scheme** | **Specify the HARQ scheme** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Scheduling algorithm** | **Specify the scheduling | | | algorithm** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **SRS setting** | **Specify the SRS setting** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Downlink cell selection |**[0, 6] dB (mandatory) [16] | | (CRE)**| dB (optional)** | | | | | | **Note: downlink cell selection | | | decides the PCI used by each | | | UE.** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Reception point/s selection** | **Specified as part of CoMP | | | scheme** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Backhaul assumption** | **Zero delay** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **CoMP scheme** | **Specify the detailed | | | information, e.g. # of | | | coordinated eNBs, JR or CS | | | etc.** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Performance metrics** | - **User throughput CDF** | | | | | | - **Scenarios 3 and 4** | | | | | | - **macro area throughput | | | | | | [bps/Hz/(1macro+4LPNs)]** | | | | | | - **cell edge UE | | | throughput (5% worst | | | user throughput over the | | | macro area)** | | | | | | - **pico cell/receive | | | point throughput | | | [bps/Hz/LPN]** | | | | | | - **Additional information, | | | > which may be provided, is | | | > as follows:** | | | | | | - **Macro cell IoT [dB]: | | | mean and variance of | | | effective IoT (36.814)** | | | | | | - **Linear scale** | | | | | | - **Pico cell IoT [dB]: | | | mean and variance of | | | effective IoT** | | | | | | - **Linear scale** | | | | | | - **Macro UE ratio (%)** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
{width="4.622222222222222in" height="1.9055555555555554in"}
Figure A.1-1: Scenario 1 - Homogeneous network with intra-site CoMP
{width="3.8541666666666665in" height="1.9041666666666666in"}
Figure A.1-2: Scenario 2 - Homogeneous network with high Tx power RRHs
{width="3.0375in" height="2.691666666666667in"}
Figure A.1-3- Reference CoMP Coordination Cell Layout for Scenario 2
{width="4.2347222222222225in" height="2.167361111111111in"}
Figure A.1-4: Scenario 3/4 - Network with low power RRHs within the macrocell
coverage
## A.2 References
[1] 3GPP TR 36.814: "Further Advancements for E-UTRA, Physical Layer
Aspects**".**
[2] R1-110585: "Proposal for CoMP Coordination Cell Layout for Scenario 1 and
2".
[3] R1-110586: "Proposal for UE receiver assumption in CoMP simulations".
[4] R1-111922: "RAN1 Phase 1 CoMP results".
[5] R1-112811: "RAN1 Phase 2 CoMP results".
#