# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
The work item "LTE RAN Enhancements for Diverse Data Applications" was
approved at RAN #51 and incorporates an initial evaluation phase prior to the
stage 2 and stage 3 work.
This report captures the output of the initial evaluation phase.
# 1 Scope
The present document constitutes the output of the initial evaluation phase
for the work item "LTE RAN Enhancements for Diverse Data Applications"
(LTE_eDDA). The document captures agreements and descriptions related to the
evaluation methodology used, descriptions of enhancement proposals and their
evaluation results, and conclusions and recommendations for further work
within the scope of the LTE_eDDA work item.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] LOLA Project (Achieving Low-Latency in Wireless Communications), "D 3.3
Summary of the Traffic Measurements v1.0". March, 2011. Available at
http://www.ict-lola.eu/
[3] 3GPP TS 36.213: "E-UTRA; Physical Layer Procedures"
[4] R2-116167 "Signalling overhead of diverse data applications", Huawei, RAN
WG2 #76, San Francisco, USA, 14-18 November 2011
[5] "NGMN Radio Access Performance Evaluation Methodology", available at
http://www.ngmn.org
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**\ :** \.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
CDF Cumulative Distribution Function
eDDA Enhancements for Diverse Data Applications
IM Instant Messaging
OS Operating System
SPS Semi-Persistent Scheduling
SR Scheduling Request
# 4 Evaluation Methodology
Enhancement proposals considered as part of the LTE_eDDA work item are likely
to exhibit some diversity in their focus on different application/traffic
situations, and to tackle different areas of the system and its optimisation.
In order to provide the necessary degree of commonality and comparability
between company results when evaluating these proposals, an evaluation
framework has been established encompassing:
\- Evaluation guidelines(detailed in sub-clause 4.1)
\- The types of traffic to be evaluated (detailed in sub-clause 4.2)
## 4.1 Evaluation Guidelines
### 4.1.1 Traffic Sources
The following alternatives have been identified to generate source traffic for
the purposes of evaluation:
* * *
Traffic Trace: Data traffic or packets captured from live systems or apparatus
running one or more applications of interest Synthetic Models: Abstract
modelling of application-level and/or user behaviours in order to faithfully
represent or emulate data traffic that would typically be observed from a live
running application Statistical Models: Generation of data traffic or packets
according to random processes governed by parameters that are themselves
derived from statistics observed from one or more live running applications
* * *
\- Companies may use either trace-based or synthetic/statistical model-based
approaches to generate source traffic
\- For trace based approaches:
\- Reasonable disclosure of the trace capture environment is required
(sufficient to enable reproduction of a similar traffic scenario by another
company). This should include for example, information relating to the access
technologies used during the capture, any pertinent configuration details
therein, the data rates of involved links, the nature of running or open
applications, the degree of user interactivity with the device and the
captured protocol layer
\- Key statistics of the trace shall be provided--- to include at least the
distributions of inter-arrival times, and packet sizes, and information
regarding data rates
\- Provision of the actual trace is optional
\- For model-based approaches:
\- Disclosure of the model and its parameters is required
\- Some validation of the model (i.e. verifying its alignment with real-world
traces, statistics or behaviours) shall be provided
\- To help improve alignment between company evaluations, the guideline
traffic scenarios of sub-clause 4.2 have been created. Companies are
encouraged to use traces or models whose statistical properties conform to (or
are closely consistent with) those listed for the guideline traffic scenarios,
although the use of other traffic scenarios for evaluation purposes is not
precluded.
### 4.1.2 Simulation Environment
\- For the purposes of simulation, a suitable abstraction of the physical
layer is permitted (it need not be explicitly modelled). Where appropriate,
basic HARQ functionality at the sub-frame level should be included.
\- Depending on the nature of the proposal, some evaluations may require that
TCP is modelled. Evaluations shall state whether or not this has been
performed and provide reasons. TCP modelling may apply to either traffic
models or to trace-based traffic. A simplified TCP model may be used,
sufficient to capture slow-start and congestion avoidance effects.
\- When submitting proposals, companies should consider whether there are any
potential impacts to mobility. If significant mobility aspects are identified,
evaluations regarding those impacts should also be provided.
\- Where appropriate, assumptions on how the network's RRC state control
mechanisms operate shall be stated.
### 4.1.3 Output Metrics
Metrics of interest are dependent on the nature of a particular proposal.
However, the following guidelines regarding output metrics are recommended. It
is expected that wherever there is perceived to be a significant impact to one
of the areas covered by these metrics, the associated metric(s) will be
provided and the guidelines followed.
\- **UE power consumption (for the radio communications part)**
\- This may further comprise (or be related to) associated metrics such as
active time and active time utilisation
\- The power consumption effects of RRC state transitions and mobility should
be taken into account
\- Power consumption may be expressed in absolute terms or relative to a
baseline power consumption value. Depending on the particular proposal, the
baseline power consumption value may be for example that of RRC_IDLE or that
of the system with/without implementation of a particular enhancement
\- Parameters that affect power consumption and which are configured by the
network shall be stated, along with any associated assumptions
\- **Overheads and Signalling**
\- Signalling costs should be evaluated
\- System resource overheads (e.g. in terms of number or fraction of
assigned/used/reserved control channel resources and RBs) should be considered
\- Effects on RRC state transition frequency and on handover frequency should
be reported where appropriate
\- Effects on the average time spent in connected mode (vs. idle) should be
reported where appropriate. Note that the average time spent in connected mode
can also be used to derive the impacts on the number of simultaneous RRC
connections required within a cell or eNB site.
\- **User Visible Metrics / QoS**
\- Latency: Impacts or benefits to latency shall be provided, in the form of
latency distributions, percentiles or bounds.
\- Throughput: Impacts or benefits to throughput shall be provided, in the
form of throughput distributions, percentiles or bounds.
\- The data unit size (e.g. web-page, IP datagram, MAC PDU etc..) used to
represent the latency and throughput metrics and distributions shall be
stated.
\- If the proposal relates to differing levels of QoS, metrics associated with
each of the different QoS levels shall be provided.
## 4.2 Traffic Scenarios and Characterisation
The following traffic scenarios provide the primary focus for the evaluations.
The emphasis is on smartphone and tablet device types (rather than PCs).
Table 4.2-1: Traffic scenarios
* * *
Label Traffic Scenario Description Top priority  
A Background Traffic Traffic from an unattended phone with applications not in
"active phase" (i.e. not including email retrieval, no IM sending etc...) B IM
Instant Messaging. Includes IM background traffic. Non-top-priority  
C Gaming Use of on-line interactive games D Interactive Content Pull User-
interactive web browsing, online maps, social network browsing, application
store / music store browsing and other similar content pull by the user E HTTP
Video Streaming Segment-oriented transfer of video media
* * *
A statistical characterisation of each of these traffic scenarios is provided
in sub-clauses 4.2.1 through 4.2.5 respectively.
### 4.2.1 A) Background Traffic
Background traffic refers to the autonomous exchange of user plane data
packets between the UE and the network, generally in the absence of a specific
user interaction with the device. The packets often arise due to open
applications (or processes that remain resident in the device memory) which
require communication on a regular or intermittent basis with peer entities
within the network.
The traffic is generally low in volume (i.e. it has a low mean data rate) and
comprises packets that may be widely dispersed in time. In observed scenarios
with a relatively small number of open background applications and processes
on a typical device, the mean volume of data (aggregated uplink plus downlink)
ranges from approximately 5 Bytes/s through to approximately 250 Bytes/s.
Keep-alive behaviours may be present, in which case the observed packet inter-
arrival durations will display an upper limit. The exact characteristics of
the traffic vary as a function of the particular applications that are
running.
Due to the range of application behaviours, significant variations in the
observed statistics are seen. Background traffic (in the case where one or
more background data applications are running) may therefore be divided into
two categories: "light background" and "heavier background" respectively.
Light background traffic corresponds to generally lower mean data rates and a
lower mean number of packets per second. Light background traffic also has
less clustering of packets. In the figures that follow, this aspect has been
used to help differentiate between light and heavier background cases:
\- Light Background: Traces for which the packet inter-arrival CDFs lie mainly
to the right of a straight line drawn from 25% at 100ms through to 75% at
10secs (on a plot with logarithmic X-axis and linear Y-axis)
\- Heavier Background: Traces for which the packet inter-arrival CDFs lie
mainly to the left of a line drawn from 25% at 100ms through to 75% at 10secs
(on a plot with logarithmic X-axis and linear Y-axis)
In addition, a trace of traffic generated in the absence of any background
data applications (i.e. data related to the operating system only), has been
captured. This is referred to below as OS-only traffic.
**_[Light Background]{.underline}_**
Figures 4.2.1-1 through 4.2.1-4 show downlink and uplink cumulative
distributions of packet inter-arrival times for several recorded light
background traffic traces. Figures 4.2.1-5 and 4.2.1-6 show the corresponding
cumulative distributions of the IP packet sizes (including IP headers).
Traces are indexed by their Trace-ID. A list of Trace-IDs may be found in
Appendix A.1.
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-1: Light Background Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs
(downlink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-2: Light Background Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs
(downlink -- log Y axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-3: Light Background Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs
(uplink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-4: Light Background Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs
(uplink -- log Y axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-5: Light Background Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (downlink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-6: Light Background Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (uplink)
[]{.underline}
**_[Heavier Background]{.underline}_**
Figures 4.2.1-7 through 4.2.1-10 show downlink and uplink cumulative
distributions of packet inter-arrival times for several recorded heavier
background traffic traces. Figures 4.2.1-11 and 4.2.1-12 show the
corresponding cumulative distributions of the IP packet sizes (including IP
headers).
Traces are indexed by their Trace-ID. A list of Trace-IDs may be found in
Appendix A.1.
{width="6.104166666666667in" height="4.604166666666667in"}
Figure 4.2.1-7: Heavier Background Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs
(downlink)
{width="5.990277777777778in" height="4.59375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-8: Heavier Background Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs
(downlink -- log Y axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-9: Heavier Background Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs
(uplink)
{width="6.010416666666667in" height="4.53125in"}
Figure 4.2.1-10: Heavier Background Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs
(uplink -- log Y axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-11: Heavier Background Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (downlink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.1-12: Heavier Background Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (uplink)
**_[Background -- OS only (no applications)]{.underline}_**
One investigation into traffic associated with a particular version of an
operating system (and excluding any traffic associated with background
applications) determined that a keep-alive sequence of 3 packets (2 uplink and
1 downlink) was exchanged within a burst approximately every 28 minutes. The
burst size totalled 206 bytes and the burst duration was observed to be less
than 2 seconds. Figures 4.2.1-13a and 4.2.1-13b show the respective cumulative
distributions of packet inter-arrival times and packet sizes, corresponding to
trace ID 61 of table A.1-1.
* * *
{width="2.963888888888889in" height="2.529166666666667in"}
{width="3.035416666666667in" height="2.545138888888889in"} Figure 4.2.1-13a:
OS-only traffic, Inter-Arrival Time Figure 4.2.1-13b: OS-only traffic, Packet
Size
* * *
### 4.2.2 B) Instant Messaging
Instant messaging traffic comprises a mix of user plane packets conveying the
text data, along with application layer and/or transport layer protocol
signalling to verify message delivery status. Some instant messaging
applications may also display keep-alive behaviours and may generate other
background traffic specific to the application.
The mean data rate of the traffic most commonly lies within a range of 30 -
100 Bytes/s (for aggregated uplink plus downlink).
Figures 4.2.2-1 through 4.2.2-4 show downlink and uplink cumulative
distributions of packet inter-arrival times for several recorded IM traces.
Figures 4.2.2-5 and 4.2.2-6 show the corresponding cumulative distributions of
the IP packet sizes (including IP headers).
Traces are indexed by their Trace-ID. A list of Trace-IDs may be found in
Appendix A.1.
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.2-1: IM Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs (downlink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.2-2: IM Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs (downlink -- log Y
axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.2-3: IM Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs (uplink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.2-4: IM Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs (uplink -- log Y
axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.2-5: IM Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (downlink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.2-6: IM Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (uplink)
### 4.2.3 C) Gaming
Gaming traffic comprises data packets exchanged between a gaming device under
user control and the network (e.g. with a gaming server).
The mean data rate of the observed traffic lies within an approximate range of
1 -- 8 KBytes/s (for aggregated uplink plus downlink).
Figures 4.2.3-1 through 4.2.3-4 show downlink and uplink cumulative
distributions of packet inter-arrival times for several recorded gaming
traces. Figures 4.2.3-5 and 4.2.3-6 show the corresponding cumulative
distributions of the IP packet sizes (including IP headers).
Traces are indexed by their Trace-ID. A list of Trace-IDs may be found in
Appendix A.1 (a brief description of the games is also provided). Statistics
related to Trace-IDs 5, 6, and 7 are derived from [2].
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.3-1: Gaming Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs (downlink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.3-2: Gaming Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs (downlink --
log Y axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.3-3: Gaming Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs (uplink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.3-4: Gaming Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time CDFs (uplink \--
log Y axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.3-5: Gaming Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (downlink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.3-6: Gaming Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (uplink)
### 4.2.4 D) Interactive Content Pull
Interactive content pull traffic covers a relatively wide range of usage
scenarios in which the user is actively browsing for, and consuming, content
via browsers or other web-centric or browser-embedded technologies and
applications. These may include for example HTTP web browsing, usage of online
maps, browsing of social networking pages, usage of application stores and
occasional download/playback of portions of audio or video media content.
The traffic has a relatively high mean data rate, with observed traces
exhibiting between approximately 5 KBytes/s and 64 KBytes/s (for aggregated
uplink plus downlink).
Figures 4.2.4-1 through 4.2.4-4 show downlink and uplink cumulative
distributions of packet inter-arrival times for several recorded content-pull
traces. Figures 4.2.4-5 and 4.2.4-6 show the corresponding cumulative
distributions of the IP packet sizes (including IP headers).
Traces are indexed by their Trace-ID. A list of Trace-IDs may be found in
Appendix A.1.
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.4-1: Interactive Content Pull Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time
CDFs (downlink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.4-2: Interactive Content Pull Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time
CDFs (downlink -- log Y axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.4-3: Interactive Content Pull Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time
CDFs (uplink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.4-4: Interactive Content Pull Traffic - Packet Inter-Arrival Time
CDFs (uplink -- log Y axis)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.4-5: Interactive Content Pull Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (downlink)
{width="5.834027777777778in" height="4.375in"}
Figure 4.2.4-6: Interactive Content Pull Traffic - Packet Size CDFs (uplink)
# 5 Evaluation of existing EUTRAN functionality
## 5.1 Evaluation of uplink control resources
### 5.1.1 PUCCH resource allocation
The PUCCH channel is used for SR, CQI/PMI/RI reports, ACK/NACK.
In this evaluation, the amount of resources (number of Physical Resource
Blocks - PRBs) occupied by PUCCH due to different kinds of usage has been
derived per the following, assuming one PRB can accommodate M~PUCCH1~ =18 SR
or A/N, or M~PUCCH2~ = 12 CQI reports. N~UE~ denotes the number of connected
mode UEs within a cell whilst T~DSR~, T~CQI~ and T~SPS~ denote the
periodicities (in ms) of dedicated SR, CQI and SPS resources respectively.
\- For D-SR: $\text{NRB}_{\text{PUCCH}}^{\text{DSR}} =
\frac{N_{\text{UE}}}{M_{\text{PUCCH}1}T_{\text{DSR}}}$
\- For CQI: $\text{NRB}_{\text{PUCCH}}^{\text{CQI}} =
\frac{N_{\text{UE}}}{M_{\text{PUCCH}2}T_{\text{CQI}}}$
\- For SPS A/N: $\text{NRB}_{\text{PUCCH}}^{\text{SPS}} =
\frac{N_{\text{UE}}}{M_{\text{PUCCH}1}T_{\text{SPS}}}$
\- For Dynamic Scheduling A/N: PUCCH resources for A/N are implicitly
allocated by the presence and CCE location of the corresponding DL grant on
PDCCH ($n_{\text{PUCCH}}^{(1)} = n_{\text{CCE}} + N_{\text{PUCCH}}^{(1)}$
[3]). A maximum of 3 OFDM symbols is assumed for L1 signalling, resulting in
almost 43 CCEs for PDCCH. The maximum reserved PUCCH A/N resource will be less
than 3 PRBs $\left\lceil \text{43}/\text{18} \right\rceil$.
\- For A/N Repetition: The number of UEs which require PUCCH ACK/NACK
repetition is limited, hence 1 PRB is assumed to be sufficient.
Figure 5.1.1-1 shows the allocated PRBs for the PUCCH due to different kinds
of usage assuming there are N~UE~ = 300 connected UEs in a 10MHz bandwidth
cell.
{width="4.4944444444444445in" height="3.2006944444444443in"}
Figure 5.1.1-1: PRBs allocated for PUCCH
The number of consumed PRBs for PUCCH resources increases for short SR/CQI
periods.
### 5.1.2 PUCCH resource usage
#### 5.1.2.1 PUCCH resource usage for SR
A UE uses the PUCCH resources allocated for SR only when there is a scheduling
request, therefore the utilisation ratio of the allocated resource depends on
the traffic type. The utilisation of PUCCH SR resource has been evaluated for
different data applications and different SR periods and the results are
provided in table 5.1.2.1-1.
For most traffic, the usage ratio of PUCCH allocated for SR is very low.
The D-SR periodicity will also impact user experience and this aspect should
be taken into account.
Table 5.1.2.1-1: PUCCH utilisation ratio for SR
* * *
Traffic Type Mean Packet Interval(ms) SR usage ratio  
80ms period 10ms period 5ms period 1ms period Background (of IM) ^(1)^ 6253
0.67% 0.08% 0.04% 0.008% IM ^(1)^ 1905 2.46% 0.31% 0.15% 0.03% Gaming ^(2)^ 44
--- 22.7% 11.4% 2.3% VoIP ^(2)^ 20 (160ms for SID frame, 50% activity factor
is assumed) --- 31.3% 15.5% 3.1% Video Telephony ^(2)^ 40 --- 25% 12.5% 2.5%
Web Browsing ^(2)^ 2000 3.3% 0.04% 0.02% 0.004% FTP ^(2)^ 1000 15% 1.9% 0.96%
0.19%
* * *
Note 1: Statistics of the traffic traces used for this evaluation may be found
in [4]
Note 2: Source traffic based on models which are provided in [5]
Resources reserved for dedicated SR on PUCCH may be expressed as an UL
Physical Resource Block (PRB) overhead. The overhead may be defined as the sum
of PUCCH PRBs (for D-SR) that need to be reserved for a set of users within
the cell, divided by the sum of PUSCH PRBs needed to carry their user plane
data.
Figure 5.1.2.1-1 shows this ratio for an evaluation in which background
traffic traces 28, 29, 30 and 31 (Annex A.1) were used and assuming that
M~PUCCH1~ =18 SRs may be multiplexed within a PUCCH PRB.
{width="4.8381944444444445in" height="2.8875in"}
Figure 5.1.2.1-1: PRB overhead due to dedicated scheduling request on PUCCH
(Background Traffic)
### 5.1.3 PRACH resource usage
If dedicated SR resources on PUCCH are not allocated to a connected mode UE,
the UE instead uses the random access procedure to request PUSCH resources
when user plane data arrives for uplink transmission. Figure 5.1.3-1 shows the
amount of PRACH resources needed to accommodate these requests as a function
of the number of users per cell and expressed relative to the number of PUSCH
PRBs needed to carry the user plane data. The evaluation assumes a 1% preamble
collision probability target and is based on background traces 28, 29, 30 and
31 (Annex A.1), In the evaluation the amount of PRACH resources is increased
as the size of the user population increases, in order not to exceed the
stated collision probability target. The number of PRACH PRBs per frame is
derived as:
... where γ is the total offered preamble load. {width="0.4270833333333333in"
height="0.20833333333333334in"} conforms to one of the available PRACH
configurations (for FDD) containing {3, 6, 12, 18, 30, 60} PRBs per frame.
{width="4.811805555555556in" height="3.4138888888888888in"}
Figure 5.1.3-1: PRB overhead due to scheduling request on PRACH (Background
Traffic, 1% preamble collision probability)
## 5.2 Evaluation of RRC State Transitions
### 5.2.1 Signalling Associated with RRC Connection Setup/Release
Some traffic profiles have the potential to cause frequent RRC connection
setup/release cycles.
This section provides an understanding of the cost of setting up each RRC
connection, which may be of relevance for background traffic where the volume
of user data exchanged during each of the RRC connection durations may be
small.
Two example RRC connection setup/release sequences are shown in Tables 5.2.1-1
and 5.2.1-2 . Both examples assume that all messages are received without
errors (i.e. no retransmissions). At the start of the sequences, the UE is
assumed to be in EMM_REGISTERED and in ECM_IDLE.
In Table 5.2.1-1, some of the associated layer 1 control aspects are also
included. MAC PDU sizes are shown without padding (or padding sub-headers).
CQI/CSI transmissions may also be present following the RRC Connection Setup
message but are not explicitly shown in the table.
Table 5.2.1-2 shows an alternative example RRC connection setup/release
sequence. The associated layer 1 signalling is not explicitly shown in this
table (except for the RACH preamble).
Table 5.2.1-1 -- RRC Connection Setup / Release Sequence -- Example 1
* * *
**Step** ** UL\ Contents (of MAC PDU or L1 control)** MAC PDU Size (Bytes)**  
\  
 DL**
                                                                                                                            **UL**                     **DL**
1  Preamble -- --
2  Random Access Response (+PDCCH DL grant) -- 8
3  RRC Connection Request 7 --
4  PHICH ACK -- --
5  Contention Resolution CE (+PDCCH DL grant) -- 7
6  PUCCH ACK -- --
7  RRC Connection Setup (+PDCCH DL grant) -- 30
8  PUCCH ACK -- --
9  Scheduling Request -- --
10  PDCCH UL grant -- --
11  RRC Connection Setup Complete (inc. NAS Service Request) + PHR + short
BSR 20 --
12  PHICH ACK -- --
13  RLC Status PDU (+PDCCH DL grant) -- 3
14  PUCCH ACK -- --
15  Security Mode Command (+PDCCH DL grant) -- 11
16  PUCCH ACK -- --
17  Scheduling Request -- --
18  PDCCH UL grant -- --
19  Security Mode Complete + RLC Status PDU + PHR + short BSR 17 --
20  PHICH ACK -- --
21  RLC Status PDU (+PDCCH DL grant) -- 3
22  PUCCH ACK -- --
23  RRC Connection Reconfiguration (+PDCCH DL grant) -- 45
24  PUCCH ACK -- --
25  Scheduling Request -- --
26  PDCCH UL grant -- --
27  RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete + RLC Status PDU + PHR + short
BSR 19 --
28  PHICH ACK -- --
29  RLC Status PDU (+PDCCH DL grant) -- 3
30  PUCCH ACK -- --
31  RRC Connection Release (+PDCCH DL grant) -- 10
32  PUCCH ACK -- --
33  Scheduling Request -- --
34  PDCCH UL grant -- --
35  RLC Status PDU 3 --
36  PHICH ACK -- --
**Total Bytes** **66** **120**
**Number of occupied subframes** **18** **18**
* * *
Table 5.2.1-2 -- RRC Connection Setup / Release Sequence -- Example 2
* * *
**Step** ** UL\** Contents (of MAC PDU)**** MAC PDU Size (Bytes)**  
\  
 DL**
                                                                                                                 **UL**                     **DL**
1  Preamble -- --
2  Random Access Response -- 7
3  RRC Connection Request 7 --
4  RRC Connection Setup + UE _Contention Resolution Identity_ MAC CE) -- 38
5  Buffer Status Report 2 --
6  RRC Connection Setup Complete (+ NAS Service Request) 20 --
7  RLC Status Report -- 3
8  Security Mode Command -- 11
9  RRC Connection Reconfiguration (+NAS: Activate Dedicated EPS Bearer
Context Req) -- 118
10  Buffer Status Report 2 --
11  Security Mode Complete 13 --
12  RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete 10 --
13  RLC Status Report -- 3
14  Buffer Status Report 2 --
15  ULInformationTransfer (NAS: Activate Dedicated EPS BEARER Context Accept)
13 --
16  RLC Status Report -- 3
17  RRC Connection Release -- 10
18  RLC Status Report 3 --
**Total Bytes** **72** **193**
* * *
### 5.2.2 Signalling Load
RRC state control may be based on inactivity timers within the eNB. Following
the detection of data inactivity for a period of time, the eNB may choose to
direct the UE to idle mode via the sending of an RRC Connection Release. The
presence of user plane traffic will trigger a subsequent return to connected
mode via an RRC Connection Setup procedure (such as those shown in section
5.2.1).
Some traffic types (e.g. background and IM) comprise regular or sporadic short
data exchanges that may be relatively widely interspersed in time. In this
case, one of two outcomes is likely to result depending upon the network's
configuration of the RRC inactivity timer:
A) For shorter timer values, the frequency of RRC state transitions becomes
high: as a result, Uu and S1 signalling overheads are increased
B) For longer timer values, Idle mode is seldom used: The background activity
retains the device in an RRC connected mode state
This section provides analyses concerning how RRC inactivity timer values
affect RRC connection frequency (and hence signalling load) and the proportion
of time the UE would spend in connected mode as a result.
#### 5.2.2.1 Results for Background Traffic
Figure 5.2.2.1-1 shows the number of complete RRC connection setup/release
cycles per minute that would result in the presence of background traffic as a
function of varying an RRC inactivity-timer within the eNB. The results are
for the case of zero or low mobility. Numerical legend labels correspond to
the traffic scenario Trace IDs listed in Annex A.1. Alphabetical legend labels
correspond to traces from other sources as listed in Annex A.2.
Figure 5.2.2.1-2 shows the corresponding percentage of time that the UE would
spend in the connected mode.
{width="6.510416666666667in" height="4.989583333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: RRC Connection Frequency vs. RRC inactivity timer value
(Background Traffic)
{width="6.489583333333333in" height="4.989583333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1-2: Time in Connected Mode vs. RRC inactivity timer value
(Background Traffic)
#### 5.2.2.2 Results for IM Traffic
Figure 5.2.2.2-1 shows the number of complete RRC connection setup/release
cycles per minute that would result in the presence of IM traffic as a
function of varying an RRC inactivity-timer within the eNB. The results are
for the case of zero or low mobility. Numerical legend labels correspond to
the traffic scenario Trace IDs listed in Annex A.1. Alphabetical legend labels
correspond to traces from other sources as listed in Annex A.2.
Figure 5.2.2.2-2 shows the corresponding percentage of time that the UE would
spend in the connected mode.
{width="6.4375in" height="4.823611111111111in"}
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: RRC Connection Frequency vs. RRC inactivity timer value (IM
Traffic)
{width="6.447916666666667in" height="4.802083333333333in"}
Figure 5.2.2.2-2: Time in Connected Mode vs. RRC inactivity timer value (IM
Traffic)
## 5.3 Evaluation of Mobility Related Signaling
### 5.3.1 Signalling Associated with Handover
While the UE remains in RRC Connected state, mobility from one cell to another
cell involves a Handover procedure. Handover involves signaling on both the Uu
and backhaul (X2/S1) interfaces, and an example of the signaling on the Uu
interface is given in Figure 5.3.1-1.
Table 5.3.1-1, shows the number of bytes of signalling data corresponding to
the Uu signalling messages shown in Figure 5.3.1-1. This assumes that all
messages are received without errors (i.e. no retransmissions). MAC PDU sizes
are shown without padding (or padding sub-headers). CQI/CSI transmissions may
also be present but are not explicitly shown in the table.
Figure 5.3.1-1: Signaling Flow Associated with Handover
Table 5.3.1-1 -- RRC Signalling for (intra-system) Handover procedure --
Example
* * *
Step á UL Contents (of MAC PDU) MAC PDU Size (Bytes)  
â DL UL DL 1 á Buffer Status Report 2 -- 2 á Measurement Report 19 -- 3 â RLC
Status Report -- 3 4 â RRC Connection Reconfiguration including
mobilityControlInfo. -- 87 5 á Preamble -- -- 6 â Random Access Response -- 7
7 á RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete 13 -- 8 â RLC Status Report -- 3
Total Bytes 34 100
* * *
### 5.3.2 Selecting RRC State for a mobile UE
The cost of mobility in RRC Connected state is higher than the cost of
mobility in RRC Idle State. While the cost of RRC Connected mobility is given
in Section 5.3.1, RRC Idle State mobility in most cases does not involve any
air interface or backhaul signaling. The exception is when a UE in RRC Idle
State moves outside the network provided list of tracking areas and needs to
perform a Tracking Area Update procedure. In this section (Section 5.3), it is
assumed that the UE does not move outside the list of assigned tracking areas.
Due to the fact that in the current LTE system, UE-controlled mobility applies
only in idle mode, then from the point of view of mobility signaling alone, it
is desirable to place the UE in RRC Idle State as much as possible. However,
as noted in Section 5.2, frequent transitions between RRC Idle and Connected
states are also undesirable. Some example schemes that are possible within the
existing LTE system for controlling the RRC state of a UE are listed below.
Each scheme obtains a different tradeoff between frequency of RRC state
transitions and the frequency of mobility signaling. However, it is also the
case that each scheme achieves a different trade off between the time spent in
the connected and idle modes and hence impacts to UE battery consumption, the
number of simultaneous RRC connections within a cell/eNB and the usage of
system resources are also of importance and need to be taken into
consideration.
**1\. Full use of RRC Connected State:** In this scheme, the UE never
transitions to RRC Idle State.
**2\. Network Initiated RRC Release (based on RRC Inactivity Timer in the
Network):** As mentioned in Section 5.2, the eNB can release the RRC
connection when there is no data activity for a period exceeding an RRC
inactivity timer.
**3\. Network Initiated RRC Release based on mobility:** In this scheme, the
eNB releases a UE's RRC connection only if both of the following criteria are
met: i) there has been no data activity for the UE for the past N seconds, and
ii) a need for handover for the UE has been identified (e.g. the eNB has
received a measurement report with A3 event). Thus, the eNB performs RRC
connection release instead of performing handover. If a handover is required
within N seconds of previous user-plane activity, the handover is performed
and the RRC connection is not released..
### 5.3.3 Evaluation of schemes to select a RRC State for a mobile UE
By using a traffic trace and a model for UE mobility, it is possible to
compute the number of RRC State Transitions and the number of HO events. The
UE mobility model may either be abstract (e.g. a random variable to model the
time between handovers), or may be based on UE mobility simulations in a
multicell simulation layout.
The number of RRC Connection Setup events, the number of HO events and the
time in connected mode with a varying mobility rate are shown below in tables
5.3.3-1, 5.3.3-2 and 5.3.3-3 for Trace ID-1 (of Annex A.1).
Table 5.3.3-1: RRC Connection Setups per Hour per UE (Trace ID-1)
* * *
Scheme Mobility Rate (cell changes per minute per UE)  
0.1 0.3 1 3 10 1\. Full C-DRX 0  
2a. NW Initiated RRC Release (timer 5s) 64  
2b. NW Initiated RRC Release (timer 10s) 53  
3a. NW Initiated RRC Release based on mobility (timer 5s) 5.2 12 26 40 52.2
3b. NW Initiated RRC Release based on mobility (timer 10s) 4.1 12.1 22.7 34.3
45.6
* * *
Table 5.3.3-2: Handover Events per Hour per UE (Trace ID-1)
* * *
Scheme Mobility Rate (cell changes per minute per UE)  
0.1 0.3 1 3 10 1\. Full C-DRX 6 18 60 180 600 2a. NW Initiated RRC Release
(timer 5s) 0.6 1.8 6.1 18.5 62 2b. NW Initiated RRC Release (timer 10s) 1.0
3.3 10.9 32.3 109 3a. NW Initiated RRC Release based on mobility (timer 5s)
0.5 1.0 5.4 18.0 63 3b. NW Initiated RRC Release based on mobility (timer 10s)
1.1 3.7 10.3 33.0 111
* * *
Table 5.3.3-3: Fraction of Time in Connected Mode (Trace ID-1)
* * *
Scheme Mobility Rate (cell changes per minute per UE)  
0.1 0.3 1 3 10 1\. Full C-DRX 1  
2a. NW Initiated RRC Release (timer 5s) 0.10  
2b. NW Initiated RRC Release (timer 10s) 0.18  
3a. NW Initiated RRC Release based on mobility (timer 5s) 0.91 0.77 0.53 0.32
0.19 3b. NW Initiated RRC Release based on mobility (timer 10s) 0.93 0.81 0.56
0.38 0.26
* * *
The figure 5.3.3-1 shows the comparison of signalling load to data bytes per
hour across the different schemes in tables 5.3.3-1, 5.3.3-2. The mean data
rate value is obtained from table A.1-1 in Appendix A.1.
{width="6.059722222222222in" height="3.702777777777778in"}
Figure 5.3.3-1: Signalling load to data bytes for background trace ID-1
A further set of evaluations for trace ID-17 of the Annex A.1 is shown here.
The cut-off UE mobility rate above which it is better to move the UE to RRC
idle state when there is no packet activity and below which it is acceptable
to maintain in RRC Connected state (Always on/ Full C-DRX) is shown in tables
5.3.3-4 and 5.3.3-5. The tables captured for the background trace ID-17 (of
Annex A.1) depict the signalling load while performing RRC state transitions
and handovers. The trace spans a duration of 24 hours, with data analysed over
a wide range of RRC Inactivity values (including a Full Connected case) and
handover rates.
Table 5.3.3-4: Number of Handovers and RRC state transitions for background
trace ID-17
RRC Inactivity Timer (s) | Number of HOs per hour (per UE) | Number RRC Connected to Idle Transitions per hour (per UE) |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| HO rate per minute |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
| 0.10 | 0.30 | 0.50 | 0.75 | 1.00 | 2.00 | 4.00 | 10.00 |   
1 | 3.1 | 3.1 | 8.0 | 5.9 | 14.6 | 20.5 | 24.3 | 39.5 | 124.4  
5 | 3.5 | 5.2 | 9.7 | 11.1 | 18.7 | 29.8 | 41.9 | 99.5 | 87.3  
10 | 3.8 | 6.2 | 11.4 | 14.6 | 22.9 | 41.9 | 70.0 | 173.3 | 69.3  
30 | 4.5 | 9.7 | 17.0 | 25.3 | 35.0 | 69.0 | 133.8 | 330.7 | 19.8  
60 | 4.5 | 10.7 | 20.8 | 30.2 | 41.2 | 80.4 | 159.1 | 396.5 | 10.4  
Infinity | 5.9 | 17.7 | 29.8 | 44.7 | 60.0 | 119.9 | 239.9 | 600.0 | 0.0  
Table 5.3.3-5: Total Signalling load in bytes due to Handovers and RRC state
transitions for background trace ID-17
* * *
RRC Inactivity Timer (s) Total Signalling Load Bytes due to HO and RRC state
transitions per hour (per UE)  
HO rate per minute  
0.10 0.30 0.50 0.75 1.00 2.00 4.00 10.00 1 23562.0 23562.0 24212.2 23933.6
25094.7 25884.3 26395.2 28438.8 5 16710.5 16942.7 17546.5 17732.3 18754.1
20240.3 21865.9 29576.0 10 13404.9 13730.0 14426.7 14844.7 15959.4 18513.9
22276.0 36117.0 30 4278.5 4975.2 5950.5 7065.2 8365.7 12917.4 21602.7 47983.7
60 2537.9 3373.9 4720.8 5974.9 7461.1 12709.1 23252.1 55068.1 Infinity 789.6
2368.7 3994.3 5991.5 8035.1 16070.0 32140.0 80397.0
* * *
Note: For the above calculations, the number of bytes per RRC connection is
taken from Table 5.2.1-1 and number of bytes per Handover message are taken
from Table 5.3.1-1.
The figure 5.3.3-2 shows the different signalling load to data bytes per hour
percentage data sets for different mobility rates and various RRC inactivity
timers providing a visual representation of the data corresponding to table
5.3.3-5. The mean data rate value is obtained from table A.1-1 in Appendix
A.1.
{width="6.292361111111111in" height="3.7916666666666665in"}
Figure 5.3.3-2: Signalling load to data bytes for background trace ID-17
From the above results, the following observations can be made about balancing
mobility and RRC state transition signalling, in the context of background
applications.
1\. Full use of RRC Connected State, i.e. not having any transitions to RRC
Idle mode can eliminate the RRC Connection Setup and Release signalling, with
mobility signalling events then increasing correspondingly with the mobility
of the UE.
2\. Use of Network Initiated RRC Release based on fixed RRC Inactivity Timer
can result in a high number of RRC Connection Setup (and Release) events,
while maintaining a number of mobility events that is dependent on the length
of the timer. In this case, the optimum RRC Inactivity Timer to minimize the
signaling load is a function of the UE mobility rate and the traffic
characteristics (e.g. packet inter arrival time).
3\. Use of Network Initiated RRC Release based on mobility, at low mobility
rates, exhibits handover and RRC connection setup frequencies similar to Full
Connected DRX, while at high mobility rates the frequency of RRC connection
setups and handovers are similar to Network Initiated RRC Release.
## 5.4 Evaluation of UE power consumption
### 5.4.1 Power consumption as a function of DRX long cycle length
In this section, an evaluation of UE power consumption is shown for background
traffic with varying burst inter-arrival times and for different RRC
inactivity release timers and DRX configurations. Mobility is considered with
UEs moving at 3kmph and 30kmph in random fashion.
The following DRX settings are used in the evaluations shown below in Figures
5.4.1-1 to 5.4.1-4.
+-------------------+----------------------+----------------------------------+ | Feature/Parameter | Configuration | Value/Description | +-------------------+----------------------+----------------------------------+ | DRX | Long cycle length | 80, 160, 320, 640, 1280, 2560 ms | | | | | | | Short cycle length | 40 ms | | | | | | | Short cycle duration | ½ long cycle length (max 640 ms) | | | | | | | Inactivity timer | 10 ms | | | | | | | On duration timer | 5 ms | +-------------------+----------------------+----------------------------------+
Figure 5.4.1-1 UE power consumption, DRX "off", 3kmph
{width="3.3847222222222224in" height="2.5340277777777778in"}
Figure 5.4.1-2 UE power consumption, DRX long cycle duration 160ms, 3kmph
{width="3.540277777777778in" height="2.6597222222222223in"}
Figure 5.4.1-3 UE power consumption, DRX long cycle duration 640ms, 3kmph
{width="3.5277777777777777in" height="2.6458333333333335in"}
Figure 5.4.1-4 UE power consumption, DRX long cycle duration 640ms, 30kmph
Note: Traffic profile C from Annex A.2 was used as the basis for the above
evaluations. The above figure is taken from R2-120367.
Another metric for UE power consumption is the battery duration. The impact of
various DRX long cycle periods in connected mode on UE battery duration is
shown in Figure 5.4.1-5 below, where the relative average battery duration
(normalised to the battery duration at 3 kmph with no DRX) is shown at various
velocities and for different DRX long cycle durations.
{width="4.856944444444444in" height="1.9854166666666666in"}
Figure 5.4.1-5: UE relative battery duration as a function of DRX period
length
Note: Traffic profile D from Annex A.2 was used as the basis for the above
evaluations. The above figure is taken from R2-120578.
The following observations can be made from the above results:
\- The RRC release timer value has a large impact on the relative power
consumption, especially with shorter DRX long cycles
\- Terminal speed does not have a strong influence on the power consumption
The evaluations above consider the case of the UE moving to idle mode at the
expiry of the network idle inactivity timer. Conversely the evaluations of
Figure 5.4.1-6 below consider the power consumption of a UE which is held in
RRC connected mode for most of the time (with a relatively large RRC release
timer -- 100 s). Different DRX configurations are used to study the impact of
DRX on the UE power consumption in connected mode.
{width="5.772222222222222in" height="3.767361111111111in"}
Figure 5.4.1-6: Mean UE power consumption with different DRX configurations
(legend: "DRX: long cycle, short cycle timer")
Note: Traffic profile C from Annex A.2 was used as the basis for the above
evaluations. The above figure is taken from R2-120500.
The following observations can be made from the above results:
\- Longer Long DRX cycles give lower power consumption in RRC connected mode
In case of traffic with shorter inter arrival times (4-10 secs), a significant
increase of power consumption in RRC connected mode can be observed for the
DRX configurations comprising a longer short cycle timer. This is more
noticeable in case of the configurations with longer long DRX cycles (640 ...
2560 ms).
The above evaluations show that the power consumption of a connected mode UE
is dependent upon the DRX configuration. Specifically, the use of longer DRX
cycles helps to reduce power consumption for long RRC release timers.
In the evaluations shown in Figures 5.4.1-7 and 5.4.1-8, the power consumption
of a connected mode UE (infinite RRC release timer) is compared with that of a
UE that spends more of its time in idle (short RRC release timer of 1 sec) and
which transitions to connected mode when sending data. Other simulation
parameters are shown in the table below.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feature/Parameter | Configuration | Value/Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic | Background traffic | Geometric | | | model | distribution of | | | | packet inter-arrival | | | | times (mean of 5s | | | | and 30s ) -- see | | | | traffic profile C of | | | | Annex A.2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRX | Long cycle length | 160, 640, 1280, 2560 | | | | ms | | | Short cycle length | | | | | 40 ms | | | Short cycle duration | | | | | 160 ms | | | Inactivity timer | | | | | 10 ms | | | On duration timer | | | | | 10 ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Idle mode | Paging cycle | 1280ms | | configuration | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Measurement duration | 5ms | | | per cycle | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.2875in" | | height="2.53125in"} | height="2.53125in"} | | | | | Figure 5.4.1-7: Mean UE power | Figure 5.4.1-8: Mean UE power | | consumption with average traffic | consumption with average traffic | | inter arrival time = 5 sec | inter arrival time = 30 sec | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Based on the above results, the following observation can be made:
\- For background traffic, the power consumption of a connected mode UE can be
comparable to that of a UE with a short release timer if the DRX cycle length
is similar to the idle mode paging cycle.
The network may wish to also consider other factors when deciding whether to
release the UE to idle or to keep it RRC connected (e.g. DRX preferences, UE
mobility, UE traffic pattern, network load, number of supportable connections,
signalling/resource overheads etc...).
### 5.4.2 Trade-off between power consumption and latency
Increasing the overall proportion of sub-frames on which the UE may sleep
naturally results in a reduction in active time thus reducing the UE's power
consumption. However, this comes with an increased risk of longer wake-up
delays (i.e. the latency). An example of this trade-off between average UE
power consumption and latency can be seen in Figure 5.4.2-1 for background
traffic (Trace 29, see Annex A.1) and in Figure 5.4.2-2 for interactive
content pull traffic (Trace 50, see Annex A.1). Power consumption is expressed
in terms of an "Average Relative Power Metric" (ARPM) ranging from 0 to 1.
This is defined as the average power consumption of the UE relative to the
case of continuous transmission and reception (assuming here an FDD UE).
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.2020833333333334in" | | height="2.3715277777777777in"} | height="2.3673611111111112in"} | | | | | Figure 5.4.2-1a: UE power | Figure 5.4.2-1b: DL latency as a | | consumption as a function of | function of Long DRX cycle | | Long DRX cycle period and DRX | period and DRX inactivity timer | | inactivity timer (background | (background traffic) | | traffic) | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | {width="3.2020833333333334in" | | height="2.3673611111111112in"} | height="2.3673611111111112in"} | | | | | Figure 5.4.2-2a: UE power | Figure 5.4.2-2b: DL Latency as a | | consumption as a function of | function of Long DRX cycle | | Long DRX cycle period and DRX | period and DRX inactivity timer | | inactivity timer (interactive | (interactive content pull | | content pull traffic) | traffic) | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
Note: The above figures are taken from R2-120544.
Latency is likely to be a less-important consideration for background traffic
and hence a DRX configuration that prioritises UE battery performance may be
preferred. As shown in Figure 5.4.2-1, this may be achieved through the use of
shorter DRX inactivity timers and longer DRX cycle lengths.
However, for interactive content pull traffic, latency is significantly
impacted by the application of such DRX parameters. As shown in Figure
5.4.2-2b, these impacts may be largely avoided by increasing the inactivity
timer to around 500ms, although application of such a latency-sensitive DRX
configuration to the background traffic case could then lead to a several-fold
increase in UE power consumption when compared with shorter DRX inactivity
timers (Figure 5.4.2-1a).
The following observations can be made:
\- DRX configurations optimised primarily for UE power consumption in
background traffic scenarios may differ substantially when compared to those
optimised primarily for latency such as in the case of interactive or latency-
sensitive traffic.
\- Application of a DRX configuration optimised primarily for latency (e.g.
for interactive content pull traffic) can significantly increase UE power
consumption during times of background traffic whilst the DRX configurations
optimised primarily for power consumption of background traffic may cause an
increase in latency for the latency sensitive traffic.
### 5.4.3 Trade-off between power consumption and handover performance
The use of longer DRX cycles has some potential to impact handover performance
and this is evaluated in this section. This impact may be due to reduced
frequency of L1 measurements or increased latency of signalling messages.
The results of Figure 5.4.3-1 below show the percentage of radio link failures
per successful handover.
{width="4.351388888888889in" height="2.2534722222222223in"}
Figure 5.4.3-1: UE handover performance as a function of mobility and DRX
cycle length
Note: The above figures are taken from R2-120578.
The following observations can be made from the above figure:
\- Rate of radio link failure increases with longer DRX cycles
\- For high mobility cases, it is preferable to keep the UE either in RRC idle
state or in RRC connected state with a short DRX cycle length
# 6 New functionality
## 6.1 UE Assistance Information
In order to optimise the user experience and (for instance) to assist the eNB
in configuring connected mode parameters and connection release handling, the
UE may be configured to send assistance information to the eNB comprising:
\- UE preference for power optimised configuration (1 bit):
\- When this indication is sent, this bit is set in accordance with the UE's
preference for a configuration that is primarily optimised for power saving
(e.g. a long value for the long DRX cycle or RRC connection release) or not
\- The details regarding how the UE sets the indicator are left to UE
implementation
\- Mechanisms to avoid excessive signalling of this information should be
provided
\- UE mobility information:
\- The possibility for the UE to provide mobility information to the network
during transition from IDLE to RRC connected state should be provided
\- The details of the UE mobility information are left FFS
The network response to the UE assistance information is left to network
implementation.
# 7 Conclusions
It has been agreed to incorporate a mechanism to indicate UE preference for
power optimised configuration as described in section 6.1 in Rel-11.
###### ### Annex A: Trace Information
## A.1 Traffic Scenario CDF Traces
Table A.1-1: Traffic Scenario CDFs - Trace Listing
* * *
Trace-ID Source Company Description Mean Rate (Bytes/s) Mean IP Packets Per
Second  
DL UL DL UL 1 Qualcomm Background (IM QQ + Google services) [6.58] [4.66]
[0.0380] [0.0427] 2 Qualcomm Gaming (modern combat): A 3D First Person Shooter
(FPS) online game [2084.63] [542.50] [25.7619] [19.9556] 3 Qualcomm Gaming
(project INF): A 2D shooting online game [1433.00] [185.29] [12.7250] [4.9979]
4 Qualcomm Gaming (reckless racing): A car racing online game [1517.88]
[792.65] [4.0516] [4.0876] 5 AT4 Wireless Gaming (open arena): A First Person
Shooter (FPS) online game. 4050.0 3909.1 25.0 90.91 6 AT4 Wireless Gaming
(dirt2): An online action game where several players race against each other
in a virtual environment 640.45 658.54 11.24 12.19 7 AT4 Wireless Gaming (team
fortress 2): Another First Person Shooter (FPS) online game. 5320.0 2383.35
20.00 29.41 8 Huawei Background (MSN) [23.02] [12.32] [0.1236] [0.1850] 9
Huawei Background (QQ) [48.65] [58.33] [0.2550] [0.2886] 10 Huawei Background
(skype) [6.69] [5.33] [0.0546] [0.0711] 11 Huawei IM (MSN) [451.90] [31.22]
[0.9538] [0.7338] 12 Huawei IM (QQ) [73.29] [23.40] [0.2538] [0.2899] 13 Intel
Background (multi-app: skype/gtalk/twitter/weather/stock) -- A [6.02] [12.53]
[0.0560] [0.1041] 14 Intel Background (multi-app:
skype/gtalk/twitter/weather/stock) -- B [5.34] [8.97] [0.0578] [0.0813] 15
Intel Background (multi-app: skype/gtalk/twitter/weather/stock) -- C [5.52]
[10.15] [0.0564] [0.0851] 16 Intel Background (multi-app:
skype/gtalk/twitter/weather/stock) - D [5.78] [10.53] [0.0606] [0.0897] 17
Intel Background (single-app: skype) [9.11] [6.86] [0.1093] [0.0850] 18 Intel
Background (single-app: google talk) [10.06] [1.73] [0.0344] [0.0271] 19 Intel
Background (single-app: yahoo messenger) [1.16] [3.77] [0.0353] [0.0358] 20
Intel Background (single-app: facebook) [3.23] [1.01] [0.0063] [0.0096] 21 NSN
Background (facebook android) 30.2576 5.7468 0.0459 0.0454 22 NSN Background
(facebook iOS) 18.6777 14.1180 0.1005 0.0845 23 NSN Background (facebook
symbian) 20.2047 6.2728 0.0281 0.0205 24 NSN Background (nimbuzz gtalk
android) 0.4304 0.4599 0.0064 0.0067 25 NSN IM (android) 16.9293 14.3582
0.1666 0.1773 26 NSN IM (iOS) 14.1203 12.6267 0.1351 0.1496 27 NSN Background
(skype android) 1.8226 1.9618 0.0282 0.0293 28 RIM Background (A1) -- music
store, facebook, maps, weather app 2.83 2.63 0.061 0.059 29 RIM Background
(A2) -- music store, facebook, maps 6.81 3.41 0.088 0.095 30 RIM Background
(A3) -- facebook 20.51 10.39 0.143 0.21 31 RIM Background (A4) -- skype 21.1
18.38 0.289 0.346 32 RIM Background (A5) -- skype 13.76 21.43 0.222 0.391 33
RIM Background (B1) -- skype, facebook, weather, stocks, application store
150.35 71.69 0.985 1.028 34 RIM Background (B2) -- skype, facebook, weather,
stocks, application store 96.61 45.44 0.364 0.451 35 RIM Background (B3) --
facebook, youtube, email, weather, maps, app^n^ store 72.79 54.41 0.288 0.465
36 RIM Background (B4) -- windows live messenger 171.38 63.83 0.505 0.657 37
RIM Background (B5) -- facebook 30.09 16.56 0.127 0.176 38 RIM Background (B6)
-- browser page, windows live messenger, skype, email 79.85 157.53 0.523 1.149
39 RIM Background (B7) -- browser page, skype, email 10.08 38.82 0.191 0.453
40 RIM IM (conversation 1, application A) 19.55 19.2 0.167 0.199 41 RIM IM
(conversation 2, application A) 28.35 24.86 0.233 0.266 42 RIM IM
(conversation 3, application A) 22.17 20 0.183 0.214 43 RIM IM (conversation
4, application A) 27.7 24.76 0.214 0.306 44 RIM IM (conversation 5,
application B) 53.19 38.47 0.318 0.401 45 RIM IM (conversation 6, application
B) 23.07 77.04 0.182 0.241 46 RIM IM (conversation 7, application C) 17.38
24.32 0.167 0.174 47 RIM Content pull (1) -- phone 7453 1075 7.62 6.84 48 RIM
Content pull (2) -- phone 5754 788 5.55 5.19 49 RIM Content pull (3) -- tablet
21048 1043 16.91 9.84 50 RIM Content pull (4) -- tablet 28116 691 20.05 9.59
51 RIM Content pull (5) -- tablet 38332 1160 28.06 17.35 52 RIM Content pull
(6) -- phone 29302 1180 22.52 14.95 53 RIM Content pull (7) -- phone 16297
1004 13.03 9.75 54 RIM Content pull (8) -- tablet 4133 474 4.31 4.45 55 RIM
Content pull (9) - tablet 61709 1632 45.53 26.65 56 Samsung Background --
android, facebook 16.069 6.717 0.026 0.041 57 Samsung Background -- android,
skype 9,968 13.435 0.107 0.129 58 CMCC IM -- QQ 18.25 5.53 0.066 0.089 59
Renesas Background -- android (facebook, skype, e-buddy, google talk, weather,
news) [152.04] [55.04] [0.7661] [0.6719] 60 Renesas Background -- maemo
(kweetaur [twitter], pidgin [gtalk / MSN messenger]) [199.35] [40.13] [0.3616]
[0.3767] 61 NTT DoCoMo Background - OS only, no application traffic, android
[0.031] [0.0917] [0.0006] [0.0012]
* * *
## A.2 Additional Traffic Sources Used for Evaluation
Table A.2-1: Additional Traffic Sources Used for Evaluation
* * *
Trace-ID Source Company Description Mean Rate (Bytes/s) Mean IP Packets Per
Second  
DL UL DL UL A Huawei R2-116167, Background Trace, Appendix 6.2  
B Huawei R2-116167, IM Trace, Appendix 6.3  
C Nokia Corporation, Nokia Siemens Networks R2-120367, Burst model with
geometric distribution of inter-arrival times  
D Renesas Mobile Europe Ltd R2-120578, Burst model with geometric distribution
of inter-arrival times
* * *
#