# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The purpose of this report is to summarize studies of radio requirements for
the Base Station (BS) and User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
as part of the Rel-11 work on LTE Carrier Aggregation Enhancements.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands\"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
**Contiguous carriers:** a set of two or more carriers configured in a
spectrum block where there are no RF requirements based on co-existence for
un-coordinated operation within the spectrum block.
**Contiguous spectrum:** Spectrum consisting of a contiguous block of spectrum
with no sub-block gaps.
**Lower sub-block edge:** The frequency at the lower edge of one sub-block. It
is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and receiver
requirements.
**Non-contiguous spectrum:** Spectrum consisting of two or more sub-blocks
separated by sub-block gap(s).
**Sub-block:** This is one contiguous allocated block of spectrum for
transmission and reception by the same UE. There may be multiple instances of
sub-blocks within an RF bandwidth.
**Sub-block bandwidth:** The bandwidth of one sub-block.
**Sub-block gap:** A frequency gap between two consecutive sub-blocks within
an RF bandwidth, where the RF requirements in the gap are based on co-
existence for un-coordinated operation.
**Upper sub-block edge:** The frequency at the upper edge of one sub-block. It
is used as a frequency reference point for both transmitter and receiver
requirements.
## 3.2 Symbols
**BW~Channel,block~ Sub-block bandwidth, expressed in MHz. BW~Channel,block~=
F~edge,block,high~- F~edge,block,low~.**
**F~C,block,\ high~** Center frequency of the highest transmitted/received
carrier in a sub-block.
**F~C,block,\ low~** Center frequency of the lowest transmitted/received
carrier in a sub-block.
F~edge,block,high~ The upper sub-block edge, where F~edge,block,high~ =
F~C,block,high~ + F~offset.~
F~edge,block,low~ The lower sub-block edge, where F~edge,block,low~ =
F~C,block,low~ - F~offset.~
F~offset,block,high~ Separation between higher edge of a sub-block and the
center of the highest component carrier within the sub-block
F~offset,block,low~ Separation between lower edge of a sub-block and the
center of the lowest component carrier within the sub-block
W~gap~ Sub-block gap size
# 4 Background
This report contains information related to general framework for Carrier
Aggregation enhancements covering
\- UE and BS aspects;
\- intra-band non-contiguous spectrum.
CA specific Intra band combinations are treated under the separate Work Items.
Those studies are captured in separate Technical Reports.
## 4.1 Task description
The work should fulfil the following objectives:
\- Specify the support of the use of multiple timing advances in case of LTE
uplink carrier aggregation;
\- Define generic framework for UE and BS core requirements for non-contiguous
intra-band carrier aggregation in RAN WG4 based on the existing RAN WG1, RAN
WG2, and RAN WG3 specifications;
\- Study additional carrier types including non-backwards compatible elements
for Carrier Aggregation. A way forward for additional carrier types and
related details will be decided based on trade-off analyses where deployment
scenarios, benefits, drawbacks and work item time line are carefully
considered from the perspectives of all the RAN WGs;
\- Identify the impact to UE and eNB specifications.
# 5 Multiple timing advances
The timing advance group (TAG) is introduced in Rel-11 for supporting multiple
timing advances for some carrier aggregation scenarios. A TAG includes one or
more serving cells with the same UL timing advance and the same DL timing
reference cell. If a TAG contains the PCell, it is named as Primary Timing
Advance Group (pTAG). If a TAG contains only SCell(s), it is named as
Secondary Timing Advance Group (sTAG). There is one timing reference cell and
one time alignment timer (TAT) per TAG and each TAT may be configured with a
different value. For pTAG, PCell is used as the timing reference cell. For
sTAG, UE may use any activated SCell from the same sTAG as timing reference
cell.
From RF requirement point of view, the number of CA component carrier is
limited to 2 for Rel-11. Thus, TS 36.133 will support only up to 2 TAGs for
Rel-11. If the sTAG is configured, there is only one cell, i.e., SCell, in the
sTAG.
With respect to timing advance maintenance of the sTAG, the initial UL time
alignment of sTAG is obtained by an eNB initiated random access procedure
similar to pTAG. The SCell in an sTAG can be configured with RACH resources
and the eNB may order RACH access on the SCell. The Msg2 in response to an
SCell preamble is transmitted on the PCell using RA-RNTI that conforms to
Rel-8. Grant in Msg2 is valid for the SCell in which the preamble was
transmitted. UE stops RA preamble transmission on an SCell when reaching
PREAMBLE_TRANS_MAX (failure case). However, the UE will not indicate a Random
Access problem to upper layers if the maximum number of preamble transmission
counter has been reached for the random access procedure on SCell.
The UE shall track the downlink frame timing change of SCell and adjust UL
transmission timing following the timing advance commands from the eNB. The
same performance requirements of the timing advance maintenance of the pTAG
shall also to the timing advance maintenance of the sTAG.
For inter-band carrier aggregation with two uplink serving cells assigned to
different timing advance groups (TAGs) and there is an overlap in the UL
timing of adjacent subframes of active serving cells in the different TAGs
(Figure 5-1), P~PowerClass~ shall not be exceeded by the UE during any period
of time and P~CMAX,_c_ ~ and P~CMAX~ for the overlap time shall be determined
by the UE as follows:
\- P~CMAX,_c_ ~ for serving cell _c_ in each subframe shall be set by the UE
as if the overlap did not exist and shall be applicable to the entire subframe
including the overlap time.
\- P~CMAX~ for the overlap time shall be set by the UE within the bounds
allowed for P~CMAX~ of one of the adjacent subframes, specifically the one
with the lower allowed P~CMAX_L_CA~.
Figure 5-1:
# 6 Intra-band non-contiguous CA
## 6.1 BS characteristics
Carrier Aggregation Enhancement Work Item specified BS requirements for intra-
band non-contiguous operation for E-UTRA. Requirements are based on the MSR
specification 37.104 which specifies BS non-contiguous operation from Rel'10.
The following changes were made in 36.104 in order to support intra-band non-
contiguous operation:
\- Introduction of new definitions, symbols and abbreviations
\- Introduction of new table on intra-band non-contiguous carrier aggregation
bands
\- Introduction of definition of sub-block bandwidth for intra-band non-
contiguous spectrum
\- Clarification on requirements for contiguous and non-contiguous spectrum
\- Introduction of Time Alignment Error requirement for intra-band non-
contiguous operation
\- Clarification of occupied bandwidth and ACLR requirements for non-
contiguous spectrum
\- Introduction of Cumulative ACLR (CACLR) requirement for intra-band non-
contiguous operation
\- Clarification of operating band unwanted emissions and transmitter
intermodulation requirements for non-contiguous spectrum
\- Clarification of ACS, narrowband blocking, blocking and receiver
intermodulation requirements for non-contiguous spectrum
## 6.2 UE characteristics
### 6.2.1 General
Carrier aggregation enhancement WI will develop UE requirements for DL and UL
non-contiguous intra-band carrier aggregation using band 25 as en example FDD
band and band 41 as an example TDD band.
#### 6.2.1.1 Derivation of non-contiguous intra-band CA configuration acronym
The CA configuration acronym tells what are the UE capabilities for
simultaneous reception or transmission in terms of E-UTRA operating bands and
channel bandwidths/aggregated channel bandwidths. This information is
signalled to network separately for DL and UL.
As an example the acronym for the non-contiguous intra-band CA for band 25 is
CA_25A-25A. This acronym tells that UE is able to receive or transmit
simultaneously two separate carriers on band 25.
The individually received/transmitted RF-blocks are called sub-blocks for non-
contiguous intra-band CA thus the letters in non-contiguous intra-band CA
acronym refers to sub-blocks. In REL-11 time frame sub-block equals one
carrier. In future releases it can be that there are operator deployment
scenarios where a single carrier is combined to intra-band contiguous BW class
C signal within a single band. CA configuration acronym for this kind of
signal could be for-example CA_25A-25C.
In Figure 6.21.1-1 we present the methodology how to derive the CA
configuration acronyms for the three different CA schemes currently defined in
3GPP.
Figure 6.2.1.1-1: How to derive CA configuration acronym for different carrier
aggregation schemes
#### 6.2.1.2 Channel bandwidth for non-contiguous intra-band CA
Figure 6.2.1.2-1: Non-contiguous intra-band CA terms and definitions
The lower sub-block edge of the Sub-block Bandwidth (BW~Channel,block~) is
defined as F~edge,block,\ low~ = F~C,block,low~ - F~offset,block,\ low~. The
upper sub-block edge of the Sub-block Bandwidth is defined as
F~edge,block,high~ = F~C,block,high~ + F~offset,block,high~ . The Sub-block
Bandwidth, **BW~Channel,block,~** is defined as follows:
BW~Channel,block~ = F~edge,block,high~ - F~edge,block,low~ [MHz]
The lower and upper frequency offsets F~offset,block,low~ and
F~offset,block,high~ depend on the transmission bandwidth configurations of
the lowest and highest assigned edge component carriers within a sub-block and
are defined as
F~offset,block,low~ = 0.18N~RB,low~ /2 + BW~GB~ [MHz]
F~offset,block,high~ = 0.18N~RB,high~/2 + BW~GB~ [MHz]
where N~RB,low~ and N~RB,high~ are the transmission bandwidth configurations
according to Table 5.6-1 for the lowest and highest assigned component carrier
within a sub-block, respectively. BW~GB~ denotes the _Nominal Guard Band_ and
is defined in Table 6.2.1.2-1, and the factor 0.18 is the PRB bandwidth in
MHz.
Table 6.2.1.2-1: CA bandwidth classes and corresponding nominal guard bands
+----------------+----------------+--------------+----------------+ | CA Bandwidth | Aggregated | Maximum | Nominal Guard | | Class | Transmission | | Band | | | | number of CC | | | | Bandwidth | | BW~GB~ | | | Configuration | | | +----------------+----------------+--------------+----------------+ | A | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | 1 | 0.05 | | | 100 | | BW~Channel(1)~ | +----------------+----------------+--------------+----------------+ | B | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | 2 | FFS | | | 100 | | | +----------------+----------------+--------------+----------------+ | C | 100 \ OOB domain bandwidth of CC1 + OOB domain bandwidth
of CC2
▪ Sub-block gap bandwidth \ (Gap length) ≥ (Interferer frequency offset 1) + (Interferer frequency
> offset 2)
>
> \--0.5*( (Channel bandwidth 1) + (Channel bandwidth 2) ) (1)
where the interferer frequency offset represents the frequency offset between
the modulated E-UTRA interfering signal and the wanted carrier (F~interferer\
2~ (offset) specified in subclause 7.8.1.1). Note that the condition in (1) is
equivalent to having a gap length that guarantees a minimum of the Rel-8
interference frequency offset from both the carriers, as considered in the in-
band blocking requirements. As to how to define the wide band intermodulation
requirements for in-gap test, we can consider the following two options:
**▪ Option 1** : The in-gap test should be considered only if the gap length
satisfies the condition in (1).
**▪ Option 2** : The in-gap test should be skipped, regardless of the gap
length.
If the in-gap test is skipped, the simultaneous test consists of two out of
four tests, e.g., an out-of-gap test with negative offset with respect to C1
and an out-of-gap test positive offsets with respect to C2.
Recalling that it is the receiver linearity (not the selection or blocking
capability) that is measured in the intermodulation test, it is possible to
skip in-gap test and rely on out-of-gap test in intra-band NC CA. Therefore,
we propose Option 2. In addition, Option 2 helps to save the testing
time/effort since it skips two out of four tests. Moreover, Option 2 is
simpler in that it is readily applicable to any channel bandwidth (whereas
Option 1 may end up with channel bandwidth larger than or equal to 5 MHz, as
in the ACS and in-band blocking requirements). Lastly, it is consistent with
what was agreed for NC-4C-HSDPA.
**● Proposal 3: The in-gap test should be skipped, regardless of the gap
length (Option 2).**
#