# Foreword {#foreword .list-paragraph}
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope {#scope .list-paragraph}
The present document is intended the capture the output of the Study Item on
HetNet mobility improvements for LTE.
The study aims to look at various mobility improvements such as possible
improvements to support seamless and robust mobility of users between LTE
macro to pico cells in Heterogeneous networks, better strategies to identify
and evaluate small cells, handover performance with and without eICIC
features, improvements to re-establishment procedures etc. It is also expected
to consider these in the context of Carrier aggregation in Home eNodeBs.
# 2 References {#references .list-paragraph}
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2\".
[4] 3GPP TS 36.814: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer aspects\"
[5] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol specification\"
[6] R2-116122:-Attachment "Email discussion [75#36]: HetNet Mobility Hotspot
Calibration Results", TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #76
[7] R2-116103: Way forward with HetNet simulations; Renesas Mobile Europe
Ltd., TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #76
[8] R2-115917: Cell detection delay in HetNet; Huawei, HiSilicon, TSG-RAN WG2
meeting #76
[9] [R2-121706]{.underline}: Email discussion: [76#20] - LTE: HetNet mobility
calibration simulations, RAN WG2 meeting #77bis
[10] R2-121660: Impact of DRX to HetNet Mobility Performance, Renesas Mobile
Europe Ltd., TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #77bis
[11] R2-120348: Large Area System Simulation results for HetNet mobility,
Renesas Mobile Europe Ltd., TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #77
[12] R2-121163: HetNet mobility and DRX with keep alive traffic, Nokia
Corporation, Nokia Siemens Networks, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #77bis
[13] R2-122522: Investigating pico deployments under high system load;
Ericsson, ST-Ericsson, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #78
[14] R2-122804: HetNet mobility performance with eICIC, Intel Corporation,
TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #78
[15] R2-122814: Impact of random pico cell deployment on the performance,
Intel Corporation, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #78
[16] R2-122726: HetNet Mobility Performance with Cell Range Expansion and ABS,
Research In Motion UK limited, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #78
[17] R2-122268: Performance evaluation for mobility in HetNet with TD-ICIC,
New Postcom
[18] R2-122685: Hetnet mobility performance with eICIC, Renesas Mobile Europe
Ltd
> [19] R2-116151: Small cell detection in HetNet environment, Nokia Siemens
> Networks, Nokia Corporation, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #76
>
> [20] R2-123102: Background search for small cell detection, Nokia Siemens
> Networks, Nokia Corporation, NTT DOCOMO, INC., TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #78
>
> [21] R2-122368: Enhanced MSE based small cell detection, Nokia Siemens
> Networks, Nokia Corporation, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #78
>
> [22] R2-121621: Small cell signal based control of inter-frequency
> measurements, Nokia Siemens Networks, Nokia Corporation, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting
> #77bis
>
> [23] R2-120277: Enhanced cell identification and measurements for CA, NTT
> DOCOMO, INC., TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #77
>
> [24] R2-120654: Inter-frequency Small Cell Identification, Qualcomm
> Incorporated, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #77
>
> [25] R2-121665: Using proximity indication for small-cell discovery, Renesas
> Mobile Europe Ltd., TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #77bis
>
> [26] R2-121417: Small Cell Detection, Ericsson, ST-Ericsson, TSG-RAN WG2
> meeting #77bis
>
> [27] R2-121248: Small Cell Discovery in HetNet, Huawei, HiSilicon, TSG-RAN
> WG2 meeting #77bis
>
> [28] R2-121538: Pico cell detection issues, Samsung, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting
> #77bis
>
> [29] RP-110437: Work Item Description: Carrier based HetNet ICIC for LTE,
> TSG-RAN meeting #51
>
> [30] R2-120523: Enhancements for Small Cell Detection, Nokia Siemens
> Networks, Nokia Corporation, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #77
>
> [31] R2-124027: Mobility State Estimation and HetNet, Nokia Siemens
> Networks, Nokia Corporation TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #79]
>
> [32] R2-120652: On UE-speed-based methods for improving the mobility
> performance in HetNets, Alcatel-Lucent, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #77
>
> [33] R2-114362: On Network-Assisted Pico Cell Discovery in LTE HetNets**,**
> Alcatel-Lucent, TSG-RAN WG2 meeting #75
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations {#definitions-symbols-and-
abbreviations .list-paragraph}
## 3.1 Definitions {#definitions .list-paragraph}
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
\: \.
## 3.2 Symbols {#symbols .list-paragraph}
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations {#abbreviations .list-paragraph}
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
HetNet Heterogeneous Networks
HO_CMD Handover Command
HOF HandOver Failure
ISD Inter Site Distance
MSE **Mobility Speed Estimation**
MTS Minimum-time-of-stay
RLF Radio Link Failure
ToS Time of Stay
# 4 General {#general .list-paragraph}
Seamless and robust mobility of users from LTE macro to small BTS-layer, and
vice versa, should be supported to enable offload benefits. The objectives of
the study as captured in the study item description document [RP-110438] are:
\- Identify and evaluate strategies for improved small cell
discovery/identification. (RAN2)
\- Identify and evaluate HetNet mobility performance under established Rel-10
eICIC features e.g., Almost Blank Subframe (RAN2, RAN1 if requested by RAN2)
\- Further study and define automatic re-establishment procedures that can
help improve the mobility robustness of HetNet LTE networks. Evaluate
performance benefits of enhanced UE mobility state estimation and related
functionalities, and other possible mobility solutions to take different cell-
sizes into account. (RAN2, RAN3)
\- Robust mobility functionality under various supported assumptions for the
availability of UE measurements (including DRX functionality) shall be
ensured/taken into account as well as UE power consumption and complexity
(RAN2, RAN4)
\- Further study and define mobility enhancements for Home eNodeBs with
multiple carriers (or CA) with CSGs (potentially different CSG on different
carriers) (RAN2, RAN3)
The study shall consider both network centric solutions and possible UE
assisted enhancements.
# 5 HetNet mobility performance evaluation {#hetnet-mobility-performance-
evaluation .list-paragraph}
## 5.1 Simulation study phases {#simulation-study-phases .list-paragraph}
The simulation study will be conducted in different phases:
In the first phase, a small area focusing on the hotspot around a pico cell is
simulated. UE's are either randomly placed inside this small area or on the
edge of the small area. This corresponds to the Hotspot simulation (see
section 5.3). With this simple model, large number of different configurations
can be simulated within acceptable time.
In the second phase, a larger area focusing on the system as a whole with a
number of macro and pico cells will be simulated for evaluating the impact of
the pico cell deployment to the system. This corresponds to large area system
model for the UE movement and trajectory (see section 5.4).
Simulation calibration is done initially for both Hotspot and Large area
phases with a pre-defined set of simulation assumptions. These parameters are
captured in sections 5.3.2 and 5.4.5 respectively.
The calibration phase of the study was completed in RAN2#77.
After calibration, companies have the freedom of using different simulator
modelling and parameters than used during calibration provided the differences
in the modelling and metrics are described. The checklist provided in [7] may
be taken into account for further HetNet simulations.
The following areas of study have been identified after calibration:
\- The study should consider more pico cell deployments e.g., with pico cells
placed within the macro cell coverage and with more pico cells per macro cell.
\- Impact of DRX setting on HO performance will also be investigated.
\- Impact of CRE/eICIC will be further studied
\- Evaluate the impact of different load levels and ensure that HO performance
is good for all realistic load levels.
## 5.2 General Simulation assumptions {#general-simulation-assumptions .list-
paragraph}
This section captures the simulation assumptions that are in general
applicable for both Hotspot and Large area simulations unless explicitly
modified in the respective sections.
### 5.2.1 Handover Failure Modelling {#handover-failure-modelling .list-
paragraph}
For the purpose of HetNet mobility performance evaluations, the Radio Link
Failure (RLF) criterion and procedures are employed to determine the handover
failure and the following definitions apply:
#### 5.2.1.1 Definition of Handover states
For purpose of modelling, the handover procedure is divided into 3 states as
shown in Figure 5.2.1.3.1.
State 1: Before the event A3 entering condition, as defined in [5], is
satisfied;
State 2: After the event A3 entering condition, as defined in [5], is
satisfied but before the handover command is successfully received by the UE;
and
State 3: After the handover command is received by the UE, but before the
handover complete is successfully sent by the UE
#### 5.2.1.2 RLF modelling and definition of RLF states
**Definition 1** : The occurrence of RLF can be categorized into two
distinctive states: state 1 and state 2 of the handover process.
RLF occurrences in states 1 and 2 should be logged and labelled with the state
identifier for studying the impact of the handover related parameter
configurations on RLFs and for handover failure calculation. Optionally, the
RLFs logged in state 1 maybe further differentiated as true RLF events (due to
shadowing or UE out of radio coverage) or handover failure events. RLFs in
state 1 under conditions that other suitable cell(s) is available (signal
strength (i.e., SINR) stronger than -8dB) may be accounted as a handover
failure.
**Definition 2** : The RLF performance metric is defined as: the average
number of RLF occurrences per UE per second. RLF performance in states 1 and 2
are logged separately.
Note that the final results can be the total number of RLFs averaged over the
total simulated UE moving time of all the simulated UEs. It is equivalent to
the RLFs per UE divided by averaged total moving time per UE. The time lasted
in state 1 and state 2 should not be treated separately.
For the purpose of RLF monitoring, the basic L1 processing configurations in
non-DRX mode should be: L1 sample rate is once every 10ms (i.e. radio frame),
with the L1 samples filtered linearly over a sliding window of 200ms (i.e. 20
samples) for Qout and 100 ms (i.e. 10 samples) for Qin, respectively.
#### 5.2.1.3 Handover/PDCCH failure modelling
**Definition 3:** A handover failure is counted if a RLF occurs in state 2, or
a PDCCH failure is detected in state 2 or state 3.
For calculating the handover failures for the two states:
**\- In state 2:** when the UE is attached to the source cell, a handover
failure is counted if one of the following criteria is met:
1) Timer T310 has been triggered or is running when the HO_CMD is received by
the UE (indicating PDCCH failure)[^1] or
2) RLF is declared in the state 2
**\- In state 3:** after the UE is attached to the target cell a handover
failure is counted if the following criterion is met:
\- target cell downlink filtered average (the filtering/averaging here is same
as that used for starting T310) wideband CQI is less than the threshold Qout
(-8 dB) at the end of the handover execution time (Table 5.1.4.1) in state
3.[^2]
For the purpose of PDCCH failure condition monitoring in state 2: The L1
sample rate is once every 10ms and the L1 samples are filtered by a linear
filter with a sliding window of 200ms (i.e. 20 samples).
For the purpose of PDCCH failure condition monitoring in state 3: The L1
sample rate should be at least two samples during the 40ms (i.e. the handover
execution time) and averaged over the number of samples.
NOTE 1: The handover failure definition 3 above is different from the handover
failure definition in TS 36.331 [5]. It serves the purpose of evaluating the
handover performance at both serving and target cell while the definition in
TS 36.331 [5] is from the UE point of view which only captures the failures in
target cell.
NOTE 2: PDCCH failure condition detection is based on power measurement with
the simplified model for saving simulation time to allow the calibration with
various sets of configurations and more efficient simulations.
**Definition 4** : The handover failure rate is defined as: Handover failure
rate = (number of handover failures) / (Total number of handover attempts).
The total number of handover attempts is defined as: Total number of handover
attempts = number of handover failures + number of successful handovers. The
number of handover failures is in Definition 3.
Figure 5.2.1.3.1 and Figure 5.2.1.3.2 show examples of the triggering of the
handover failures due to detected PDCCH failure condition and RLF condition.
Figure 5.2.1.3.1: A handover failure is declared when the criterion 1) is met
in state 2.
Figure 5.2.1.3.2: A handover failure is declared when the criterion 2) is met
in state 2.
When a UE tracks RLFs according to TS 36.300 [3], Qout is monitored with a
200ms window and Qin is monitored with a 100ms window (as specified in TS
36.133 [2]). Both windows are updated once per frame, i.e. once every 10 ms
with the measured wideband CQI value.
The RLF and HO failure modelling related parameters are shown in the table
5.2.1.3.1 below:
Table 5.2.1.3.1: The parameters for determine the RLFs and the PDCCH failures.
### 5.2.2 Ping-pong Modelling {#ping-pong-modelling .list-paragraph}
The time that a UE stays connected with a cell after a handover is used as the
metric to evaluate the ping-pong behaviour. The "Time of stay" in a cell A is
the duration from when the UE successfully sends a "handover complete" (i.e.
_RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete_)-message to the cell A, to when the UE
successfully sends a "handover complete" - message to cell B. The minimum time
of stay connected with a cell models the time needed to allow a UE to
establish a reliable connection with the cell, plus the time required for
conducting efficient data transmission. If a UE makes a handover from cell B
to cell A and then makes a handover back from cell A to cell B (i.e. the
original source cell in the first handover), and the time connected to the
cell A was less than the minimum-time-of-stay (MTS), it is considered as a
ping-pong. In general, if the UE's time-of-stay in a cell is less than MTS,
the handover may be considered as an un-necessary handover.
**Definition 5** : A handover from cell B to cell A then handover back to cell
B is defined as a ping-pong if the time-of-stay connected in cell A is less
than a pre-determined MTS.
The examples of counting the Ping-pongs are shown in the Figure 5.2.2.1.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="7.205555555555556in"}
Figure 5.2.2.1: Ping-pong modelling.
**Definition 6:** Ping-pong rate is defined as (number of ping-pongs)/(total
number of successful handovers excl. handover failures).
**Recommended MTS value** to be used for the simulation is **1 second**.
The distribution of "time-of-stay" (CDF) should be collected for study of the
ping-pong behaviour.
Whenever there is a handover failure, the time of stay should not be logged.
### 5.2.3 Typical Radio Parameter Configurations {#typical-radio-parameter-
configurations .list-paragraph}
The recommended simulation parameter values are based on TS36.814 [4] and are
shown in the following Table 5.2.3.1.
Table 5.2.3.1: Basic radio configurations for the HetNet mobility simulation
### 5.2.4 HetNet mobility specific parameters {#hetnet-mobility-specific-
parameters .list-paragraph}
The following table captures the additional recommended HetNet mobility
specific parameters:
Table 5.2.4.1: HetNet mobility specific parameters
NOTE 1: The percentage of cell loading means the percentage of the total
resource blocks being used in a cell during a given period of time. There is
no difference between DL interference generated by full buffered background
users and full power transmission in all the RBs of the system bandwidth.
Fast fading is included in the simulation since it may have a big impact to
low speed UE's handover performance.
It should be noted that TS36.331 [5] requires that the time characteristics of
the L3 filter to be preserved by scaling the K value when the sample period is
less than 200ms.
### 5.2.5 Modelling of additional features {#modelling-of-additional-features
.list-paragraph}
Suitable models for DRX, eICIC, RLF recovery, traffic patterns etc. could be
considered by companies in further simulations. Solutions that will enable the
use of long DRX periods for improved UE power savings and user experience,
while still ensuring controlled mobility in a robust manner is identified as
an important topic for study.
The model provided in [8] is considered as one suitable model for analyzing
the impact of non DRX intra-frequency cell identification delay.
[Editors Note: Models for DRX, eICIC, RLF recovery, traffic patterns etc
should be contribution driven and not limit allowed simulation models.]
## 5.3 Specific assumptions for Hotspot simulation {#specific-assumptions-for-
hotspot-simulation .list-paragraph}
### 5.3.1 UE Placement and Trajectories for hotspot simulation {#ue-placement-
and-trajectories-for-hotspot-simulation .list-paragraph}
Regarding to the UE placement and trajectories, two different approaches are
allowed for small area simulation (Hotspot model):
1) In a trial, a UE is randomly placed on the edge of the hotspot around the
pico cell. Then the UE moves straight in a randomly picked direction within an
angle toward the pico cell. A trial is finished when the UE hit the circle on
the other side.
2) Alternatively, UEs are initially randomly dropped within the hotspot around
the pico cell. Then the UE moves in a random direction in a straight line.
When UEs reach the edge of the hotspot it will bounce back in a random
direction but UE movement is restricted to be within the hotspot.
As an example of the first approach shown in Figure 5.3.1.1, the pico cell is
placed at the 0.3 ISD from the eNB on the bore sight direction. A circle is
drawn with pico cell centre location as its centre and 200m as the diameter. A
UE is placed randomly on the circle and let it move towards the pico cell at
random angle with in +/- 45 degrees with the radius. The UE doesn't change the
direction and the speed until it reaches the circle then start another trial
(equivalent to that the UE is initially placed in the circle at any location
then moves straight in a random direction and bounces back at the circle with
a random angle).
Figure 5.3.1.1: Pico cell placement and the mobile trajectories for mobility
simulation at hot spot.
### 5.3.2 Additional Simulation assumptions for Hotspot calibration
{#additional-simulation-assumptions-for-hotspot-calibration .list-paragraph}
The calibration for the hotspot is conducted to ensure companies adopting the
same basic simulation assumptions such that the simulation results are
comparable and repeatable.
For simulator calibration purposes, the following sets of the configuration
parameters in Table 5.3.2.1 are used for the first phase of simulation. The
simulation results will be captured in this TR document for reference.
Table 5.3.2.1: Configuration parameter sets for simulation calibration
* * *
Profile Set 1 Set 2 Set 3 Set 4 Set 5 UE speed [km/h] {3, 30, 60, 120} {3, 30,
60, 120} {3, 30, 60, 120} {3, 30, 60, 120} {3, 30, 60, 120} Cell Loading [%]
100 100 100 100 100 TTT [ms] 480 160 160 80 40 A3 offset [dB] 3 3 2 1 -1 L1 to
L3 period [ms] 200 200 200 200 200 RSRP L3 Filter K 4 4 1 1 0
* * *
In the Table 5.2.3.-1, the number of pico cells in the sector of interest is
1. Pico cell placement for simulation calibration: 0.5 ISD on the boresight
direction.
For calibration purpose, although the macro-to-macro handovers should be
simulated, logging the macro-to-macro handover related metrics is not
required. However, it is allowed to log macro-to-macro handover results
separately from the macro/pico results, but the macro-to-macro handovers shall
not be included into the total number of handovers for macro/pico HO failure
rate calculation.
For calibration purposes, a hotspot diameter of 200 m will be used.
T311 is not used since RLF recovery is not simulated in the calibration.
When either a HO failure or a RLF is detected, the UE will be removed from the
simulation. Essentially, here this means that the UE is generated again (as a
new call) after a failure.
## 5.4 Additional assumptions for large area system simulations {#additional-
assumptions-for-large-area-system-simulations .list-paragraph}
### 5.4.1 Improved HO failure and RLF modelling {#improved-ho-failure-and-rlf-
modelling .list-paragraph}
Figure 5.4.1.1: Modelling of Handover failure in state 2 for large area
simulations
HO failure in state 2 can have two reasons; this text focuses on the first
criterion in Definition 3, Section 5.2.1.3 (i.e., Timer T310 has been
triggered or is running when the HO_CMD is received by the UE (indicating
PDCCH failure)). When this criteria happens, the UE is not removed from the
simulation and T310 is kept running. Until expiry of T310, if the RLM
measurement is above Qin, the UE will be back to state 1 with the source cell
and have its T310 stopped and reset to zero. If the RLM measurement is not
above Qin, T310 will expire and cause an RLF (see Figure 5.4.1.1). This RLF
will have a reason code of HO failure. Note that this is in addition to the HO
failure counting as per definition 3 in section 5.2.1.3. In large scale
simulation, the RLFs with the reason code of HO failure should be logged
separately from the conventional RLFs.
RLF recovery should eventually be modelled in large area simulation after the
calibration. Companies should have the flexibility to choose a realistic RLF
recovery model.
### 5.4.2 Handover performance metrics for HetNet large area evaluation
{#handover-performance-metrics-for-hetnet-large-area-evaluation .list-
paragraph}
In general, the performance evaluation metrics adopted for hot spot simulation
can be also used for large area system simulation.
In the large area simulation, the impact of the handover failures to the
system performance depends on how often the handover and handover failure
occurred. If handover rarely occur, even if handover failure rate is high, the
impact of the handover failure to the system is still very limited. On the
other hand, if the frequency of handovers and handover failures are high, the
impact to the system performance will be much bigger. Therefore, time factor
should be introduced as the large area simulation performance metric. The
generic metrics are defined as the follows:
**Definition 7** : The total number of handover failures per UE per second is
defined as the total number of handover failures averaged over the total
travel time of all the simulated UEs.
**Definition 8** : The total number of successful handovers per UE per second
is defined as the total number of successful handovers averaged over the total
travel time of all the simulated UEs.
NOTE: Based on definitions 7, 8 the relative handover failure rate defined in
definition 4 can be derived as:
The handover failure rate = (The total number of handover failures per UE per
second) / (The total number of handover failures per UE per second + The total
number of successful handovers per UE per second). In order to observe the
HetNet mobility behaviour thoroughly, handover performance results should be
logged separately for macro to macro (macro-macro), macro to pico (macro-
pico), pico to macro (pico-macro) and pico to pico (pico-pico) handovers. The
overall aggregated results should also be obtained. More specifically the
following additional metrics for large area HetNet mobility simulation should
be used:
1\. The number of macro-pico handover failures per UE per second.
2\. The number of pico-macro handover failures per UE per second.
3\. The number of macro-macro handover failures per UE per second.
4\. The number of pico-pico handover failures per UE per second.
5\. The total number of handover failures per UE per second.
6\. The number of successful macro-pico handovers per UE per second.
7\. The number of successful pico-macro handovers per UE per second.
8\. The number of successful macro-macro handovers per UE per second.
9\. The number successful of pico-pico handovers per UE per second.
10\. The total number of successful handovers per UE per second.
11\. The macro-pico handover failure rate = (The number of macro-pico handover
failures per UE per second) / (The number of macro-pico handover failures per
UE per second + The number of successful macro-pico handovers per UE per
second).
12\. The pico-macro handover failure rate = (The number of pico-macro handover
failures per UE per second) / (The number of pico-macro handover failures per
UE per second + The number of successful pico-macro handovers per UE per
second).
13\. The macro-macro handover failure rate = (The number of macro-macro
handover failures per UE per second) / (The number of macro-macro handover
failures per UE per second + The number of successful macro-macro handovers
per UE per second).
14\. The pico-pico handover failure rate = (The number of pico-pico handover
failures per UE per second) / (The number of pico-pico handover failures per
UE per second + The number of successful pico-pico handovers per UE per
second).
15\. Overall handover failure rate = (Total number of handover failures per UE
per second) / (Total number of handover failures per UE per second + Total
number of successful handovers per UE per second).
It is beneficial to simulate the macro only system and the results could be
used as the reference for comparison with the results from HetNet simulation.
The relative results against the macro only system is useful. Comparing the
absolute results among the companies is also important to minimize the
variance.
### 5.4.3 The Definition of Short-ToS Rate {#the-definition-of-short-tos-rate
.list-paragraph}
The \"Time of stay\" in a cell A (as captured in section 5.2.2) is the
duration from when the UE successfully sends a \"handover complete\" (i.e.
RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete)-message to the cell A, to when the UE
successfully sends a \"handover complete\" message to another cell B. A UE-
stay with a cell where the condition ToS \ **Definition 9** : _A_ _Short ToS_ is counted when a UE's time-of-stay in a
> cell is less than a predetermined minimum time-of-stay parameter (MTS), i.e.
> a UE with ToS\
> **Definition 10** : _A Short ToS rate_ is defined as the number of Short ToS
> occurrences divided by the number of successful handovers. I.e.
>
> Short ToS rate = (number of Short ToS occurrences)/(total number of
> successful handovers)
>
> **Definition 11** : _Short ToS per UE per second_ is defined as the total
> number of Short ToS occurrences divided by total number of the UEs simulated
> and averaged over the total simulation time.
It is mandatory to log the CDF of ToS for large area simulation. The CDF of
ToS should be logged separately for the ToS with pico cells and macro cells.
### 5.4.4 UE Placement and Trajectories and cell placement for large area
simulation {#ue-placement-and-trajectories-and-cell-placement-for-large-area-
simulation .list-paragraph}
Companies are allowed to use either wrap-around or bouncing-circle model. When
submitting results, companies should state which model is used.
For wrap-around approach, the simulation area (within the contour of wrap-
around area) should include at least 2 tiers of macro sites.
For the bouncing-circle approach, the simulation area within the bouncing-
circle should include at least 1 tier of complete macro sites. Only the
results from the inner tiers of the macro sites will be logged, including all
the outer border area of the sites and complete pico cells on the macro cell
border if any.
For both wrap-around model and bouncing-circle model, a UE at any cell in the
simulation area should experience the interference from two tiers of macro
cells.
After initially dropped at a random location, the UE will randomly select a
direction and move in straight line at a constant speed till hitting the
simulation border.
For the wrap-around model, when the UE hit the simulation border (the wrap-
around contour), it will wrap around and enter the simulation area from a
different point on the wrap-around contour
For the bouncing-circle model, when the UE hit the simulation border (the
bouncing-circle), it will bounce back with a random angle.
### 5.4.5 Additional Simulation assumptions for Large area calibration
{#additional-simulation-assumptions-for-large-area-calibration .list-
paragraph}
This section provides additional simulation assumptions for Large area
calibration. Companies have freedom to choose different/additional
configurations after calibration.
#### 5.4.5.1 UE Placement and Trajectories and cell placement for large area
simulation calibration
For the calibration of large area HetNet mobility simulation, a fixed pico
cell placement pattern is adopted as is shown in Figures 5.4.5.1.1 and
5.4.5.1.2, with each macro site associated with 6 pico cells. Each of the pico
cells are placed at the centre point on the border between two macro sites at
0.5 ISD. This pico cell placement leads to an average of 1 pico cell per macro
cell. It duplicates the pico cell placement for the hotspot calibration over
the entire simulation area. The change compared to hotspot calibration is the
smallest. It will be easier for data comparison. The random pico cell
placement could be chosen by companies later on.
{width="3.5708333333333333in" height="3.1055555555555556in"}
Figure 5.4.5.1.1: Macro and pico cell placement in the wrap-around model for
calibration.
{width="3.8118055555555554in" height="3.31875in"}
Figure 5.4.5.1.2: Macro and pico cell placement in the bouncing-circle model
for calibration.
The macro and pico cell placement shown in Figure 5.4.5.1.1 is adopted for
calibration with the wrap-around model. A simple macro and pico cell placement
is suggested for calibration/common approach. The '2 tiers' model of 19 macro
sites is used where pico cells are placed at the middle of macro/macro cell
borders.
The macro and pico cell placement shown in Figure 5.4.5.1.2 is adopted for
calibration with the bouncing-circle model. For the bouncing-circle approach,
to save the simulation time, it is suggested to have the simulation circle
size of 1.8 ISD. The time-of-stay when a bounce occurs is not logged.
The macro cell ISD is 500 m.
For large area simulation calibration, when a simulation is started, a UE is
randomly placed in the simulation area initially. It is assumed that UEs are
uniformly distributed over the simulation area.
Since RLF recovery is not modelled for large area calibration, a UE is taken
away when HO failure occurs in state 3 or a RLF (both with and without the
reason code of HO failure) occurs.
The set 3 of the configuration parameters used in hotspot calibration (in
Table 5.3.2.1) is adopted for large area simulation calibration. A UE speed of
30 km/h is adopted for calibration of large area HetNet mobility simulation.
Companies are free to choose additional configuration sets or speeds after the
calibration phase.
## 5.5 Simulation results {#simulation-results .list-paragraph}
### 5.5.1 Hotspot calibration {#hotspot-calibration .list-paragraph}
The calibration results averaged over the results from all the participating
companies are captured in the following sections. The detailed calibration
results from specific companies can be found in [6].
Some initial observations are also made from the averaged results. However, it
should be noted that these are initial findings and no definite conclusions
should be drawn from it now
#### 5.5.1.1 RLF results discussion
Table 5.5.1.1.1: Average RLF/UE/s simulation data in state 1 and state 2.
* * *
                                                 State   Speed   **Set1**   **Set2**   **Set3**   **Set4**   **Set5**
Total Average of all the companies\' results 1 3 1.2E-04 1.0E-04 4.5E-05
2.2E-05 1.2E-05 30 2.8E-04 3.7E-04 5.3E-05 4.7E-05 2.8E-05 60 4.1E-04 5.5E-04
1.2E-04 8.0E-05 4.3E-05 120 6.4E-04 8.5E-04 1.4E-04 1.0E-04 6.4E-05 2 3
5.3E-05 1.1E-05 1.1E-06 3.4E-06 6.8E-06 30 9.3E-04 1.7E-04 7.6E-05 1.9E-05
2.0E-05 60 2.1E-03 5.7E-04 4.5E-05 1.7E-05 3.9E-05 120 5.9E-03 1.5E-03 1.0E-04
7.1E-05 3.3E-05
* * *
{width="6.688194444444444in" height="2.8in"}
Figure 5.5.1.1.1: Average RLFs/UE/s curves in state 1.
{width="6.6875in" height="3.386111111111111in"}
Figure 5.5.1.1.2: Average RLFs/UE/s curves in state 2.
From the simulation results, the following initial findings are observed:
1\. Majority of the companies observed very few RLFs occurrences in most
cases. The relatively long T310 timer setting makes the RLF rarely occurring.
Many HO failures in state 2 may eventually lead to RLF in the real system but
currently they are just logged as HO failures.
2\. The average RLF/UE/s of the all the companies' results is higher for the
higher UE speed.
#### 5.5.1.2 HO failures results discussion
Table 5.5.1.2.1: Average handover failure rate simulation data in state 2,
state 3 and average overall handover failure rate simulation data.
* * *
                                           State     Speed   **Set1**   **Set2**   **Set3**   **Set4**   **Set5**
Average of all the companies\' results 2 3 7.448 3.705 2.322 0.853 0.192 30
36.357 19.146 8.393 2.935 0.870 60 52.261 34.502 14.959 6.227 2.040 120 57.158
48.127 29.121 13.749 4.863 3 3 0.058 0.113 0.217 0.310 0.455 30 0.868 0.188
0.466 0.519 0.851 60 2.555 0.445 0.727 1.046 1.680 120 7.200 1.115 1.610 2.764
3.370 OVERALL 3 7.506 3.818 2.539 1.163 0.647 30 37.225 19.334 8.859 3.453
1.720 60 54.809 34.945 15.683 7.273 3.718 120 64.260 49.196 30.708 16.498
8.219
* * *
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.25625in"}
Figure 5.5.1.2.1: Average handover failure rate curves in state 2.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.911111111111111in"}
Figure 5.5.1.2.2: Average handover failure rate curves in state 3.
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="3.2111111111111112in"}
Figure 5.5.1.2.3: Average overall handover failure rate curves.
From the simulation results, the following initial findings are observed:
1\. Majority of the companies observed the same trend of the simulation
results. The variance of some calibration results from different companies is
still big.
2\. The UE speed has a significant impact on the HO performance. The trend of
simulation results indicated that high speed UEs suffer much higher HO failure
rate than low speed UEs.
#### 5.5.1.3 Ping-pong results discussion
Table 5.5.1.3.1: Average ping-pong rate data from calibration
* * *
Speed **Set1** **Set2** **Set3** **Set4** **Set5** Average over all
companies\' results 3 0.115 1.841 14.386 31.661 79.960 30 0.960 3.370 10.345
20.517 64.489 60 1.383 4.671 11.222 19.733 53.256 120 3.369 9.911 16.802
24.724 45.651
* * *
{width="6.690972222222222in" height="3.286111111111111in"}
Figure 5.5.1.3.1: Average ping-pong rate curves.
From the simulation results, the following initial findings are observed:
The trend of average simulation results are as expected: the ping-pong rate is
relatively high for low speed UEs with configuration set 5. While the ping-
pong rate is relatively low for the low speed UEs with configuration set 1 &
2.
Note: the reason of the some of the differences is known. For example, there
are some differences on CDF results due to that some companies does not log
the ToS whenever the UE hits the bouncing circle while some other companies
allow the ToS time continue running and log the ToS when there is bouncing. If
when there is bouncing the ToS is still logged, very long unreal ToS could be
logged.
### 5.5.2 Large area calibration {#large-area-calibration .list-paragraph}
The calibration results averaged over the results from all the participating
companies are captured in the following sections. The detailed calibration
results from specific companies can be found in [9].
#### 5.5.2.1 RLF performance for HetNet and legacy systems
Table 5.5.2.1.1: RLF performance for HetNet and legacy systems from
calibration
* * *
                                 State 1    State 2\_Normal   State 2\_HOF   Overall
Average for HetNet 0.000018 0.000001 0.003460 0.003477 Average for macro/macro
only 0.000013 0.000000 0.001223 0.001236
* * *
Figure 5.5.2.1.1: RLF performance for HetNet and legacy systems from
calibration
#### 5.5.2.2 Handover failure performance for HetNet and legacy systems
Table 5.5.2.2.1: Average Handover performance for HetNet and legacy systems
from calibration
* * *
                                               **Handover performance in HetNets**   **legacy macro only system**
**Handover state** **Handover metrics** **macro-pico** **pico-macro** **macro-
macro** **pico-pico** **Overall** **macro-macro** 2 HOFs/UE/s 0.000443
0.001544 0.001779 0.000009 0.003823 0.001772 HO failure rate [%] 3.718587
8.084919 2.681814 2.489887 3.747914 2.048109 3 HOFs/UE/s 0.000298 0.000110
0.000769 0.000012 0.000987 0.000539 HO failure rate [%] 0.971877 1.205913
0.780786 1.406523 0.808520 0.507133 Total Successful HOs/UE/s 0.013475
0.012736 0.072154 0.000237 0.098603 0.087906 HOFs/UE/s 0.000735 0.001622
0.002413 0.000021 0.004617 0.002234 HO failure rate [%] 4.675501 10.453351
3.461802 4.076629 4.629233 2.446505
* * *
Figure 5.5.2.2.1: Handover failure (%) performance for HetNet and legacy
systems from calibration
Figure 5.5.2.2.2: Handover failure (HOF/UE/second) performance for HetNet and
legacy systems from calibration
#### 5.5.2.3 Short Time of Stay performance
Table 5.5.2.3.1: Short Time of Stay performance for HetNet and legacy systems
from calibration
* * *
                         HetNet (with mixed macros and picos)   legacy macro only system
Short ToS rate [%] 16.851251 14.221092 Short ToS/UE/s 0.016113 0.013471
* * *
{width="5.272916666666666in" height="4.5875in"}
Figure 5.5.2.3.1: Short Time of Stay (rate) performance for HetNet and legacy
systems from calibration
{width="4.623611111111111in" height="4.290972222222222in"}
Figure 5.5.2.3.2: Short Time of Stay (ToS/UE/second) performance for HetNet
and legacy systems from calibration
### 5.5.3 Overall observations from calibration simulations {#overall-
observations-from-calibration-simulations .list-paragraph}
The following observations are made from the overall calibration simulations:
1) Results indicate that handover performance in HetNet deployments is not as
good as in pure macro deployments. Of the different HO types, Pico to Macro
handover performance showed the worst performance.
2) For low mobility UEs (i.e., speed \ 40ms, the periodicity of the intra-frequency measurements depends
upon the DRX cycle in use as specified in TS 36.133 [2].
In this simulation, the handover success rate is defined by dividing the total
number of successful handovers with the total number of handover attempts.
Since RLFs were observed to occur only in the handover situations the total
number of handover attempts consists of successful handovers and RLFs.
Table 5.5.5.1.1.1: Traffic model
* * *
Feature/Parameter Notes Value/Description UE traffic model Estimated from
trace measurement Fitted single distribution Packet inter-arrival rate [s]
Geometric distribution mean 3.41 seconds Packet size [B] Geometric
distribution mean 170 B A3 margin [dB] UE measurement reporting parameters 2
dB A3 time to trigger [ms] 160 ms L3 filtering (coefficient) k=1 Long DRX
cycle length [ms] DRX configuration parameters 80, 160, 320, 640 Short DRX
cycle length [ms] 40 Short DRX cycle duration [ms] 1/2 of the long DRX cycle
length. OnDuration timer [ms] 5 Inactivity timer [ms] 10
* * *
Other parameters differing from the assumptions provided in section 5.2:
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feature/Parameter | Notes | Value/Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Pico cell layout | Distance to eNB | 250m in boresight | | | | direction | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE placement | Proportion of UEs | 1 | | | placed inside the | | | | pico hotspot(s) for | | | | each cell | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RSRP Measurement | L1 measurement | 40 ms | | | period | | | | | 6 RBs | | | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | 2 dB | | | | | | | Measurement error | 5 | | | standard deviation | | | | | | | | L1 sliding window | | | | size | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of | | 300 calls, maximum | | calls/simulation | | call length 3 | | | | minutes. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
##### 5.5.5.1.2 Simulation results with DRX for HetNet relative to macro only
systems {#simulation-results-with-drx-for-hetnet-relative-to-macro-only-
systems .list-paragraph}
Numbers of RLF and handover events per UE per second for a macro-only scenario
are shown in Figures 5.5.5.1.2.1 and HetNet scenario performance is in Figure
5.5.5.1.2.2.
Figure 5.5.5.1.2.1: Handover and RLF events in Macro scenario
{width="6.489583333333333in" height="2.7604166666666665in"}
Figure 5.5.5.1.2.2: Handover and RLF events in HetNet scenario
Handover success rate results in Macro and HetNet scenario are shown in
Figures 5.5.5.1.2.3 and Figure 5.5.5.1.2.4 respectively.
{width="6.833333333333333in" height="2.75in"}
Figure 5.5.5.1.2.3: Handover success rate in Macro scenario
{width="6.78125in" height="2.75in"}
Figure 5.5.5.1.2.4: Handover success rate in HetNet scenario
#### 5.5.5.2 Simulation study for Handover and RLF performance with DRX for
different HO types in HetNet
This section includes the results from one of the Tdoc R2-121163 [12] on
Handover and RLF performance in HetNet with DRX for the different HO types.
The simulation assumptions for these results is given below and they differ
from the ones used in the previous section 5.5.5.1.
##### 5.5.5.2.1 Simulation assumptions and definitions {#simulation-
assumptions-and-definitions-1 .list-paragraph}
Configuration set 3 given in Table 5.3.2.1 for simulation calibration is used.
The used simulation scenario has been similar to the large area scenario with
wrap-around specified in configuration set 3 given in Table 5.3.2.1:
Configuration parameter sets for simulation calibration is used. Also basic
radio configuration parameters have been adapted. The detailed simulation
assumptions and settings are listed in table 5.5.5.2.1.1. The simulation shown
in this paper includes the simulation case where there is no data transmission
except what is needed for control signalling for mobility -- i.e. looking only
at mobility. The network is fully loaded regardless of the minimal
transmission for the DRX users to investigate worst case scenario interference
wise.
Although the scenario and parameters have been adapted from [9], the modelling
of RRC messages, re-establishment and handover failure has been enhanced with
details provided in Table 5.5.5.2.1.2.
In the simulations three different measurement reporting parameters were used:
1) Baseline scenario uses the same handover parameters in all cells (Macro and
Pico cells) used in the deployment (Baseline),
2) Two cell specific scenarios using different handover parameters depending
on whether the serving cell is a Macro cell or whether the serving cell is a
Pico cell (Cell type specific 1 and 2).
Table 5.5.5.2.1.3 illustrates the different parameters settings used.
Table 5.5.5.2.1.1: Traffic model
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Feature/Parameter | | Value/Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DRX | Long cycle length | 80, 160, 320, 640, | | | | 1280, 2560 ms | | | Short cycle length | | | | | 40 ms | | | Short cycle duration | | | | | ½ long cycle length | | | Inactivity timer | (max 640 ms) | | | | | | | On duration timer | 10 ms | | | | | | | | 5 ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover parameters | Handover criteria | Event A3 RSRP | | | | | | | A3 baseline offset | 2 dB | | | | | | | A3 baseline | 160 ms | | | time-to-trigger | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Traffic parameters | Traffic type | Constant 20 seconds | | | "keep-alive": | | | | | | | | Packet interval | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bandwidth | | 10 MHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | IFFT/FFT length | | 1024 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Duplexing | | FDD | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of | | 600 | | sub-carriers | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sub-carrier spacing | | 15 kHz | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Resource block | | 180 kHz | | bandwidth | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sub-frame length | | 1 ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reuse factor | | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of symbols | | 14 | | per TTI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of data | | 11 | | symbols per TTI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of control | | 3 | | symbols per TTI | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3GPP Macro Cell | Cell layout | 57 sectors/19 BSs | | Scenario | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Inter site distance | 500 m | | | (ISD) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Pico cell layout | Distance to eNB | 0.5 ISD | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Location | Bore sight location | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Picos/macro cell | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Macro-pico | | Intra-frequency | | deployment type | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Distance-dependent | Macro cell model (TS | 128.1 + 37.6log10(r) | | path loss | 36.814, Model 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Pico cell model (TS | 140.7 + 36.7log10(r) | | | 36.814, Model 1) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Tx power | Macro | 46 dBm | | | | | | | Pico | 30 dBm | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing standard | Macro | 8 dB | | deviation | | | | | Pico | 10 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | | 0.5 / 1.0 | | correlation between | | | | cells/sectors | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Shadowing | Macro | 25 m | | correlation distance | | | | | Pico | 25 m | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Multipath delay | | Typical Urban | | profile | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE velocity | | 3, 30 km/h | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RSRP Measurement | L1 measurement cycle | 40 ms or DRX cycle | | | | length | | | Measurement | | | | bandwidth | 6 RBs | | | | | | | Measurement error | 2 dB | | | standard deviation | | | | | 5 | | | L1 sliding window | | | | size | Disabled | | | | | | | L3 filtering | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover preparation | | 50 ms | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Handover execution | | 40 ms | | time | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Radio link failure | Qout threshold | -8 dB | | monitoring | | | | | Qin threshold | -6 dB | | | | | | | T310 | 1000 ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell identification | | Enabled | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Receiver diversity | | 2RX MRC | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of calls | | 1000 of 140 second | | | | calls | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DL Interference load | Macro, Pico | 100% RBs loaded | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 5.5.5.2.1.2: Other parameters differing from the assumptions provided in
section 5.2
+-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | Feature/parameter | Differences: | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | **Radio link failure:** | Same modelling for detection thresholds | | | | | Detection | UE remains in simulation and RRC | | | re-establishment procedure is attempted | | Action | | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | **Handover failure:** | RLF during handover process | | | | | Detection | UE remains in simulation and RRC | | | re-establishment procedure is attempted | | Action | after RLF | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | **HO command:** | Both HARQ and RLC retransmissions | | | modelled with maximum of 7 HARQ and 3 RLC | | Retransmissions | retransmissions | | | | | Failure | Maximum number of RLC retransmissions | | | reached | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | **Measurement report:** | Both HARQ and RLC retransmissions | | | modelled with maximum of 7 HARQ and 3 RLC | | Retransmissions | retransmissions | | | | | Failure | Maximum number of RLC retransmissions | | | reached | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+ | **PDCCH:** | Link level tables used in RRC message | | | transmission process for PDCCH | | Failure | detection/failure | +-------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
Table 5.5.5.2.1.3: Different Measurement Reporting parameters used
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameter sets | Parameters when | Parameters when | | | serving cell is | serving cell is Pico | | | Macro cell | cell | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Baseline: | Time-to-trigger: 160 | Time-to-trigger: 160 | | | ms | ms | | (TTT:160 Offset:2) | | | | | A3 offset: 2dB | A3 offset: 2dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell type specific | Time-to-trigger: 160 | Time-to-trigger: 40 | | 1: | ms | ms | | | | | | (CTSTTT:40 | A3 offset: 2dB | A3 offset: 2dB+0dB = | | CTSOffset:0) | | 2dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell type specific | Time-to-trigger: 160 | Time-to-trigger: 40 | | 2: | ms | ms | | | | | | (CTSTTT:40 | A3 offset: 2dB | A3 offset: 2dB-4dB = | | CTSOffset:-4) | | -2dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 5.5.5.2.2 Simulation results with DRX for different HO types in HetNet
Handover failure rate is for pico to macro handovers is shown in Figure
5.5.5.2.2.1.
{width="5.513194444444444in" height="4.497916666666667in"}
Figure 5.5.5.2.2.1: Handover failure rate in pico to macro mobility
In Figure 5.5.5.2.2.2 a comparison of handover failure rates is shown for
different cell types. The parameters here are the same except for the short
cycle duration, which is here 640 ms regardless of the long cycle length.
Handover setting in these cases is baseline with TTT 160 ms and A3 offset of 2
dB for all cells.
{width="5.454166666666667in" height="4.566666666666666in"}
Figure 5.5.5.2.2.2: Handover failure rate between different cell types
#### 5.5.5.3 Overall observations on Handover performance in HetNet with DRX
For this Study item, slightly higher HOF rates in HetNet, relative to macro-
only scenarios, at least for background traffic, are considered acceptable.
The following observations were reached with respect to HO performance for
HetNets with DRX:
> 1) The simulations indicate that for low speed UEs (3 km/h) acceptable HO
> performance rates can be ensured at least for background traffic in HetNets
> if the network avoids too long DRX settings inside pico cells.
>
> _2) In general while longer DRX combined with higher UE velocity provides
> challenges to mobility robustness, adding small cells in combination with
> longer DRX, even medium velocity provides challenges to mobility robustness
> especially for pico outbound mobility_.
Simulations showing UE power consumption were also discussed in many Tdocs in
RAN2#77bis. They showed that:
> 1) DRX is essential for battery saving and doubling the DRX cycle almost
> halves the power consumption for keep-alive traffic with 20s inter-arrival
> time. However, no significant differences between battery saving in DRX in
> HetNet and macro-only scenarios was observed for the same DRX parameters
> (e.g., in Tdoc R2-121660 [10]).
>
> 2) Simulation results also show that Ping-pong rates are lower with DRX and
> that there is a trade off between amount of Ping-pongs and aggressive
> handover parameter use.
### 5.5.6 Performance with eICIC {#performance-with-eicic .list-paragraph}
Impact of eICIC/CRE was studied through simulations. An example set of
simulation results from R2-122804 [14] is captured below. Simulations results
from other companies have shown similar trends and were considered to provide
the same observations in terms of the eICIC/CRE impact on HetNet mobility
performance.
#### 5.5.6.1 Simulation assumptions
The basic simulation assumption used is as captured in Table 5.2.3.1 with ISD
of 500m and Table 5.5.6.1.1, which is almost in line with the basic
configuration described in Table 5.2.4.1, but some specific configuration set
(e.g. channel model, Pico cell placement) was selected.
Table 5.5.6.1.1: RRM/RLM configurations
Two different ABS configurations for eICIC as described below were looked at
but it is to be noted that ABS patterns were not explicitly modelled in the
simulation.
**[Ideal ABS coordination (denoted as "perfect eICIC" in the
figures):]{.underline}** \ The ABS patterns of all the macro cells are
synchronized in time, i.e. the ABS from all macro cells occur at the same
subframes and all the macro cells are subframe-aligned. It is assumed that a
UE served by a pico cell does not observe interference from any macro cell in
terms of radio link monitoring (i.e. RLM pattern is assumed to be configured
and no CRS collision between macro and pico cells is assumed).
**[Non-ideal ABS coordination (denoted as "imperfect eICIC" in the
figures):]{.underline}** \ The ABS patterns of the macro cells are not
synchronized in time. The ABS from the overlay macro cell is assumed to
protect a pico UE from the interference of the overlay macro cell only. Thus
the radio link monitoring of the pico UE is affected by interference from all
other neighbour macro cells.
#### 5.5.6.2 Simulation results
Simulation results for RLF events, HOF events, HOF rates, short ToS events,
and short ToS rates are shown in Figure 5.5.6.2.1, 5.5.6.2.2, 5.5.6.2.3,
5.5.6.2.4, and 5.5.6.2.5 respectively.
It can be seen that in comparison to the baseline HetNet without eICIC, the
eICIC with ideal ABS coordination can improve mobility performance across
different CRE bias values. The performance gain increases as CRE bias becomes
larger. It has been observed (e.g. in R2-122726 [16]) that with eICIC the
reduced interference from macro cells improves the pico-to-macro handover
performance due to the HO command being more reliably delivered from the
source pico cell. The reduced interference also improves the macro-to-pico
handover performance due to the more reliable RACH process to the target pico
cell.
The eICIC with non-ideal ABS coordination can also reduce RLF and HOF events
when CRE bias is smaller. However when CRE bias is larger (i.e. 4 or 6 dB),
the mobility performance becomes worse than that of the baseline HetNet
without eICIC. It is considered that the performance degradation is due to
increased interference from macro cells that the UEs in pico cells would
experience in the CRE region with large bias.
{width="4.816666666666666in" height="3.936111111111111in"}
Figure 5.5.6.2.1: RLF events
{width="4.816666666666666in" height="3.936111111111111in"}
Figure 5.5.6.2.2: HOF events
{width="4.816666666666666in" height="3.9305555555555554in"}
Figure 5.5.6.2.3: HOF rate
{width="4.822222222222222in" height="2.828472222222222in"}
Figure 5.5.6.2.4: Short ToS events
{width="4.804166666666666in" height="2.828472222222222in"}
Figure 5.5.6.2.5: Short ToS rate
#### 5.5.6.3 Conclusions on mobility performance with eICIC
Based on the study, the following conclusions were reached on HetNet mobility
performance with eICIC.
1) eICIC (Time domain resource partitioning based on ABS) with 0dB CRE bias
does not cause a negative effect on mobility performance in HetNet
2) eICIC can improve mobility performance in HetNet when ideal ABS pattern
coordination among macro cells is used even with a large CRE bias (e.g. 6dB)
3) Use of a large CRE bias (e.g. 6dB) with non-ideal ABS pattern coordination
among macro cells can lead to mobility performance degradation
4) Even with ideal eICIC the mobility performance in HetNet is not as good as
macro only network.
NOTE 1: The non-ideal ABS coordination assumption used in the current
simulation is just a special case. Other different cases of non-ideal ABS
coordination and CRS collision modelling are not represented by the results.
NOTE 2: The simulation has been focused on mobility performance, with
simplification on the modelling of load and PDCCH transmission/reception. The
impact of the number of UE in the system does not get reflected in the amount
of control resource required to send their PDCCH. For example, the blocking
issue of PDCCH transmission is not examined with respect to the amount of ABS
allocated in the simulation. In addition, the loss of throughput due to the
use of ABS is not modelled either, for example 0dB CRE would result in
capacity loss at macro without pico offloading gain.
NOTE 3: In the simulations, the CRS interference from the macro cells during
ABS was not modelled.
NOTE 4: DRX was not used in these simulations.
# 5.6 Performance benefits of enhanced UE mobility state estimation
{#performance-benefits-of-enhanced-ue-mobility-state-estimation .list-
paragraph}
### 5.6.1 Mobility speed estimation {#mobility-speed-estimation .list-
paragraph}
**This section considers the distribution of Mobility Speed Estimation (MSE)
counter values in a regular macro-only and HetNet network. An MSE observation
window, TCR~max~, of 120 s is used in the simulations (Tdoc R2-124027 [31]).
The simulation parameters when different from those in tables 5.2.3.1 and
5.2.4.1 are also given in Table 5.6.1.1.**
Table 5.6.1.1: Summary of Mobility related simulation parameters for the MSE
* * *
HO Parameter Value Time To Trigger (TTT) Dynamic, 480 ms in normal Mobility
TTT Scaling factors Sf_medium = 0.5, sf_high = 0.25 _N_CRMedium_ , limit to
enter _medium_ state for macro only scenario 7 _N_CRHigh_ , limit to enter
_high_ state for macro only scenario 13 _N_CRMedium_ , limit to enter _medium_
state for HetNet scenario 10 _N_CRHigh_ , limit to enter _high_ state for
HetNet scenario 16 _T_CRmaxHyst_ , hysteresis back to _normal_ state 0s
(**demonstrate the immediate impact of enhanced MSE**) A3 Offset 3 dB Macro
and Pico Ping-Pong-Time 1 s Measurements Rate 0.2 s HO Execution Time
(including Preparation) 0.15 s RSRP error -- zero mean Gaussian 1 dB std
Filtering Factor K 4 RLF: Qout Threshold - 8 dB RLF: Qin Threshold - 6 dB
* * *
**The Figure 5.6.1.1 and Figure 5.6.1.2 (Tdoc R2-124027 [31]) show the
distribution of MSE counter in macro-only and HetNet network respectively for
MSE window (TCR_max) of 120s.**
{width="3.69375in" height="2.5527777777777776in"}
Figure 5.6.1.1: Distribution of MSE counter in macro-only network for MSE
observation window TCR~max~ of 120s. The dotted lines illustrate example
mobility state thresholds.
{width="6.388194444444444in" height="3.229861111111111in"}
Figure 5.6.1.2: Distribution of MSE counter in HetNet network with different
number of picos for MSE observation window TCR~max~ of 120s.
As can be seen in Figure 5.6.1.1, in the macro only network the MSE performs
well, and there is good correlation between MSE count and speed of movement.
Here it is easy to choose appropriate MSE thresholds, N_CRMedium and N_CRHigh,
for MSE function to distinguish the UE mobility states. But, in a
heterogeneous network (Figure 5.6.1.2) using the current MSE algorithm
produces an MSE event count that is positively biased by the density of pico
cells. That is, MSE count for a given UE speed increases with increase in
number of pico cells. In HetNet with cells of different cell sizes and varying
pico cell densities it is challenging to find one set of appropriate MSE
thresholds that would accurately work for different HetNet deployments.
### 5.6.2 Overall observations on Mobility speed estimation {#overall-
observations-on-mobility-speed-estimation .list-paragraph}
On mobility state estimation (MSE) and its impact on mobility performance, it
was observed that the MSE is not as accurate in HetNet environments as in
macro only deployments since it does not take into account cell sizes.
It was however agreed that possible enhancements to the UE-based MSE should
serve the purpose of enhanced mobility performance (not only for the sake of
enhancing the MSE estimate). There is consensus that enhancements should be
considered to improve the mobility performance of HetNet. This includes UE and
network based mechanisms.
# 6 Strategies for improved small cell discovery/identification {#strategies-
for-improved-small-cell-discoveryidentification .list-paragraph}
## 6.1 Deployment scenarios {#deployment-scenarios .list-paragraph}
Small cells can be deployed for various reasons, resulting in a heterogeneous
network comprising small cells of different sizes/types (e.g. micro, pico,
femto). One expected scenario is the offloading of users from macro layer to
small cell layer where the macro layer and small cell layer are on different
carrier frequencies. The study focussed on a scenario where one macro
frequency provides full coverage and where pico cells are provided on second
frequency layer for offloading purposes including means to improve perceived
QoS on hot spot locations. For inter-frequency small cell detection, the study
will focus on the following use case where the UE does inter-frequency small
cell measurements for a carrier that is expected to have non-uniform coverage
(e.g. hotspot deployment) for offloading/load balancing purposes.
## 6.2 Objectives for inter-frequency small cell measurements {#objectives-
for-inter-frequency-small-cell-measurements .list-paragraph}
The objective is to optimize the data offloading potential (e.g. maximize the
amount of data that is transmitted in pico cells rather than in macro cells;
maximize the time a UE stays out of the macro cell) with the following
criteria:
Criteria 1) UE power consumption for inter-frequency small cell measurements
in HetNet deployments should be minimised.
Criteria 2) Any interruptions on the serving cell(s) due to inter-frequency
small cell measurements should be minimised.
Criteria 3) Inter-frequency mobility performance should not be degraded by
measuring inter-frequency small cells.
Criteria 4) Mobility performance of legacy UEs should not be degraded to
improve inter-frequency small cell detection by Rel-11 UEs.
The impact to UE power consumption depends on how often and for how long a UE
performs inter-frequency measurements. The study evaluates, in particular, UE
power consumption relative to how much offloading opportunity and QoS benefit
is lost e.g., due to delayed detection of the small cell.
The study also investigates whether the same findings apply also to detection
of candidate SCells on the second frequency layer.
Enhancements were evaluated against mechanisms that can be realized with
available functionality.
## 6.3 Analysis of existing inter-frequency measurements {#analysis-of-
existing-inter-frequency-measurements .list-paragraph}
In the target use case described in Section 6.1, small cells provide hot spot
coverage overlapping with macro cells providing continuous coverage. Since the
UE would not know when the small cell coverage is available, the UE may always
have to do inter-frequency measurements for identifying small cells. If the UE
is always required to perform measurements, significant UE power consumption
is expected. Figure 6.3.1 shows simulation results on 95^th^ percentile energy
used for inter-frequency small cell measurements [19]. If the existing gap
pattern (e.g., 6ms measurement gap every 80ms period) is applied,
approximately 1000J energy consumption is observed when the number of measured
cells is less than 20.
{width="5.013888888888889in" height="3.013888888888889in"}
Figure 6.3.1: Energy used on small cell scan as a function of amount of small
cells in 14 hours [19].
The following conclusion was drawn from the study on inter-frequency small
cell discovery:
1) It was concluded that continuously performing measurements according to
existing performance requirements results in very high battery consumption
without showing significant impact on offloading potential.
## 6.4 Potential enhancements for improved small cell discovery/identification
{#potential-enhancements-for-improved-small-cell-discoveryidentification
.list-paragraph}
### 6.4.1 Solution 1: Longer measurement period [20] {#solution-1-longer-
measurement-period-20 .list-paragraph}
Longer measurement period is applied for inter-frequency small cell
measurements.
6.4.2 Solution 3: Relaxed side condition [23]
Side conditions for measurements, such as SCH_RP, SCH Ês/Iot, RSRP and RSRQ
Ês/Iot can be relaxed for small cell measurements.
### 6.4.3 Solution 9: UE MSE based measurements [21,32] {#solution-9-ue-mse-
based-measurements-2132 .list-paragraph}
Fast-moving UE (high and possibly medium mobility state) may suspend inter-
frequency measurements that are configured for offloading/load balancing
purposes.
### 6.4.4 Solution 10: Small cell signal based control of measurements [22]
{#solution-10-small-cell-signal-based-control-of-measurements-22 .list-
paragraph}
If UE detects a sufficiently strong small cell (stronger than a signal quality
threshold configured by the network), it can suspend inter frequency search of
other small cells. If the small cell becomes weaker, the UE would resume
inter-frequency search of other small cells whereas the search for the
frequency of the found small cell would be less frequent.
### 6.4.5 Solution 4: Measurements without gap assistance [23]
{#solution-4-measurements-without-gap-assistance-23 .list-paragraph}
For Carrier Aggregation cases, measurements without gap assistance are
mandated for CA capable UE.
### 6.4.6 Solution 2: Small cell discovery signal in macro layer [24]
{#solution-2-small-cell-discovery-signal-in-macro-layer-24 .list-paragraph}
Discovery signal formed by legacy control channels (PSS, SSS, System
information) is transmitted on the macro layer at the location of inter-
frequency small cell. The UE identifies the discovery signal as a regular
intra-frequency cell and report the cell to the serving eNB according to the
measurement configuration. The eNB can either immediately trigger a handover
to the inter-frequency small cell (if the discovery signal is known to
represent the coverage of the inter-frequency small cell) or request the UE to
perform inter-frequency measurement.
### 6.4.7 Solution 6: UE based proximity detection [25, 33] {#solution-6-ue-
based-proximity-detection-25-33 .list-paragraph}
Autonomous cell search and proximity indication, which UE already applies to
CSG cell detection and measurement, can be extended to hotspot small cell
discovery with minimum impact on the specifications. For example, similar to
the white list of the CSG cells maintained in a UE, a list of most frequently
visited cells with associated radio information could be maintained in the UEs
to support an autonomous search of those pico cells.
### 6.4.8 Solution 5/ 7: Proximity detection based on macro/pico cell
listening [26, 27] {#solution-5-7-proximity-detection-based-on-macropico-cell-
listening-26-27 .list-paragraph}
Proximity detection for inter-frequency open access small cells (picos and
open HeNBs) is performed by the eNB, and the macro eNB activates inter-
frequency measurement for the concerned UE(s). The details of the proximity
detection can be left to eNB implementation, but it can be based on location
information or a fingerprint based on the signal levels of neighbouring
(macro) cells that UEs experience while connected to the small cell, which can
be gathered from the measurement reports of UEs that are involved in HO
to/from the pico cell.
Alternatively, a pico cell can discover that a Macro UE is nearby if uplink
signal from the UE is detected. Similar methods are also being discussed to
address the issue of UL interference to small cell in the work item Carrier-
based HetNet ICIC for LTE lead by RAN3 [29].
### 6.4.9 Solution 8: Proximity detection with broadcast assistance [28, 33]
{#solution-8-proximity-detection-with-broadcast-assistance-28-33 .list-
paragraph}
In order to indicate the presence of Pico cells in the Macro cell vicinity,
the network could indicate the presence of Pico cells through a broadcast bit
or the location range of the alert zone of the pico cell(s) overlaid with the
macro cell. The network could also publish the frequencies where the pico
cells could be found. The UE could then start background measurements on these
frequencies if it supports these frequencies in DRX. Periodicity could be left
to UE implementation. When UE sees Pico cells, it sends a \"proximity report\"
and then the Network configures normal measurements and UE reports normal
measurement report. The UE could stop the background search after being handed
over into a Pico cell.
## 6.5 Evaluation results {#evaluation-results .list-paragraph}
Table 6.5.1 and 6.5.2 show the evaluation results by the criteria described in
Section 6.2. Yes/ No in the Tables means the indicated solution meet/ does not
meet the indicated criterion. Detailed evaluation results can be found in
Annex A.
Table 6.5.1 Evaluation results on potential enhancements (1)
* * *
                         **Relaxed measurement configuration (Solution 1 & 3)**   **UE MSE based measurements (Solution 9)**                      **Small cell signal based control of measurements (Solution 10)**   **Measurements without gap assistance (Solution 4)**
Criterion 1 Yes Yes for high speed UE Yes, with Solution 1 & 3 No Criterion 2
Yes Yes for high speed UE Yes, with Solution 1 & 3 Yes Criterion 3 Yes, if
applied for small cell discovery purposes Yes for high speed UE Yes, with
Solution 1 & 3 Yes Criterion 4 Yes Yes Yes May have an impact Specification
impact [FFS] [FFS] [FFS] Already available for some CA band combinations Note
Complementary solution with relaxed measurement configuration Complementary
solution with relaxed measurement configuration Only applicable to CA capable
UEs
* * *
Table 6.5.2 Evaluation results on potential enhancements (2)
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Small cell | UE based | Proximity | Proximity | | | discovery | proximity | detection | detection | | | signal in | detection | based on | with | | | macro layer | (Solution | macro/pico | broadcast | | | (Solution | 6) | cell | assistance | | | 2) | | listening | (Solution | | | | | (Solution | 8) | | | | | 5& 7) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Criterion 1 | Yes | Up to UE | Yes | Up to | | | | imp | | imp | | | | lementation | | lementation | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Criterion 2 | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Criterion 3 | Yes | Yes | Yes | May have an | | | | | | impact | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Criterion 4 | Yes, if UE | Yes | Yes | Yes | | | is served | | | | | | on the | | | | | | small cell. | | | | | | Otherwise, | | | | | | No. | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sp | No impact | Reuse of | For macro | Broadcast | | ecification | | the CSG | cell | indication | | impact | | cell | listening, | for small | | | | solution. | no impact. | cell | | | | Performance | | presence or | | | | r | For pico | the | | | | equirements | cell | location | | | | and test | listening, | range of | | | | cases are | X2 | the pico | | | | required. | signalling | cell alert | | | | | is required | zone. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note | RF unit for | | For pico | | | | macro | | cell | | | | carriers is | | listening, | | | | required | | X2 | | | | for Pico | | connection | | | | eNB. | | between | | | | | | macro and | | | | | | pico eNB is | | | | | | required. | | | | | | RF unit for | | | | | | macro | | | | | | carriers is | | | | | | also | | | | | | required. | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
# 7 Automatic Re-establishment procedures for mobility robustness {#automatic-
re-establishment-procedures-for-mobility-robustness .list-paragraph}
Contributions on enhancements to Re-establishment were provided in RAN2#77
through RAN2#79. Details of the solutions were not treated as part of the
study item and deferred to Work Item phase.
# 8 Mobility enhancements for Multi-Carrier (including CA) in HeNBs with
potentially different CSGs {#mobility-enhancements-for-multi-carrier-
including-ca-in-henbs-with-potentially-different-csgs .list-paragraph}
There were no input documents on this topic.
# 9 Overall observations from the study on HetNet mobility {#overall-
observations-from-the-study-on-hetnet-mobility .list-paragraph}
The sections above provide the overall observation on each of the different
topics studied as part of this SI and are summaried again here:
From the small area calibration simulation results, the following observations
were made:
\- Majority of the companies observed the same trend of the simulation
results. The variance of some calibration results from different companies is
still big.
\- The UE speed has a significant impact on the HO performance. The trend of
simulation results indicated that high speed UEs suffer much higher HO failure
rate than low speed UEs.
The following observations are made from the overall calibration simulations:
\- Results indicate that handover performance in HetNet deployments is not as
good as in pure macro deployments. Of the different HO types, Pico to Macro
handover performance showed the worst performance.
\- For low mobility UEs (i.e., speed \ This
criterion is equivalent to the CQI measurement criterion for > triggering the
T310 and keeping T310 running. As a result, the UE > measurement report and/or
the handover command will fail due to > the bad radio conditions and hence a
handover failure is declared. > If before HO_CMD is issued the long term
average wideband CQI is > above Qin, we consider the radio link is recovered
(equivalent to > N311 is set to 1).