# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report of the work item for LTE Advanced
Carrier Aggregation in Band 38 which was approved at TSG RAN #52 [2]. The
report provides background, analysis of the requirements, and a list of
recommended changes to the specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-110862: \"LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation in Band 38\".
[3] 3GPP TR 25.810: \"UMTS 2.6 GHz (FDD) Work Item Technical Report\"
[4] 3GPP TR 25.811: \"UMTS 2.6 GHz TDDWork Item Technical Report\"[5] 3GPP TS
36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment
(UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements for support of radio resource management\".
[8] 3GPP TS 36.141: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
[9] 3GPP TS 36.307: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Requirements on User Equipments (UEs) supporting a release-independent
frequency band\".
[10] 3GPP TS 37.104: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 37.141: \"E-UTRA, UTRA and GSM/EDGE; Multi-Standard Radio (MSR)
Base Station (BS) conformance testing\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background of the Work Item
Band 38 is a major global TDD band which had been allocated for TDD in
European countries, China and other countries. Operators have big interest to
support carrier aggregation in this band. This WI enables the operation of
carrier aggregation in Band 38.
## 4.1 Task description
The objectives of the WI include:
1) Determine the appropriate deployment scenarios and specify the
corresponding core RF requirements for the BS and UE supporting contiguous
carrier aggregation in Band 38, taking the coexistence with adjacent Band 7
into account. Up to two contiguous 20MHz component carriers for UE are
considered.
2) Specify band specific RRM requirements in RAN4 if any.
3) Add signalling support in RAN2 specifications if any.
4) Specify the performance requirements for BS and UE.
## 4.2 Spectrum and regulatory review
This Work Item [2] is based on the spectrum arrangement as shown below in
Figure 4.2-1.
Figure 4.2-1: Band arrangement in 2500-2690 MHz
The frequency band 2500 -- 2570 MHz is paired with 2620 -- 2690 MHz for FDD
operation with the mobile transmit within the lower band and base transmit
within the upper band. This paired spectrum blocks are designated as Band 7
[3] in 3GPP EUTRA specifications. The frequency band 2570-2620 MHz is for TDD
operation and is designated as Band 38 [4].
The Band 38 spectrum has been allocated in Region 1 based on 5 MHz frequency
blocks. In China, 50 MHz spectrum (2570-2620 MHz) was allocated for TDD
operation (with guard band) in 2010, while the frequency arrangement of other
parts within 2500-2690 MHz is yet to be decided.
The requirements for both UE and BS are defined based on the coexistence
requirements at the boundary between Band 7 and Band 38.
## 4.3 Coexistence with adjacent bands
### 4.3.1 Coexistence simulation results for CA single carrier operation
The simulation results and assumptions for CA single carrier operation are
presented in Annex A.1.
### 4.3.2 Coexistence simulation results for CA dual carrier operation
The simulation results and assumptions for CA dual carrier operation are
presented in Annex A.2.
### 4.3.3 Conclusions on the coexistence with the adjacent band
For CA operation in Band 38, the allowed emission levels shall be aligned with
the ones for Rel-10 non-CA operation. To meet those requirements, the NS
signalling for CA_38C shall be defined and the corresponding A-MPR shall be
specified.
# 5 Band and channel bandwidth arrangement
## 5.1 CA Operating bands
The CA operating band for Band 38 is defined in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1: Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation bands
* * *
CA Band E-UTRA operating band
CA_38 38
* * *
## 5.2 Carrier frequency and EARFCN
There is no change needed for the carrier frequency and EARFCN defined for
Band 38 to support intra-band carrier aggregation. The existing carrier
frequency and EARFCN can well support the CA operation in Band 38.
## 5.3 CA channel bandwidth
Table 5.3-1 defines the supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band contiguous
CA in Band 38.
Table 5.3-1: Supported E-UTRA bandwidths for intra-band contiguous CA in Band
38
* * *
CA operating band / channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA CA Configurations E-UTRA Bands 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz
CA_38C^1^ 38 Yes Yes Yes Yes Note**:** Combinations of component carriers with
unequal channel bandwidth should be considered. The maximum number of CCs for
combination is two.
* * *
[]{.underline}
[Channel combinations for 20 MHz+20 MHz and 15 MHz+15M Hz are supported in
Rel-11.]{.underline}
# 6 E-UTRA RF requirements for UE
## 6.1 Required changes for the 5MHz component carriers
For intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation, the UE minimum controlled
output power and the transmit OFF power are specified per component carrier.
The requirements for the controlled minimum output power and the transmit OFF
power can be specified for 5 MHz component carrier.
### 6.1.1 Minimum requirements for UE minimum output power
The minimum output power is defined as the mean power in one sub-frame (1 ms)
for each component carrier. The minimum output power for 5 MHz component
carrier shall not exceed the values specified in Table 6.1.1-1.
**Table 6.1.1-1: Minimum output power for intra-band contiguous CA UE**
+--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+ | | Channel | | | | | | | | bandwidth / | | | | | | | | Minimum | | | | | | | | output power | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | +--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+ | Minimum | -40 dBm | | | | | | | output power | | | | | | | +--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+ | Measurement | | | 4.5 MHz | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | +--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+
### 6.1.2 Minimum requirements for UE transmit OFF power
The transmit OFF power is defined as the mean power in a duration of at least
one sub-frame (1ms) excluding any transient periods for each component
carrier. The transmit OFF power for the 5 MHz component carrier shall not
exceed the values specified in Table 6.1.2-1.
Table 6.1.2-1: Transmit OFF power for intra-band contiguous CA UE
+--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+ | | Channel | | | | | | | | bandwidth / | | | | | | | | Minimum | | | | | | | | output power | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | +--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+ | Transmit OFF | -50 dBm | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | +--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+ | Measurement | | | 4.5 MHz | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | +--------------+--------------+-----+---------+-----+-----+-----+
## 6.2 Out of band emission
### 6.2.1 General spectrum emission mask
For CA Bandwidth Class C in Band 38, the power of any UE emission shall not
exceed the levels specified in Table 6.2.1-1 for the specified aggregated
channel bandwidth.
Table 6.2.1-1: General E-UTRA CA spectrum emission mask for Bandwidth Class C
+----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | Spectrum | | | | | | | emission limit | | | | | | | [dBm]/B | | | | | | | W~Channel_CA~ | | | | | | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | 24.95 | 29.9 | 30 | 39.8 | Measurement | | | | | | | bandwidth | | (MHz) | | MHz | MHz | MHz | | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 0-1 | -22 | -22.5 | -22.5 | -24 | 30 kHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 1-5 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | 1 MHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 5-24.95 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 24.95-29.9 | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 29.9-29.95 | -25 | -25 | -13 | -13 | 1MHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 29.95-30 | | -25 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 30-34.9 | | -25 | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 34.9-35 | | | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 35-39.8 | | | | -13 | 1 MHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+ | ± 39.8-44.8 | | | | -25 | 1 MHz | +----------------+-------+-------+-------+------+----------------+
## 6.3 UE MPR for modulation and CA bandwidth combinations
For UE MPR due to modulation and CA bandwidth combinations, the requirements
specified in subclause 6.2.3A in TS 36.101 v11.1.0 applied for CA_38C.
## 6.4 UE A-MPR for coexistence with adjacent band
### 6.4.1 Coexistence requirements with Band 7 for contiguous CA
For CA Bandwidth Class C in Band 38, emission shall not exceed the levels
specified in Table 6.4.1-1 for coexistence with protected bands.
Table 6.4.1-1: Emission requirements
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+---+ | E-UTRA | Spurious | | | | | | | Band | emission | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+---+ | | P | F | Maximum | MBW | | | | | rotected | requency | Level | (MHz) | | | | | band | range | (dBm) | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+---+ | CA_38C | E-UTRA | FDL_low | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | Band | | | DL_high | | | | | 1,3, 8, | | | | | | | | 20, 22, | | | | | | | | 33, 34, | | | | | | | | 42, 43 | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+---+ | | F | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | | | requency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+---+ | | F | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | | | requency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+---+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | applies | | | | | | | | for the | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | | ranges | | | | | | | | that are | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | ΔfOOB | | | | | | | | (MHz) in | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | .6.3.1-1 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | 6. | | | | | | | | 6.3.1A-1 | | | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | | | 36.101 | | | | | | | | from the | | | | | | | | edge of | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | uirement | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidths | | | | | | | | confined | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | 570-2615 | | | | | | | | MHz. For | | | | | | | | assigned | | | | | | | | carriers | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidths | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | rlapping | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | requency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | 615-2620 | | | | | | | | MHz the | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irements | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | | maximum | | | | | | | | output | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | nfigured | | | | | | | | to +20 | | | | | | | | dBm in | | | | | | | | the IE | | | | | | | | P-Max. | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-------+---+
The mechanism to meet the emission level specified in Table 6.4.1-1 is to
define CA_NS signaling and the corresponding A-MPR table.
### 6.4.2 A-MPR
Based on the simulation results presented in Annex A, the A-MPR requirements
for contiguously allocated CA_38C are given in Table 6.4.2-1.
Table 6.4.2-1: Contiguous allocation A-MPR for CA_38C
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | CA_38C | **RB~end~** | **L~CRB~** | A-MPR for QPSK | | | | [RBs] | and | | | | | 16-QAM[dB] | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 100RB/100RB | 0 -- 12 | >0 | ≤ 5 dB | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | 13 -- 79 | > RB_End -- | ≤ 2 dB | | | | 13 | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | 80 -- 180 | >60 | ≤ 6 dB | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | 181 -- 199 | > 0 | ≤ 11 dB | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | 75RB/75RB | 0 -- 70 | > RB_end -10 | ≤ 2 dB | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | 71- 108 | > 60 | ≤ 5 dB | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | 109 -- 140 | >0 | ≤ 5 dB | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | 140 -- 149 | ≤ 70 | ≤ 2 dB | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | | 140 -- 149 | >70 | ≤ 6 dB | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+ | NOTE 1: RB~end~ | | | | | indicates the | | | | | lowest RB index | | | | | of transmitted | | | | | resource blocks | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: L~CRB~ | | | | | is the length | | | | | of a contiguous | | | | | resource block | | | | | allocation | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | intra-subframe | | | | | frequency | | | | | hopping which | | | | | intersects | | | | | regions, notes | | | | | 1 and 2 apply | | | | | on a per slot | | | | | basis | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For | | | | | intra-subframe | | | | | frequency | | | | | hopping which | | | | | intersects | | | | | regions, the | | | | | larger A-MPR | | | | | value may be | | | | | applied for | | | | | both slots in | | | | | the subframe | | | | +-----------------+-------------+-----------------+-----------------+
The allowed maximum output power reduction applied to transmissions on the
PCell and the SCell due to multi-cluster transmission is defined as follows
A-MPR = CEIL {M~A,~ 0.5}
Where MA is defined as follows
> M~A~ = -14.17 A + 16.50 ; 0 ≤ A \
> -2.50 A + 9.50 ; 0.60 ≤ A ≤ 1
Where A = N~RB_alloc~ / N~RB_agg.~
## 6.5 UE receiver RF requirements
Three subclauses in TS 36.101 (Rel-11) shall be updated for UE supporting
intra-band contiguous CA in Band 38, and these subclauses cover the following
aspects:
Reference sensitivity
In-band blocking
Out-of-band blocking
For CA Band 38 there is no restriction on the uplink RB allocations, and the
uplink configuration shall be specified with full RB allocation for both PCC
and SCC for all supported CC combinations. All of the relative changes for CA
in Band 38 are captured in sub-clause 10.1 in the present document.
# 7 E-UTRA RRM requirements for UE
The measurement procedures and requirements for carrier aggregation specified
in subclauses 8.3 and 8.4 in TS 36.133 are defined for Primary carrier and
Secondary carrier in a band agnostic manner. There is no specific RRM
procedure and requirement for carrier aggregation in Band 38.
The RRM performance requirements for carrier aggregation, as defined in
subclause 9 in TS 36.133 are specified for each component carrier. The
reporting delay and measurement accuracy requirements for single carrier in
Band 38 have been defined in subclause 9 in TS 36.133 and no further change on
reference sensitivity power level for CA is foreseen. Therefore, the existing
performance requirements are complete for CA in Band 38.
In summary, there are no additional measurement procedure, measurement
requirements, and measurement performance requirements specifically for CA in
Band 38.
# 8 E-UTRA RF requirements for BS
Changes to BS specifications are identified in clauses 10.2, 10.4, 10.6 and
10.7.
# 9 CA Demodulation performance for BS and UE in Band 38
The BS and UE demodulation performance requirements are specified in clause 8
in TS 36.104 and TS 36.101. The demodulation performance requirements in both
specifications are structured as band agnostic, and there is no specific CA
demodulation performance requirement for Band 38 for both BS and UE. No change
on demodulation performance is required for CA in Band 38.
# 10 Summary of required changes to E-UTRA specifications
## 10.1 Required changes to TS 36.101
Required changes for CA_38 in UE RF specification TS 36.101 are shown in Table
10.1-1.
Table 10.1-1: Required changes in TS 36.101
* * *
Section Requirement Required changes in TS 36.101 5.5A Operating bands for CA
Add a new row for CA_38 in Table 5.5A-1. 5.6A.1 Channel bandwidths per
operating band for CA Add a new row in Table 5.6A.1-1 for the supported E-UTRA
bandwidths of CA_38. 6.2.2A UE Maximum Output Power for intra-band contiguous
CA Add a new row for CA_38 in Table 6.2.2A-1. 6.2.4A UE Maximum Output Power
with additional requirements for CA It is proposed to evaluate the appropriate
A-MPR requirement for CA_38. 6.6.3A Additional spurious emission for CA_38 Add
a new table in Section 6.6.3A for coexistence with protected bands, especially
for protection of Band 7. 7.3.1A Minimum requirements (QPSK) for CA Add a new
row in Table 7.3.1A-1 for intra-band CA uplink configuration for reference
sensitivity of CA38. 7.6.1.1A In-band blocking for intra-band contiguous CA
Add CA_38C in Table 7.6.1.1A-2. It is proposed to evaluate whether the
existing CA_40C in-band blocking requirement is valid for CA_38 C or not.
7.6.2.1A Out-of-band blocking for intra-band contiguous CA Add CA_38C in in
Table 7.6.2.1A-2. It is proposed to evaluate whether the existing CA_40C out-
of-band blocking requirement is valid for CA_38 C or not.
* * *
## 10.2 Required changes to TS 36.104
Required changes in BS RF specification TS 36.104 are shown in Table 10.2-1.
Table 10.2-1: Required changes in TS 36.104
* * *
Section Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.104 5.5 Operating bands A new
row is expected to be added in Table 5.5-2 to support B38 intra-band
contiguous carrier aggregation configuration.
* * *
## 10.3 Required changes to TS 36.133
No change identified in TS 36.133 specifically for CA in Band 38.
## 10.4 Required changes to TS 36.141
Required changes in BS test specification TS 36.141 are shown in Table 10.4-1.
Table 10.4-1: Required changes in TS 36.141
* * *
Section Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.141 5.5 Operating bands A new
row is expected to be added in Table 5.5-2 to support B38 intra-band
contiguous carrier aggregation configuration.
* * *
## 10.5 Required changes to TS 36.307
Required changes in TS 36.307 are shown in Table 10.5-1.
Table 10.5-1: Required changes in TS 36.307
* * *
Section Requirement Required Changes in TS 36.307 X Band 38 independent of
release Add some changes to 36.307 Rel-10 to provide the appropriate pointers
to the Rel-11 specifications to enable backdating of CA_38 to Rel-10.
* * *
## 10.6 Required changes to TS 37.104
No change in TS 37.104.
## 10.7 Required changes to TS 37.141
No change in TS 37.141.
# 11 Project plan
The follows are the work plan for this WI:
> By end of RAN4 #[60-BIS]{.underline} in Zhuhai (Oct 2011): to reach
> agreement on the coexistence requirements in RAN4 specifications,
> particularly, the BEM (Block Edge Mask) for coexistence, whether to use
> A-MPR, and whether to use network signaling.
>
> By end of RAN4 #61 in San Francisco (Nov 2011): to reach agreement on the
> requirements of A-MPR or restrictions on transmission bandwidth.
>
> By end of RAN4 #62 in Dresdon (Feb 2012): to clean up the rests of the Tx
> and Rx requirements.
All the requirements are captured in Technical Report.
Technical report presented to RAN plenary #55 for information.
> By end of RAN4 #64 (May 2012): to have all the CRs agreed.
CRs to be presented in RAN #56 for final approval.
Technical reports presented to RAN#56 for approval.
## 11.1 Schedule and Work Task Status
RAN# 52, WI created, June 2011
RAN# 53, 10% completed, Sept 2011
RAN# 54, 25% completed, Dec 2011
RAN# 55, 50% completed, March 2012
###### ### Annex A:
## A.1 Coexistence simulation results for CA single carrier operation
**Simulation Assumptions:**
1) PA nonlinearity has been calibrated as UTRA/ACLR\@33dBc for each
transmission channel bandwidth \@22dBm with full RB allocation.
2) The I/Q modulator is calibrated following the generic RAN4 assumptions:
> LO leakage @ 25dBc
>
> Image leakage @ 25dBc
>
> Counter IM3 @ 60dBc
The spectrum emissions are measured by using measurement bandwidth at 5 MHz, 1
MHz, and 100 kHz, correspondingly.
**Simulation Results:**
Figure A.1-1 shows the PSD @ 22dBm for 15MHz \@QPSK modulation with 1 RB
allocated at channel edge, while the blue, red and back curves are the
emission mask measured with 5 MHz, 1 MHz, and 100 kHz measurement bandwidth
correspondingly.
{width="5.901388888888889in" height="3.691666666666667in"}
**Figure A.1-1: PSD @ 22dBm for 15MHz \@QPSK modulation with 1 RB allocated at
channel edge**
{width="5.682638888888889in" height="3.4916666666666667in"}
**Figure A.1-2: (zoomed in) the differences of measurement bandwidth**
In Figure A.1-3, we sweep the number of RBs allocated at band edge from 1 to
15. As the number of RBs increase, the Tx PSD level is lowered and
consequently the PSD of the IMD products falling into the victim band are also
lowered.
{width="5.7625in" height="4.070833333333334in"}
**Figure A.1-3: Impact of narrow RB allocations at band edge @ 22dBm**
Figure A.1-4 zooms into the frequency range where the IMD3 product is reduced
gradually.
{width="5.757638888888889in" height="4.114583333333333in"}
**Figure A.1-4: (zoomed in) Impact of narrow RB allocations at band edge @
22dBm**
Figure A.1-5 shows the differences of RB numbers measured at 5 MHz, 1 MHz, and
100 kHz.
Figure A.1-6 zooms into to the area (basically the 2^nd^ UTRA channel) where
the emission levels are dominated by the up limit of the RB allocations
{width="5.759027777777778in" height="3.847916666666667in"}
Figure A.1-5: Impact of up limit of RB allocations at band edge @ 22dBm
Figure A.1-7 shows the 2^nd^ UTRA ACLR and the total interference power within
the 2^nd^ UTRA channel with the increase of RB allocations.
{width="5.728472222222222in" height="3.8222222222222224in"}
Figure A.1-6: (zoomed in) Impact of up limit of RB allocations at band edge @
22dBm
{width="5.877083333333333in" height="4.956944444444445in"}
**Figure A.1-7: ACLR and interference power level in the second UTRA channel @
22dBm**
Figure A.1-8 shows the emission level frequency range that is 30 MHz (for
example beyond 2645 MHz, if for Band 38) away from the carrier edge configured
at band edge, with the changes of RB block size (15 MHz: RB 1--->75, 20MHz: RB
1--->100, every 5 RBs). Nominal carrier central frequency is 2.6 GHz.
{width="5.7652777777777775in" height="5.544444444444444in"}
**Figure A.1-8: Emission level (per MHz) at the \"spurious\" domain @ 22dBm**
## A.2 Coexistence simulation results for CA dual carrier operation
**Simulation Assumptions:**
1) PA nonlinearity has been calibrated as UTRA/ACLR\@33dBc for each
transmission channel bandwidth \@22dBm with full RB allocation.
2) The I/Q modulator is calibrated following the generic RAN4 assumptions:
> LO leakage @ 25dBc
>
> Image leakage @ 25dBc
>
> Counter IM3 @ 60dBc
The spectrum emissions are measured by 1 MHz.
**Simulation Results:**
NOTE: It is impossible to plot the spectrum at all the power level simulated.
The power levels presented in the pictures are only for illustration purpose.
Figure A.2-1 shows the PSD @ 21dBm for QPSK transmission in 20MHz+20MHz, while
the RB number is swept from 1to 200 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.966666666666667in"}
**Figure A.2-1: PSD @ 21dBm for QPSK transmission in 20MHz+20MHz**
Figure A.2-2 shows the PSD @ 20dBm for QPSK transmission in 20MHz+20MHz, while
the RB number is swept from 1 to 200 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.6875in" height="3.9458333333333333in"}
**Figure A.2-2: PSD @ 20dBm for QPSK transmission in 20MHz+20MHz**
Figure A.2-3 shows the PSD @ 18.5dBm for QPSK transmission in 20MHz+20MHz,
while the RB number is swept from 1 to 200 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="3.9145833333333333in"}
**Figure A.2-3: PSD @ 18.5dBm for QPSK transmission in 20MHz+20MHz**
Figure A.2-4 shows the PSD @ 21dBm for QAM16 transmission in 20MHz+20MHz,
while the RB number is swept from 1 to 200 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.690277777777778in" height="3.9618055555555554in"}
**Figure A.2-4: PSD @ 21dBm for QAM16 transmission in 20MHz+20MHz**
Figure A.2-5 shows the PSD @ 20dBm for QAM16 transmission in 20MHz+20MHz,
while the RB number is swept from 1 to 200 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="3.848611111111111in"}
**Figure A.2-5: PSD @ 20dBm for QAM16 transmission in 20MHz+20MHz**
Figure A.2-6 shows the PSD @ 19dBm for QAM16 transmission in 20MHz+20MHz,
while the RB number is swept from 1to 200 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.9680555555555554in"}
**Figure A.2-6: PSD @ 19dBm for QAM16 transmission in 20MHz+20MHz**
Figure A.2-7 shows the PSD @ 18.5dBm for QAM16 transmission in 20MHz+20MHz,
while the RB number is swept from 1 to 200 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.69375in" height="3.8895833333333334in"}
**Figure A.2-7: PSD @ 18.5dBm for QAM16 transmission in 20MHz+20MHz**
Figure A.2-8 shows the PSD @ 21dBm for QPSK transmission in 15MHz+15MHz, while
the RB number is swept from 1 to 150 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="3.7041666666666666in"}
**Figure A.2-8: PSD @ 21dBm for QPSK transmission in 15MHz+15MHz**
Figure A.2-9 shows the PSD @ 20dBm for QPSK transmission in 15MHz+15MHz, while
the RB number is swept from 1 to 150 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.688888888888889in" height="3.8041666666666667in"}
Figure A.2-9: PSD @ 20dBm for QPSK transmission in 15MHz+15MHzFigure A.2-10
shows the PSD @ 21dBm for QAM16 transmission in 15MHz+15MHz, while the RB
number is swept from 1 to 150 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.689583333333333in" height="3.8819444444444446in"}
**Figure A.2-10: PSD @ 21dBm for QAM16 transmission in 15MHz+15MHz**
Figure A.2-11 shows the PSD @ 20dBm for QAM16 transmission in 15MHz+15MHz,
while the RB number is swept from 1 to 150 with the step equals to 2.
{width="6.694444444444445in" height="3.94375in"}
**Figure A.2-11: PSD @ 20dBm for QAM16 transmission in 15MHz+15MHz**
## A.3 A-MPR simulation results 1
### A.3.1 Simulation campaign
In these simulations emissions from band 38 to band 7 were studied and
sufficient backoff to reach emission limits was searched. Simulations were
performed with 100+100RB and 75+75RB configurations and they were placed in
the worst case position at the upper edge of band 38. 2615 -- 2620 MHz was
considered as guard band and therefore uplink center frequency was 2595.1MHz
for 100+100 RB configuration and 2600 MHz for 75+75RB configuration.
Emission limits for band 38 frequencies were as follows
Table A.3-1: Emission limits from band 38 to band 7
* * *
Frequency range Emission limit Measurement bandwidth 2620 -- 2645 MHz -15.5
dBm 5 MHz 2645 -- 2690 MHz -40.0 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
For OOB region below transmitted signal general E-UTRA CA spectrum emission
mask was used.
Table A.3-2: General E-UTRA CA spectrum emission mask
+-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | Spectrum | | | | | | | emission | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | [dBm]/BW~C | | | | | | | hannel_CA~ | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | 29.9 | 30 | 34.85 MHz | 39.8 | Measurement | | | | | | | bandwidth | | (MHz) | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± 0-1 | -22.5 | -22.5 | -23.5 | -24 | 30 kHz | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± 1-5 | -10 | -10 | -10 | -10 | 1 MHz | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± 5-29.9 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± 29.9-30 | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± 30-34.85 | -25 | -25 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± | -25 | -25 | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 34.85-34.9 | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± 34.9-35 | | -25 | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± 35-39.8 | | | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± | | | -25 | -25 | 1 MHz | | 39.8-39.85 | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+ | ± | | | | -25 | 1 MHz | | 39.85-44.8 | | | | | | +-------------+-------+-------+-----------+------+-------------+
The following ACLR limits were used.
\- UTRA~ACLR1~ = 33dB
\- UTRA~ACLR2~ = 36dB
\- CA E-UTRA~ACRL~ = 30dB
Spurious emissions limit was -30dBm with 1MHz measurement bandwidth.
Simulation assumptions were as follows:
● PA operating point: with fully allocated REL-8 100RB QPSK signal UTRA~ACLR1~
= 33 dBc with Pout = 22 dBm.
● Modulator IQ -- image = 25 dB
● Modulator carrier leakage = 25 dBc
● Modulator C_IM3 = 60 dBc
When setting the PA operating point it was checked that all ACLR results were
within the limits.
## A.3.2 Simulation results for contiguous allocation
Simulated allocations and required backoff are shown in Figures 1-12.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-1: Required backoff with 100+100RB configuration, QPSK, PA1
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-2: Required backoff with 100+100RB configuration, 16-QAM, PA1
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-3: Required backoff with 75+75RB configuration, QPSK, PA1
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-4: Required backoff with 75+75RB configuration, 16-QAM, PA1
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-5: Required backoff with 100+100RB configuration, QPSK, PA2
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-6: Required backoff with 100+100RB configuration, 16-QAM, PA2
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-7: Required backoff with 75+75RB configuration, QPSK, PA2
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-8: Required backoff with 75+75RB configuration, 16-QAM, PA2
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-9: Required backoff with 100+100RB configuration, QPSK, PA3
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-10: Required backoff with 100+100RB configuration, 16-QAM, PA3
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-11: Required backoff with 75+75RB configuration, QPSK, PA3
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A3-12: Required backoff with 75+75RB configuration, 16-QAM, PA3
## A.3.3 Simulation results for multicluster allocation
Simulated allocations and required backoff are shown in Figures 1- 4.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A.3.3-1: Required backoff with 100+100RB configuration, 2 clusters
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A.3.3-2: Required backoff with 100+100RB configuration, 4 clusters
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A.3.3-3: Required backoff with 75+75RB configuration, 2 clusters
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A.3.3-4: Required backoff with 75+75RB configuration, 4 clusters
Based on the large amount of simulated allocations the A-MPR mask illustrated
in Figure 5 is proposed.
{width="5.511805555555555in" height="4.133333333333334in"}
Figure A4.2-5: All simulation results with the proposed A-MPR mask
# A.4 A-MPR simulation results 2
## A.4.1 Simulation results for contiguous RB allocations
**Simulation Assumptions:**
1\. PA nonlinearity for 20MHz+20MHz is calibrated as UTRA/ACLR\@33dBc for
20MHz channel bandwidth \@22dBm with full RB allocation. PA nonlinearity for
15MHz+15MHz is calibrated as UTRA/ACLR\@33dBc for 15MHz channel bandwidth
\@22dBm with full RB allocation.
The tuning step for UE output power is 0.5dB.
2\. The I/Q modulator is calibrated following the generic RAN4 assumptions:
LO leakage @ 25dBc
Image leakage @ 25dBc
Counter IM3 @ 60dBc
**Simulation Results:**
{width="6.572916666666667in" height="5.7652777777777775in"}
Figure A.4.1-1: QPSK transmission for 20MHz+20MHz
[]{.underline}
{width="6.685416666666667in" height="5.973611111111111in"}
Figure A.4.1-2: QAM16 transmission for 20MHz+20MHz
{width="6.700694444444444in" height="5.611111111111111in"}
Figure A.4.1-3: QPSK transmission for 15MHz+15MHz
{width="6.6625in" height="5.879166666666666in"}
Figure A.4.1-4: QAM16 transmission for 15MHz+15MHz
## A.4.2 Simulation results for cluster RB allocations
**Simulation Assumptions:**
1\. PA nonlinearity for 20MHz+20MHz is calibrated as UTRA/ACLR\@33dBc for
20MHz channel bandwidth \@22dBm with full RB allocation. PA nonlinearity for
15MHz+15MHz is calibrated as UTRA/ACLR\@33dBc for 15MHz channel bandwidth
\@22dBm with full RB allocation.
The tuning step for UE output power is 0.5dB.
2\. The I/Q modulator is calibrated following the generic RAN4 assumptions:
LO leakage @ 25dBc
Image leakage @ 25dBc
Counter IM3 @ 60dBc
**Simulation Results:**
Figure A.4-1 is a simple comparison of the cluster transmission for
15MHz+15MHz and 20MHz+20MHz. The key difference is the IMD3 products for
20MHz+20MHz fall into the frequency zone governed by the -40dBm/MHz
requirements, while the IMD3 products for 15MHz+15MHz is governed by the
-15.5dBm/5MHz requirements. The A-MPR values required for 20MHz+20MHz are much
higher than 15MHz+15MHz.
{width="6.686805555555556in" height="4.415277777777778in"}
Figure A.4.2-1: A comparison of cluster transmission for 20MHz+20MHz and
15MHz+15MHz
{width="6.316666666666666in" height="4.95in"}
Figure A.4.2-2: A-MPR required for 15MHz+15MHz
{width="5.946527777777778in" height="4.459722222222222in"}
Figure A.4.2-3: A-MPR required for 20MHz+20MHz
#