# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for Inter-band Carrier Aggregation
under Rel-11 time frame. The purpose is to gather the relevant background
information and studies in order to address Inter-band Carrier Aggregation
requirements.
This TR covers relevant background information and studies in order to address
Inter-band Carrier Aggregation requirements for the Rel-11 band combinations
in table 1-1.
Table 1-1: Release 11 inter-band carrier aggregation combinations
* * *
WI code WI title Class LTE_CA_B3_B7 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 3
and Band 7 A3 LTE_CA_B4_B17 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 4 and
Band 17 A2 LTE_CA_B4_B13 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 4 and Band
13 A1 LTE_CA_B4_B12 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 4 and Band 12 A2
LTE_CA_B5_B12 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 5 and Band 12 A3
LTE_CA_B7_B20 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 7 and Band 20 A1
LTE_CA_B2_B17 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 2 and Band 17 A1
LTE_CA_B4_B5 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 4 and Band 5 A1
LTE_CA_B5_B17 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 5 and Band 17 A3
LTE_CA_B3_B20 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 3 and Band 20 A1
LTE_CA_B8_B20 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 8 and Band 20 A3
LTE_CA_B3_B5 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 3 and Band 5 A1
LTE_CA_B4_B7 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 4 and Band 7 A3
LTE_CA_B11_B18 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 11 and Band 18 A5
LTE_CA_B1_B18 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 1 and Band 18 A1
LTE_CA_B1_B19 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 1 and Band 19 A1
LTE_CA_B1_B21 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 1 and Band 21 A5
LTE_CA_B3_B8 LTE Advanced Carrier Aggregation of Band 3 and Band 8 A2
* * *
This TR contains a general part and band specific combination part. The actual
requirements are added to the corresponding technical specifications.
The contents of this TR is moved to/provided in TR 36.852-11 Release 11 [24].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] Void.
[2] Void.
[3] Void.
[4] Void.
[5] Void.
[6] Void.
[7] Void.
[8] Void.
[9] Void.
[10] Void.
[11] Void.
[12] Void.
[13] Void.
[14] Void.
[15] Void.
[16] Void.
[17] Void.
[18] Void.
[19] Void.
[20] Void.
[21] Void.
[22] Void.
[23] Void.
[23] Void.
[24] TR 36.852-11: \"LTE Advanced inter-band Carrier Aggregation (2DL/1UL);
Release 11\"
# 3 Void
# 4 Void
# 5 Void
# 6 Void
#