# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Machine Type Communication (MTC) is an important revenue stream for operators
and has a huge potential from the operator perspective. There are several
industry forum's working on an efficient M2M system with some industry members
developing a new access technology dedicated for MTC. However, it is more
efficient for operators to be able to serve MTC UE using already deployed
radio access technology. Therefore it is important for operators to understand
whether LTE could be a competitive radio access technology for efficient
support of MTC. It is envisaged that MTC UE's will be deployed in huge
numbers, large enough to create an eco-system on its own. Lowering the cost of
MTC UE's is an important enabler for implementation of the concept of
"internet of things". MTC UE's used for many applications will require low
operational power consumption and are expected to communicate with infrequent
small burst transmissions.
This TR captures various features and their modifications along with various
hardware simplifications that will enable production of low cost MTC UE's.
EGPRS multislot class 2 is assumed as a benchmark for cost comparison and
minimum data rate capability.
# 1 Scope
As LTE deployments evolve, operators would like to reduce the cost of overall
network maintenance by minimising the number of RATs. Machine-Type
Communications (MTC) is a market that is likely to continue expanding in the
future. Many MTC UE's are targeting low-end (low average revenue per user, low
data rate) applications that can be handled adequately by GSM/GPRS. Owing to
the low cost of these devices and good coverage of GSM/GPRS, there is very
little motivation for MTC UE suppliers to use modules supporting the LTE radio
interface. As more and more MTC UE's are deployed in the field, this naturally
increases the reliance on GSM/GPRS networks. This will cost operators not only
in terms of maintaining multiple RATs, but it will also prevent operators from
reaping the maximum benefit out of their spectrum (given the non-optimal
spectrum efficiency of GSM/GPRS). Given the likely high number of MTC UE's,
the overall resource they will need for service provision may be
correspondingly significant, and inefficiently assigned.
Therefore, it is necessary to find a solution to ensure that there is a clear
business benefit to MTC UE vendors and operators for migrating low-end MTC
UE's from GSM/GPRS to LTE networks.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.306: "User Equipment (UE) radio access capabilities; Release
10".
[3] 3GPP TS 45.912: "Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE Radio Access
Network; Feasibility study for GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network (GERAN)"
[4] R1-120008: Email Discussion Summary on Coverage Issues Identification
[5] 3GPP TS 36.213: "Physical layer procedures; Release 10".
[6] R1-080614: "Half Duplex FDD Operation in LTE", RAN1#51bis, Seville, Spain,
January 2008.
[7] RP-111776: "Enhanced downlink control channel(s) for LTE".
[8] R1-122527: "Analysis and evaluation of reduction of supported downlink
transmission modes", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[9] R1-122055: "Discussion on reduction of supported downlink transmission
modes for low-cost MTC LTE UEs", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th
May 2012.
[10] R1-122117: "Evaluation/analysis on reduction of supported downlink
Transmission Modes and Text Proposal", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic,
21st-25th May 2012.
[11] R1-122431: "Analysis of reduction of supported downlink transmission
modes for low-cost MTC", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[12] R1-122638: "Discussion on reduction of supported downlink transmission
modes for low-cost MTC UEs", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May
2012.
[13] R1-122169: "Analysis of transmission mode support for MTC devices", RAN1
#69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[14] R1-122263: "Reduction of downlink transmission modes for MTC devices",
RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[15] R1-122280: "Analysis of Spatial Multiplexing Processing Reduction", RAN1
#69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
[16] R1-123072: "E-mail discussion summary for TP to clause 7 of 3GPP TR
36.888", RAN1 #69, Prague, Czech Republic, 21st-25th May 2012.
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
Void
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
MTC UE/Device: A MTC UE/Device is a UE equipped for Machine Type
Communication.
NOTE: In the scope of current technical report and scope of current study
item, A MTC UE communicates with an access network capable of multiple cells
with different characteristics (e.g., e-NodeBs, Home e-NodeBs, e-UTRA Relays)
# 4 Objectives of study
Solutions using, or evolved from, LTE RAN specifications up to and including
Rel-10 shall be investigated and evaluated to clearly understand the
feasibility of creating a type of terminal that would permit the cost of
terminals tailored for the low-end of the MTC market to be competitive with
that of GSM/GPRS terminals targeting the same low-end MTC market. Such
solutions should:
The study shall evaluate at least the following aspects:
\- Benefit of developing methods for reducing RF component cost in the
devices, including (for example) simplifications and reductions in support of
bands/RATs/RF chains/antenna ports, transmission power, maximum channel
bandwidth less than the maximum specified for respective frequency band, and
support of half-duplex FDD mode.
\- Benefit of developing methods for reducing the processing in the device,
additionally considering baseband-RF conversion aspects, significantly lower
peak data rate support, no support of spatial processing mode in
uplink/downlink, and reduced radio protocol processing.
\- A method to guarantee that any features recommended as part of this study
to allow cost reduction, but which also bring a reduction in LTE system
performance, shall be restricted to devices which only operate as MTC devices
not requiring high data rates and/or low latency, after further careful study.
As part of the analysis of the different solutions, any impacts on backwards
compatibility with existing LTE network shall be evaluated and justified, as
well as impact on the operation of legacy LTE Release 8-10 UEs and Release
8-10 LTE system performance.
Note2: This study item is to assess, from a 3GPP standpoint, the technical
feasibility of low-cost LTE devices for MTC. Given that factors outside 3GPP
responsibility influence the cost of a modem/device, this study item (and the
text above) cannot guarantee, or be used as a guarantee, that such
modem/device will be low-cost in the market.
# 5 Requirements and methodology
## 5.1 Requirements
Solution's studied for provisioning of low cost MTC UE based on LTE should
support below as a minimum requirement.
> \- Support data rates equivalent to that supported by [R'99 E-GPRS] with an
> EGPRS multi-slot class 2 device (2 downlink timeslots (118.4 Kbps), 1 uplink
> timeslots (59.2 Kbps), and a maximum of 3 active timeslots) as a minimum.
> This does not preclude the support of higher data rates provided the cost
> targets are not compromised.
>
> \- Enable significantly improved average spectrum efficiency for low data
> rate MTC traffic compared to that achieved for R99 GSM/EGPRS terminals in
> GSM/EGPRS networks today, and ideally comparable with that of LTE.
> Optimisations for low-cost MTC UEs should minimise impact on the spectrum
> efficiency achievable for other terminals (normal LTE terminals) in LTE
> Release 8-10 networks.
>
> \- Ensure that service coverage footprint of low cost MTC UE based on LTE is
> not any worse than the service coverage footprint of GSM/EGPRS MTC device
> (in an GSM/EGPRS network) or that of "normal LTE UEs" (in an LTE network)
> assuming on the same spectrum band.
>
> \- Ensure that overall power consumption is no worse than existing GSM/GPRS
> based MTC devices.
>
> \- Ensure good radio frequency coexistence with legacy (Release 8-10) LTE
> radio interface and networks.
>
> \- Target operation of low-cost MTC UEs and legacy LTE UEs on the same
> carrier.
>
> \- Re-use the existing LTE/SAE network architecture.
>
> \- Solutions should be specified in terms of changes to the Rel 10 version
> of the specifications
>
> \- The study item shall consider optimizations for both FDD and TDD mode.
>
> \- The initial phase of the study shall focus on solutions that do not
> necessarily require changes to the LTE base station hardware.
>
> \- Low cost MTC device support limited mobility (i.e. no support of seamless
> handover; ability to operate in networks in different countries) and are low
> power consumption modules
## 5.2 Evaluation methodology
Based on the possibility that candidate solutions recommended as part of this
study to allow cost reduction may also bring a reduction in LTE system
performance, methodology for both performance evaluation and cost analysis is
needed.
In order to achieve objective comparison of diverse analysis results for
performance and cost from different companies, it is important to align the
basic assumption for a reference LTE modem. The following is assumed:
> • System bandwidth is 20MHz
>
> • Category-1 LTE UE
>
> • Single RAT
>
> • Single band
>
> • TDD/Full duplex FDD
>
> • Direct DL and UL wide-area-network access from MTC devices to eNB
### 5.2.1 Methodology for performance evaluation
An evaluation methodology is provided for performance analysis of power
consumption, coverage, and cell spectral efficiency.
#### 5.2.1.1 Power consumption analysis
Power consumption is a function of many factors, such as active transmission
time, transmit power level and PA efficiency, sleep mode duration, active
reception time, receiver processing time/complexity. Some factors, like sleep
mode duration, may depend on network configuration and traffic/signalling
patterns, and some other factors, such as PA efficiency and receiver
processing may be implementation specific.
Power consumption of the RF module can be estimated by:
  * Reception time
  * Transmission time and total UE transmit power during the transmitting time
  * DC power consumption of power amplifier / PA efficiency
Power estimation for most baseband integrated circuits is usually implemented
by commercial power estimation tools. In order to obtain the baseband power
consumption conveniently, it is recommended to use the following method
instead:
  * Baseband complexity evaluation or comparison
#### 5.2.1.2 Coverage analysis
A link budget is a reasonable method for coverage analysis. The following link
budget tables capture the reference Maximum Coupling Loss (MCL) that can be
used when comparing with that of a low-cost LTE MTC device, for example, to
compare the MCL of MTC devices to the reference MCL in GSM/GPRS when assessing
if service coverage provided to low-cost MTC UE is not worse than GSM/GPRS, or
to compare the MCL of MTC devices to the reference MCL in LTE when assessing
if the same defined LTE cell coverage footprint as engineered for "normal LTE
UEs" can be ensured.
The values of some of the parameters of the link budget need to be common to
all candidate solutions, and any solution-specific parameter values have to be
determined by analysis or by simulation.
The link budget for GSM/EGPRS as benchmark should be assessed. Required SINR
is from [3] , 5dB Rx processing gain is considered, and 4 dB back off is
assumed when 8PSK is involved. The Maximum Coupling Loss (MCL) calculations
for GSM/EGPRS are presented in Table 5.2.1.2-1. The minimal MCL in Table
5.2.1.2-1 is minimal coverage requirement for low cost UE.
**Table** **5.2.1.2-1: MCL calculation for GSM/EGPRS**
+---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **Physical channel name** | **UL** | **DL** | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **Data rate(kbps)** | 20 (1 TSL) | 20 (2 TSL) | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **Transmitter** | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **(1) Tx power (dBm)** | 29 | 43 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **Receiver** | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (2) Thermal noise density (dBm/Hz) | -174 | -174 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (3) Receiver noise figure (dB) | 5 | 9 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (4) Interference margin (dB) | 0 | 0 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (5) Occupied channel bandwidth (Hz) | 180000 | 180000 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (6) Effective noise power | -116.4 | -112.4 | | | | | | = (2) + (3) + (4) + 10 log((5)) (dBm) | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | (7) Required SINR (dB) | 11 | 7 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **(8) Receiver sensitivity** | **-105.4** | -105.4 | | | | | | **= (6) + (7) (dBm)** | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **(9) Rx processing gain** | 5 | 0 | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+ | **(10)** **MCL** | 139.4 | 148.4 | | | | | | = (1) −(8) + (9) (dB) | | | +---------------------------------------+------------+------------+
The MCL calculations for normal LTE FDD are given in Table 5.2.1.2-2. PHICH is
neglected and the function of PHICH can be implemented by PDCCH in case of
cell edge.
**Table 5.2.1.2-2: MCL calculation for normal LTE FDD***
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **Phy |** PU | **PR |** PU | **PD |** P | ** | ** | | sical | CCH**| ACH** | SCH**| SCH** | BCH**| SCH** | PDCCH | | ch | | | | | | | ( | | annel | **( | | | | | | 1A)** | | n | 1a)**| | | | | | | | ame** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | 20 | 20 | | | | | _Data | | | | | | | | | ra | | | | | | | | | te(kb | | | | | | | | | ps)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__Tra | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | ter_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (0) | 23 | 23 | 23 | 46 | 46 | 46 | 46 | |__Max | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (d | | | | | | | | | Bm)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__(1) | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | 32.0 | 36.8 | 36.8 | 42.8 | | A | | | | | | | | | ctual | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | (d | | | | | | | | | Bm)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | Recei | | | | | | | | | ver_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (2) | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | | Th | | | | | | | | | ermal | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | (dB | | | | | | | | | m/Hz) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (3) | 5 | 5 | 5 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | | Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (4) | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | In | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | argin | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (5) | 1 | 10 | 3 | 3 | 10 | 10 | 43 | | Occ | 80000 | 80000 | 60000 | 60000 | 80000 | 80000 | 20000 | | upied | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (Hz) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (6) | - | - | - | - | - | - | -98.6 | | Effe | 116.4 | 108.7 | 113.4 | 109.4 | 104.7 | 104.7 | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (2) | | | | | | | | | + (3) | | | | | | | | | + (4) | | | | | | | | | + 10 | | | | | | | | | log | | | | | | | | | ((5)) | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (7) | -7.8 | -10.0 | -4.3 | -4.0 | -7.5 | -7.8 | -4.7 | | Req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | SINR | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | -1 | - | - | - | - | - | -1 | | (8)__| 24.24 | 118.7 | 117.7 | 113.4 | 112.2 | 112.5 | 03.34 | |__Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | sen | | | | | | | | | sitiv | | | | | | | | | ity_ _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (6) | | | | | | | | | + (7) | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | 147.2 | 141.7 | 140.7 | 145.4 | 149.0 | 149.3 | 146.1 | | (9)__| | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | MCL_ * | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (1) | | | | | | | | | − (8) | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
*Note: eNB is assumed with 2 Tx and 2 Rx in FDD systems.
The MCL calculations for normal LTE TDD are summarized in Table 5.2.1.2-3.
**Table 5.2.1.2-3: MCL calculation for normal LTE TDD****
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **Phy |** PU | **PR |** PU | **PD |** P | ** | ** | | sical | CCH**| ACH** | SCH**| SCH** | BCH**| SCH** | PDCCH | | ch | | | | | | | ( | | annel | **( | | | | | | 1A)** | | n | 1a)**| | | | | | | | ame** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | 20 | 20 | | | | | _Data | | | | | | | | | ra | | | | | | | | | te(kb | | | | | | | | | ps)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__Tra | | | | | | | | | nsmit | | | | | | | | | ter_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__(0) | 23 | 23 | 23 | 49 | 49 | 49 | 49 | | Max | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | (d | | | | | | | | | Bm)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |__(1) | 23.0 | 23.0 | 23.0 | 32.0 | 36.8 | 36.8 | 42.8 | | A | | | | | | | | | ctual | | | | | | | | | Tx | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | (d | | | | | | | | | Bm)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | Recei | | | | | | | | | ver_ _| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (2) | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | -174 | | Th | | | | | | | | | ermal | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | nsity | | | | | | | | | (dB | | | | | | | | | m/Hz) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (3) | 5 | 5 | 5 | 9 | 9 | 9 | 9 | | Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (4) | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | In | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | argin | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (5) | 1 | 10 | 3 | 3 | 10 | 10 | 43 | | Occ | 80000 | 80000 | 60000 | 60000 | 80000 | 80000 | 20000 | | upied | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (Hz) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (6) | - | - | - | - | - | - | -98.6 | | Effe | 116.4 | 108.7 | 113.4 | 109.4 | 104.7 | 104.7 | | | ctive | | | | | | | | | noise | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (2) | | | | | | | | | + (3) | | | | | | | | | + (4) | | | | | | | | | + 10 | | | | | | | | | log | | | | | | | | | ((5)) | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | (7) | -10 | -15 | -11.0 | -6.7 | -7.5 | -7.8 | -5.5 | | Req | | | | | | | | | uired | | | | | | | | | SINR | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | | (8)__| 126.4 | 123.7 | 124.4 | 116.1 | 112.2 | 112.5 | 104.1 | |__Rec | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | sen | | | | | | | | | sitiv | | | | | | | | | ity_ _| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (6) | | | | | | | | | + (7) | | | | | | | | | (dBm) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | 149.4 | 146.7 | 147.4 | 148.1 | 149.0 | 149.3 | 146.9 | | (9)__| | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | MCL_ * | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = (1) | | | | | | | | | − (8) | | | | | | | | | (dB) | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
**Note: eNB is assumed with 8 Tx and 8 Rx in TDD systems.
The transmission mode for LTE FDD and TDD downlink channel is Transmission
Mode 2. UE is assumed with 1 Tx and 2 Rx in both FDD and TDD systems. 1 OFDM
symbol is used for PDCCH. The required SINRs of PDSCH and PUSCH for both FDD
and TDD systems are obtained by simulation. The required SINRs of control
channels for FDD in Table 5.2.1.2-2 are averages from all the sourcing
companies in [4] excluding source 10. The required SINRs of control channels
for TDD in Table 5.2.1.2-3 are from source 10 in [4]. For remaining
parameters, refer to [4].
#### 5.2.1.3 Cell spectral efficiency
Two approaches can be used to compute the average spectral efficiency:
(1) Cell spectral efficiency is determined through system simulation.
(2) Relative spectral efficiency reduction to Rel -8-10 LTE or increase to R99
GSM/EGPRS is determined analytically.
The reference spectral efficiency of GSM/EGPRS is 0.3bit/s/Hz/site for
downlink and 0.1bit/s/Hz/site for uplink.
The reference spectral efficiency of LTE FDD is 1.5 bit/s/Hz/site for downlink
and 1.2 bit/s/Hz/site for uplink and the reference spectral efficiency of LTE
TDD is 2.0 bit/s/Hz/site for downlink and 1.7 bit/s/Hz/site for uplink, based
on the system simulation under the following assumptions:
1) Simulation scenario is 3GPP case1.
2) Full duplex FDD @ 900MHz. Half duplex TDD @ 2.6GHz
3) 10MHz system bandwidth.
4) UEs are uniformly distributed with average 10 UEs per sector.
5) Traffic model is full buffer.
6) Channel model is SCM.
7) Scheduling algorithm is PF (Proportional Fairness).
8) FDD DL: 2 Tx, 2 Rx (Transmission Mode 6). UL: 1 Tx, 2 Rx.
9) TDD: DL: 8 Tx, 2 Rx (Transmission Mode 7). UL: 1 Tx, 8 Rx
Other informative parameters for simulation are summarized in Table 5.2.1.3.
Table 5.2.1.3: Parameters for simulation
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | **Parameters** | **Assumptions** | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Duplex method and bandwidths | TDD: configuration 1: DL:SP:UL = | | | 2:1:2 | | | | | | Special subframe: DwPTS 11 | | | symbol, GP 1 symbol, UpPTS 2 | | | symbol | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | UE speed | 3km/h | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Uplink transmission scheme | LTE Rel-8 SIMO | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Downlink HARQ scheme | HARQ-CC | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Link adaptation | CQI/SRS: 5ms delay 10ms period; | | | FDD: PUCCH 1-1; TDD: PUCCH 2-0 | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration at base | Correlated cross-polarized | | station | antenna | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Antenna configuration at UE | Vertically-polarized, with 0.5 | | | lambda spacing | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Overhead assumption | DL overhead: 3 OFDM symbols for | | | DL CCHs, 2 port CRS for TM6, and | | | 1 port CRS and 1 port DMRS for | | | TM7. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Propagation model | L=I + 37.6log10(R), R in | | | kilometers | | | | | | I=130.5--2.6GHz, | | | I=120.9--900MHz. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
The cell spectrum efficiency is expected to have a range that depends on the
ratio of MTC and non-MTC devices, ranging from at least that achieved by R99
GSM/EGPRS to that achieved by Rel-10 LTE. Note that the reference spectral
efficiencies assume no MTC devices. Potential cost reduction techniques
captured in the TR that will have any impact to spectral efficiency should
present spectrum efficiency as well as cost analysis. The average spectral
efficiency for MTC and non-MTC UEs can be computed separately, so as to
capture the different impact on MTC and non-MTC UEs.
### 5.2.2 Methodology for cost analysis
The cost drivers are broadly categorized into two parts, RF components and
processing, which may need different analysis methodology. The ADC/DAC and
L2/L3 protocol support are included within the processing category. The cost
analysis methodology should identify the percentage cost of each of the two
parts, and, for each cost reduction technique, the relative percentage cost
reduction to that of the reference LTE modem.
#### 5.2.2.1 Baseband cost/complexity analysis
Baseband cost can be represented to some extent by the required baseband
operations. In addition, resource occupied on chip can also be considered. A
baseband cost/complexity metric relevant to the analyzed cost reduction
technique should be used. It should be noted that the impact of complexity
reduction on cost and/or performance is dependent on various factors including
implementation.
Examples of possible metrics include:
(1) Complexity (in absolute or relative terms)
> Although the complexity of the baseband module is implementation dependent,
> it can be estimated according to
  * Elapsed time
  * Number of LLR values
  * Number of baseband signal operations/sec
  * Number of higher layer radio protocol processing operations/sec
  * Number of basic baseband operations per information bit
(2) Resource occupied on chip (in absolute or relative terms)
  * Buffer size
  * Number of ASIC/FPGA gates
#### 5.2.2.2 RF cost analysis
Under the basic assumption for LTE modem, it is recommended to use the
following RF cost metric:
  * Number of RF chains/antenna ports
  * Replacing of some components by less expensive components
```{=html}
``` \- Replacing duplexer with switch
  * Removing PA
Instead of an absolute cost in terms of number of components, the cost can be
expressed as a relative cost compared to the reference LTE modem.
## 5.3 Cost drivers of reference LTE modem
The table below reflects the current cost structure of a reference category 1
LTE UE modem implemented with the current state of the art and the cost may
evolve over time. Components such as I/O and processors are excluded in below.
Table 5.3.1: Fractional cost breakdown relative to RF and Baseband functions
for reference LTE UE modem
**Functional block** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9** | **Recommended (for Evaluation)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Duplex mode | FDD | FDD | FDD | FDD | TDD | FDD | FDD | FDD | FDD |   
Frequency Band assumed | Sub GHz | 2 Sub GHz | 2 GHz | Sub GHz | 2 GHz | Sub GHz | Sub GHz | Sub GHz | Sub GHz |   
Ratio of RF to baseband cost | 40:60 | 40:60 | 40:60 | 40:60 | 40:60 | 40:60 | 50:50 | 30:70 | 40:60 | 40:60  
| **RF** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Power amplifier | 25% | 25% | 30% | 25-30% | 25-30% | 10-15% | 15% | 25% | ~25% | 25%-30%  
Filters | 10% | 10% | 10% | 5-10% | 5-10% | (included in RF transceiver ) | 10% | 10% | (included in RF transceiver) | 5%-10%  
RF transceiver ( including LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator) | 40% | 45% | 35% | ~50% | 50%-55% | 50% (Includes Filter) | 40% | 45% | ~50% | 40%-50%  
Duplexer / Switch | 25% | 20% | 25% | 15-20% | 15% (switch) | 30% | 15% | 20% | ~20% | 15%-25%  
Other | ~0% | ~0% | 0% | NA | NA | 5-10% | 20% (Cost for 2 antennas) | 0% | ~0% | 0%-10%  
Total | 100% | 100% | 100% | 95%~110% | 95%-110% | 95-105% | 100% | 100% | ~95% | 95%-110%  
_**Functional block**_ | _**Source 1**_ | _**Source 2**_ | _**Source 3**_ | _**Source 4**_ | _**Source 5**_ | _**Source 6**_ | _**Source 7**_ | _**Source 8**_ | _**Source 9**_ | _**Recommended (for Evaluation)**_  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| **Baseband** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
ADC / DAC | 10% | ~10% | 10% | 15-20% (Includes digital front-end) | 10% (Includes digital front-end) | NA | 15% | 10% | 10% | 10%  
FFT/IFFT | 5% | ~5% | 10% | ~5% | ~5% | NA | 5% | 5% | 5-10% | 5%  
Post-FFT data buffering | 15% | ~10% | 10% | 10-15% | 15% | NA | 10% | 10% | NA (included in RX processing block) | 10%-15%  
Receiver processing block | 35% | ~25% (Including CSI measurement and channel estimation) | 30% (Includes “MIMO specific processing”) | ~20% (Includes “MIMO specific processing”) | ~20% (Includes “MIMO specific processing”) | 40-45% (includes subframe buffering) | 20% | 35% (includes subframe buffering and MIMO specific processing) | 40% (include subframe buffering, Include MIMO specific processing) | 20%-35%  
Turbo decoding | 5% | 10%~15% ( Including turbo decoding and demodulation) | 10% | ~10% (LLR computation is part of Rx processing) | 10%~15% | NA | 10% | 5% | 5%~10% | 5%-15%  
HARQ buffer | 15% | ~10% | 10% | ~10% | 15% | 10% | 10% | 15% | 15% | 10%-15%  
DL control processing & decoder | 5% | 5%~10% (Including convolution decoding and demodulation) | 5% | ~5% | 5% | NA | 5% | 5% | ~5% | 5%  
Synchronization / cell search block | 10% | ~10% | 10% | 10-15% | 10-15% | 10-15% | 10% | 10% | ~10% | 10%-15%  
UL processing block |  • Reduction of maximum bandwidth
>
> • Single receive RF chain
>
> • Reduction of peak rate
>
> • Reduction of transmit power
>
> • Half duplex operation
  * Reduction of supported downlink transmission modes
## 6.2 Reduction of maximum bandwidth
### 6.2.1 Description
The maximum bandwidth supported by normal LTE UEs is 20MHz. One potential
technique to reduce the UE cost is to reduce the maximum bandwidth that the UE
supports from 20MHz to a lower bandwidth (e.g., 1.4MHz, 3MHz or 5MHz). The
reduction of the maximum bandwidth can be applied to the downlink and/or
uplink, the RF and/or baseband components, the data and/or control channels.
To be more specific, the following options have been considered and evaluated,
which allow the bandwidth reduction on the DL and UL to be considered
separately.
  * DL
    * Option DL-1: Reduced bandwidth for both RF and baseband
    * Option DL-2: Reduced bandwidth for baseband only for both data channel and control channels
    * Option DL-3: Reduced bandwidth for data channel in baseband only, while the control channels are still allowed to use the carrier bandwidth
  * UL
    * Option UL-1: Reduced bandwidth for both RF and baseband
    * Option UL-2: No bandwidth reduction
      * This option does not have any impact on coverage, power consumption, specifications, performance, and UE cost.
For all these options, the reduced bandwidth is assumed to be no less than
1.4MHz, and the frequency location of the reduced bandwidth is assumed to be
fixed at the center of the carrier bandwidth. Technically, any combination of
the DL and UL options is possible. However, some of the combinations may make
more practical sense. For example, DL-2 would be a more natural choice than
DL-1 when combined with UL-2.
Note that this is not intended to be an exhaustive list of the possible
options. Some interesting variations of these options could allow the
frequency location of the reduced bandwidth to be changed semi-statically,
dynamically, or in a pre-defined pattern for each UE. Some of these variations
could potentially allow more MTC UEs to be supported in the system. Taking the
extension of DL-3 as an example,
  * If the frequency location of the data channel is semi-statically configured, it is expected to provide the same cost saving as DL-3, with some additional specification impact.
  * If the frequency location of the data channel is dynamically changed using grants, it would be the same as one of the techniques for reduced peak rate, restricting the number of PRBs, as discussed in Section 6.4.
Nonetheless, the discussion in this section is restricted to the options
listed above.
With reduced bandwidth, the cost of RF and baseband components can potentially
be reduced. Depending on which option is assumed, the relative cost savings
and the specification impact can be different.
### 6.2.2 Analysis/evaluation of performance against requirements
#### 6.2.2.1 Coverage analysis
Reduction of maximum bandwidth results in some degradation in the coverage for
the MTC UEs compared to normal LTE UEs.
For the DL,
  * PDSCH: for all three options, the coverage of PDSCH can be affected due to the loss in frequency selective scheduling gain.
  * DL control channels (PCFICH/PHICH/PDCCH):
    * For option DL-1 and DL-2, the performance of PCFICH/PHICH/PDCCH is expected to degrade due to the loss in frequency diversity, thus possibly reducing the coverage for these channels. Whether the coverage would degrade, or the extent of the degradation would depend on what solution is adopted for PCFICH/PHICH/PDCCH in the reduced bandwidth. Some enhancements can be considered for the new PCFICH/PHICH/PDCCH design to improve the coverage.
    * For option DL-3, PCFICH/PHICH/PDCCH are still transmitted across the carrier bandwidth, thus no loss in frequency diversity. If CRS is processed in the entire carrier bandwidth, as is currently done, the performance of PCFICH/PHICH/PDCCH should remain the same. However, the coverage may be affected if CRS is processed within narrower bandwidth in PDSCH region which results in larger channel estimation error.
For the UL (option UL-1 only),
  * The coverage of PUCCH is smaller due to the loss in frequency diversity.
  * The coverage of PUSCH can be smaller due to the loss in frequency hopping gain or frequency selective scheduling gain.
  * The coverage of PRACH is not impacted.
The coverage analysis in Section 5.2.1.2 shows that the normal LTE system is
UL limited. With the degradation resulting from reduced maximum bandwidth, the
coverage is still likely to be UL limited and likely remains better than or
similar as GSM/EGPRS systems.
#### 6.2.2.2 Minimum data rate
Bandwidth reduction has no impact on the minimum data rate, in the sense that
the required data rates (118.4kbps downlink and 59.2kbps uplink) can still be
supported with the reduced bandwidth. Note that this assumes the reduced
bandwidth is no less than 1.4MHz.
#### 6.2.2.3 Power consumption
Reducing the maximum bandwidth provides a reduction in power consumption due
to the lower baseband processing requirements in some of the components,
possibly including ADC/DAC, FFT, buffering and DL/UL processing blocks.
Exactly which components are affected depends on the options being chosen.
However, the reception time may become larger if the performance degradation
on PDSCH results in a longer transmission time, thus possibly increasing the
power consumption.
Moreover, for option UL-1, if there is performance degradation on PUCCH/PUSCH,
the UE transmit power may become higher compared to normal LTE UEs, or the
transmission time may become longer due to a lower instantaneous data rate.
This would increase the power consumption.
#### 6.2.2.4 Impact on specification
One potential solution to avoid any specification impact is to introduce a low
bandwidth carrier (same as the bandwidth supported by MTC UEs), and all MTC
UEs are served by this carrier. Carrier aggregation can be used for non-MTC
UEs to utilize the bandwidth associated with the other carrier(s). The main
disadvantages of this solution include:
  * Inefficient use of the spectrum if there is guard band between carriers. New carrier type may be able to improve the efficiency if it is defined in a way that the guard band is not needed, but it may not be accessible to Rel-8/9/10 UEs.
  * If the eNB and/or the non-MTC UEs do not support carrier aggregation, there can be UE and system performance degradation due to less bandwidth per carrier and loss of trunking efficiency.
To support the MTC UEs with reduced bandwidth in a carrier with larger
bandwidth, some specification changes may be expected. Further optimization of
the solutions to reduce the impact to system performance, if performed, may
require additional changes to specifications.
  * DL bandwidth reduction
    * For all three options, specifications for PSS/SSS and PBCH are not expected to be impacted, because they are always transmitted in the innermost 1.08 MHz bandwidth.
    * For all three options, specifications for SIB and paging are not expected to be impacted, because the eNB can schedule them within the reduced bandwidth. However, specifications may be impacted if any necessary change is identified in the future or further optimization is to be done.
    * For all three options, PDSCH specifications are not expected to be impacted, because the eNB can schedule them within the reduced bandwidth.
    * For option DL-1 and option DL-2, new designs for PCFICH/PHICH/PDCCH are needed. These channels would need to be sent within the bandwidth supported by the MTC UEs, and a common search space would also need to be defined. The corresponding PUCCH resource mapping for HARQ-ACK may also be affected. The specification impact is expected to be significant. Note that some of these aspects may be covered by the Enhanced DL control channel(s) work item [7].
```{=html}
``` \- UL bandwidth reduction (option UL-1 only)
    -   For PUCCH, there is no strict need for specification change. The
        eNB could configure PUCCH to be located within the reduced
        bandwidth. However, it results in a few segments of frequency
        resources for PUSCH, separated by the PRBs used for PUCCH. Given
        that PUSCH for each UE has SC-FDMA transmission and needs to be
        allocated contiguous frequency resources, this may cause some
        performance degradation for non-MTC UEs.
    -   Specifications on SRS is not expected to be impacted, although
        implementation changes may be needed to handle the co-existence
        of SRS for the MTC and non-MTC UEs.
  * Random access procedure
    * This includes the preamble transmission on PRACH, Message 3 transmission on PUSCH, Message 2/4 transmissions on PDSCH, and the corresponding signalling (e.g. grants, HARQ-ACK).
    * It may be possible to use an implementation solution to make the system work without specification change.
      * Without any specification change, the eNB cannot differentiate the MTC and non-MTC UEs, all UEs are handled in the same manner.
      * When option UL-1 is used, the eNB could configure PRACH to fall within the reduced bandwidth, and the subsequent Message 3 for all UEs could be scheduled within the reduced bandwidth.
      * Message 2/4 transmissions on PDSCH for all UEs could be scheduled within the reduced bandwidth for all three DL options. Further, for option DL-1 and DL-2, the grants for Message 2/4 and HARQ-ACK for Message 3 on PHICH for all UEs would need to be duplicated to ensure that they can be received by both MTC and non-MTC UEs.
      * When some of these messages are transmitted within the reduced bandwidth for all UEs, plus the possible duplication of the corresponding DL signalling, there may be some performance and capacity limitations that apply to both MTC and non-MTC UEs.
    * Some specification changes may be introduced to alleviate the performance and capacity limitations.
      * One possibility is to change PRACH so that the eNB can differentiate MTC and non-MTC UEs. In this case, the eNB can process the random access separately for MTC and non-MTC UEs.
In summary, minimal specification impact is expected from the combination of
option DL-3 and UL-2. When option DL-3 is not used, the most significant
impact is expected from the downlink control channels, while all the other
channels/signals may be handled by implementation, with possible performance
degradation. However, if the performance degradation is considered as so
significant that further optimization is needed to improve the performance,
more specification impact would be expected.
#### 6.2.2.5 Cell spectral efficiency
For all three options for the DL, there may be some degradation in the DL cell
spectral efficiency due to the loss in frequency selective scheduling gain.
When the degradation exists, it is expected to be moderate. For example, one
sourcing company showed that the DL spectral efficiency degrades by about 10%
when the bandwidth is reduced from 20 MHz to 3 MHz.
For option UL-1, there can be some degradation in the UL cell spectral
efficiency due to the loss in frequency selective scheduling gain or PUSCH
frequency hopping gain.
Note that mostly only the spectral efficiency for the MTC UEs is impacted,
while the spectral efficiency for the non-MTC UEs remains unaffected, or is
minimally affected (e.g. the frequency fragmentation caused by PUCCH for
option UL-2). Moreover, the reduced spectral efficiency is still much higher
than that of GSM/EGPRS.
By reducing the maximum bandwidth, the MTC UEs can only be served within that
bandwidth, thus limiting the capacity in terms of the number of MTC UEs that
can be supported. Generally speaking, for the options discussed, the capacity
for MTC UEs scales linearly with the maximum bandwidth supported by the MTC
UEs. However, if the frequency location of different MTC UEs can be configured
differently (for which the impact is not explicitly discussed in this
section), no significant impact is expected on the capacity for MTC UEs. It is
important to take into account the capacity and the system scalability as more
MTC UEs are deployed in the future.
### 6.2.3 Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction
The estimated cost savings provided by the sourcing companies are summarized
in Table 6.2.3-1. Different bandwidths were evaluated, including 1.4, 3 and 5
MHz. The options for DL and UL bandwidth reduction are also specified in the
table. The average cost saving of each DL option is summarized in Table
6.2.3-2, using the recommended cost breakdown ranges and the company provided
discount values with regard to the components related to RF and baseband cost
saving for 1.4MHz reduced bandwidth from Table 6.2.3-1. Option DL-1 provides
larger cost savings than option DL-2, and option DL-2 provides larger cost
savings than option DL-3.
The reference Category 1 UE supports the peak rate of 10 Mbps on the DL and 5
Mbps on the UL. When the bandwidth is reduced to 1.4 MHz for MTC UEs, it can
no longer reach the peak rate supported by Category 1 UE. Therefore, for the
cost analysis for 1.4 MHz, the corresponding peak rate reduction is also taken
into account. In this case, the peak rate becomes \~4.4 Mbps on the DL and
\~2.3 Mbps on the UL. However, when the reduced bandwidth is 3 MHz or higher,
the peak rate remains the same as Category 1 UEs, which means there is no cost
savings associated with the reduced peak rate.
**Table 6.2.3-1 Relative cost saving estimation** for the reduction of maximum
bandwidth
**Functional block** **(** Ratio of RF to baseband cost 40:60**)** | **Recommended cost breakdown** **(for Evaluation)** | **Source** **1** | **Source** **2** | **Source** **3** | **Source** **4** | **Source** **5** | **Source** **6** | **Source** **7** |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Reduced bandwidth (MHz)** |  | **1.4** | **1.4** | **1.4** | **1.4** | **1.4 / 5** | **1.4** | **1.4** | **1.4** | **1.4** | **3** | **1.4** | **1.4** | **1.4** | **5**  
**Option** |  | **DL-1** | **DL-2** | **DL-3** | **UL-1** | **DL-1** **UL-1** | **DL-1** **UL-1** | **DL-1** **UL-1** | **DL-2** **UL-2** | **DL-3** **UL-2** | **DL-1** **UL-1** | **DL-1** **UL-1** | **DL-2** **UL-1** | **DL-3** **UL-1** | **DL-1** **UL-1**  
**RF** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Power amplifier | 25%-30% | NA | NA | NA | 25% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | 20% | NA | NA | NA |   
Filters | 5%-10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA |   
RF transceiver ( including LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator) | 40%-50% | 20% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | 30% | NA | NA | NA |   
Duplexer /Switch | 15%-25% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA |   
Other | 0%-10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA |   
Total of RF | 95%-110% | 9% | 0% | 0% | 7% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 17% | 0% | 0% | 0% |   
**Baseband** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
ADC / DAC | 10% | 40% | NA | NA | 10% |  | 93% | 94% | NA | NA | NA | 93% | NA | NA |   
FFT/IFFT | 5% | 93% | 93% | NA | NA |  | 96% | 96% | NA | NA | 80% | 96% | NA | NA |   
Post-FFT data buffering | 10%-15% | 93% | 93% | 0% | NA |  | 93% | 94% | 94% | 74% | NA | 93% | 93% | 73% |   
Receiver processing block | 20%-35% | 70% | 70% | 35% | NA |  | 93% | ~50% | ~50% | ~50% | 50% | ~93% | ~93% | ~50% |   
Turbo decoding | 5%-15% | 57% | 57% | 57% | NA |  | 56% | ~50% | ~50% | ~50% | NA | 56% | 56% | 56% |   
HARQ buffer | 10%-15% | 57% | 57% | 57% | NA |  | 56% | 94% | 94% | 94% | NA | 56% | 56% | 56% |   
DL control processing & decoder | 5% | 70% | 70% | NA | NA |  | 50% | NA | NA | NA | NA | ~50% | ~50% | NA |   
Synchronization / cell search block | 10%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA |  | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA |   
UL processing block | 5%-10% | NA | NA | NA | 50% |  | 54% | NA | NA | NA | NA | 54% | 54% | 54% |   
MIMO specific processing blocks | 5%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA |  | 93% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA |   
Other | 0% | NA | NA | NA | NA |  |  | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA |   
Total of Baseband | 90%-110% | 56% | 52% | 22.5% | 4.7% | 77% / 38% | 70-80% | 55% | 38% | 35% | 23% | 69% | 55% | 40% |   
**Overall relative cost savings** |  | **37.2%** | **31.2%** | **13.5%** | **5.6%** | **46% / 23%** | **40-50%** | **33%** | **23%** | **21%** | **20%** | **41%** | **33%** | **24%** | **6-10%** *  
> *Note that the analysis by this source was based on estimated component cost
> and not computational or memory reduction.
**Table 6.2.3-2: Summary of average cost saving for each DL bandwidth
reduction option**
+-------------------------+----------+----------+----------+ | **Option** | **DL-1** | **DL-2** | **DL-3** | | | | | | | **Average cost saving** | | | | +-------------------------+----------+----------+----------+ | Mean | \~39% | \~28% | \~19% | +-------------------------+----------+----------+----------+
The observations from these evaluation results provided in the Table 6.2.3-1
and Table 6.2.3-2 are summarized as follows:
  * Reduction of maximum bandwidth provides significant cost savings, although the exact number for the relative cost savings varies from one source to another. The cost savings are mainly due to reduced baseband processing.
  * Reduction of maximum bandwidth even without lowering peak data rate (e.g. reduced bandwidth of 3 or 5 MHz) provides considerable cost savings mainly from lower complexity of FFT/IFFT and receiver processing block of baseband processing.
  * Reduced bandwidth on the UL provides very small savings in the overall UE cost, because the RF component cost is not sensitive to the bandwidth, and the cost of the UL processing block is only a small portion of the total baseband cost. The cost savings come from the UL processing block, and possibly power amplifier and ADC/DAC, which is estimated to be about 5% or less of the total UE cost.
  * Reduction of maximum bandwidth provides minimal or small savings for the RF components.
## 6.3 Single receive RF chain
### 6.3.1 Description
Removing the requirement for an MTC UE to possess two antennas and two receive
RF chains is expected to provide cost saving. The cost saving of using a
single receive RF chain will be achieved in both RF and baseband processing
aspects of the UE; however there would be an associated loss in downlink
coverage and spectral efficiency due to degradation in MTC UE receiver
performance.
### 6.3.2 Analysis/evaluation of performance against requirements
#### 6.3.2.1 Coverage analysis
The requirements in section 5.1 state that the coverage for MTC UEs must be at
least comparable to that of GSM/EGPRS and legacy LTE. Use of a single receive
RF chain would have an impact on the downlink coverage for MTC UEs. It may be
possible to compensate for these impacts through implementation choices or
specification changes.
Whether the use of a single receive RF chain would make an LTE network
downlink limited depends on the configuration of the Release 10 network. Many
LTE networks are uplink-limited for the case of legacy dual receive RF chain
UEs, hence some loss of downlink coverage may not lead to an overall system
coverage loss in such networks.
A reduced SINR for PSS/SSS/PBCH for a single receive RF chain UE primarily
translates into a penalty in terms of acquisition time. However decoding of
PCFICH/PHICH/PDCCH is undertaken by the UE in a single subframe only and there
will be a coverage penalty when a single receive RF chain is used. Depending
on the channel conditions, the performance loss is expected to be of the order
of 3-6dB for PDCCH (for 1% BLER), 3-5dB for PCFICH (for 1% BLER) and 3-6dB for
PHICH (for 0.1% BLER). It is observed that uplink coverage or PDCCH may be
limited for FDD and PDCCH may be limited for TDD.
Without solutions to compensate for the degradation of receiver performance,
MTC UEs with a single receive RF chain may not achieve the same coverage as
legacy dual receive RF chain UEs. However it is recognised that the coverage
of single receive RF chain UEs exceeds that of GSM/EGPRS UEs.
#### 6.3.2.2 Power consumption
Power consumption savings are achieved in the RF module as a result of only a
single receive RF chain being used; power consumption is reduced in the
baseband due to the corresponding reduction in baseband complexity. However, a
single receive RF chain would result in a longer acquisition time to obtain
the PSS/SSS/PBCH with an associated increase in RRC_IDLE state average power
consumption. Reduced downlink spectral efficiency would require larger coded
blocks or a longer reception time for the PDSCH to deliver the same amount of
data. This would increase the average power consumption.
#### 6.3.2.3 Impact on specification
TSG RAN WG4 specifications assume a dual receive RF chain UE implementation,
therefore a single receive RF chain UE will require additional work in TSG RAN
WG4 to define corresponding receiver characteristics, performance requirements
and requirements relating to the reporting of channel state information. This
work may consider the implications of a dual receive RF chain UE's antenna
gain imbalance not being applicable to the case of single receive RF chain
UEs. Impacts on TSG RAN WG4 specifications are in any case expected to extend
beyond REFSENS requirements, likely encompassing many receiver requirements.
The coverage of a single receive RF chain UE implementation may, depending on
channel conditions, be limited by the PDCCH. To compensate for downlink
coverage loss, TSG RAN WG1 specification changes may need to be introduced to
support a single receive RF chain UE implementation. Compensation for downlink
coverage loss may also be achieved by implementation. Standards impacting
schemes to compensate for PDCCH downlink coverage include, but are not limited
to, the following: definition of higher aggregation levels for PDCCH, compact
DCI formats and the use of ePDCCH developed in the Enhanced DL control
channel(s) work item [7].
The random access procedure can possibly rely on implementation to support UEs
with a single receive RF chain. This would require the eNB to always use a
format for Message 2/4 that can be successfully decoded by the UEs with a
single receive RF chain. Alternatively, specification changes can be
introduced so that on reception of a PRACH the eNB knows whether the UE has a
single receive RF chain before sending Message 2/4. If the eNB is aware that
the UE has a single receive RF chain, then account can be taken when choosing
a format for Message 2/4.
#### 6.3.2.4 Cell spectral efficiency
Spectral efficiency reduction when considering a single (rather than dual)
receive RF chain is expected to be due to a number of factors including, but
not limited to, the following:
  * Use of more robust (but less efficient) MCS on PDSCH.
  * PDCCH limitations limiting the number of UEs that can be scheduled in the downlink resulting from, for example, the use of higher aggregation levels for the case of single receive RF chain UEs experiencing a reduced received SINR.
```{=html}
``` \- Restriction in the ability to implement advanced receiver algorithms
with spatial interference rejection capabilities.
The estimated spectral efficiency reduction provided by the sourcing companies
when considering a single (rather than dual) receive RF chain is summarized in
Table 6.3.2.4.1 for FDD and Table 6.3.2.4.2 for TDD. Simulation parameters are
described in Section 5.2.1.3.
**Table 6.3.2.4-1 FDD spectral efficiency reduction estimation for a single
receive RF chain**
* * *
**Source** **Source 1** **Source 2** **Source 3** **Source 4** **Source 5**
**Source 6** **Source 7** Spectral Efficiency reduction 26% 21% 16% 18-26% 34%
27% 25%
* * *
**Table 6.3.2.4-2 TDD spectral efficiency reduction estimation for a single
receive RF chain**
* * *
**Source** **Source 1** **Source 2** Spectral Efficiency reduction 14% 20%
* * *
### 6.3.3 Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction
When the number of receive RF chains is reduced from two (for the reference
LTE modem) to one, the costs of the following RF aspects are reduced:
  * The receive filtering cost can be reduced by approximately 50% relative to that of the reference LTE modem when the number of receive RF chains is reduced by a factor of 2.
  * The cost of the receive RF chains can be reduced by up to 50% relative to that of the reference LTE modem. However, since the transmitter and common parts for, e.g., frequency synthesis cannot be removed, the cost reduction of the whole RF transceiver will be considerably less.
  * The cost of the duplexer itself is not reduced since the duplexer only exists on the antenna that is driven by the UE transmitter. However the receive branch that is removed would contain a filter in place of the duplexer and this filter could be eliminated for a single receive RF chain UE. Since the cost of this filter is typically less than the cost of the duplexer, the overall duplexing cost can be considered to be slightly reduced compared to the reference LTE modem's duplexing cost.
The use of a single receive RF chain also reduces the cost of the following
baseband processing functional blocks:
  * In the downlink, the FFT is only required on the samples received on the single receive RF chain. Hence the number of FFT operations is reduced by a factor of 2. There is no change to the IFFT requirements in the uplink from the support of a single receive RF chain. Hence the FFT/IFFT cost for a single receive RF chain MTC UE is estimated to be reduced relative to that of the reference LTE modem.
  * Separate channel estimates are required for each receive RF chain. When the number of receive RF chains is reduced from two to a single receive RF chain, the channel estimator cost can be reduced by approximately 50% relative to that of the reference LTE modem.
  * Only a single ADC is required to operate on the single receive RF chain, hence the ADC cost may be reduced by approximately 50% relative to that of the reference LTE modem. The cost reduced MTC UE would still contain a single transmitter RF chain, hence DAC cost is unlikely to be reduced. Given that the ADC functional block is typically more costly than the DAC functional block, the overall ADC / DAC cost could be reduced compared to that of the reference LTE modem.
  * The UE only needs to store samples from the single receive RF chain; hence the size of the post-FFT data buffer memory can be reduced by 50% relative to that of the reference LTE modem.
  * The synchronisation and cell search blocks typically operate on samples from both receive RF chains, hence reducing the number of receive RF chains by a factor of 2 would typically reduce the cost of these functions by up to 50% relative to that of the reference LTE modem.
The estimated cost savings provided by the sourcing companies are summarized
in Table 6.3.3.1. It is noted that the cost impact on UEs from potential
techniques aimed at reducing the downlink coverage loss are not considered in
this analysis.
**Table 6.3.3.1 Relative cost saving estimation for a single receive RF
chain**
**Functional block** **(** Ratio of RF to baseband cost 40:60**)** | **Recommended cost breakdown** **(for Evaluation)** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8** | **Source 9**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**RF** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Power amplifier | 25%-30% | NA |  | NA | NA | NA | NA |  |  | NA  
Filters | 5%-10% | 50% |  | 50% | 50% | NA | 50% |  |  | 50%  
RF transceiver (including LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator) | 40%-50% | 30% |  | 50% | 50% | 30% | 50% |  |  | 20%  
Duplexer /Switch | 15%-25% | NA |  | NA | 25% | NA | NA |  |  | 25%  
Other | 0%-10% | NA |  | NA | NA | NA | NA |  |  | NA  
_**Total of RF**_ | _**95%-110%**_ | _**19%**_ | _**15%**_ | _**22.5%-30%**_ | _**33%**_ | _**12%**_ | _**28%**_ | _**20%**_ | _**30%**_ | _**14-21%**_  
**Baseband** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
ADC / DAC | 10% | 40% |  | 30% | 40% | 40% | 50% |  |  | 30%  
FFT/IFFT | 5% | 50% |  | NA | 33% | 50% (_only with FFT_) | 50% |  |  | 30%  
Post-FFT data buffering | 10%-15% | 50% |  | 50% | 50% | NA | 50% |  |  | 50%  
Receiver processing block | 20%-35% | 50% |  | 50% | 50% | 50% | ~40% |  |  | 30%  
Turbo decoding | 5%-15% | NA |  | NA | NA | NA | NA |  |  | NA  
HARQ buffer | 10%-15% | NA |  | NA | NA | NA | NA |  |  | NA  
DL control processing & decoder | 5% | NA |  | NA | NA | NA | NA |  |  | 20%  
Synchronization / cell search block | 10%-15% | 50% |  | 50% | 50% | 50% | NA |  |  | 40%  
UL processing block | 5%-10% | NA |  | NA | NA | NA | NA |  |  | NA  
MIMO specific processing blocks | 5%-15% | NA |  | 50% | 100% | NA | NA |  |  | 50%  
Other | 0% | NA |  | NA | NA | NA | NA |  |  | NA  
_**Total of Baseband**_ | _**90%-110%**_ | _**29%**_ | _**12.5%**_ | _**26-43%**_ | _**33%**_ | _**30%**_ | _**25%**_ | _**20-40%**_ | _**44%**_ | _**23-37%**_  
**Overall relative cost savings** |  | **25%** | **15%** | **25-38%** | **33%** | **23%** | **26%** | **20-32%** | **38%** | **19-31%**  
Overall the estimated cost savings for a single receive RF chain MTC UE
relative to that of the reference LTE modem is in the range 15-38%.
## 6.4 Reduction of peak rate
### 6.4.1 Description
The reference LTE modem is a Category 1 UE supporting 10296 transport block
(TB) bits within a TTI on the downlink and 5160 bits on the uplink, where the
number of transport block bits are influenced in part by characteristics of
the UE category such as support of only single layer transmission on the
downlink or no 64QAM support on the uplink [2]. There are various techniques
that reduce the peak rate relative to the Category 1 UE and thereby provide a
cost reduction. Though each technique could result in a new UE category with a
smaller supported TB size and the associated characteristics, it is
anticipated that one new lower UE category will be sufficient.
Techniques for peak rate reduction include:
  1. Reduction of maximum transport block sizes for DL and UL
  2. Restricting the number of PRBs in an assignment/grant
  3. Restricting the maximum modulation order
The cost reductions of these techniques are not necessarily cumulative.
Note: Reduction of maximum bandwidth (refer to Section 6.2) is also an option
to reduce the peak rate.
### 6.4.2 Analysis/evaluation of performance against requirements
#### 6.4.2.1 Coverage analysis
Reducing the peak rate in general does not make the coverage worse.
#### 6.4.2.2 Minimum data rate
Reducing the peak rate has no impact on the minimum data rate as long as the
TB size determined from the TB size table [5] exceeds the required minimum
data rates (118.4kbps downlink and 59.2kbps uplink). Any TB restriction from a
new lower UE category should also consider the characteristics of MTC traffic
in Annex A.
#### 6.4.2.3 Power consumption
Reducing the peak rate in general does not make the power consumption worse,
unless the TB size is restricted to such a degree that typical MTC traffic
requires a larger number of TTI for transmission or reception.
The reduced complexity in processing a smaller maximum TB will typically
reduce power consumption, as seen in turbo decoding and UL processing block.
Restricting the maximum modulation order may reduce the ADC power consumption.
#### 6.4.2.4 Impact on specification
The impact on the specification varies with each technique to reduce the peak
rate. In all cases, a new entry to [2] is required and any characteristics of
the restriction should be noted. Various tables in [5] may have entries that
the new category UE will not use, and some DCI messages may have parameters
values that will not be assigned; optimization of these tables and messages is
not required, but is also not precluded.
#### 6.4.2.5 Cell spectral efficiency
Reducing the peak rate in general does not degrade the cell spectral
efficiency, as long as the maximum modulation order is not restricted.
Restricting the maximum modulation order reduces the DL and the UL spectral
efficiency. For example, if restricted to QPSK for both DL and UL, the
spectral efficiency for FDD is reduced from 1.5 to 0.716 bit/s/Hz for DL and
from 1.2 to 0.673 bit/s/Hz for UL. If restricted to QPSK for DL and UL, the
spectral efficiency for TDD is reduced from 2.0 to 0.636 bits/s/Hz for DL and
from 1.7 to 0.736 bit/s/Hz for UL. The reduced spectral efficiency can affect
the number of reports that can be made, especially when there is heavy access
load.
### 6.4.3 Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction
Based on the cost drivers and values for the reference LTE modem in Section
5.3, the cost savings for each peak rate reduction technique are summarized as
following:
  1. Reduction of maximum transport block sizes for DL and UL
> The cost savings are due to reduced requirements for UL processing, turbo
> decoding, and HARQ buffering.
  1. Restricting the number of PRBs in an assignment/grant
> The cost savings are due to reduced requirements for UL processing, turbo
> decoding, and HARQ buffering.
  1. Restricting the maximum modulation order
The cost savings are due to less restrictive power amplifier EVM requirements,
local oscillator of RF transceiver, less precision needed for the ADC,
simplification of the UL processing block, turbo decoding, post-FFT data
buffering, and HARQ buffering.
Table 6.4.3 summarizes the cost savings for Techniques 1, 2 and 3 according to
the recommended values for evaluation. In Technique 1, cost savings are
derived from the reference Category-1 UE with reduction of maximum TB size for
DL or UL to 1000 bits. In Technique 2, cost savings are derived from the
reference Category-1 UE restricted to 6PRBs in 20MHz bandwidth carrier (4392
bits downlink and 2600 bits uplink supported TB size). In Technique 3, cost
savings are derived from the reference Category-1 UE with restricting the
maximum modulation to QPSK for DL or UL. Note that the cost savings estimation
is not tied to an individual company evaluation.
**Table 6.4.3: Relative cost savings estimation for Technique 1,** 2 and 3
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | * | ** | **Technique |** Technique | **Technique | | *Functional | Recommended | 1** | 2**| 3** | | block**| (for | | | | | | Ev | (Relative | (Relative | (Relative | |**(**Ratio | aluation)** | savings) | savings) | savings) | | of RF to | | | | | | baseband | | | | | | cost | | | | | | 40:60**)** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **RF** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Power | 25%-30% | NA | NA | 0-20% | | amplifier | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Filters | 5%-10% | NA | NA | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | RF | 40%-50% | NA | NA | 0-10% | | transceiver | | | | | | | | | | | | ( including | | | | | | LNAs, | | | | | | mixer, and | | | | | | local | | | | | | oscillator) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Duplexer | 15%-25% | NA | NA | NA | | /Switch | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Other | 0%-10% | NA | NA | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Total of RF | 95%-110% | NA | NA | 0%-6% for | | | | | | UL | | | | | | | | | | | | 0%-5% for | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | | | | 0%-11% for | | | | | | both | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | * | | | | | | _Baseband_ * | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | ADC / DAC | 10% | NA | NA | 30% | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | FFT/IFFT | 5% | NA | NA | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Post-FFT | 10%-15% | NA | NA | 17%-33% | | data | | | | | | buffering | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Receiver | 20%-35% | NA | NA | NA | | processing | | | | | | block | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Turbo | 5%-15% | 90% | 57% | NA | | decoding | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | HARQ buffer | 10%-15% | 90% | 57% | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | DL control | 5% | NA | NA | NA | | processing | | | | | | & decoder | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Sync | 10%-15% | NA | NA | NA | | hronization | | | | | | / cell | | | | | | search | | | | | | block | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UL | 5%-10% | 81% | 50% | 10% | | processing | | | | | | block | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | MIMO | 5%-15% | NA | NA | NA | | specific | | | | | | processing | | | | | | blocks | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Other | 0% | NA | NA | NA | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Total of | 90%-110% | 4%-8% for | 2.5%-5% for | 0.5%-1% for | | Baseband | | UL | UL | UL | | | | | | | | | | 13.5%-27% | 8.5%-17% | 4.5%-8% for | | | | for DL | for DL | DL | | | | | | | | | | 17.5%-35% | 11%-22% for | 5%-9% for | | | | for both | both | both | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Overall | | 2.5%-5% for | 1.5%-3% for | 0%-3% for | | relative | | UL | UL | UL | | cost | | | | | | savings | | 8%-16% for | 5%-10.5% | 3%-7% for | | | | DL | for DL | DL | | | | | | | | | | 10.5%-21% | 6.5%-13.5% | 3%-10% for | | | | for both | for both | both | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
The mechanism for peak rate reduction could have some additional small savings
not considered here. For example, eliminating the processing for more than one
turbo code block or reducing the number of HARQ processes.
## 6.5 Reduction of transmit power
### 6.5.1 Description
Reducing the output power or completely removing the power amplifier stage of
an MTC UE is expected to provide cost savings. A reduction in transmit power
adversely impacts uplink coverage performance and spectral efficiency. Power
consumption will be affected and there will be an impact on specifications. By
simply removing the final power amplifier stage, a device's output power is
likely to be reduced to the range of 0dBm to +5dBm. Additional chip redesign
may allow for a significantly higher output power (exactly how high is FFS).
### 6.5.2 Analysis/evaluation of performance against requirements
#### 6.5.2.1 Coverage analysis
Reducing the transmit power of a device has a direct impact on the uplink link
budget, reducing the uplink coverage of the device compared to a higher
transmit power device, meaning coverage requirements cannot be met assuming
direct downlink and uplink wide area network access from MTC devices to eNBs.
All uplink physical channels will be similarly affected, further contributing
to a downlink/uplink link budget imbalance. For example, with the COST231-Hata
model, the cell radius reduces 78.2% if the PA is removed and the UE output
power is of the order of 0 dBm. Depending on the amount of transmit power
reduction, the coverage may be worse than for GSM/EGPRS.
#### 6.5.2.2 Power consumption
Reducing the transmit power may result in a reduction in the device power
consumption. State of the art power amplifier devices include self-bias
functions that reduce the DC power consumption as the transmit power reduces,
however once the power amplifier reaches its minimum bias level, further
reductions in transmit power will not result in further reductions in DC power
consumption. In order to achieve further reductions in DC power consumption,
the removal of the power amplifier can be considered.
For the case of reduced UE transmit power, a reduced MCS would be required in
an attempt to restore the uplink link budget, however this would increase the
UE transmit duty cycle thus potentially increasing power consumption.
Furthermore any schemes used in an effort to restore the uplink link budget
may in themselves contribute to an increase in power consumption in the UE.
#### 6.5.2.3 Impact on specification
The reduction of UE transmit power would require the creation of a single or
multiple new UE power class(es) with additional definition of related
requirements such as MPR and A-MPR levels. This would have impacts on TSG RAN
WG4 specifications. It would also be necessary to ensure that existing RF
requirements are met.
Restoring uplink coverage would require analysis and support in TSG RAN WG1
and TSG RAN WG2. Unless sufficient uplink coverage can be restored through
protocol changes then improved performance requirements for the eNB and/or the
UE will need to be considered in TSG RAN WG4.
#### 6.5.2.4 Cell spectral efficiency
If the transmit power for MTC UEs is reduced, lower uplink MCSs have to be
used in order to retain LTE uplink coverage. However lower uplink MCSs cause
uplink cell spectral efficiency reduction. Furthermore, a reduced transmit
power may limit the transmission of UCI thus affecting the downlink cell
spectral efficiency. Low cost MTC UEs with a reduced transmit power are
unlikely to meet the spectral efficiency requirement stated in section 5.1.
The estimated uplink spectral efficiency reduction provided by the sourcing
companies is summarized in Table 6.5.2.4.1.
**Table 6.5.2.4.1 Uplink spectral efficiency reduction estimation for
reduction of transmit power**
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Maximum |** Spectral | **Source |** Source | **Source | | Transmit | efficiency | 1** | 2**| 3** | | power**| ca | | | | | | lculation** | **(see note |**(see note | **(see note | | | | 1)** | 2)**| 3)** | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 17dBm | Cell | | | 5% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 1) | | | | | | | | | | | | 65% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 3) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Cell-edge | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10dBm | Cell | 19% (3GPP | 18% (3GPP | | | | | Case 1) | Case 1) | | | | | | | | | | | | 60% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 3) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Cell-edge | 85% (3GPP | 86% (3GPP | | | | | Case 1) | Case 1) | | | | | | | | | | | | 100% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 3) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 0dBm | Cell | 59% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 1) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | Cell-edge | 98% (3GPP | | | | | | Case 1) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 1: Analysis assumes TDD in 10MHz with 8 receive antennas at the eNB. Full
buffer traffic model
NOTE 2: Analysis assumes FDD in 10MHz with 4 receive antennas at the eNB. Full
buffer traffic model
NOTE 3: Analysis assumes FDD in 5MHz with 2 receive antennas at the eNB.
Regular reporting traffic model (Annex A.1)
### 6.5.3 Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction
The estimated cost savings provided by the sourcing companies are summarized
in Table 6.5.3.1. The power amplifier accounts for 25-30% of the cost of the
RF module of the reference LTE modem with the RF functional block accounting
for 40% of the total cost of the modem. Removal of the power amplifier will
result in a 10-12% overall relative cost saving and an output power in the
order of 0dBm. A lower saving is seen when the power amplifier is retained but
there is a reduction in output power and relaxation in linearity: in this case
the saving amounts to 2-7%.
**Table 6.5.3.1 Relative cost saving estimation for a reduction of transmit
power**
**Functional block** **(** Ratio of RF to baseband cost 40:60**)** | **Recommended cost breakdown** **(for Evaluation)** | **Source 1** | **Source 2** | **Source 3** | **Source 4** | **Source 5** | **Source 6** | **Source 7** | **Source 8**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Transmit power reduction scheme** |  | **Maximum transmit power = 10dBm** | **Remove the power amplifier: Maximum transmit power = 0dBm** | **Remove the power amplifier** | **Remove the power amplifier** | **Remove the power amplifier** | **Reduction in output power and relaxation in linearity** | **Remove the power amplifier** | **Reduction in output power and relaxation in linearity**  
**RF** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Power amplifier | 25%-30% | 50% | 100% |  | 100% | 100% |  | 100% | 30%  
Filters | 5%-10% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
RF transceiver ( including LNAs, mixer, and local oscillator) | 40%-50% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  | 15%  
Duplexer /Switch | 15%-25% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Other | 0%-10% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
_**Total of RF**_ | _**95%-110%**_ | _**12.5-15%**_ | _**25-30%**_ | _**30%**_ | _**25%**_ | _**25%**_ | _**5%**_ | _**13%**_ | _**13.5-16.5%**_  
**Baseband** |  |  |  |  |  | NA |  |  |   
ADC / DAC | 10% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
FFT/IFFT | 5% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Post-FFT data buffering | 10%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Receiver processing block | 20%-35% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Turbo decoding | 5%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
HARQ buffer | 10%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
DL control processing & decoder | 5% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Synchronization / cell search block | 10%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
UL processing block | 5%-10% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
MIMO specific processing blocks | 5%-15% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
Other | 0% | NA | NA |  |  | NA |  |  |   
_**Total of Baseband**_ | _**90%-110%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_ | _**0%**_  
**Overall relative cost savings** |  | **5-6%** | **10-12%** | **11%** | **10%** | **10-12%** | **2%** | **5%** | **5-7%**  
## 6.6 Half duplex operation
### 6.6.1 Description
Half duplex FDD (HD-FDD) operation is a technique that can lower the cost of
an MTC UE by simplifying the RF implementation. By not requiring simultaneous
transmission and reception, an HD-FDD MTC UE does not require a duplexer: in
place of a duplexer a switch is used. It is noted that the eNB still uses full
duplex FDD (FD-FDD) operation and will be required to ensure that there are no
scheduling conflicts for HD-FDD MTC UEs. This requirement will mean the
scheduler needs to consider data and control traffic in both directions when
making scheduling decisions for an MTC UE. It is noted that this requirement
can add to the complexity of the scheduler. For full duplex UEs, such
scheduling restrictions are not needed: this can make concurrent support more
complicated. When not in DRX, the MTC UE will continuously receive downlink
physical channels except when instructed by the network to transmit in the
uplink or when transmitting unscheduled (contention-based) PRACH. A switching
time will need to be observed by HD-FDD MTC UEs when transitioning from
receive to transmit and vice versa -- this will need to be taken into account
by the scheduler.
It is noted that TDD UEs do not transmit and receive at the same time and are
inherently half duplex in nature. The cost and performance advantages
identified in this section already apply to Release 8 TDD LTE UEs.
### 6.6.2 Analysis/evaluation of performance against requirements
#### 6.6.2.1 Coverage analysis
Half duplex operation will result in no loss of coverage. In order to
accommodate the UE switching time between downlink subframes that are
immediately followed by uplink subframes, the UE may choose not to receive
symbols at the end of the downlink subframe, thereby increasing the PDSCH SINR
requirements. This SINR loss can be avoided by the scheduler and is
compensated for by the improved noise figure of a switch-based receiver RF
chain. The scheduler can schedule UEs such that uplink transmissions do not
immediately follow downlink transmissions: in this case the UE may receive all
the symbols within the downlink subframe. The noise figure of a switch-based
receiver RF chain is less than that of a duplexer-based receiver RF chain,
allowing HD-FDD UE receivers to be more sensitive than FD-FDD UE receivers. In
summary the downlink coverage of an HD-FDD UE is expected to be at least as
good as that of an FD-FDD UE.
#### 6.6.2.2 Power consumption
Compared to the reference category 1 LTE modem, power consumption is likely to
be reduced. The insertion loss of the switch in the HD-FDD UE is less than in
the duplexer of an FD-FDD UE: reducing the electrical power required to
produce a certain amount of radiated RF power. Half duplex operation means
some components can be put in a reduced power state until required. It is
recognised that RF and baseband power consumption is often dictated by
implementation.
#### 6.6.2.3 Impact on specification
Some support for half duplex operation was introduced in LTE Release 8.
However some further specification work may be required.
TSG RAN WG4 specifications will need to be updated to define at least the
following:
  * HD-FDD UE performance requirements for the switching time for the downlink-to-uplink and uplink-to-downlink transitions, if deemed necessary by further study in TSG RAN WG1 as explained below.
  * In the case of UE implementation where operation is restricted to half-duplex only:
    * Bands in which HD-FDD UEs can operate.
    * Performance requirements for HD-FDD UEs.
From the perspective of TSG RAN WG1, it is recognised that further study is
required. This study may lead to specification changes, but some issues may be
resolved by implementation. Aspects to consider may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
  * UE switching times
    * Switching time for the _downlink-to-uplink_ transition is created by allowing the UE to DRX the last OFDM symbols in a downlink subframe immediately preceding an uplink subframe. Whether the switching time should be explicitly defined in the specifications is FFS at the time of introduction..
    * Switching time for the _uplink-to-downlink_ transition is handled by setting the appropriate amount of timing advance in the UE. This switching time is important when the UE is close to the cell centre (with near zero timing advance). The same adjustment of the uplink timing from the eNB perspective is also applied to full duplex UEs [6]. It should be further investigated whether specification change is needed to facilitate the eNB in deciding the appropriate amount of timing advance (e.g. by defining UE requirement on maximum allowed switching time).
`{=html} ` \- Managing of conflict between downlink and uplink
transmissions. HD-FDD operation is implemented as a scheduler constraint,
implying the scheduler ensures that a UE is not scheduled simultaneously in
the downlink and uplink. There are occasions that downlink and uplink
transmissions cannot be avoided by scheduler constraints, for example when the
UE transmits an unscheduled (contention-based) PRACH that cannot be predicted
by the eNB. It is possible that the UE may transmit a PRACH at the same time
that it is scheduled via PDCCH/PDSCH in the downlink. In this case the UE will
not be able to receive the PDCCH/PDSCH.
#### 6.6.2.4 Cell spectral efficiency
It is apparent that since HD-FDD MTC UEs cannot transmit and receive in the
same subframe, there is an impact on the sustained data rates that can be
provided to/from a single device. Furthermore in order to accommodate the
required switching times for downlink-to-uplink transition at the UE, DRX
during the switching times at the UE results in a reduction in downlink
capacity. This problem is further compounded given that the switching time for
the uplink-to-downlink transition is handled by timing advance that will
further impact on the downlink transmissions. The RF noise figure of an HD-FDD
UE may be less than for an FD-HDD UE since the HD-FDD UE uses a switch rather
than a duplexer. The lower HD-FDD UE noise figure may compensate for the
capacity loss associated with the DRX during switching times.
An eNB that supports HD-FDD UEs operates in full duplex mode irrespective of
the capabilities of the UEs it is supporting. Given a sufficient number of HD-
FDD UEs supported in a cell, the eNB is able to efficiently schedule HD-FDD
UEs such that all the PRBs in the subframe can be allocated. Under this
assumption it is expected that cell spectral efficiency is not impacted when
HD-FDD MTC UEs are supported.
Since there are insignificant cell spectrum efficiency impacts from the
support of LTE HD-FDD UEs, the spectral efficiency of an LTE cell is unlikely
to be degraded through supporting LTE HD-FDD UEs. Its spectral efficiency is
likely to be significantly greater than can be achieved in a GSM/EGPRS network
supporting GSM/EGPRS terminals.
### 6.6.3 Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction
This subsection considers the potential cost saving from implementing a half
duplex LTE MTC UE.
A half duplex mode UE does not need a duplexer. Instead of a duplexer a half
duplex LTE MTC modem uses a switch. Additional savings from reduced complexity
and memory may also be possible in the baseband module. This is because in
half duplex mode there is no need to provision processing power and memory for
concurrent downlink and uplink operations.
Given that a switch represents a small percentage of the cost of the duplexer,
then a high proportion of the cost associated with the duplexer / switch in
the RF module can be saved. Given that the duplexer cost is in the range of
15-25% of the RF module (which is 40% of the total LTE reference modem cost),
HD-FDD mode provides an overall cost saving based on the reference LTE modem
of 4-8%. It is further noted that the potential relative cost reduction may be
even larger for multi-band devices (that may have multiple duplexers) than for
the assumed single-band reference modem.
The estimated cost savings provided by the sourcing companies are summarized
in Table 6.6.3.1. If it is assumed that some cost saving could be achieved due
to reduced computational requirements then a 5-10% cost saving may be made in
the baseband module: this results in an overall cost saving of 9-12% from
source 6. Also if it is assumed that some cost saving could be achievable with
RF components optimized for HD-FDD operation that take advantage of relaxation
in performance and/or functional requirements (the absence of self transmitter
blocking and interference easing filtering rejection requirements) then this
results in an overall cost saving of 12-19% from source 7.
**Table 6.6.3.1 Relative cost saving estimation for half duplex operation**
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | **R |** S | **S |** S | **S |** S | **S |** S | | Funct | ecomm | ource | ource | ource | ource | ource | ource | ource | | ional | ended | 1**| 2** | 3**| 4** | 5**| 6** | 7**| | bl | cost | | | | | | | | | ock** | b | | | | | | | | | | reakd | | | | | | | | | **(** | own**| | | | | | | | | Ratio | | | | | | | | | | of RF | * | | | | | | | | | to |_(for | | | | | | | | | bas | Eva | | | | | | | | | eband | luati | | | | | | | | | cost | on)**| | | | | | | | | 40:60 | | | | | | | | | |**)**| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | | | | | | | | | | *RF** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | 25 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | ampl | %-30% | | | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Fi | 5 | | | NA | NA | | | 20% | | lters | %-10% | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | RF | 40 | | | NA | NA | | | 20% | | t | %-50% | | | | | | | | | ransc | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | | incl | | | | | | | | | | uding | | | | | | | | | | LNAs, | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | ixer, | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | local | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | scill | | | | | | | | | | ator) | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Dup | 15 | | 80% | 67% | 90% | 7 | | 80% | | lexer | %-25% | | | | | 0-80% | | | | /S | | | | | | | | | | witch | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Other | 0 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | | %-10% | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | *** | _**9 | **_1 |_** 2 | ** | **_2 | ** |_** 1 | ** | | Total | 5%-11 | 5%**_| 0%_** | _10-1 | 0%_**|_10-2 | 5%_** | _20-3 | | of | 0%_**| | | 7%**_| | 0%_**| | 2%**_| | RF_**| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ** | | | | | | | | | | Baseb | | | | | | | | | | and** | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ADC / | 10% | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | DAC | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | FFT | 5% | | | NA | NA | | | 30% | | /IFFT | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Pos | 10 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | t-FFT | %-15% | | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | | | buff | | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rec | 20 | | | NA | NA | | | 20% | | eiver | %-35% | | | | | | | | | proce | | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Turbo | 5 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | dec | %-15% | | | | | | | | | oding | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | HARQ | 10 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | b | %-15% | | | | | | | | | uffer | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | DL | 5% | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | co | | | | | | | | | | ntrol | | | | | | | | | | proce | | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | | & | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | coder | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Synch | 10 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | roniz | %-15% | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | | | cell | | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | | earch | | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | UL | 5 | | | NA | NA | | | 20% | | proce | %-10% | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | MIMO | 5 | | | NA | NA | | | NA | | spe | %-15% | | | | | | | | | cific | | | | | | | | | | proce | | | | | | | | | | ssing | | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | | locks | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Other | 0% | | | NA | NA | | | NA | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | *** | **_9 | *** | *** | *** | NA | *** | * |_** 6\. | | Total | 0%-11 | 0%**_| 0%_** | 0%**_| | 0%_** | **5-1 | 5-10. | | of | 0%**_| | | | | | 0%_**| 5%**_| | B | | | | | | | | | | aseba | | | | | | | | | | nd_**| | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |** Ov | | * | * | **4 | * |** 4 | **9- |** 12- | | erall | | _6%__|_ 8%**| -7%** | _8%__| -8%__| 12%__| 19%__| | rel | | | | | | | | | | ative | | | | | | | | | | cost | | | | | | | | | | savi | | | | | | | | | | ngs_ * | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
## 6.7 Reduction of supported downlink transmission modes
### 6.7.1 Description
For a reference Rel-10 Cat-1 UE, the maximum number of supported layers for
spatial multiplexing in downlink is one, and the supportable transmission
modes for a reference LTE Rel-10 Cat-1 UEs are TM1-TM9. One potential
technique for low cost MTC UEs is to reduce the supportable downlink
transmission modes with a view to eliminating the redundant transmission
schemes supported by different TMs and simplifying MTC UE's implementation
complexity.
TM1 and TM2 are needed as the basic TMs for backward compatibility.
### 6.7.2 Analysis/evaluation of performance against requirements
#### 6.7.2.1 Coverage analysis
The reduction of supported downlink transmission modes will not bring link
performance loss on PDCCH, but the link performance of PDSCH may be impacted.
However, as described in the section 6.3, the bottleneck of coverage in
downlink is the control channel rather than the data channel, so the downlink
coverage for MTC UEs would not be impacted by the reduction of supported
downlink transmission modes.
#### 6.7.2.2 Power consumption
Baseband power consumption may be reduced by eliminating the need to support
precoding. However, some performance degradation due to the absence of
precoding may cause a possible increase of power consumption for MTC UEs.
Overall there is not expected to be significant impact on power consumption by
the reduction of supported downlink transmission modes.
#### 6.7.2.3 Impact on specification
To support MTC UEs with the reduction of supported downlink transmission
modes, minor specification changes may be expected. The feature of reduced
downlink transmission modes may appear as a property of the UE category that
is mentioned in section 6.4, and some modifications on the IEs _UE-EUTRA-
Capability_ and _AntennaInfoDedicated_ in TS 36.331 may be needed.
#### 6.7.2.4 Cell spectral efficiency
There may be some downlink performance degradation due to the lack of
precoding gain. Table 6.7.2.4 gives performance degradation results provided
by multiple sources. Although performance degradation is expected due to the
reduced downlink transmission modes, the impact of downlink performance
degradation may be lessened considering the typical MTC traffic model as
described in Annex A. Moreover, the cell spectral efficiency in the case of
MTC UEs with the reduction of supported downlink transmission modes is larger
than that of GSM/GPRS.
Table 6.7.2.4: Performance degradation results compared to TM2
| **Cell average** | **Cell edge** |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Source 1 [8] | Source 2 [9] | Source 3 [10] | Source 4 [11] | Source 5 [12] | Source 1 [8] | Source 2 [9] | Source 3 [10] | Source 4 [11] | Source 5 [12]  
FDD: TM6 | 3.69% | NA | 21% | 20% (2Tx) 40% (4Tx) | 16.6% (2Tx) 33.1% (4Tx) | 15.8% | NA | 41% | 35% (2Tx) 63% (4Tx) | 41% (2Tx) 82.9% (4Tx)  
TDD: TM7 | 18% (4Tx2Rx) | 15.4% (8Tx1Rx) | 10% (8Tx2Rx) | NA | NA | 46.3% | 43% | 26% | NA | NA  
### 6.7.3 Analysis/evaluation of cost reduction [ ]{.underline}
Potential cost reduction with reduced transmission modes may come from
removing DMRS based channel estimation if DMRS based precoding is not
supported, no PMI computation if PMI feedback is not supported (either CRS or
CSI-RS based PMI) and simplified MIMO detection/equalization algorithm.
Note that the support of DMRS based transmission (which is needed e.g., for
ePDCCH and/or new carrier type) may negate cost saving that might be obtained
by removing DMRS based transmission scheme(s) for PDSCH. According to the cost
breakdown given in section 5.3 for the reference LTE modem, Table 6.7.3 gives
relative cost saving estimations for the reduction of supported downlink
transmission modes from multiple input sources. Note that different cost
saving estimations from different sources may be based on different reduction
assumptions.
From Table 6.7.3, the range of relative total cost saving with the technique
of reduction of supported downlink transmission modes is about 2-10%.
Table 6.7.3: Relative cost saving estimations for reduction of supported
downlink transmission modes
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | **Fun |** Reco | **S |** S | **S |** S | **S | | ctional | mmended | ource** | ource**| ource** | ource**| ource** | | block**| cost | | | | | | | | brea |** 1**|** 2**|** 3**|** 4**|** 5**| |**( | kdown**| | | | | | |** Ratio | | ** | **\ |** \ | **\ |** \ | | of RF | **(for | [8]** | [13]**| [11]** | [14]**| [15]** | | to | Evalua | | | | | | | b | tion)**| | | | | | | aseband | | | | | | | | cost | | | | | | | | 40: | | | | | | | | 60**)**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** RF**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Power | 25%-30% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | am | | | | | | | | plifier | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Filters | 5%-10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | RF | 40%-50% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | tran | | | | | | | | sceiver | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | cluding | | | | | | | | LNAs, | | | | | | | | mixer, | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | local | | | | | | | | osci | | | | | | | | llator) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | D | 15%-25% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | uplexer | | | | | | | | /Switch | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Other | 0%-10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Total | 9 | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | | of RF | 5%-110% | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ |** Bas | | | | | | | | eband**| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ADC / | 10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | DAC | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | F | 5% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | FT/IFFT | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | P | 10%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | ost-FFT | | | | | | | | data | | | | | | | | bu | | | | | | | | ffering | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | R | 20%-35% | 48% | 30% | 11% | 25% | 15% | | eceiver | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | cessing | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Turbo | 5%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | d | | | | | | | | ecoding | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | HARQ | 10%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | buffer | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | DL | 5% | NA | NA | NA | 30% | NA | | control | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | cessing | | | | | | | | & | | | | | | | | decoder | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | S | 10%-15% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | ynchron | | | | | | | | ization | | | | | | | | / cell | | | | | | | | search | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UL | 5%-10% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | | pro | | | | | | | | cessing | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | MIMO | 5%-15% | 30% | NA | NA | NA | NA | | s | | | | | | | | pecific | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | cessing | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Other | 0% | NA | NA | NA | NA | NA | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Total | 9 | 16.2% | 6-10.5% | 2-4% | 6. | 5% | | of | 0%-110% | | | | 5-10.2% | | | B | | | | | | | | aseband | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ** | | * | **3.6 | **2%** | **3.9 |** 3%**| | Overall | | *9.7%** | -6.3%**| | -6.3%** | | | r | | | | | | | | elative | | | | | | | | cost | | | | | | | | sa | | | | | | | | vings** | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
# 7 Cost reduction evaluation summary
Text below provides summary of cost reduction gains and associated coverage
and spectral efficiency impacts. Coverage impacts have been analysed for
individual and combination of cost reduction techniques in [16] and is
summarised in the table 7.1 and the spectral efficiency impact in text below
the table 7.1.
Table 7.1: Summary cost and performance (coverage/spectral efficiency) impacts
of techniques for cost reduction
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Average degradation | Average overall UE | | | to cell coverage | cost reduction gains | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Half Duplex FDD | None | 7%-10% | | (HD-FDD) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink Tx power | >5dB in UL and is | 10%-12% | | Reduction | proportional to the | | | | Tx power reduction | (If PA is removed) | | | | | | | | 2%-7% | | | | | | | | (If PA is retained) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Transmission mode | None | 2%-10% | | (TM) reduction (E.g. | | | | TM1/TM2 + TM8/9 | | | | (Rank 1) only) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | None | 10.5%-21% | | (TBS 1000 bits) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reduced bandwidth | 1\~3dB | \~39% | | (BW) for both RF and | | | | baseband for DL and | | | | UL. | | | | | | | | DL-1/UL-1 BW | | | | Reduction | | | | | | | | (1.4 MHz) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reduced BW for | 1\~3dB | \~28% | | baseband only for DL | | | | and no BW reduction | | | | for UL. | | | | | | | | DL-2/UL-2 BW | | | | Reduction | | | | | | | | (1.4 MHz) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Reduced BW for only | None | \~19% | | data and only in | | | | baseband. No BW | | | | reduction for UL | | | | | | | | DL-3/UL-2 BW | | | | Reduction | | | | | | | | (1.4 MHz) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Single receive RF | 4dB | 24%-29% | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for Single | 42% | | (TBS) + Single | receive RF (4dB) | | | receive RF | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for BW | 44% | | (TBS) + DL-1/UL-1 BW | reduction (1\~3dB) | | | Reduction | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for BW | 36% | | (TBS) + DL-2/UL-2 BW | reduction (1\~3dB) | | | Reduction | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | None | 26% | | (TBS) + DL-3/UL-2 BW | | | | Reduction | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | 5\~9 dB | 59% | | (TBS) + DL-1/UL-1 BW | | | | Reduction + Single | | | | receive RF | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for BW | 56% | | (TBS) + DL-2/UL-2 BW | reduction + Single | | | Reduction + Single | receive RF | | | receive RF | | | | | (5\~9dB) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Peak Rate reduction | Same as for Single | 50% | | (TBS) + DL-3/UL-2 BW | receive RF | | | Reduction + Single | | | | receive RF | (4 dB) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TM(1/2+9) + Peak | Same as for BW | 37% | | Rate reduction (TBS) | reduction (1\~3dB) | | | + DL-2/UL-2 BW | | | | Reduction | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | TM(1/2+9) + Peak | Same as for BW | 56% | | Rate reduction (TBS) | reduction + Single | | | + DL-2/UL-2 BW | receive RF | | | Reduction+ Single | | | | receive RF | (5\~9dB) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Note: Analysis of coverage degradation is for downlink unless explicitly
indicated. Transmission bandwidth is reduced to 1.4 MHz for BW reduction
techniques unless explicitly specified.
Single receive RF is expected to be the main technique that, in addition to
coverage, impacts spectral efficiency. Impact on spectral efficiency with
single receive RF chain has been analyzed in sub-clause 6.3 with degradation
of approx 23% to 25% for FDD and approx 17% for TDD and is dependent on the
frequency band.
# 8 Specification aspects to restrict techniques to only low performance MTC
UE.
This clause captures possible solutions to ensure by specification that the
techniques discussed in clause 6 and adopted for low cost MTC UEs are
restricted to only low-cost MTC UEs with low data rate and/or high latency
tolerance. This restriction is needed in order to ensure that the existing
transmission and reception characteristics and performance requirements of
non-MTC LTE UEs are not affected by the MTC-specific specification
developments. Without this restriction, any simplification may be applied to
non-MTC UEs.
## 8.1 Restricting the techniques to a new UE category
The aim of introducing a new MTC-specific UE category would be to restrict any
adopted MTC-related low-cost technique affecting the UE and/or network
performance to this new UE category only.
This solution makes sure the existing UE categories are not affected by the
simplifications intended for low-cost MTC UEs, by:
  * defining a new UE category specifically for low-cost MTC devices, and;
  * restricting any simplification technique affecting the UE and/or > network performance to operate only with this UE category.
This solution allows the network to identify the UEs which use simplifications
affecting the UE or network performance, since the UE reports its category
upon initial connection.
This identification would, for example, enable the network to apply specific
scheduling policies or specific service handling to these UEs, in order to
limit their potential adverse impact on the network performance, or
alternatively, it could be considered whether the network can decide to block
the UEs from this UE category in case their subscription information does not
match with MTC.
In addition, further study would be needed to enable the network to
unambiguously bind UEs of the new UE category to only certain MTC-applicable
services. Detailed mechanisms for such binding are out of scope of RAN.
The peak rate of the new UE category, as discussed in sub-clause 6.4, could,
for example, be set targeting an appropriate cost reduction objective. It is
worth noting that even if peak rate reduction is not finally specified,
defining a new UE category as discussed in this sub-clause could still be
justified by the need to identify the UEs with degraded radio performance
compared with non-MTC UEs.
# 9 Conclusion and recommendations
Cost reduction techniques have individually been analyzed in clause 6 and
further cumulative reduction has been analyzed, for cost reduction and
coverage impact in clause 7 of this TR.
There are uplink and/or downlink coverage impacts for some of the proposed
cost reduction techniques. E.g. Reduction in uplink transmit power
significantly impacts uplink coverage performance and single receive RF chain
impacts downlink coverage performance.
Uplink transmit power reduction impacts UL spectral efficiency in comparison
to normal LTE operation. Single receive antenna may have impact on DL spectral
efficiency depending on the frequency band and antenna performance in
comparison to normal LTE operation. Spectral efficiency for both UL and DL is
expected to be better for low data rate MTC traffic with either or both of
these techniques compared to that achieved for R99 GSM/EGPRS terminals in
GSM/EGPRS networks today.
Some bandwidth reduction options have relatively large impact on specification
of Radio Interface architecture and protocols; some of these aspects may be
covered by the Enhanced DL control channel(s) work item. Reduced uplink
transmit power and single receive RF chain may have relatively large impact
for specification of radio performance aspect\'s.
No eNodeB hardware upgrade is envisaged for any of the studied techniques.
Support of cost reduction techniques is also envisaged to reduce power
consumption cumulatively. Among the techniques studied, except for half duplex
FDD, no other techniques result in degradation to latency for HARQ operation.
Bill Of Material cost of LTE UE modem would be comparable to EGPRS modem if
e.g. downlink bandwidth is reduced to 1.4 MHz, if downlink transmission modes
are reduced, half duplex FDD is adopted, peak data rate is reduced with TBS
restricted to 1000 bits and Single Rx chain is adopted.
Among the three techniques studied for peak data rate reduction, reduction of
maximum transport block sizes for DL and UL (technique 1) has higher cost
savings compared to other two techniques. Note that technique 3 ("restricting
the maximum modulation order") is not a recommended technique.
At least Peak rate reduction with TBS restricted to 1000 bits and bandwidth
reduction with transmission bandwidth reduced to 1.4 MHz are recommended as
cost reduction techniques for low cost MTC UE. Transmission bandwidths of 3MHz
and 5 MHz are not excluded if there is severe degradation in coverage when
combined with other techniques e.g. single receive RF, though it is desired to
preserve the cost savings. Half duplex FDD is expected to be supported at
least as an optional feature for UE category specified for low-cost MTC
devices. Since peak uplink transmission power reduction cannot meet the
coverage requirements defined in the study item: it is not recommended as a
cost saving technique for a low cost MTC device. In addition, coverage
reduction should be entirely compensated to ensure same service coverage as
LTE for the coverage limiting channel(s) with other techniques as a pre-
requisite for adopting single receive RF chain or combinations including them.
In addition, it is recommended to introduce an MTC-specific UE category and to
restrict any MTC-related low-cost adopted technique to this new UE category
only, as described in section 8.1.
###### ### Annex A: Traffic model for Machine-Type Communications
Traffic characteristics may be required for cost analysis for comparing
features of an MTC UE set against the environment in which the device is
expected to work. A traffic model is valuable when it comes to other aspects
of the analysis that are within the scope of the study item, particularly
relating to the quantification of spectrum efficiency.
Some of the typical MTC type Traffic are characterised by small packets in
downlink and uplink. Certain applications are in addition characterised by
heavy access load in uplink. Below sub-clause A.1 is based on traffic
characteristics specified in TR 37.868.
End to End latency achievable should be determined from analysis/evaluation
and should be no worse than (E)GPRS and preferably comparable to LTE The
analysis/evaluation shall determine the number of UE's that can report.
# A.1 MTC Traffic model/characteristics regular reporting
Table A.1: UL regular reporting traffic characteristics for low cost MTC
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | **_Use |_** UL | **_Packet |_** Mobility** _| | cases_** | interval** _| (bits)_** | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | No mobility | 1min | 1000, optional | Static, | | | (optional) | 10000 | | | | | | Pedestrian | | | 5min, 30min, | | (optional, no | | | | | seamless | | | 1hour | | handover | | | | | requirement) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Limited | 5s (optional) | 1000 | Vehicular (no | | mobility | | | seamless | | | 10s,30s | | handover | | | | | requirement) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
# A.2 MTC Traffic model/characteristics triggered reporting
Below is a generic traffic model modeling both UL and DL.
Table A.2 -- MTC traffic model
* * *
**[Traffic model parameter (UL and DL)]{.underline}** **[Value]{.underline}**
Traffic volume size distribution (Triggered) 256 bits,1000 bits Traffic inter-
arrival time (Triggered) Exponential: Mean = 30secs*
* * *
* It should be noted from Table A.2.1 that the values for 'Traffic transmission time' and 'Traffic inter-arrival time' result in a tractable simulation run time but may not represent the behavior of all traffic types.
#