# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies a general method used to derive Test Tolerances
for Radio Resource Management tests, and establishes a system for relating the
Test Tolerances to the measurement uncertainties of the Test System.
The test cases which have been analysed to determine Test Tolerances are
included as .zip files.
The present document is applicable from Release 8 up to the release indicated
on the front page of the present Terminal conformance specifications.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[\] \ \[ ([up to and
including]{yyyy[-mm]\|V\}[onwards])]: \"\\".
[1] to [8] (void)
[9] 3GPP TS 36.903 Release 12: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access
(E-UTRA) and Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN);
Derivation of test tolerances for Radio Resource Management (RRM) conformance
tests"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
Void
# 4 General Principles
The requirements of the present document are provided in 3GPP TS 36.903
Release 12 [9].
# 5 to 7 Void
###### ## Annex A to C: Void
#