# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the study item on Mobile
Relay for E-UTRA [1], which was approved at TSG RAN#53. The objective of the
SI is to first identify the scenario(s) and requirements then identify the key
properties of mobile relays and assess the benefits of mobile relays over
existing solutions in fast-moving environments.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] RP-111377: SID "New Study Item Proposal: Mobile Relay for E-UTRA"
[2] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.912: \"Further Advancements for E-UTRA (LTE-Advanced)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 36.806: \"Relay architectures for E-UTRA (LTE-Advanced)\".
[5] 3GPP TR 36.814: "Further advancements for E-UTRA physical layer aspects".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.300: "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA) and
Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN); Overall
description; Stage 2".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [2] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[2].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[2] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [2].
\ \
# 4 Scenario(s) and requirements
## 4.1 Scenario
High speed public transportation is being deployed worldwide at an increased
pace. Hence, providing multiple services of good quality to users on high
speed vehicles is important yet more challenging than typical mobile wireless
environments.
The mobile relay SI focuses on the high speed train scenario as the target
deployment scenario to study. High speed train scenario can be characterized
as:
  * The trains operated with high speed, e.g. 350km/h
  * Known trajectory
  * High penetration loss of the radio signal through the well shield carriages
  * UEs on the trains are stationary or move at pedestrian speed w.r.t. relay nodes
  * ...
A reference scenario for high speed train is depicted in Figure 1.
{width="6.188888888888889in" height="2.623611111111111in"}
Figure 1: A reference scenario for high speed train
The TGV Eurostar in Europe is 393m long, moves at speed reaching 300 km/h. The
Shinkansen in Japan has similar characteristics, with 480 m long, 300 km/h of
commercial speed. The high speed train in China is 432 _m_ long moving at
speed reaching 350 km/h.
Due to fast moving and well shield carriage, the network in high speed train
scenario faces severe Doppler frequency shift and high penetration loss,
reduced handover success rate and increased power consumption of UEs.
To improve the coverage of the train deployment, access devices can be mounted
on the high speed train, providing a wireless backhaul connection via the eNBs
along the railway by outer antenna e.g. installed on top of the train, and
wireless connectivity to the UEs inside carriages by inner antenna installed
inside..
## 4.2 Requirements
  * Spectrum model
The mobile relay study should be based on the scenario that both backhaul link
spectrum and access link spectrum belong to the same operator. The spectrum
model where backhaul link spectrum and access link spectrum belong to
different operators should also be supported.
  * Multi-RAT support
One operator may have multiple RATs in operation. In order to reduce the
effort of optimizing the deployment for high speed train scenario, multi-RAT
support of mobile relay should also be studied, which means to allow LTE on
backhaul link and different air interface technologies, e.g. LTE/3G/2G/Wi-Fi,
on the access link.
> NOTE: According to the charging and security requirements discussed in SA2,
> the mobile relay supporting Wi-Fi access point should be considered as a
> trusted non-3GPP access.
  * In-band and Out-band operation
Both in-band (when applicable) and out-band mobile relay will be considered in
this study item. The concepts of in-band and out-band relay are defined in
TR36.814 [5].
# 5 Solutions
## 5.1 Existing solutions
### 5.1.1 Dedicated deployment of macro eNBs
To optimize coverage along the train line, operators deploy dedicated base
stations and/or backhaul to cover the railway tracks with directive antennas,
thus addressing radio layer issues and enabling a dedicated path for all
train-generated traffic. UEs on the train are directly served by these
dedicated base stations.
To reduce UE handover failure rate, the main points are to extend the cell
coverage and to increase the interval of handovers, which means to increase
the overlap area. Some network parameters may also be optimized, e.g. in order
to improve the cell selection/reselection/TAU procedure of idle mode UEs.
Different solutions can be used.
A particular type of deployment can involve transmission points with high and
low power, i.e. HetNet deployment. When targeting fast-moving vehicles, it
could be appropriate to deploy high-power cells together with low-power cells.
In order to reduce the signaling load due to frequent handovers, the high-
power cells with large coverage areas can be configured as the serving node.
Low-power cells can be added in order to improve capacity and to provide high
data rates. Depending on the actual network setup, different approaches could
be possible, such as:
With Carrier Aggregation (CA) - The primary component carrier (PCC) can be
transmitted by the high-power cell, whereas the secondary component carrier
(SCC) can be transmitted by the low-power cell. Cross-carrier scheduling from
the PCC can reduce the signaling load due to handovers of the SCC. Without CA
- A macro eNB (high-power transmission point) can be extended by low-power
transmission points such as remote radio units (RRUs). When sharing the same
cell ID, the closest RRU can serve the train without the need for handovers
between RRUs belonging to the same macro cell.
### 5.1.2 Dedicated deployment of macro eNBs + L1 repeaters
L1 repeaters amplify and forward signals in a certain frequency band. If the
TX and the RX antennas are sufficiently isolated (i.e. inside vs. outside the
train), repeaters can transmit the amplified signal on the same frequency as
the received signal. Since repeaters do not re-generate the received signal,
they are particularly useful when deployed at positions with advantageous
SINR, while SINR cannot be improved by L1 repeaters since both noise and
desired signal are amplified and forwarded by the L1 repeater. On the basis of
optimized deployment of dedicated macro base stations along the railway, L1
repeaters can be deployed on the train to overcome the penetration loss
through walls and windows. Being connected through a L1 repeater, UEs can
reduce their transmit power, thereby increasing battery life.
### 5.1.3 LTE as Backhaul, Wi-Fi as Access on Board
This solution addresses Wi-Fi-capable UEs, arguably the vast majority in the
near future. The wireless node mounted on board the train connects as an LTE
UE to the eNB, and provides coverage on board as a Wi-Fi AP. All UEs on board
can use this node for data connections or VoIP calls, while continuing to use
the existing 2G RAT for voice. This solution can be built with currently
available technology and requires no changes to specifications, so it is
likely to be less complex and to cost less than a mobile relay. An optimized
outdoor antenna (e.g. a smart antenna mounted on the train roof) can be
envisaged to enhance the performance of the backhaul link.
The same captive portals, authentication and payment systems, etc. commonly
deployed at stations, airports, and other public Wi-Fi hotspots can also be
made available on board, in order to give customers the same experience. An
added benefit of Wi-Fi access is also the possibility to locally terminate on-
board services (entertainment, meal ordering/reservations, navigation, on-
board webcams, etc.). All such services can be offered directly to user
terminals without going through the CN or having to set up a local breakout
(e.g. LIPA/SIPTO), as required with other solutions.
This solution also enables any Wi-Fi-only devices to use the LTE network as
backhaul for their data connections. The wireless coverage on board is
unaffected by the train movement because the UE part of the node handles
mobility with the eNB, transferring the bundle of all data connections at
every handover.
## 5.2 Mobile relay
The mobile relays are base stations/access points mounted on the high speed
trains. The mobile relay is connected wirelessly to Donor eNB (DeNB) via the
Un radio interface. The mobile relay provides wireless connectivity service to
end users inside the vehicle. In addition to the eNB functionality, mobile
relays support a subset of the UE functionality to connect to the DeNB.
### 5.2.1 Functions
From a specification point of view, functionalities defined for fixed relays
in Rel-10 also apply to mobile relays, unless explicitly specified. Due to the
mobility of the Mobile Relay, further enhancements or new procedures may be
required in order to support all existing network functionalities.
Mobile relays may support multi-RAT functionalities. This means an LTE Un
provides the backhaul link, while different air interface technologies, e.g.
LTE/3G/2G/WiFi, may be supported on the access link.
Mobile relays continue to provide uninterrupted connectivity for the user
plane and control plane of the served UEs to their respective core network
nodes, when the Un connection is changed to different DeNBs as the mobile
relay moves through the coverage of the network.
### 5.2.2 Architecture
The mobile relay architecture should fulfil the following principle(s):
  * Principle: Mobile relay's Serving GW serves as mobility anchor point for mobile relay inter-DeNB handovers.
Note: The Relay-GW/PGW/SGW may be changed for routing optimization purpose,
where applicable. The change of Relay-GW/PGW/SGW is independent of the RN
mobility procedure and may be performed after HO completes. Whether there are
further issues are FFS in mobile relay scenario.
#### 5.2.2.1 Alt.1
##### 5.2.2.1.1 Overview
This architecture is based on the Alt.1 architecture defined for fixed relay.
Alt 1 relay node architecture is shown in Figure 5.2.2.1-1 below with the
following properties:
\- S1-U interface for the UE is between the RN and SGW of the UE.
\- S1-MME interface for the UE is between RN andMME of the UE.
\- UL S1-U and S1-MME packets of a UE served by mobile RN are sent on the
mobile relay user plane EPS bearers from the RN to the RN P/SGW of the relay.
Similarly DL S1-U and S1-MME packets are sent to the mobile relay via the
P/SGW of the relay.
\- Mobile relay HO reuses existing UE handover procedures with some
enhancement/modification if needed.
\- UE PDN connection and RN PDN connection are preserved during mobile relay
handover.
Figure 5.2.2.1-1: Alt.1 relay architecture
##### 5.2.2.1.2 Mobility procedure
Figure 5.2.2.1-2 shows the RN inter-DeNB mobility procedure under architecture
Alt.1, which is identical with the procedure for Inter-eNB mobility of UE
defined in TS36.300. There is no additional signaling for UE HO in both RAN
and core network side during the RN mobility, i.e., the RN HO is transparent
to the UE in both the RAN and core network.
Figure 5.2.2.1-2: RN mobility procedure (Alt 1)
#### 5.2.2.2 Alt.2
##### 5.2.2.2.1 Overview
This architecture is based on the Alt.2 architecture defined for fixed relay.
Alt 2 relay node architecture is shown in Figure 5.2.2.2-1 below with the
following properties:
\- The MR's S/P-GW and Relay GW are located in the initial DeNB where the
mobile relay attaches for normal operation. When the relay is HO to another
DeNB, it still uses the S/P-GW and Relay GW collocated in the initial DeNB.
The UE EPS bearer is transparent to the target DeNB.
\- S1-U interface for the UE is between the RN and Relay GW (of the initial
DeNB) and between the Relay GW and the SGW of the UE.
\- S1-MME interface for the UE is between RN and Relay GW (of the initial
DeNB) and between the Relay GW and the MME of the UE.
\- UL S1-U and S1-MME packets of a UE served by mobile RN are sent on the
mobile relay user plane EPS bearers from the RN to the RN P/SGW in the initial
DeNB of the relay. Similarly DL S1-U and S1-MME packets are sent to the mobile
relay via the P/SGW in the initial DeNB of the relay.
\- Mobile relay HO reuses existing UE handover procedures with some
enhancement/modification if needed.
\- UE PDN connection and RN PDN connection are preserved during mobile relay
handover.
Figure 5.2.2.2-1: Alt.2 with Relay GW and PGW/SGW collocated with initial DeNB
##### 5.2.2.2.2 Mobility procedure
Figure 5.2.2.2-2 shows the RN inter-DeNB mobility procedure under architecture
Alt.2, which is basically the same as the procedure under Alt.1, except the RN
PGW/SGW is always located in the initial DeNB where the mobile relay attaches
for normal operation. There is no additional signaling for UE HO in both RAN
and core network side during the RN mobility, i.e., the RN HO is transparent
to the UE in both the RAN and core network.
Figure 5.2.2.2-2: RN mobility procedure (Alt 2)
#### 5.2.2.3 Alt.2 enhancement
##### 5.2.2.3.1 eAlt.2-1: Alt.2 with dual Rel-10 relays for HO
###### 5.2.2.3.1.1 Overview
One Rel-10 Relay cannot support mobility, but in case there are two Rel-10
Relay entities in a mobile relay device, relay mobility can be handled with
two such entities being collocated, as shown in Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1. From the
networks perspective, each logical RN cell is identified by a separate ECGI.
Whereas from the perpective of UEs served by the mobile relay node, the two
logical RN cells sharing the same PCI are identified by separate ECGIs. The
two RN entities act as two relays that attach to two nighboring DeNBs, and can
provide the similar function as RN handover.
Alt 2 relay node with dual Rel-10 relays supports HO as follows:
\- When RN_UE1 connects to DeNB Cell1, all the UEs in the train are served by
logical RN Cell1.
\- When the train moves into the coverage of DeNB2 Cell2, RN_UE2 attaches to
DeNB2 Cell2, and activates logical RN_Cell2.
\- The bearers for all UEs under logical RN_Cell1 are transferred to logical
RN_Cell2, using a modified S1 or X2 HO procedure.
\- After all the UE bearers are transferred to logical RN_Cell2, logical
RN_UE1 detaches from DeNB1 Cell1, and releases S1/X2 connections.
\- If the train keeps moving and reaches DeNB3 Cell3 coverage, RN_UE1 attaches
to DeNB3 Cell3 and the process repeats
Alt 2 relay node with dual Rel-10 relays is shown in Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1 below
with the following properties:
\- There are two logical RN UEs that work alternatively to support the high
speed train scenario.
\- There is one RN cell with a single PCI from the perspective of the UEs
served by the RN.
\- From the perspective of the network, there are two RN cells, each
identified by a different ECGI.
\- Rel-10 RN startup procedure can be reused.
\- The bearer mapping solution of Rel-10 Relay can be reused.
\- As an optimization, group mobility to reduce the latency and signalling
load, detailed solution is FFS.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1-1: Alt.2 with dual Rel-10relays for HO
Further optimization to speed up the RN startup procedure may be needed, e.g.
  * OAM informs RN ECGI under each DeNB cell to the RN in Phase I
###### 5.2.2.3.1.2 Mobility procedure
The handoff of RN traffic from DeNB1 to DeNB2 involves three steps:
  1. Attach RN_UE2, and setup corresponding bearers to the SGW/PGW function in DeNB2. Configure the ECGI for RN_Cell2 to correspond to DeNB2, and establish S1 and possibly X2 interfaces for the RN_Cell2.
  2. Transfer bearer path and context of UEs served by the Mobile Relay, from DeNB1/RN_UE1 to DeNB2/RN_UE2. This may correspond to a HO of UE from RN_Cell1 to RN_Cell2, or may only involve a path switch.
  3. Detach of RN_UE1 from DeNB1.
**Step1: Attach to DeNB2**
The attach procedure for a Rel-10 RN is reused. It is assumed that phase I has
already been completed, and so only phase II of the attach is repeated for
each new DeNB as defined in TS36.300 [6]. In the Rel-10 RN attach, the DeNB
provides the IP address of its embedded S-GW/P-GW function to the RN's MME,
this procedure can only proceed once RN_UE2 can establish a RRC connection
with DeNB2. Therefore, in this approach, the attach is triggered once the
Mobile Relay enters into suitable radio coverage of DeNB2.
Note that during the attach procedure, the connection of RN_UE1 to DeNB1 is
maintained. Thus RN_UE2 attach, plus the transfer of UE traffic from RN-UE1 to
RN_UE2 should occur while the Mobile Relay is within the region of coverage
overlap between the two donor eNBs. Figure 5.2.2.3.1-2 below illustrates the
message flow for this method.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1-2: Message flow, direct attach of RN_UE2 to DeNB2
**Step 2: Transfer of UE bearers**
During the RN configuration, RN_Cell2 is assigned a different ECGI than
RN_Cell1. Thus from the network's perspective, RN_Cell1 and RN_Cell2 are
different cells. However, from the UE's perspective, there is single RN cell
identified by its PCI. the UE's bearers are transferred from RN_Cell1 to
RN_Cell2 only from the perspective of the CN. This process is transparent to
the UE, and no HO is experienced by the UE itself.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1-3 illustrates the message flow, reusing the X2 HO message
flow. Note that as both RN cells are in the same device, data packets
delivered to RN_UE1 over the Un interface, but not yet delivered to the UE
over the Uu interface can be logically transferred to RN_Cell2. Likewise the
SN status is logically transferred from RN_Cell1 to RN_Cell2.
However, there is still a need to transfer the UEs context to DeNB2.
Therefore, we assume the HO request/HO response is still exchanged, in order
to transfer the UE context. It is FFS if a more optimized solution can be used
to transfer the UE context.
It is FFS to decide if the delivery of these packets can be optimized via an
X2 connection from RN_Cell2 to DeNB1 (proxied by DeNB2). It is also FFS to
determine if UE measurements are useful to aid in these handoffs.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1-3: Mobility procedure for UEs under mobile RN
**Step 3: Detach of RN_UE1 from DeNB1**
After all UE traffic flows have been transferred from RN_UE1 to RN_UE2, RN_UE1
can be detached from DeNB1. This follows the RN detach procedure for Rel-10
UEs as defined in TS 36.300 [6]. This procedure is illustrated in Figure
5.2.2.3.1-4 for completeness.
Figure 5.2.2.3.1-4: Detach of RN_UE1 from DeNB1
##### 5.2.2.3.2 eAlt.2-2: Alt.2 with Relay GW and PGW collocated with initial
DeNB
###### 5.2.2.3.2.1 Overview
The architecture option for mobile relay scenario is shown in Figure
5.2.2.3.2-1 below with the following properties:
\- The PGW of the mobile relay and Relay GW is located in the initial DeNB
where the mobile relay attaches for normal operation. When the mobile relay
handovers to another DeNB, it still uses the PGW of the mobile relay and Relay
GW collocated in the initial DeNB; the SGW of the mobile relay is relocated to
the target DeNB.
\- S5/S8 interface of the mobile relay is between initial DeNB and target
DeNB.
\- S1-U interface for UE served by the mobile relay is between the mobile
relay and Relay GW (of the initial DeNB) and between the Relay GW and the SGW
of the UE.
\- S1-MME interface for UE served by the mobile relay is between the mobile
relay and Relay GW (of the initial DeNB) and between the Relay GW and the MME
of the UE.
\- After handover, UL S1-U and S1-MME packets of a UE served by the mobile
relay are sent on the user plane EPS bearers of the mobile relay from the
mobile relay to the SGW of the mobile relay and eNB collocated in the target
DeNB, then to the PGW of the mobile relay and Relay GW collocated in the
initial DeNB.
\- No UE context needs to be transferred during mobile relay handover.
\- Because PGW of the mobile relay is not changed during mobile relay
handover, IP address of the mobile relay is not needed to change. The
relocation or redirection of PGW of the mobile relay and Relay GW is not
needed. However, the Relay GW/PGW of the mobile relay may be changed for route
optimization purpose, which is FFS.
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-1: Alt.2 with Relay GW and PGW collocated with initial DeNB
There are also two options that can be applied to S5/S8 interface between
initial DeNB and target DeNB in this architecture:
(1) Option 1 (PMIP solution): Figure 5.2.2.3.2-2 shows the control plane
protocol stack for option 1. Because the Relay GW is located in the initial
DeNB, S1AP/SCTP/IP connections between mobile relay and initial DeNB are
transparent to target DeNB. GRE tunnels are created between LMA (i.e. PGW of
the mobile relay)) and MAG (i.e. SGW of the mobile relay). Figure 5.2.2.3.2-3
shows the user plane protocol stack. GTP/UDP/IP connections between mobile
relay and initial DeNB are transparent to target DeNB. Figure 5.2.2.3.2-4
shows the control plane protocol stack for S5/S8 interface between initial
DeNB and target DeNB.
(2) Option 2 (GTP solution): Figure 5.2.2.3.2-5 shows the mobile relay control
plane protocol stack for option 2. Because the Relay GW is located in the
initial DeNB, S1AP/SCTP/IP connections between mobile relay and initial DeNB
are transparent to target DeNB. GTP-U tunnels are created between PGW of the
mobile relay and SGW of the mobile relay. Figure 5.2.2.3.2-6 shows the mobile
relay user plane protocol stack. GTP/UDP/IP connections between mobile relay
and initial DeNB are transparent to target DeNB. Figure 5.2.2.3.2-7 shows the
control plane protocol stack for S5/S8 interface when GTP-U is selected.
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-2. Control plane protocol stack (option 1: PMIP)
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-3. User plane protocol stack (option 1: PMIP)
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-4. Control plane protocol stack for PMIP (option 1)
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-5. User plane protocol stack (option 2: GTP)
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-6. User plane protocol stack (option 2: GTP)
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-7. Control plane protocol stack for GTP (option 2)
###### 5.2.2.3.2.2 Mobility procedure
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-8 shows the RN inter-DeNB mobility procedure for option 1\.
The HO procedure for option 1 is enhanced by PMIP operations, e.g. the proxy
binding update (PBU)/proxy binding acknowledgement (PBA) between the LMA
(Initial DeNB) and the MAG (Target DeNB). The path switch for UEs is
unnecessary in option 1, since the LMA keeps the mobile relay's P-GW unchanged
during mobility. Figure 5.2.2.3.2-9 shows the mobile relay inter-DeNB mobility
procedure for option 2. An S5/S8 Bearer is updated from Source DeNB to Target
DeNB during handover. More steps are needed than the procedure in Release 10
since SGW of the mobile relay and PGW of the mobile relay are separated here.
However, comparing with the number of users in a normal cell, the number of
Mobile relays is very small. It will not bring so much signaling load to
network.
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-8: RN mobility procedure (option 1: PMIP)
Figure 5.2.2.3.2-9: RN mobility procedure (option 2: GTP)
##### 5.2.2.3.3 eAlt.2-3: Alt.2 with Relay GW and PGW/SGW separated from
initial DeNB
###### 5.2.2.3.3.1 Overview
Alt 2 can be further optimized by moving the RN PGW/SGW functionality and
relay GW into a separate mobility anchor while still keeps the S1/X2
functionality, as shown in figure 5.2.2.3.3-1.
Alt.2 (described in section 5.2.2.2) can be considered a special case of this
alternative where the initial relay P/SGW selection was to the P/SGW at the
initial DeNB where the relay starts normal operation.
Figure 5.2.2.3.3-1. Alt.2 with Relay GW and PGW/SGW separated from initial
DeNB
###### 5.2.2.3.3.2 Mobility procedure
The RN inter-DeNB mobility procedure under architecture Alt2 enhancement with
separate Mobility Anchor is basically the same as the procedure under Alt 1
and Alt.2, except the "Initial DeNB" is replaced by "Mobility Anchor".
#### 5.2.2.4 Alt.4
##### 5.2.2.4.1 Overview
Alt 4 relay node architecture is shown in Figure 5.2.2.4-1 below with the
following properties:
\- S1-U interface for the UE is between the RN and Relay GW and between the
Relay GW and the SGW of the UE.
\- S1-MME interface for the UE is between RN and Relay GW and between the
Relay GW andMME of the UE. For control plane packets of a UE served by mobile
RN, the S1/X2 AP messages are carried by SRB over Un interface.
\- For S1-U packets of a UE served by mobile RN, each EPS bearer of a UE
connected to the RN is mapped to separate radio bearers over the Un interface
(one-to-one mapping).
\- Mobile relay HO reuses existing UE handover procedures with some
enhancement/modification if needed.
Figure 5.2.2.4-1: Alternative 4 Relay Architecture
##### 5.2.2.4.2 Mobility procedure
Figure 5.2.2.4-2 shows the RN (together with UEs under the mobile RN) inter-
DeNB mobility procedure under architecture Alt.4.
In Alt4, the DeNB is aware of every UE under the MRN and DeNB will store
information for each bearer of such UE. The information expected to be stored
is, reference to TR36.086:
\- UE identity
\- Radio Bearer Configuration information Un (expected that part can be common
for a group of bearers).
_\- Addressing per bearer: \ _
_\- QoS information per bearer (as signalled over S1-AP)._
In the case of mobile relay HO, UE context for UEs in the mobile RN should be
transferred to the target DeNB during handover preparation phase.
Each EPS bearer of a UE connected to the RN is mapped to separate radio
bearers over the Un interface (one-to-one mapping). In order to identify
individual UE bearers on the Un interface a UE identifier needs to be added to
one of the PDCP, RLC or MAC protocol layers; i.e., some parts of the legacy
MAC/RLC/PDCP protocols would need to be modified. The Un DRB for each UE EPS
bearer can be established during either HO execution phase together with RN Un
bearer establishment (e.g. via HO COMMAND, OPTION1) or HO completion phase
where RN Un bearer is already established(e.g. via RRC Connection
Reconfiguration, OPTION2).
After the RN HO is completed, the target DeNB needs to perform the path switch
procedure for each UE to switch the path to the target DeNB.
Figure 5.2.2.4-2: RN mobility procedure (Alt 4)
# 6 Comparison
The criteria developed in the Table 1 apply to the comparison for both between
mobile relay solutions, and mobile relay over existing solutions.
Note: Existing solution of "Dedicated deployment of macro eNBs" will not be
part of the comparison.
Table 1 Mobile relay and existing solutions
Metric | Mobile relay solutions | Existing solutions |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Alt.1 | Alt.2 | eAlt.2-1 | eAlt.2-2 | eAlt.2-3 | Alt.4 | L1 repeater | LTE as backhaul, Wi-fi as access |   
RN Complexity | The same RN as Rel-10 with minor difference that MRN supports NNSF. | The same RN as Rel-10. | 
> MRN=2 Rel-10 RN-like entities. Additional difference from Rel-10 RN, e.g.,:
  * > Uu signalling of Legacy UE HO procedure is not performed
  * > RN start up procedure;
  * > Higher MRN complexity is required to ensure correct sequence, e.g., used between RN startup and UE context transfer, data forwarding, etc.
  * > Ability to map the 2 UEs into one MR entity
| The same RN as Rel-10. | The same RN as Rel-10 with minor difference that MRN needs to setup S1 interface with mobility anchor. | New model New functionalities needed for one-to-one mapping between two DRBs (one over Un and one over Uu) that need to be kept synchronized. | N/A | N/A |   
DeNB Complexity | Rel-10 eNB with integrity protection for S1/X2 signaling. The DeNB may need to know whether it is a Rel-10 RN or a Rel-11 MR | Rel-10 DeNB with ability to handle the separation of P-GW/S-GW collocated in the Initial DeNB, and the eNB function collocated in the target DeNB | The DeNB may need the enhancement to support concurrent UEs’ context transfer from source to target. | Rel-10 DeNB with S5/S8 interface. If PMIP based S5/S8 is adopted, DeNB need to additionally support PMIP related protocol | Rel-10 DeNB with limited impact, e.g.:
  * Rel-10 eNB with integrity protection for S1/X2 signaling;
  * Maybe impacted for the new GW selection mechanism for MRN.
| RRC/PDCP/RLC/MAC impact on top of Rel-10 eNB Additional logic to map the traffic received from an entity other than the MR’s SGW to radio bearer. Also need enhancement to handle UEs context and Un DRB setup. | N/A | N/A |   
Node Impact | MME | The MR’s MME may need to know whether it is a Rel-10 RN or a Rel-11 MR Dependent on the final security mechanism, the UE’s MME may need to use pre-defined DSCP value (or other information) for DL S1-C. | No impact foreseen.based on Rel-10. | The MR’s MME may need to know whether it is a Rel-10 RN or a Rel-11 MR (FFS) | MME is mandatory to perform SGW relocation at every MRN Inter-DeNB HO. The MR’s MME may need to know whether it is a Rel-10 RN or a Rel-11 MR The MME need to know the IP address of the SGW collocated in the target DeNB during the HO procedure. | Need new GW selection mechanism to select the Mobility Anchor for MR’s S/P-GW. The MR’s MME may need to know whether it is a Rel-10 RN or a Rel-11 MR | The MR’s MME need to know whether it is a Rel-10 RN or a Rel-11 MR In case of S1 HO, the MME need to know the new UE context information added in the HO Req message. | No impact | No impact  
| S/P-GW | May require reconfiguring the DSCP setting in UE’s SGW/PGW to support the correct mapping in MR’s PGW ) | No impact | No impact | No impact | New entity including Relay GW functionality . Also need to support the S1-C/U interface | No impact (FFS) | No impact | No impact  
Deployment | Deployment flexibility and complexity | DeNB deployment optimization along train path. | DeNB deployment optimization along train path. IP connectivity between distant DeNBs is required to ensure MRN mobility | DeNB deployment optimization along train path Possible impact on the network planning on the geometry of the DeNB cells | DeNB deployment optimization along train path IP connectivity between distant DeNBs is required to ensure MRN mobility | DeNB deployment optimization along train path | DeNB deployment optimization along train path. | eNB deployment optimization along train path | eNB deployment optimization along train path  
| Scalability with respect to number of RNs | No issue due to small number of RNs under each DeNB Additional S1 interface to UE-MME for each additional MR | No issue due to small number of RNs under each DeNB | N/A | N/A |  |  |  |   
| Scalability with respect to number of UEs | No issue due to UE EPS bearer aggregation with similar QoS on Un | Number of DRBs could be a scalability issue on Un even with a small number (i.e. >7) of UEs connect to RN | No issue. | No issue. |  |  |  |   
Standardization Effort and Complexity | Low | Low | Low (some aspects FFS) | Low | Medium. | High | RAN4 effort is needed.(FFS) | No impact |   
UE mobility | Complexity | UE HO is avoided by performing RN HO | UE HO is avoided by performing RN HO | UE HO is performed similarly with legacy UE HO procedures, except signalling over Uu interface is not needed. | UE HO is avoided by performing RN HO | UE HO is avoided by performing RN HO | UE HO is performed similarly with legacy UE HO procedures, except signalling over Uu interface is not needed. | Same UE mobility procedure as Rel-8, but frequently performed. | N/A  
| Efficiency | N/A | N/A | DeNB is aware of per UE S1/X2 handover signalling, signalling routing optimisation can be provided. Unacknowledged packets over Un in DeNB1 cannot be forwarded to DeNB2, but should be sent to mobile RN before RN_UE1 is detached._ | N/A | N/A | DeNB is aware of per UE S1/X2 handover signalling, signalling routing optimisation can be provided | eNB is aware of per UE S1/X2 handover signalling, signalling routing optimisation can be provided | N/A  
| Delay | Handover signalling involves transmission between the DeNB and the RN P/S-GW, so the delay might be higher depending on network deployment. | Similar with Atl.1, the transmission is between initial DeNB and the target DeNB. | No extra handover signalling delay Extra delay may be caused by following reasons:
  * > The startup of RN-UE2 attach to DeNB2 during change of the working RN entity;
  * > Transfer of UE bears between DeNB1 and DeNB2;
  * > Optimization FFS.
| Similar with Atl.1, the transmission is between initial DeNB and the target DeNB, and bearer setup between RN SGW and PGW. | Similar with Atl.1, the transmission is between the DeNB and the mobility anchor. | No extra handover signalling delay | No extra handover signalling delay | No extra handover signalling delay  
QoS | QoS Control: UE AMBR; ARP; QCI; Control plane | RN bearer granularity | UE bearer granularity | UE bearer granularity | The QoS of telecommunication services of UEs on board train cannot be ensured |  |  |  |   
| Admission control for individual UE bearers | No admission control for individual UE during the change of DeNB, The DeNB can only accept or reject all traffic of a specific QCI. | No admission control for individual UE during the change of DeNB. The DeNB can only accept or reject all traffic of a specific QCI. | Admission control for individual UE is available following Rel-8 principle according to implementation. | No admission control for individual UE during the change of DeNB. The DeNB can only accept or reject all traffic of a specific QCI. | No admission control for individual UE during the change of DeNB. The DeNB can only accept or reject all traffic of a specific QCI. | Admission control for individual UE is available following Rel-8 principle according to implementation. | Admission control for individual UE is available following Rel-8 principle. | N/A  
S1 impact | Low | No impact | Optimization for path switch and group mobility FFS | Low | Medium | FFS. Impact on S1 transport | No impact | No impact |   
X2 impact | Low | FFS. Impact on X2 transport | No impact | No impact |  |  |  |  |   
Security | Rel-10 mechanism can be reused when the DeNB is aware of which MR’s EPS bearer carries S1/X2 signaling | Rel-10 mechanism can be reused | Rel-10 mechanism can be reused when the DeNB is aware of which MR’s EPS bearer carries S1/X2 signaling | Rel-8 mechanism is assumed to be reused with. Bearer ID extension is assumed to be extended. | Rel-8 mechanism can be reused | Wi-fi access link is untrusted User data security cannot be assured. |  |  |   
Support for multi-RAT | It’s possible only deployment of LTE DeNB along railways is needed with RN multi-RAT implementation. The 2G/3G/LTE/WiFi traffic is transparent to the P/SGW and DeNB, | The LTE traffic is proxy in the initial DeNB. The 2G/3G/Wifi traffic is transparent to the DeNB, | Similar to Alt.2 but proxy relocation FFS | The same as Alt.2 | Maybe same as Alt.2 | FFS | Base stations of each RAT need to be deployed along the railways. L1 repeater needs to support appropriate bands | N/A |   
Support for MR’s mobility | Existing UE handover procedures can be reused with some enhancement/modification if needed. | Existing UE handover procedures can be reused with some enhancement/modification if needed. | No real MRN handover procedure is performed during MRN moving. The two RN entities within MRN work alternatively instead. | Existing UE handover procedures can be reused with some enhancement/modification if needed. However, SGW is relocated everytime for Inter-DeNB mobility of MRN. | Existing UE handover procedures can be reused with some enhancement/modification. | Existing UE handover procedures can be reused with some enhancement/modification if needed. | N/A | N/A |   
Signalling overhead | Low. Individual UE handovers are replaced by a single mobile relay handover on the backhaul link. The mobile relay handover remains transparent to UEs | Low. The same as Alt.1 | High. Slightly lower than that in L1 repeater case. All UEs under RN_Cell1 are handed over to RN_Cell2, via S1/X2 HO per UE. **Higher signalling overhead due to group mobility not supported** | Medium Slightly higher than Alt.1/Alt.2/eAlt.2-3, because signalling overhead caused by RN SGW relocation each time when RN handover | Low. The same as Alt.1 | High- . Slightly lower than that in L1 repeater case, because HO Command and HO Complete procedure is saved over Uu **Higher signalling overhead due to group mobility not supported** | High. All UEs receiving from/transmission to L1 repeater are handed over to the target eNBs, via S1/X2 HO per UE. **Higher signalling overhead due to group mobility not supported** | **Medium** Low overhead for PS data due to group mobility High overhead for CS voice due to individual HOs for each UE |   
Impact on UE energy consumption | 
> Reduced UE energy consumption benefits from:
  * > avoidance of penetration loss
  * > minimized UE mobility measurement
  * > avoidance of frequent UE handovers
|
> Reduced UE energy consumption benefits from:
  * > avoidance of penetration loss
| Only small benefit on saving UE energy consumption because 3GPP UEs need normal mobility measurements to keep reachable. |  |  |  |  |  |   
Handover success rate | Improved HO success rate benefits from:
  * > better radio link quality due to avoidance of penetration loss, Doppler
  * > Possible signalling congestion avoided due to group handover
| Improved HO success rate benefits from:
  * > better radio link quality due to avoidance of penetration loss, Doppler
| The same as Alt.1 | Improved HO success rate benefits from:
  * > better radio link quality due to avoidance of penetration loss
| Improved HO success rate benefits from:
  * > better radio link quality due to avoidance of penetration loss for service through WiFi access
No improvement on voice service since voice service is using 2G networks along the train path. |  |  |  |   
Backhaul link stability | Improved Un backhaul link stability comparing to Rel-8~Rel-10 UE Uu due to enhanced techniques can be implemented, e.g., higher transmission power, more sensitive receiver, advanced antenna processing | Potential interference between two co-existent Un interfaces to source and target DeNB May be addressed through enhanced implementation techniques, e.g. advanced antenna processing, enhanced radio resource management | The same as Alt.1 | N/A | The same as Alt.1 |  |  |  |   
Voice call support and continuity | Supported. Voice call and its continuity are supported in the same way as previous releases in both on board and getting on/off the train scenarios. Supported. | Supported. Voice call and its continuity are supported in the same way as previous releases in both on board and getting on/off the train scenarios. | Partly supported. CS voice call(using 2G) and its continuity are supported in the same way as previous releases in on board scenario; Packet voice continuity while boarding/leaving the train is not currently supported |  |  |  |  |  |   
Quality of access link | Good. UE access link is not subject to high speed effects | Not as good as MR due to re-transmission of high speed effects on the backhaul | Not assured for the reasons, e.g.,
  * > The quality is possibly decreased due to the increase of numbers of UEs accessed .
  * > Interference due to the unlicensed ISM band, .
|  |  |  |  |  |   
Support of multiple concurrent services | Supported | Supported | Not supported. |  |  |  |  |  |   
Support for local services | extend LIPA for MR(FFS) | Not supported | Supported |  |  |  |  |  |   
Matrix Fields interpretation (informative):
RN Complexity: What is the complexity in specification, design and
implementation of the MR? How easy it is to derive such node from existing
nodes?
DeNB Complexity: What is the complexity in specification, design and
implementation of the DeNB? How easy it is to derive such node from existing
nodes, considering both eNB and Rel-10 DeNB?
Node Impact: MME: Any upgrades needed in the MME to support MRs, considering
MME supporting Rel-10 relay? Can the release 9/release 10 bearer setup,
modification and QoS control be enough or major upgrades required?\ \ S/P-GW:
Any upgrades needed in the S/P-GW to support MRs? Can the release 9/release 10
S/P-GW be able to support RNs or major upgrades required?
Deployment: Deployment flexibility and complexity: Is the deployment sub-
optimal or is it already optimised to a viable level? Can the deployment be
easily optimised?\ \ Scalability (with respect to number of MRs and number of
UEs): How does the deployment cope with increasing numbers of supported RNs
and UEs (connected to RNs)?\ \ Co-deployment with Rel-10 RN: How easy it is to
deploy the alternative given the current Rel-9 architecture as a reference
starting point?
Standardization Effort and Complexity: What is the anticipated impact on
standardization? Is it easy to standardize the alternative as is, or are
simplifications required? Is there any unclear issue that can end up being a
showstopper delaying the standardization process? Is the alternative
achievable for release 10 or should it be postponed for future releases?
UE mobility: Complexity: Relaying is expected to work with release 8 UEs, but
are there any differences from the UE handover procedures of release 8, from
the CN point of view?\ \ Efficiency: Any unnecessary back and forth
forwarding?\ \ Delay: What is the total required time for a UE handover? What
is the handover interruption time? Does the delay fall within the limits set
by release 8 standards?
QoS: QoS Control (UE AMBR; ARP; QCI; Control plane): Can we control the DL
AMBR of UEs over the Un interface? Can the ARP of the UE EPS bearers be used
during admission over the Un? Are the nine QCIs of release 8 sufficient or
there is a need to define new ones? Will it be possible to keep the
requirements of the release 8 QCIs as is, or would they have to be redefined
taking the extra delay incurred due to relaying?\ \ Can we satisfy the
requirements of control plane messages between the RN and MME? Can control
plane messages such as S1/X2 be transported over the Un with the required
priority within signalling radio bearers? Or do they have to be mapped to
DRBs? If so, are the current QCIs capable of satisfying the requirements? How
about the impact of head of line blocking if DRBs are used for signalling
transport?\ \ Can the QoS of telecommunication services of UEs on board train
be ensured according to the existing mechanism defined in the spec?\ \
Admission control for individual UE bearers: Is admission control performed
individually for UE bearers during the moving of RN? Are there any impacts of
the way admission control is performed?
S1 impact: How is S1AP impacted with respect to the currently available
protocol? How efficient is the S1 messaging, especially in the case of high
density deployment? Does the RN have to keep S1 links directly with the MME
and as such use part of the Un resources for S1 maintenance, such as SCTP keep
alive or GTP-U echo messages? If so, what is the impact on overall system
utilization as well as the incurred S1 latency?
X2 impact: How is X2AP impacted with respect to the currently available
protocol? How efficient is the X2 messaging, especially in the case of high
density deployment? Does the RN have to keep X2 connections with all neighbour
RNs at all time, as well as (non-donor) eNBs, or it has to keep only one X2
towards the donor eNB? What is the impact of both cases on the Un resource
utilization, i.e. considering the SCTP keep alive and GTP-U echo messages as
well as signalling required to enable optimizations such as ICIC where the RN
might be required to forward its load information towards all the nodes with
which it has X2 connection with?
Security: What is the impact on security? Can we still keep the security
requirements of release 8 (ciphering for both SRBs and DRBs and integrity
protection for SRBs)? What kind of security mechanisms should be used over the
Un of mobile relay? Does the mechanism defined for Rel-10 RN can be reused?\ \
Can the user data security be ensured?
Support for multi-RAT: What is the complexity in specification, design and
implementation to support LTE backhaul while 2G/3G/LTE/Wi-Fi access?
Support for MR's mobility: What is the complexity in specification, design and
implementation of the mobility of the Mobile Relay?
Signalling overhead: What is the situation in terms of overall signalling load
during the MRs moving across the DeNBs, together with the handling of UEs
under service of MRs?
Impact on UE energy consumption: What is the impact on UEs energy(battery)
consumption for the UEs under MRs cell when moving with the MRs?
Handover success rate: How does the solution bring benefit to the improvement
of handover success of UEs?
Backhaul link stability: How does the solution impact the reliability of
backhaul link?
Voice call support and continuity: How is voice call supported? Any
impact/drawback/improvement to support CS voice call? Is continuity of voice
call available in the case when UE get on/off the train?
Quality of access link: What radio conditions are likely to be created for UEs
in this deployment, in terms of e.g., quality of radio connection, radio
channel interference, user experience?
Support of multiple concurrent services: Is there any restrictions on the
support of multiple services for one UE at the same time? E.g. the QoS of both
voice call and internet service are ensured at the same time?
Support for local services: How are locally terminated on-board services
supported?
# 7 Conclusions
It's concluded to select both Alt.1 and Alt.2 for further work on mobile
relays.
# Annex A: Change history
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **C | | | | | | | | | hange | | | | | | | | | hist | | | | | | | | | ory** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **D |** TSG | **TSG | * | ** |** Su | ** | ** | | ate**| #** | D | _CR_ _| Rev_ _| bject | Old_ _| New_ _| | | | oc.__| | | /Comm | | | | | | | | | ent_ _| | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TR | 0.0.0 | 0.0.1 | | 11-10 | | | | | ske | | | | | | | | | leton | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | Sce | 0.0.1 | 0.0.2 | | 11-11 | | | | | nario | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | req | | | | | | | | | uirem | | | | | | | | | ents, | | | | | | | | | exi | | | | | | | | | sting | | | | | | | | | solu | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | erfor | | | | | | | | | mance | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | atrix | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | Up | 0.0.2 | 0.1.0 | | 12-04 | | | | | dated | | | | | | | | | acco | | | | | | | | | rding | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | gress | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | RA | | | | | | | | | N3#7 | | | | | | | | | 5bis: | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | obile | | | | | | | | | relay | | | | | | | | | solut | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | compa | | | | | | | | | rison | | | | | | | | | frame | | | | | | | | | work, | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | more | | | | | | | | | exi | | | | | | | | | sting | | | | | | | | | solu | | | | | | | | | tion; | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | TR | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | umber | | | | | | | | | upd | | | | | | | | | ated. | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | | | | | TP on | 0.1.0 | 1.0.0 | | 12-05 | | | | | Mult | | | | | | | | | i-RAT | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R3-1 | | | | | | | | | 21174 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Compa | | | | | | | | | rison | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R3-1 | | | | | | | | | 21468 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | obile | | | | | | | | | relay | | | | | | | | | func | | | | | | | | | tions | | | | | | | | | TP | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |_ 201 | | | | | _TP |_ 1 | _1 | | 2-08_ | | | | | on | .0.0 _| .1.0_ | | | | | | | concl | | | | | | | | | usion | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | impl | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | way | | | | | | | | | fo | | | | | | | | | rward | | | | | | | | | pro | | | | | | | | | posal | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | R3-12 | | | | | | | | | 1890 _| | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |_ 201 | | | | | _Pr |_ 1 | _2 | | 2-09_ | | | | | esent | .1.0 _| .0.0_ | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | RAN | | | | | | | | | #57 | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | appr | | |