# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes the conformance requirements for E-UTRAN
Location Measurement Units (LMU) operating in the FDD or TDD mode.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.111: \"Location Measurement Unit (LMU) performance
specification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.211: \"Physical channels and modulation\".
[4] IEC 60721-3-3 (2002): \"Classification of environmental conditions \- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 3: Stationary use at weather protected locations\".
[5] IEC 60721-3-4 (1995): \"Classification of environmental conditions \- Part
3: Classification of groups of environmental parameters and their severities -
Section 4: Stationary use at non-weather protected locations\".
[6] IEC 60068-2-1 (2007): \"Environmental testing - Part 2: Tests. Tests A:
Cold\".
[7] IEC 60068-2-2 (2007): \"Environmental testing - Part 2: Tests. Tests B:
Dry heat\".
[8] IEC 60068-2-6 (2007): \"Environmental testing - Part 2: Tests - Test Fc:
Vibration (sinusoidal)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BWChannel Channel bandwidth
BWChannel_CA Aggregated Channel bandwidth
Ês Received energy per RE (power normalized to the subcarrier spacing) during
the useful part of the symbol, i.e. excluding the cyclic prefix, at the LMU
antenna connector
Fedge_high Upper edge of the Aggregated Channel Bandwidth
Fedge_low Lower edge of the Aggregated Channel Bandwidth
Io The total received power density, including signal and interference, as
measured at the UE antenna connector
Iot The received power spectral density of the total noise and interference
for a certain RE (power integrated over the RE and normalized to the
subcarrier spacing) as measured at the LMU antenna connector
Ts The basic unit of time defined in TS 36.211 clause 4
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ACS Adjacent Channel Selectivity
DRX Discontinuous Reception
E-UTRAN Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
E-SMLC Enhanced Serving Mobile Location Center
EARFCN E-UTRAN Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
eNodeB evolved Node B
LMU Location Measurement Unit
RTOA Relative Time of Arrival
SRS Sounding Reference Signal
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UTDOA Uplink Time Difference Of Arrival
# 4 General Test Conditions and Declarations
## 4.1 Measurement uncertainties and test requirements
### 4.1.1 General
The requirements of this clause apply to all applicable tests in this
specification.
The Minimum Requirements are given in 36.111 [2] and test requirements are
given in this specification. Test Tolerances are defined in Annex F of this
specification. Test Tolerances are individually calculated for each test. The
Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements in 36.111 [2] to
create Test Requirements.
### 4.1.2 Acceptable uncertainty of Test System
The maximum acceptable uncertainty of the Test System is specified below for
each test, where appropriate. The Test System shall enable the stimulus
signals in the test case to be adjusted to within the specified tolerance and
the equipment under test to be measured with an uncertainty not exceeding the
specified values. All tolerances and uncertainties are absolute values, and
are valid for a confidence level of 95 %, unless otherwise stated.
A confidence level of 95% is the measurement uncertainty tolerance interval
for a specific measurement that contains 95% of the performance of a
population of test equipment.
For RF tests in Section 6, it should be noted that the uncertainties in
subclause 4.1.2 apply to the Test System operating into a nominal 50 ohm load
and do not include system effects due to mismatch between the LMU and the Test
System.
#### 4.1.2.1 Measurement of receiver
Table 4.1.2-1: Maximum Test System Uncertainty for receiver tests
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Subclause | Maximum Test System | Derivation of Test | | | Uncertainty^1^ | System Uncertainty | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2 Reference | ±0.7 dB, f ≤ 3.0GHz | | | sensitivity level | | | | | ±1.0 dB, 3.0GHz \ [Adjacent channel | | | | > Sele | | | | ctivity]{.underline} | | | | > | | | | > E-UTRA 1.4MHz | | | | > channel bandwidth: | | | | > 56dB | | | | > | | | | > E-UTRA 3MHz | | | | > channel bandwidth: | | | | > 56dB | | | | > | | | | > E-UTRA 5MHz | | | | > channel bandwidth | | | | > and above: 56dB | | | | > | | | | > [Narrow band | | | | > b | | | | locking]{.underline} | | | | > | | | | > E-UTRA 1.4MHz | | | | > channel bandwidth: | | | | > 65dB | | | | > | | | | > E-UTRA 3MHz | | | | > channel bandwidth: | | | | > 61dB | | | | > | | | | > E-UTRA 5MHz | | | | > channel bandwidth | | | | > and above: 59dB | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 4.1.2.2 Measurement time requirement
Table 4.1.2.2-1 UL RTOA Measurement time uncertainty
* * *
Test parameter Uncertainty Notes Measurement time, _T~e~_ 0 s Requires the
time stamp clock accuracy ≤ 1ppm
* * *
#### 4.1.2.3 Measurement of performance requirement
Table 4.1.2.3-1 UL RTOA Measurement accuracy uncertainty
* * *
Test parameter Uncertainty Notes UL RTOA measurement accuracy 0 s Requires
calibration of the signal path delay to be ±10 ns Wanted Signal input SINR
±0.3 dB Signal generators with integral AWGN sources. Interferer modeled as
AWGN
* * *
## 4.2 LMU classes
The UTDOA architecture is described in TS 36.305 [2].
An LMU may be deployed in three ways:
● LMU class 1: LMU integrated into base station
● LMU class 2: LMU co-sited with base station and sharing antenna with the
base station
● LMU class 3: standalone LMU with own receive antenna
## 4.3 Regional requirements
Some requirements in the present document may only apply in certain regions
either as optional requirements or set by local and regional regulation as
mandatory requirements. It is normally not stated in the 3GPP specifications
under what exact circumstances that the requirements apply, since this is
defined by local or regional regulation.
Table 4.3-1 lists all requirements that may be applied differently in
different regions.
Table 4.3-1: List of regional requirements
* * *
Clause number Requirement Comments 5.5 Operating bands Some bands may be
applied regionally. 5.6 Channel bandwidth Some channel bandwidths may be
applied regionally. 5.7 Channel arrangement The requirement is applied
according to what operating bands in Clause 5.5 that are supported by the LMU.
* * *
## 4.4 Selection of configurations for testing
The tests in this specification do not cover all possible configurations.
## 4.5 LMU configurations
Receiver test ports for LMU class 1 are illustrated in Figure 4.5-1. Receiver
test ports for LMU class 2 are illustrated in Figure 4.5-2. Receiver test
ports for LMU class 3 are illustrated in Figure 4.5-3. If any external
apparatus, e.g., a RX amplifier, a filter or the combination of such devices
is used, LMU RF requirements specified in this specification apply at the far
end antenna connector (port B); otherwise, the requirements apply at port A.
Requirements applicability for different LMU classes is summarized in Table
4.5-1.
{width="6.3125in" height="2.3020833333333335in"}
{width="6.25in" height="2.4270833333333335in"}
Figure 4.5-1: Two examples of receiver test ports for LMU class 1.
{width="5.979166666666667in" height="2.6458333333333335in"}
Figure 4.5-2: Receiver test ports for LMU class 2.
Figure 4.5-3: Receiver test ports for LMU class 3.
Table 4.5-1: Test ports and RF requirements applicability
* * *
LMU class Physical Node RF Requirements Test Port Comments
1 BS TS 36.104 A or B Test port determined per TS 36.104
2 BS Degradation of the base station DL performance and base station UL
performance may occur when LMU class 2 is co-sited with the base station. B
Test port determined per TS 36.104
              LMU             clauses 5.2-5.8                                                                                                                                A or B      Test port determined per\
                                                                                                                                                                                         Figure 4.5-2
3 LMU clauses 5.2-5.8 A or B Test port determined per\ Figure 4.5-3
* * *
## 4.6 Manufacturer's declarations of regional requirements
### 4.6.1 Operating band and frequency range
The manufacturer shall declare which operating band(s) specified in clause 5.5
that is supported by the LMU under test and if applicable, which frequency
ranges within the operating band(s) that the LMU can operate in. Requirements
for other operating bands and frequency ranges need not be tested.
The manufacturer shall declare which operating band(s) specified in clause 5.5
are supported by the LMU under test for UEs configured with carrier
aggregation.
### 4.6.2 Channel bandwidth
The manufacturer shall declare which of the channel bandwidths specified in
TS36.111 [2], Section 5.1.3 are supported by the LMU under test. Requirements
for other channel bandwidths need not be tested. Within the supported channel
bandwidth, an LMU shall support all SRS bandwidth configurations.
### 4.6.3 Co-location with base stations in other bands
The manufacturer shall declare whether the LMU under test is intended to
operate co-located with base stations of one or more of the systems GSM850,
GSM900, DCS1800, PCS1900, UTRA FDD, UTRA TDD and/or E-UTRA operating in
another band. If this is the case, at least
\- LMU receiver spurious emissions need to be tested, and
\- compliance with the applicable test requirements for base station receiver
blocking in TS 36.141 shall be tested.
Additionally, for LMU Class 2, due to the expected base station performance
degradation (see Table 4.5-1), the base station performance needs to be
ensured for UL and DL.
### 4.6.4 Manufacturer\'s declarations of supported RF configurations
The manufacturer shall declare which operational configurations the LMU
supports by declaring the following parameters:
\- The supported operating bands defined in subclause 5.5;
\- The frequency range within the above operating band(s) supported by the
LMU;
\- The maximum RF bandwidth supported by a LMU within each operating band;
• for contiguous spectrum operation
\- The supported operating configurations (multi-carrier, carrier aggregation,
and/or single carrier) within each operating band.
\- The supported component carrier combinations at nominal channel spacing
within each operating band and sub-block.
\- Maximum number of supported carriers within each band;
• for contiguous spectrum operation
## 4.7 Specified frequency range and supported channel bandwidth
Unless otherwise stated, the test shall be performed with a lowest and the
highest bandwidth supported by the BS. The manufacturer shall declare that the
requirements are fulfilled for all other bandwidths supported by the BS which
are not tested.
The manufacturer shall declare:
\- which of the operating bands defined in subclause 5.5 are supported by the
LMU.
\- the frequency range within the above frequency band(s) supported by the
LMU.
\- the channel bandwidths supported by the LMU
\- channel bandwidth combinations supported by the LMU for testing with UEs
configured with CA.
For the single carrier testing many tests in this TS are performed with
appropriate frequencies in the bottom, middle and top channels of the
supported frequency range of the BS. These are denoted as RF channels B
(bottom), M (middle) and T (top).
Unless otherwise stated, the test shall be performed with a single carrier at
each of the RF channels B, M and T.
When a test is performed by a test laboratory, the EARFCNs to be used for RF
channels B, M and T shall be specified by the laboratory. The laboratory may
consult with operators, the manufacturer or other bodies.
When a test is performed by a manufacturer, the EARFCNs to be used for RF
channels B, M and T may be specified by an operator.
### 4.7.1 RF bandwidth position for non-single carrier testing
Many tests in this TS are performed with the maximum RF bandwidth located at
the bottom, middle and top of the supported frequency range in each operating
band. These are denoted as B~RFBW~(bottom), M~RFBW~ (middle) and T~RFBW~
(top).
Unless otherwise stated, the test shall be performed at B~RFBW~, M~RFBW~ and
T~RFBW~ defined as following:
\- B~RFBW~: maximum RF bandwidth located at the bottom of the supported
frequency range in each operating band;
\- M~RFBW~: maximum RF bandwidth located in the middle of the supported
frequency range in each operating band;
\- T~RFBW~: maximum RF bandwidth located at the top of the supported frequency
range in each operating band.
When a test is performed by a test laboratory, the position of B~RFBW~,
M~RFBW~ and T~RFBW~ in the operating band shall be specified by the
laboratory. The laboratory may consult with operators, the manufacturer or
other bodies.
### 4.7.2 Aggregated channel bandwidth position for CA specific testing
Occupied bandwidth test in this TS is performed with the aggregated channel
bandwidth and sub-block bandwidths located at the bottom, middle and top of
the supported frequency range in the operating band. These are denoted as
B~BW\ Channel\ CA~(bottom), M~BW\ Channel\ CA~ (middle) and T~BW\ Channel\ CA~
(top) for contiguous spectrum operation.
Unless otherwise stated, the test for contiguous spectrum operation shall be
performed at B~BW\ Channel\ CA~, M~BW\ Channel\ CA~ and T~BW\ Channel\ CA~
defined as following:
\- B~BW\ Channel\ CA~: aggregated channel bandwidth located at the bottom of
the supported frequency range in each operating band;
\- M~BW\ Channel\ CA~: aggregated channel bandwidth located close in the
middle of the supported frequency range in each operating band, with the
center frequency of each component carrier aligned to the channel raster;
\- T~BW\ Channel\ CA~: aggregated channel bandwidth located at the top of the
supported frequency range in each operating band.
When a test is performed by a test laboratory, the position of B~BW\ Channel\
CA~, M~BW\ Channel\ CA~ and T~BW\ Channel\ CA~ for contiguous spectrum
operation in the operating band shall be specified by the laboratory. The
laboratory may consult with operators, the manufacturer or other bodies.
## 4.8 Format and interpretation of tests
Each test in the following clauses has a standard format:
**X Title**
All tests are applicable to all equipment within the scope of the present
document, unless otherwise stated.
**X.1 Definition and applicability**
This subclause gives the general definition of the parameter under
consideration and specifies whether the test is applicable to all equipment or
only to a certain subset. Required manufacturer declarations may be included
here.
**X.2 Minimum Requirement**
This subclause contains the reference to the subclause to the 3GPP reference
(or core) specification which defines the Minimum Requirement.
**X.3 Test Purpose**
This subclause defines the purpose of the test.
**X.4 Method of test**
**X.4.1 Initial conditions**
This subclause defines the initial conditions for each test, including the
test environment, the RF channels to be tested and the basic measurement set-
up.
**X.4.2 Procedure**
This subclause describes the steps necessary to perform the test and provides
further details of the test definition like point of access (e.g. test port),
domain (e.g. frequency-span), range, weighting (e.g. bandwidth), and
algorithms (e.g. averaging).
**X.5 Test Requirement**
This subclause defines the pass/fail criteria for the equipment under test.
See subclause 4.1.2.5, Interpretation of measurement results.
# 5 Operating Bands and Channel Arrangement
## 5.1 General
The channel arrangements presented in this clause are based on the operating
bands and channel bandwidths defined in the present release of specifications.
LMUs can be declared to support the operating channels and channel bandwidths
as defined in this specification. LMU can also be declared to support UL RTOA
measurements for UEs configured with contiguous UL CA.
NOTE: Other operating bands and channel bandwidths may be considered in future
releases.
## 5.2 Operating bands
E-UTRA is designed to operate in the operating bands defined in Table 5.2-1.
_Table 5.2-1 E-UTRA operating bands_
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | -UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | Oper | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | ating | oper | oper | | | | | | | Band | ating | ating | | | | | | | | band | band\ | | | | | | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | rec | tran | | | | | | | | eive\ | smit\ | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 1 | 1920 | -- | 1980 | 2110 | -- | 2170 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 2 | 1850 | -- | 1910 | 1930 | -- | 1990 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 3 | 1710 | -- | 1785 | 1805 | -- | 1880 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 4 | 1710 | -- | 1755 | 2110 | -- | 2155 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 5 | 824 | -- | 849 | 869 | -- | 8 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | 94MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 6^1^ | 830 | -- | 840 | 875 | -- | 885 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 7 | 2500 | -- | 2570 | 2620 | -- | 2690 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 8 | 880 | -- | 915 | 925 | -- | 960 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 9 | 1 | -- | 1 | 1 | -- | 1 | FDD | | | 749.9 | | 784.9 | 844.9 | | 879.9 | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 10 | 1710 | -- | 1770 | 2110 | -- | 2170 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 11 | 1 | -- | 1 | 1 | -- | 1 | FDD | | | 427.9 | | 447.9 | 475.9 | | 495.9 | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 12 | 699 | -- | 716 | 729 | -- | 746 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 13 | 777 | -- | 787 | 746 | -- | 756 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 14 | 788 | -- | 798 | 758 | -- | 768 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 15 | Res | | | Res | | | FDD | | | erved | | | erved | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 16 | Res | | | Res | | | FDD | | | erved | | | erved | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 17 | 704 | | 716 | 734 | | 746 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 18 | 815 | -- | 830 | 860 | -- | 875 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 19 | 830 | -- | 845 | 875 | -- | 890 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 20 | 832 | -- | 862 | 791 | -- | 821 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 21 | 1 | -- | 1 | 1 | -- | 1 | FDD | | | 447.9 | | 462.9 | 495.9 | | 510.9 | | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 22 | 3410 | -- | 3490 | 3510 | -- | 3590 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 23 | 2000 | -- | 2020 | 2180 | -- | 2200 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 24 | 1 | -- | 1 | 1525 | -- | 1559 | FDD | | | 626.5 | | 660.5 | MHz | | MHz | | | | MHz | | MHz | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 25 | 1850 | -- | 1915 | 1930 | -- | 1995 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 26 | 814 | -- | 849 | 859 | -- | 894 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 27 | 807 | -- | 824 | 852 | -- | 869 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 28 | 703 | -- | 748 | 758 | -- | 803 | FDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 29 | N/A | 717 | -- | 728 | FDD | | | | | | MHz | | MHz | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 33 | 1900 | -- | 1920 | 1900 | -- | 1920 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 34 | 2010 | -- | 2025 | 2010 | -- | 2025 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 35 | 1850 | -- | 1910 | 1850 | -- | 1910 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 36 | 1930 | -- | 1990 | 1930 | -- | 1990 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 37 | 1910 | -- | 1930 | 1910 | -- | 1930 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 38 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | 2570 | -- | 2620 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 39 | 1880 | -- | 1920 | 1880 | -- | 1920 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 40 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | 2300 | -- | 2400 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 41 | 2496 | -- | 2690 | 2496 | -- | 2690 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 42 | 3400 | -- | 3600 | 3400 | -- | 3600 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 43 | 3600 | -- | 3800 | 3600 | -- | 3800 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | 44 | 703 | -- | 803 | 703 | -- | 803 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Note | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 6 is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pplic | | | | | | | | | able. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | Restr | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | onfig | | | | | | | | | ured. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | dow | | | | | | | | | nlink | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | aired | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | (exte | | | | | | | | | rnal) | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | suppo | | | | | | | | | rting | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | P | | | | | | | | | cell. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
E-UTRA is designed to operate for the carrier aggregation bands defined in
Table 5.2-2.
Table 5.2-2. Intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation bands
* * *
CA Band E-UTRA operating band
CA_1 1 CA_7 7 CA_38 38 CA_40 40 CA_41 41
* * *
## 5.3 Channel bandwidth
LMU requirements are for the channel bandwidths listed in Table 5.3-1.
Table 5.3-1: Transmission bandwidth configuration _N_ ~RB~ in E-UTRA channel
bandwidths
* * *
Channel bandwidth BW~Channel~ [MHz] 1.4 3 5 10 15 20 Transmission bandwidth
configuration _N_ ~RB~ 6 15 25 50 75 100
* * *
Figure 5.3-1 shows the relation between the Channel bandwidth (BW~Channel~)
and the Transmission bandwidth configuration (N~RB~). The channel edges are
defined as the lowest and highest frequencies of the carrier separated by the
channel bandwidth, i.e. at F~C~ +/- BW~Channel~ /2.
Figure 5.3-1: Definition of Channel Bandwidth and Transmission Bandwidth
Configuration\ for one E-UTRA carrier.
Figure 5.3-2 illustrates the aggregated channel bandwidth for intra-band
carrier aggregation.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="2.9381944444444446in"}
Figure 5.3-2: Definition of Aggregated Channel Bandwidth for intra-band
carrier aggregation
The lower edge of the Aggregated Channel Bandwidth (BW~Channel_CA~) is defined
as F~edge_low~ = F~C_low~ - F~offset~. The upper edge of the aggregated
channel bandwidth is defined as F~edge_high~ = F~C_high~ + F~offset~. The
Aggregated Channel Bandwidth, **BW~Channel_CA,~** is defined as follows:
BW~Channel_CA~ = F~edge_high~ - F~edge_low~ [MHz]
## 5.4 Channel arrangement
### 5.4.1 Channel spacing
The spacing between carriers will depend on the deployment scenario, the size
of the frequency block available and the channel bandwidths. The nominal
channel spacing between two adjacent E-UTRA carriers is defined as following:
Nominal Channel spacing = (BW~Channel(1)~ + BW~Channel(2)~)/2
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA carriers. The channel spacing can be adjusted to optimize
performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.4.2 CA Channel spacing
For intra-band contiguously aggregated carriers the channel spacing between
adjacent component carriers shall be multiple of 300 kHz.
The nominal channel spacing between two adjacent aggregated E-UTRA carriers is
defined as follows:
where BW~Channel(1)~ and BW~Channel(2)~ are the channel bandwidths of the two
respective E-UTRA component carriers according to Table 5.4-1 with values in
MHz. The channel spacing for intra-band contiguous carrier aggregation can be
adjusted to any multiple of 300 kHz less than the nominal channel spacing to
optimize performance in a particular deployment scenario.
### 5.4.3 Channel raster
The channel raster is 100 kHz for all bands, which means that the carrier
centre frequency must be an integer multiple of 100 kHz.
### 5.4.4 Carrier frequency and EARFCN
The carrier frequency in the uplink and downlink is designated by the E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) in the range 0 - 65535\. The
relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink is
given by the following equation, where F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given in
table 5.4.4-1 and N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is
given by the following equation where F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in
table 5.4.4-1 and N~UL~ is the uplink EARFCN.
F~UL~ = F~UL_low~ + 0.1(N~UL~ -- N~Offs-UL~)
Table 5.4.4-1: E-UTRA channel numbers
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | D | Uplink | | | | | | Op | ownlink | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | F~D | N~O | Range | F~U | N~O | Range | | | L_low~ | ffs-DL~ | of | L_low~ | ffs-UL~ | of | | | [MHz] | | N~DL~ | [MHz] | | N~UL~ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | 2110 | 0 | 0 -- | 1920 | 18000 | 18000 | | | | | 599 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 18599 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2 | 1930 | 600 | 600 | 1850 | 18600 | 18600 | | | | | − 1199 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 19199 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 3 | 1805 | 1200 | 1200 -- | 1710 | 19200 | 19200 | | | | | 1949 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 19949 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 4 | 2110 | 1950 | 1950 -- | 1710 | 19950 | 19950 | | | | | 2399 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 20399 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 5 | 869 | 2400 | 2400 -- | 824 | 20400 | 20400 | | | | | 2649 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 20649 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 6 | 875 | 2650 | 2650 -- | 830 | 20650 | 20650 | | | | | 2749 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 20749 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 7 | 2620 | 2750 | 2750 -- | 2500 | 20750 | 20750 | | | | | 3449 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 21449 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 8 | 925 | 3450 | 3450 -- | 880 | 21450 | 21450 | | | | | 3799 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 21799 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 9 | 1844.9 | 3800 | 3800 -- | 1749.9 | 21800 | 21800 | | | | | 4149 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 22149 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 10 | 2110 | 4150 | 4150 -- | 1710 | 22150 | 22150 | | | | | 4749 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 22749 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 11 | 1475.9 | 4750 | 4750 -- | 1427.9 | 22750 | 22750 | | | | | 4949 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 22949 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | 729 | 5010 | 5010 -- | 699 | 23010 | 23010 | | | | | 5179 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 23179 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 13 | 746 | 5180 | 5180 -- | 777 | 23180 | 23180 | | | | | 5279 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 23279 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 14 | 758 | 5280 | 5280 -- | 788 | 23280 | 23280 | | | | | 5379 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 23379 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 17 | 734 | 5730 | 5730 -- | 704 | 23730 | 23730 | | | | | 5849 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 23849 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 18 | 860 | 5850 | 5850 -- | 815 | 23850 | 23850 | | | | | 5999 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 23999 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 19 | 875 | 6000 | 6000 -- | 830 | 24000 | 24000 | | | | | 6149 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 24149 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 20 | 791 | 6150 | 6150 - | 832 | 24150 | 24150 - | | | | | 6449 | | | 24449 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 21 | 1495.9 | 6450 | 6450 -- | 1447.9 | 24450 | 24450 | | | | | 6599 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 24599 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 22 | 3510 | 6600 | 66 | 3410 | 24600 | 2460 | | | | | 00-7399 | | | 0-25399 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 23 | 2180 | 7500 | 7500 -- | 2000 | 25500 | 25500 | | | | | 7699 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 25699 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 24 | 1525 | 7700 | 7700 -- | 1626.5 | 25700 | 25700 | | | | | 8039 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 26039 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 25 | 1930 | 8040 | 8040 -- | 1850 | 26040 | 26040 | | | | | 8689 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 26689 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 26 | 859 | 8690 | 8690 -- | 814 | 26690 | 26690 - | | | | | 9039 | | | 27039 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 27 | 852 | 9040 | 9040 -- | 807 | 27040 | 27040 | | | | | 9209 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 27209 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 28 | 758 | 9210 | 9210 -- | 703 | 27210 | 27210 | | | | | 9659 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 27659 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 29^2^ | 717 | 9660 | 9660 -- | N/A | | | | | | | 9769 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 33 | 1900 | 36000 | 36000 | 1900 | 36000 | 36000 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 36199 | | | 36199 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 34 | 2010 | 36200 | 36200 | 2010 | 36200 | 36200 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 36349 | | | 36349 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 35 | 1850 | 36350 | 36350 | 1850 | 36350 | 36350 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 36949 | | | 36949 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 36 | 1930 | 36950 | 36950 | 1930 | 36950 | 36950 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 37549 | | | 37549 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 37 | 1910 | 37550 | 37550 | 1910 | 37550 | 37550 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 37749 | | | 37749 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 38 | 2570 | 37750 | 37750 | 2570 | 37750 | 37750 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 38249 | | | 38249 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 39 | 1880 | 38250 | 38250 | 1880 | 38250 | 38250 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 38649 | | | 38649 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 40 | 2300 | 38650 | 38650 | 2300 | 38650 | 38650 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 39649 | | | 39649 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 41 | 2496 | 39650 | 39650 | 2496 | 39650 | 39650 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 41589 | | | 41589 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 42 | 3400 | 41590 | 41590 | 3400 | 41590 | 41590 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 43589 | | | 43589 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 43 | 3600 | 43590 | 43590 | 3600 | 43590 | 43590 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 45589 | | | 45589 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 44 | 703 | 45590 | 45590 | 703 | 45590 | 45590 | | | | | -- | | | -- | | | | | 46589 | | | 46589 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | numbers | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | signate | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | uencies | | | | | | | | so | | | | | | | | close | | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | edges | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | extends | | | | | | | | beyond | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | not be | | | | | | | | used. | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | implies | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | 7, 15, | | | | | | | | 25, 50, | | | | | | | | 75 and | | | | | | | | 100 | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | numbers | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | and the | | | | | | | | last 6, | | | | | | | | 14, 24, | | | | | | | | 49, 74 | | | | | | | | and 99 | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | numbers | | | | | | | | at the | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | not be | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidths | | | | | | | | of 1.4, | | | | | | | | 3, 5, | | | | | | | | 10, 15 | | | | | | | | and 20 | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | respec | | | | | | | | tively. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | Res | | | | | | | | tricted | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | eration | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | aggr | | | | | | | | egation | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | conf | | | | | | | | igured. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 5.5 Requirements for contiguous spectrum
A spectrum allocation where the LMU operates is contiguous. Unless otherwise
stated, the tests in the present specification apply for LMUs configured for
contiguous spectrum operation.
# 6 Conformance Tests for LMU RF Requirements
## 6.1 General
The performance metrics used in RF requirements are detection probability and
false alarm. The requirements for the detection probability and false alarm
are specified in TS 36.111, subclause 5.1.1.
False alarm is measured according to an SRS configuration provided to LMU by
the E-SMLC.
## 6.2 Reference sensitivity level
### 6.2.1 Definition and applicability
The reference sensitivity power level P~REFSENS~ is the minimum mean power
received at the antenna connector at which a detection probability requirement
and a false alarm requirement shall be met for a specified reference
measurement channel.
Test ports and the RF requirements applicability is as specified in [2], Table
5.1-1.
### 6.2.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 5.2.1.
### 6.2.3 Test Purpose
To verify that at the LMU reference sensitivity level the probability of
detection requirement and a false alarm requirement shall be met for a
specified reference measurement channel.
### 6.2.4 Method of testing
#### 6.2.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.X
RF channels to be tested: B, M and T; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On each of B, M and T, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply
as defined in subclause D.X
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.1.1.
#### 6.2.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the test signal mean power as specified in table 6.2.5-1.
2) Measure the detection probability and false alarm rate according to Annex
E.
### 6.2.5 Test requirement
The LMU shall receive the reference measurement channel while meeting the
detection probability and false alarm rate requirements specified in TS
36.111, subclause 5.1.1. The reference measurement channel is described in
Table 6.2.5-1 with parameters specified in Table A.1-1.
Table 6.2.5-1: LMU reference sensitivity levels
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Reference | | | | measurement | sensitivity | | | channel | channel | power level, | | | bandwidth | | PREFSENS | | | [MHz] | | ^Note^ | | | | | | | | | | [dBm] | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | | | f ≤ 3.0GHz | 3.0GHz \ 1) Set the test signal mean power as specified in table 6.3.5-1.
>
> 2) Measure the detection probability and false alarm rate according to Annex
> E.
### 6.3.5 Test Requirements
The LMU shall receive the reference measurement channel while meeting the
detection probability and the false alarm rate requirements specified in
36.111, subclause 5.1.1. The reference measurement channel is specified in
Table A.1-1.
Table 6.3.5-1: LMU dynamic range
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Wanted | Interfering | Type of | | | measurement | signal mean | signal mean | interfering | | channel | channel | power | power | signal | | bandwidth | | [dBm] | [dBm] / | | | [MHz] | | | BW~Config~ | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1.4 | Annex A | -108.2 | -88.7 | AWGN | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | Annex A | -104.3 | -84.7 | AWGN | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | Annex A | -102.1 | -82.5 | AWGN | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | Annex A | -99.1 | -79.5 | AWGN | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | Annex A | -97.3 | -77.7 | AWGN | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | Annex A | -96.0 | -76.4 | AWGN | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE: The | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal | | | | | | power | | | | | | levels are | | | | | | adjusted | | | | | | from the | | | | | | r | | | | | | equirements | | | | | | in TS | | | | | | 36.111 | | | | | | clause | | | | | | 5.3.1 | | | | | | according | | | | | | to the | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | uncertainty | | | | | | described | | | | | | in clause | | | | | | 4.1.2.1. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 6.4 In-channel selectivity
### 6.4.1 Definition and applicability
In-channel selectivity (ICS) is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned resource block locations in the presence of an
interfering signal received at a larger power spectral density. In this
condition a detection probability requirement and a false alarm requirements
shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
The interfering signal shall be an E-UTRA signal as specified in Annex C and
shall be time aligned with the wanted signal.
Test ports and the RF requirements applicability is as specified in 3GPP TS
36.111 [2], Table 5.1-1.
### 6.4.2 Minimum Requirement
The minimum requirement is in 3GPP TS 36.111 [2] subclause 5.4.1.
### 6.4.3 Test purpose
The purpose of this test is to verify the LMU receiver ability to suppress the
IQ leakage the probability of so the probability of detection requirement and
a false alarm requirement shall be met for a specified reference measurement
channel.
### 6.4.4 Method of testing
#### 6.4.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2
RF channels to be tested: B, M and T; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On each of B, M and T, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply
as defined in subclause D.5
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.1.3
#### 6.4.4.2 Procedure
> 1) Set the test signal mean power as specified in table 6.4.5-1.
>
> 2) Set the interfering signal mean power as specified in table 6.4.5-1.
>
> 3) Measure the detection probability and false alarm rate according to Annex
> E.
>
> False alarm is measured according to an SRS configuration provided to LMU by
> E-SMLC.
### 6.4.5 Test Requirements
The LMU shall receive the reference measurement channel while meeting the
detection probability and the false alarm rate requirements specified in
36.111, subclause 5.1.1. The reference measurement channel is described in
Table 6.4.5-1 with parameters specified in Table A.1-1.
Table 6.4.5-1 LMU in-channel selectivity
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | E-UTRA | R | Wanted | Int | Type of | | | | eference | signal | erfering | int | | | channel | mea | mean | signal | erfering | | | b | surement | power | mean | signal | | | andwidth | channel | [dBm] | power | | | | (MHz) | | | [dBm] | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | f ≤ | 3.0GHz | | | | | | 3.0GHz | \ 1) Set the test signal mean power as specified in table 6.5.5-3.
>
> 2) Set the interfering mean signal power and center frequency as specified
> in table 6.5.5-3.
>
> 3) Measure the detection probability and false alarm rate according to Annex
> E.
>
> False alarm is measured according to an SRS configuration provided to LMU by
> E-SMLC.
#### 6.5.4.3 Procedure for narrow-band blocking
> 1) Set the test signal mean power as specified in table 6.5.5-1.
>
> 2) Set the interfering mean signal power as specified in table 6.5.5-1.
>
> 3) Set the interfering signal center frequency as specified in table
> 6.5.5-2.
>
> 4) Measure the detection probability and false alarm rate according to Annex
> E.
>
> False alarm is measured according to an SRS configuration provided to LMU by
> E-SMLC.
### 6.5.5 Test Requirements
The LMU shall receive the reference measurement channel while meeting the
detection probability and the false alarm rate requirements specified in
36.111, subclause 5.1.1. The reference measurement channel is specified in
Table A.1-1.
Table 6.5.5-1: Narrowband blocking requirement
* * *
Wanted signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal mean power [dBm] Type of
interfering signal P~REFSENS~ + 13 dB -49 See Table 6.5-2
* * *
Table 6.5.5-2: Interfering signal for Narrowband blocking requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA channel BW of | Interfering RB | Type of interfering | | the lowest (highest) | centre frequency | signal | | carrier received | offset to the lower | | | [MHz] | (higher) edge | | | | [kHz] | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.4 | ±(252.5+m*180), | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | | signal, 1 RB\ | | | m =0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 | (see note) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | ±(247.5+m*180), | 3 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB\ | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, | (see note) | | | 10, 13 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | ±(342.5+m*180), | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB\ | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, | (see note) | | | 14, 19, 24 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | ±(347.5+m*180), | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB\ | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, | (see note) | | | 14, 19, 24 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | ±(352.5+m*180), | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, | | | | 14, 19, 24 | (see note) | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | ±(342.5+m*180), | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 1 RB\ | | | m=0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, | (see note) | | | 14, 19, 24 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE: Interfering | | | | signal consisting of | | | | one resource block | | | | is positioned at the | | | | stated offset; the | | | | channel bandwidth of | | | | the interfering | | | | signal is located | | | | adjacently to the | | | | lower (upper) edge. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 6.5.5-3: LMU Adjacent channel selectivity
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Wanted | Interfering | Interfering | Type of | | | signal mean | signal mean | signal | interfering | | channel | power | power | centre | signal | | bandwidth | [dBm] | [dBm] | frequency | | | of the | | | offset from | | | lowest | | | the lower | | | (highest) | | | (higher) | | | carrier | | | edge | | | received | | | [MHz] | | | [MHz] | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 1.4 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | ±0.7025 | 1.4 MHz | | | + 13 dB | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal 4 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 3 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | ±1.5075 | 3 MHz | | | + 13 dB | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal 4 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 5 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | ±2.5025 | 5 MHz | | | + 13 dB | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal 4 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | ±2.5075 | 5 MHz | | | + 13 dB | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal 4 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | ±2.5125 | 5 MHz | | | + 13 dB | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal 4 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | P~REFSENS~ | -52 | ±2.5025 | 5 MHz | | | + 13 dB | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | signal 4 | | | | | | RBs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
## 6.6 Blocking
### 6.6.1 Definition and applicability
The blocking characteristics is a measure of the receiver ability to receive a
wanted signal at its assigned channel in the presence of an unwanted
interferer, which are either a 1.4 MHz, 3 MHz or 5 MHz E-UTRA signal for in-
band blocking or a CW signal for out-of-band blocking. In this condition a
detection probability requirement and a false alarm requirements shall be met
for a specified reference measurement channel.
The interfering signal shall be an E-UTRA signal as specified in Annex C.
Test ports and the RF requirements applicability is as specified in [2], Table
5.1-1.
### 6.6.2 Minimum Requirements
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 5.6.1.
### 6.6.3 Test purpose
The test stresses the ability of the LMU receiver to withstand high-level
interference from unwanted signals at specified frequency offsets without
undue degradation of its sensitivity so the probability of detection
requirement and a false alarm requirement shall be met for a specified
reference measurement channel.
### 6.6.4 Method of test
#### 6.6.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2
RF channels to be tested: B, M and T; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On each of B, M and T, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply
as defined in subclause D.5
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.1.5
#### 6.6.4.2 Procedure
> 1) Set the test signal mean power as specified in table 6.6.5-1.
>
> 2) Set the interfering signal mean power and center frequency as specified
> in table 6.6.5-1.
>
> 3) Measure the detection probability and false alarm rate according to Annex
> E.
>
> False alarm is measured according to an SRS configuration provided to LMU by
> E-SMLC.
### 6.6.5 Test Requirements
The LMU shall receive the reference measurement channel while meeting the
detection probability and the false alarm rate requirements specified in
36.111, subclause 5.1.1. The reference measurement channel is specified in
Table A.1-1.
Table 6.6.5-1: LMU Blocking performance requirement
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | (hi | | | | | | | | | gher) | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 13, | _low~ | | high~ | | +13 | 6. | 5.6. | | 14, | -20) | | +20) | | dB | 6.5-2 | 1.1-2 | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 1-23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-43, | | | | | | | | | 44 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +13 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | dB | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 26, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 28 | _low~ | | high~ | | +13 | 6. | 5.6. | | | -20) | | +10) | | dB | 6.5-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +13 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | dB | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +10) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +13 | 6. | 5.6. | | | -20) | | +13) | | dB | 6.5-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +13 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | dB | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +13) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +13 | 6. | 5.6. | | | -20) | | +18) | | dB | 6.5-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +13 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | dB | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +18) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +13 | 6. | 5.6. | | | -11) | | +20) | | dB | 6.5-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +13 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -11) | | dB | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +13 | 6. | 5.6. | | | -20) | | +15) | | dB | 6.5-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +13 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | dB | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +15) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
NOTE: Table 6.6.5-1 assumes that two operating bands, where the downlink
operating band (see Table 5.5-1 of TS 36.104) of one band would be within the
in-band blocking region of the other band, are not deployed in the same
geographical area.
Table 6.6.5-2: Interfering signals for blocking performance requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | | centre frequency | signal | | channel BW of the | minimum offset to | | | lowest (highest) | the lower (higher) | | | carrier received | edge [MHz] | | | [MHz] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.4 | ±2.1 | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | | signal 4 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | ±4.5 | 3 MHz E-UTRA signal | | | | 4 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | ±7.5 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal | | | | 4 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | ±7.5 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal | | | | 4 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | ±7.5 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal | | | | 4 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | ±7.5 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal | | | | 4 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## 6.7 Receiver spurious emissions
### 6.7.1 Definition and applicability
The spurious emissions power is the power of emissions generated or amplified
in a receiver that appear at the LMU receiver antenna connector. The
requirement specified in this clause, is to reduce the impact on a co-sited
BS, a different BS, or a different LMU.
Test ports and the RF requirements applicability is as specified in [2], Table
5.1-1.
### 6.7.2 Minimum Requirements
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 5.7.1.
### 6.7.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the ability of the LMU to limit the interference
caused by receiver spurious emissions to other systems.
### 6.7.4 Method of test
#### 6.7.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2.
RF channels to be tested: M, see subclause 4.7.
RF bandwidth position to be tested: M~RFBW~, see subclause 4.7.1.
1) Connect a measurement receiver to the LMU antenna connector as shown in
Annex G1.6.
2) Measure the spurious emissions power at a relevant receiver, according to
test ports and the RF requirements applicability specified in [2], Table
5.1-1.
#### 6.7.4.2 Procedure
1) Measure the spurious emissions over each frequency range described in
subclause 6.7.5, for each receive antenna.
### 6.7.5 Test requirements
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the levels in Table
6.7.5-1.
Table 6.7.5-1: General spurious emission test requirement
* * *
Frequency range Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth Note 30MHz ‑ 1 GHz -57 dBm
100 kHz  
1 GHz ‑ 12.75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz  
12.75 GHz ‑ 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating
band in GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz Applies only for Bands 22, 42 and 43. NOTE: The
frequency range between 2.5 * BW~Channel~ below the first carrier frequency
and 2.5 * BW~Channel~ above the last carrier frequency transmitted by the BS,
where BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth according to Table 5.6‑1, may be
excluded from the requirement. However, frequencies that are more than 10 MHz
below the lowest frequency of the BS downlink operating band or more than 10
MHz above the highest frequency of the BS downlink operating band (see Table
5.5-1) shall not be excluded from the requirement.
* * *
NOTE: If the above Test Requirement differs from the Minimum Requirement then
the Test Tolerance applied for this test is non-zero. The relationship between
Minimum Requirements and Test Requirements is defined in subclause 4.1 and the
explanation of how the Minimum Requirement has been relaxed by the Test
Tolerance is given in Annex G.
## 6.8 Receiver intermodulation
### 6.8.1 Definition and applicability
Third and higher order mixing of the two interfering RF signals can produce an
interfering signal in the band of the desired channel. Intermodulation
response rejection is a measure of the capability of the receiver to receive a
wanted signal on its assigned channel frequency in the presence of two
interfering signals which have a specific frequency relationship to the wanted
signal. In this condition a detection probability requirement and a false
alarm requirements shall be met for a specified reference measurement channel.
Interfering signals shall be a continuous wave signal and an E-UTRA signal as
specified in Annex C.
Test ports and the RF requirements applicability is as specified in [2], Table
5.1-1.
### 6.8.2 Minimum Requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111[2] subclause 5.8.1.
### 6.8.3 Test purpose
The test purpose is to verify the ability of the LMU receiver to inhibit the
generation of intermodulation products in its non-linear elements caused by
the presence of two high-level interfering signals at frequencies with a
specific relationship to the frequency of the wanted signal so the probability
of detection requirement and a false alarm requirement shall be met for a
specified reference measurement channel.
### 6.8.4 Method of test
#### 6.8.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2.
RF channels to be tested: B, M and T; see subclause 4.7.
RF bandwidth position to be tested: B~RFBW~ and T~RFBW~, see subclause 4.7.1.
1) Set-up the measurement system as shown in Annex G.1.7.
#### 6.8.4.2 Procedures
> 1) Set the test wanted signal mean power as specified in table 6.8.5-1.
>
> 2) Set the interfering signal mean power as specified in table 6.8.5-1.
>
> 3) Set the interfering signals center frequencies as specified in table
> 6.8.5-2.
>
> 4) Measure the detection probability and false alarm rate according to Annex
> E.
False alarm is measured according to an SRS configuration provided to LMU by
E-SMLC
### 6.8.5 Test requirements
The LMU shall receive the reference measurement channel while meeting the
detection probability and the false alarm rate requirements specified in
36.111, subclause 5.1.1. The reference measurement channel is specified in
Table A.1-1.
Table 6.8.5-1: Intermodulation performance requirement
* * *
Wanted signal mean power [dBm] Interfering signal mean power [dBm] Type of
interfering signal P~REFSENS~ + 13dB -52 See Table 5.8.1-2
* * *
Table 6.8.5-2: Interfering signal for Intermodulation performance requirement
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA | Interfering signal | Type of interfering | | | centre frequency | signal | | channel bandwidth of | offset from the | | | the lowest (highest) | lower (higher) edge | | | carrier received | [MHz] | | | [MHz] | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1.4 | ±2.1 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±4.9 | 1.4 MHz E-UTRA | | | | signal, 4 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 3 | ±4.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±10.5 | 3 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 12 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 5 | ±7.5 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±17.5 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 20 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | ±7. 375 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±17. 5 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 20 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 15 | ±7. 25 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±17.5 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 20 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | ±7. 125 | CW | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | ±17.5 | 5 MHz E-UTRA signal, | | | | 20 RBs | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
# 7 Conformance Tests for UL RTOA Measurement Time Requirements
## 7.1 General
The purpose of tests specified in Section 7 is to verify the LMU requirements
in Section 6 of TS 36.111.
## 7.2 Requirements for FDD without DRX
### 7.2.1 Definition and applicability
This test is to verify LMU requirements in Section 6.2.1 of TS 36.111 and
applies for LMU Class 1, Class 2, and Class 3.
The test is configured for 16 parallel measurements on the same carrier, i.e.,
n=16 and N=16 in the requirement specified in Section 6.2.1 of TS 36.111.
The RTOA measurement time is the time interval between when the LMU receives a
SLmAP MEASUREMENT REQUEST and outputs a SLmAP MEASUREMENT RESPONSE.
### 7.2.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 6.2.1.
### 7.2.3 Test Purpose
To verify that at the LMU can meet the UL RTOA measurement requirements for
the UL RTOA measurements performed in parallel for multiple target UEs
transmitting in FDD mode and not configured for DRX.
### 7.2.4 Method of testing
#### 7.2.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2
RF channels to be tested: M; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On channel M, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply as
defined in subclause D.3
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.2.1.
#### 7.2.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the test signal input SNR as specified in table 7.2.5-1.
2) Receiver measurements during the time $T_{\text{RTOA,E-UTRAN\ FDD,\
nonDRX}}$ ms calculated for n=16 and N=16.
### 7.2.5 Test requirement
The LMU shall be able to perform and report 16 UL RTOA measurements for 16 UEs
at the 90^th^ percentile within $T_{\text{RTOA,E-UTRAN\ FDD,\ nonDRX}}$ ms for
n=16 and N=16. The 16 parallel reference measurement channels are defined in
Annex A, Tables A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9.
Table 7.2.5-1: LMU UL RTOA measurement accuracy without CA
* * *
SRS Bandwidth (RBs) Input Ês/Iot (dB) AWGN EPA5 ETU30  
Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS
transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts)
4 -16.6 233 10 250 10 421 16 8 -16.6 71 8 77 10 127 14 12 -16.6 37 8 42 8 90
14 16 -16.6 24 8 29 10 63 12 20 -16.6 17 8 22 8 52 12 24 -16.6 14 8 18 8 44 12
32 -16.6 9 8 13 8 35 12 36 -16.6 8 6 12 8 32 12 40 -16.6 7 6 10 8 29 12 48
-16.6 5 6 9 8 25 12 60 -16.6 5 6 7 8 20 14 64 -16.6 4 6 7 8 18 14 72 -16.6 4 6
6 8 17 14 80 -16.6 3 6 6 8 15 14 96 -16.6 3 6 5 8 13 14
* * *
## 7.3 Requirements for TDD without DRX
### 7.3.1 Definition and applicability
This test is to verify LMU requirements in Section 6.2.2 of TS 36.111 and
applies for LMU Class 1, Class 2, and Class 3.
The test is configured for 16 parallel measurements on the same carrier, i.e.,
n=16 and N=16 in the requirement specified in Section 6.2.2 of TS 36.111.
The RTOA measurement time is the time interval between when the LMU receives a
SLmAP MEASUREMENT REQUEST and outputs a SLmAP MEASUREMENT RESPONSE.
### 7.3.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 6.2.2.
### 7.3.3 Test Purpose
To verify that at the LMU can meet the UL RTOA measurement requirements for
the UL RTOA measurements performed in parallel for multiple target UEs
transmitting in TDD mode and not configured for DRX.
### 7.3.4 Method of testing
#### 7.3.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2
RF channels to be tested: M; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On channel M, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply as
defined in subclause D.3
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.2.2.
#### 7.3.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the test signal input SNR as specified in table 7.3.5-1.
2) Receiver measurements during the time $T_{\text{RTOA,E-UTRAN\ TDD,\
nonDRX}}$ ms calculated for n=16 and N=16.
### 7.3.5 Test requirement
The LMU shall be able to perform and report 16 UL RTOA measurements for 16 UEs
at the 90^th^ percentile within $T_{\text{RTOA,E-UTRAN\ TDD,\ nonDRX}}$ ms for
n=16 and N=16. The 16 parallel reference measurement channels are defined in
Annex A, Tabless A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9.
Table 7.3.5-1: LMU UL RTOA measurement accuracy without CA
* * *
SRS Bandwidth (RBs) Input Ês/Iot (dB) AWGN EPA5 ETU30  
Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS
transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts)
4 -16.6 233 10 250 10 421 16 8 -16.6 71 8 77 10 127 14 12 -16.6 37 8 42 8 90
14 16 -16.6 24 8 29 10 63 12 20 -16.6 17 8 22 8 52 12 24 -16.6 14 8 18 8 44 12
32 -16.6 9 8 13 8 35 12 36 -16.6 8 6 12 8 32 12 40 -16.6 7 6 10 8 29 12 48
-16.6 5 6 9 8 25 12 60 -16.6 5 6 7 8 20 14 64 -16.6 4 6 7 8 18 14 72 -16.6 4 6
6 8 17 14 80 -16.6 3 6 6 8 15 14 96 -16.6 3 6 5 8 13 14
* * *
## 7.4 UL RTOA Measurements upon Receiving SRS Configuration Update
### 7.4.1 Definition and applicability
The RTOA measurement time is the time interval between when the LMU receives a
SLmAP MEASUREMENT REQUEST and outputs a SLmAP MEASUREMENT RESPONSE.
### 7.4.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 6.2.3.
### 7.4.3 Test Purpose
To verify that at the LMU can perform parallel UL RTOA measurements of
multiple target UEs within the specified measurement time when the LMU
receives a SRS configuration update for the target UEs. The UEs are not
configured with DRX.
### 7.4.4 Method of testing
#### 7.4.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2
RF channels to be tested: M; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On channel M, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply as
defined in subclause D.3
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.2.1.
#### 7.4.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the test signal input SNR as specified in table 7.4.5-3 for the non-CA
case and table 7.4.5-4 for the CA case .
2) Update the SRS configuration for each target UE during the UL RTOA
measurement.
3) Receive the UL RTOA measurements in parallel during $T_{\text{RTOA,E-UTRAN\
FDD,\ nonDRX}}$.
### 7.4.5 Test requirement
The LMU shall be able to perform and report UL RTOA measurements for 16 UEs at
the 90^th^ percentile, based on their SRS transmissions, within
$T_{\text{RTOA,E-UTRAN\ FDD,\ nonDRX}}$ and $T_{\text{RTOA,E-UTRAN\ TDD,\
nonDRX}}$ ms for FDD and TDD respectively, as defined in section 6.2.3 of
36.111 [2]. For each channel bandwidth in which the test is performed the
initial and updated configurations are defined for the non-CA case in Table
7.4.5-1 and for the CA case in Table 7.4.5-2. The updated configuration is
configured to be always a superset of the initial configuration, i.e., the
updated SRS configuration prvided to the LMU during the SRS measurement period
satisfies all of the following conditions:
\- SRS bandwidth in the updated SRS configuration for the carrier frequency
measured by the LMU is not smaller than in the initial configuration,
\- SRS density in the updated SRS configuration for the carrier frequency
measured by the LMU is not smaller than in the intial configuration,
\- the set of carrier frequencies configured with SRS in the updated SRS
configuration contains at least the same set of carrier frequencies configured
with SRS as in the initial configuration,
\- at least one of the three conditions above is met with the corresponding
configuration parameter (SRS bandwidth, SRS density, or set of carrier
frequencies with SRS) being strictly larger in the updated SRS configuration
compared to the initial configuration.
Table 7.4.5-1: Initial and updated SRS configurations without CA
* * *
UE number Tables from Annex A for the initial SRS configuration Tables from
Annex A for the updated SRS configuration 1 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 2 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8
and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 3 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7,
A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 4 A.1-5, A.1-6,
A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 5 A.1-5,
A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 6
A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14
7 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and
A.1-14 8 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13
and A.1-14 9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12,
A.1-13 and A.1-14 10 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11,
A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 11 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10,
A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 12 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9
A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 13 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 14 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8
and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 15 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7,
A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14 16 A.1-5, A.1-6,
A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 A.1-10, A.1-11, A.1-12, A.1-13 and A.1-14
* * *
Table 7.4.5-2: Initial and updated SRS configurations with CA
* * *
UE number Tables from Annex A for the Initial SRS Configuration Tables from
Annex A for the Updated SRS Configuration 1 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 2 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 3 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 4 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 5 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 6 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 7 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 8 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 10 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 11 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 12 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 13 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 14 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 15 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 16 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and
A.1-9 A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-7, A.1-8 and A.1-9 17 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and
A.1-15 18 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 19 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8,
A.1-9 and A.1-15 20 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 21 - A.1-5, A.1-6,
A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 22 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 23 - A.1-5,
A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 24 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 25 -
A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 26 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and
A.1-15 27 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 28 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8,
A.1-9 and A.1-15 29 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 30 - A.1-5, A.1-6,
A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 31 - A.1-5, A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 32 - A.1-5,
A.1-6, A.1-8, A.1-9 and A.1-15 Note: UE\'s 1-16 are assigned to the first CA
carrier and UEs 17-32 are assigned to the second CA carrier
* * *
Table 7.4.5-3: LMU UL RTOA measurement accuracy without CA
* * *
SRS Bandwidth (RBs) Input Ês/Iot (dB) AWGN EPA5 ETU30  
Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS
transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts)
4 -16.6 233 10 250 10 421 16 8 -16.6 71 8 77 10 127 14 12 -16.6 37 8 42 8 90
14 16 -16.6 24 8 29 10 63 12 20 -16.6 17 8 22 8 52 12 24 -16.6 14 8 18 8 44 12
32 -16.6 9 8 13 8 35 12 36 -16.6 8 6 12 8 32 12 40 -16.6 7 6 10 8 29 12 48
-16.6 5 6 9 8 25 12 60 -16.6 5 6 7 8 20 14 64 -16.6 4 6 7 8 18 14 72 -16.6 4 6
6 8 17 14 80 -16.6 3 6 6 8 15 14 96 -16.6 3 6 5 8 13 14
* * *
Table 7.4.5-4: LMU UL RTOA measurement accuracy with CA
* * *
SRS Bandwidth (RBs) Input Ês/Iot (dB) AWGN EPA5 ETU30  
Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS
transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts)
4 -16.6 233 10 250 10 421 16 8 -16.6 71 8 77 10 127 14 12 -16.6 37 8 42 8 90
14 16 -16.6 24 8 29 10 63 12 20 -16.6 17 8 22 8 52 12 24 -16.6 14 8 18 8 44 12
32 -16.6 9 8 13 8 35 12 36 -16.6 8 6 12 8 32 12 40 -16.6 7 6 10 8 29 12 48
-16.6 5 6 9 8 25 12 60 -16.6 5 6 7 8 20 14 64 -16.6 4 6 7 8 18 14 72 -16.6 4 6
6 8 17 14 80 -16.6 3 6 6 8 15 14 96 -16.6 3 6 5 8 13 14
* * *
# 8 Conformance Tests for UL RTOA Measurement Accuracy Requirements
## 8.1 General
The purpose of tests specified in Section 8 is to verify the LMU requirements
in Section 7 of TS 36.111.
## 8.2 UL RTOA measurement accuracy for a UE not configured with CA
### 8.2.1 Definition and applicability
This test is to verify LMU requirements in Section 7.2.1 of TS 36.111 and
applies for LMU Class 1, Class 2, and Class 3.
The performance requirement of UL RTOA is determined by a minimum required
accuracy for a given SNR, SRS bandwidth, and measurement period. The required
accuracy is expressed as a multiple of Ts.
### 8.2.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 7.2.1.
### 8.2.3 Test Purpose
To verify that the LMU can meet UL RTOA measurement accuracy requirements in
different channel conditions for a target UE transmitting SRS and not
configured with CA, provided that the SRS are configured over at least a
certain bandwidth and measured over a certain time period according to Table
8.2.5-1.
### 8.2.4 Method of testing
#### 8.2.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2
RF channels to be tested: M; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On channel M, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply as
defined in subclause D.3
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.3.1.
#### 8.2.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the test signal input Ês/Iot according to Table 8.2.5-1. The minimum Io
is -125.1 dBm/15 kHz and the maximum Io is -50 dBm/BWchannel.
2) Measure the UL RTOA according to Annex E.
### 8.2.5 Test requirement
The LMU shall measure the UL RTOA with the accuracy at the 90^th^ percentile
as defined in table 8.2.5-1. The reference measurement channel is specified in
Annex A Tables A-3 and A-4.
Table 8.2.5-1: LMU UL RTOA measurement accuracy without CA
* * *
SRS Bandwidth (RBs) Input Ês/Iot (dB) AWGN EPA5 ETU30  
Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS
transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts)
4 -16.6 233 10 250 10 421 16 8 -16.6 71 8 77 10 127 14 12 -16.6 37 8 42 8 90
14 16 -16.6 24 8 29 10 63 12 20 -16.6 17 8 22 8 52 12 24 -16.6 14 8 18 8 44 12
32 -16.6 9 8 13 8 35 12 36 -16.6 8 6 12 8 32 12 40 -16.6 7 6 10 8 29 12 48
-16.6 5 6 9 8 25 12 60 -16.6 5 6 7 8 20 14 64 -16.6 4 6 7 8 18 14 72 -16.6 4 6
6 8 17 14 80 -16.6 3 6 6 8 15 14 96 -16.6 3 6 5 8 13 14
* * *
## 8.3 UL RTOA measurement accuracy for a UE configured with CA
### 8.3.1 Definition and applicability
This test is to verify LMU requirements in Section 7.2.2 of TS 36.111 and
applies for LMU Class 1, Class 2, and Class 3.
The performance requirement of UL RTOA is determined by a minimum required
accuracy for a given SNR, SRS bandwidth, and measurement period. The required
accuracy is expressed as a multiple of Ts.
UL CA configuration is FFS.
### 8.3.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 7.2.2.
### 8.3.3 Test Purpose
To verify that the LMU can meet UL RTOA measurement accuracy requirements in
different channel conditions for a target UE transmitting SRS and configured
with UL CA, provided that the SRS are configured over at least a certain
bandwidth and measured over a certain time period according to Table 8.3.5-1.
### 8.3.4 Method of testing
#### 8.3.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2
RF channels to be tested: M; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On channel M, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply as
defined in subclause D.3
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.3.2.
#### 8.3.4.2 Procedure
1) Set the test signal input Ês/Iot according to Table 8.3.5-1. The minimum Io
is -125.1 dBm/15 kHz and the maximum Io is -50 dBm/BWchannel.
2) Measure the UL RTOA according to Annex E.
### 8.3.5 Test requirement
The LMU shall measure the UL RTOA with the accuracy at the 90^th^ percentile
as defined in table 8.3.5-1. The reference measurement channel is specified in
Annex A, Tables A-3 and A-4.
Table 8.3.5-1: LMU UL RTOA measurement accuracy with CA
* * *
SRS Bandwidth (RBs) Input Ês/Iot (dB) AWGN EPA5 ETU30  
Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS
transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts)
4 -16.6 233 10 250 10 421 16 8 -16.6 71 8 77 10 127 14 12 -16.6 37 8 42 8 90
14 16 -16.6 24 8 29 10 63 12 20 -16.6 17 8 22 8 52 12 24 -16.6 14 8 18 8 44 12
32 -16.6 9 8 13 8 35 12 36 -16.6 8 6 12 8 32 12 40 -16.6 7 6 10 8 29 12 48
-16.6 5 6 9 8 25 12 60 -16.6 5 6 7 8 20 14 64 -16.6 4 6 7 8 18 14 72 -16.6 4 6
6 8 17 14 80 -16.6 3 6 6 8 15 14 96 -16.6 3 6 5 8 13 14
* * *
## 8.4 Parallel UL RTOA measurements on the same carrier frequency
### 8.4.1 Definition and applicability
This test is to verify LMU requirements in Section 7.2.3.1 of TS 36.111 and
applies for LMU Class 1, Class 2, and Class 3.
The performance requirement of UL RTOA is determined by a minimum required
accuracy for a given SNR, SRS bandwidth, and measurement period. The required
accuracy is expressed as a multiple of Ts.
### 8.4.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 7.2.3.1.
### 8.4.3 Test Purpose
To verify that the LMU can meet UL RTOA measurement accuracy requirements in
different channel conditions for 16 target UE simultaneously transmitting SRS
on the same carrier frequency, provided that the SRS are configured over at
least a certain bandwidth for each target UE and all the 16 LMU measurements
are performed in parallel over the same time period according to Table
8.4.5-1.
### 8.4.4 Method of testing
#### 8.4.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2
RF channels to be tested: M; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On channel M, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply as
defined in subclause D.3
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.3.3.
#### 8.4.4.2 Procedure
1) For each UE test signal set the input Ês/Iot according to Table 8.3.5-1.
The minimum Io is -125.1 dBm/15 kHz and the maximum Io is -50 dBm/BWchannel.
2) Measure the UL RTOA for 16 UEs in parallel according to Annex E.
### 8.4.5 Test requirement
The LMU shall measure the UL RTOA with the accuracy at the 90^th^ percentile
as defined in table 8.3.5-1. The 16 parallel reference measurement channels
are defined in Annex A, Tables A-5, A-6, A-7, A-8 and A-9.
Table 8.4.5-1: LMU UL RTOA measurement accuracy for parallel measurements on
one frequency carrier
* * *
SRS Bandwidth (RBs) Input Ês/Iot (dB) AWGN EPA5 ETU30  
Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS
transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts)
4 -16.6 233 10 250 10 421 16 8 -16.6 71 8 77 10 127 14 12 -16.6 37 8 42 8 90
14 16 -16.6 24 8 29 10 63 12 20 -16.6 17 8 22 8 52 12 24 -16.6 14 8 18 8 44 12
32 -16.6 9 8 13 8 35 12 36 -16.6 8 6 12 8 32 12 40 -16.6 7 6 10 8 29 12 48
-16.6 5 6 9 8 25 12 60 -16.6 5 6 7 8 20 14 64 -16.6 4 6 7 8 18 14 72 -16.6 4 6
6 8 17 14 80 -16.6 3 6 6 8 15 14 96 -16.6 3 6 5 8 13 14
* * *
## 8.5 Parallel UL RTOA measurements on two carrier frequencies
### 8.5.1 Definition and applicability
This test is to verify LMU requirements in Section 7.2.3.2 of TS 36.111 and
applies for LMU Class 1, Class 2, and Class 3.
The performance requirement of UL RTOA is determined by a minimum required
accuracy for a given SNR, SRS bandwidth, and measurement period. The required
accuracy is expressed as a multiple of Ts.
### 8.5.2 Minimum requirement
The minimum requirement is in TS 36.111 [2] subclause 7.2.3.2.
### 8.5.3 Test Purpose
To verify that the LMU can meet UL RTOA measurement accuracy requirements in
different channel conditions for 16 target UE simultaneously transmitting SRS
on a first carrier frequency and 16 target UEs simultaneously transmitting SRS
on a second carrier frequency, provided that the SRS are configured over at
least a certain bandwidth for each target UE and all the 32 LMU measurements
are performed in parallel over the same time period according to Table
8.5.5-1.
### 8.5.4 Method of testing
#### 8.5.4.1 Initial conditions
Test environment: normal; see subclause D.2
RF channels to be tested: M; see subclause 4.7.
The following additional tests shall be performed:
On channel M, the test shall be performed under extreme power supply as
defined in subclause D.3
NOTE: Tests under extreme power supply also test extreme temperature.
Connect the test equipment as shown in Annex G.3.3.
#### 8.5.4.2 Procedure
1) For each UE test signal set the input Ês/Iot according to Table 8.3.5-1.
The minimum Io is -125.1 dBm/15 kHz and the maximum Io is -50 dBm/BWchannel.
2) Measure the UL RTOA for 32 UEs in parallel according to Annex E.
### 8.5.5 Test requirement
The LMU shall measure the UL RTOA with the accuracy at the 90^th^ percentile
as defined in table 8.3.5-1. The 32 parallel reference measurement channels
are configured across two carrier frequencies with each carrier frequency
configured with 16 channels as defined in Annex A, Tables A-5, A-6, A-7, A-8
and A-9.
Table 8.5.5-1: LMU UL RTOA measurement accuracy for parallel measurements over
two frequency carriers
* * *
SRS Bandwidth (RBs) Input Ês/Iot (dB) AWGN EPA5 ETU30  
Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS
transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts) Minimum number of SRS transmissions 90% RTOA (Ts)
4 -16.6 233 10 250 10 421 16 8 -16.6 71 8 77 10 127 14 12 -16.6 37 8 42 8 90
14 16 -16.6 24 8 29 10 63 12 20 -16.6 17 8 22 8 52 12 24 -16.6 14 8 18 8 44 12
32 -16.6 9 8 13 8 35 12 36 -16.6 8 6 12 8 32 12 40 -16.6 7 6 10 8 29 12 48
-16.6 5 6 9 8 25 12 60 -16.6 5 6 7 8 20 14 64 -16.6 4 6 7 8 18 14 72 -16.6 4 6
6 8 17 14 80 -16.6 3 6 6 8 15 14 96 -16.6 3 6 5 8 13 14
* * *
###### ## Annex A (informative): Reference measurement channel
# A.1 Reference measurement channel
Table A.1-1: SRS Configuration for receiver requirements except in-channel
selectivity
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Channel | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UL | n6 | n15 | n25 | n50 | n75 | n100 | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | srsB | bw7 | bw5 | bw3 | bw5 | bw6 | bw5 | | andwidt | | | | | | | | hConfig | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | srsBa | bw0 | bw0 | bw0 | bw1 | bw2 | bw2 | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | srsHo | hbw0 | hbw0 | hbw0 | hbw1 | hbw2 | hbw2 | | ppingBa | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | Note 2 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | fr | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2 | 8 | 13 | | equency | | | | | | | | DomainP | | | | | | | | osition | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | s | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | | rs-Conf | | | | | | | | igIndex | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | tr | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | ansmiss | | | | | | | | ionComb | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | cycl | cs0 | cs0 | cs0 | cs0 | cs0 | cs0 | | icShift | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | srsAnte | an1 | an1 | an1 | an1 | an1 | an1 | | nnaPort | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | | of SRS | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number | ≥500\ | ≥500\ | ≥500 | ≥500 | ≥500 | ≥500 | | of | (see | (see | | | | | | con | note 1) | note 1) | (see | (see | (see | (see | | figured | | | note 1) | note 1) | note 1) | note 1) | | SRS | | | | | | | | transmi | | | | | | | | ssions, | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | dicated | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | E-SMLC | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of SRS | | | | | | | | transm | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | also be | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | figured | | | | | | | | as Inf. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | No SRS | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | equence | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | opping, | | | | | | | | no SRS | | | | | | | | group | | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table A.1-2: SRS Configuration for in-channel selectivity
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Channel | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | UL | n6 | n15 | n25 | n50 | n75 | n100 | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | srsB | bw7 | bw5 | bw5 | bw5 | bw6 | bw5 | | andwidt | | | | | | | | hConfig | | | | | | | | uration | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | srsBa | bw0 | bw1 | bw1 | bw1 | bw2 | bw2 | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | srsHo | hbw0 | hbw1 | hbw1 | hbw1 | hbw2 | hbw2 | | ppingBa | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | fr | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2 | 5 | 13 | | equency | | | | | | | | DomainP | | | | | | | | osition | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | s | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | 5 | | rs-Conf | | | | | | | | igIndex | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | tr | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | | ansmiss | | | | | | | | ionComb | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | cycl | cs0 | cs0 | cs0 | cs0 | cs0 | cs0 | | icShift | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | srsAnte | an1 | an1 | an1 | an1 | an1 | an1 | | nnaPort | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | 4 | | of SRS | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Number | ≥500\ | ≥500\ | ≥500 | ≥500 | ≥500 | ≥500 | | of | (see | (see | | | | | | con | note 1) | note 1) | (see | (see | (see | (see | | figured | | | note 1) | note 1) | note 1) | note 1) | | SRS | | | | | | | | transmi | | | | | | | | ssions, | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | dicated | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | E-SMLC | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | number | | | | | | | | of SRS | | | | | | | | transm | | | | | | | | issions | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | also be | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | figured | | | | | | | | as Inf. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | No SRS | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | equence | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | opping, | | | | | | | | no SRS | | | | | | | | group | | | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table A.1-3: SRS Configuration for accuracy and measurement time requirements,
4 ≤ SRS RBs ≤ 36, single UE
* * *
Number of SRS resource blocks 4 8 12 16 20 24 32 36 Channel bandwidth 1.4 MHz
3 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 10 MHz 10 MHz UL bandwidth n6 n15 n15 n25 n25
n50 n50 n50 Physical cell ID 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 srsBandwidthConfiguration bw7 bw6
bw5 bw4 bw3 bw5 bw4 bw3 srsBandwidth bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0
srsHoppingBandwidth hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0
frequencyDomainPosition 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 srs-ConfigIndex 325 325 325 325 325
325 325 325 transmissionComb 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 cyclicShift cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0
cs0 cs0 cs0 srsAntennaPort an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 Note 1: No SRS
sequence hopping, no SRS group hopping
* * *
Table A.1-4: SRS Configuration for accuracy and measurement time
requirements**,** 40 ≤ SRS RBs ≤ 96, single UE
* * *
Number of SRS resource blocks 40 48 60 64 72 80 96 Channel bandwidth 10 MHz 10
MHz 15 MHz 15 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 20 MHz UL bandwidth n50 n50 n75 n75 n75 n100
n100 Physical cell ID 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 srsBandwidthConfiguration bw2 bw1 bw2 bw1
bw0 bw2 bw1 srsBandwidth bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 srsHoppingBandwidth hbw0
hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 frequencyDomainPosition 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 srs-
ConfigIndex 325 325 325 325 325 325 325 transmissionComb 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
cyclicShift cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 srsAntennaPort an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 an1
an1 Note 1: No SRS sequence hopping, no SRS group hopping
* * *
Table A.1-5: SRS Configuration for accuracy and measurement time
requirements**,** 4 ≤ SRS RBs ≤ 36, parallel UL RTOA measurements
* * *
Number of SRS resource blocks 4 8 12 16 20 24 32 36 Channel bandwidth 1.4 MHz
3 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 10 MHz 10 MHz UL bandwidth n6 n15 n15 n25 n25
n50 n50 n50 srsBandwidthConfiguration bw7 bw6 bw5 bw4 bw3 bw5 bw4 bw3
srsBandwidth bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 srsHoppingBandwidth hbw0 hbw0
hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 frequencyDomainPosition 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 srs-
ConfigIndex 325 325 325 325 325 325 325 325 srsAntennaPort an1 an1 an1 an1 an1
an1 an1 an1 Note 1: No SRS sequence hopping, no SRS group hopping
* * *
Table A.1-6: SRS Configuration for accuracy and measurement time requirements,
40 ≤ SRS RBs ≤ 96, parallel UL RTOA measurements
* * *
Number of SRS resource blocks 40 48 60 64 72 80 96 Channel bandwidth 10 MHz 10
MHz 15 MHz 15 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 20 MHz UL bandwidth n50 n50 n75 n75 n75 n100
n100 srsBandwidthConfiguration bw2 bw1 bw2 bw1 bw0 bw2 bw1 srsBandwidth bw0
bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 srsHoppingBandwidth hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0
frequencyDomainPosition 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 srs-ConfigIndex 325 325 325 325 325 325
325 srsAntennaPort an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 Note 1: No SRS sequence
hopping, no SRS group hopping
* * *
Table A.1-7: SRS Physical cell ID for parallel UL RTOA measurements
* * *
Channel bandwidth 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz UE number 1 1 1 1 1
1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 5 2 1 1 1 1 1 6 2 1 1 1 1 1 7 2
1 1 1 1 1 8 2 1 1 1 1 1 9 3 2 1 1 1 1 10 3 2 1 1 1 1 11 3 2 1 1 1 1 12 3 2 1 1
1 1 13 4 2 1 1 1 1 14 4 2 1 1 1 1 15 4 2 1 1 1 1 16 4 2 1 1 1 1
* * *
Table A.1-8: SRS cyclic shift for parallel UL RTOA measurements
* * *
Channel bandwidth 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz UE number 1 cs0 cs0
cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 2 cs4 cs2 cs1 cs1 cs1 cs1 3 cs0 cs4 cs2 cs2 cs2 cs2 4 cs4 cs6
cs3 cs3 cs3 cs3 5 cs0 cs0 cs4 cs4 cs4 cs4 6 cs4 cs2 cs5 cs5 cs5 cs5 7 cs0 cs4
cs6 cs6 cs6 cs6 8 cs4 cs6 cs7 cs7 cs7 cs7 9 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 10 cs4 cs2
cs1 cs1 cs1 cs1 11 cs0 cs4 cs2 cs2 cs2 cs2 12 cs4 cs6 cs3 cs3 cs3 cs3 13 cs0
cs0 cs4 cs4 cs4 cs4 14 cs4 cs2 cs5 cs5 cs5 cs5 15 cs0 cs4 cs6 cs6 cs6 cs6 16
cs4 cs6 cs7 cs7 cs7 cs7
* * *
Table A.1-9: SRS transmission comb for parallel UL RTOA measurements
* * *
Channel bandwidth 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz UE number 1 0 0 0 0
0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 6 0 1 0 0 0 0 7 1
1 0 0 0 0 8 1 1 0 0 0 0 9 0 0 1 1 1 1 10 0 0 1 1 1 1 11 1 0 1 1 1 1 12 1 0 1 1
1 1 13 0 1 1 1 1 1 14 0 1 1 1 1 1 15 1 1 1 1 1 1 16 1 1 1 1 1 1
* * *
Table A.1-10: SRS Configuration Update for measurement time requirements**,**
4 ≤ SRS RBs ≤ 36
* * *
Number of SRS resource blocks 4 8 12 16 20 24 32 36 Channel bandwidth 1.4 MHz
3 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 10 MHz 10 MHz UL bandwidth n6 n15 n15 n25 n25
n50 n50 n50 srsBandwidthConfiguration bw7 bw6 bw5 bw4 bw3 bw5 bw4 bw3
srsBandwidth bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 srsHoppingBandwidth hbw0 hbw0
hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 frequencyDomainPosition 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 srs-
ConfigIndex 165 165 165 165 165 165 165 165 srsAntennaPort an1 an1 an1 an1 an1
an1 an1 an1 Note 1: No SRS sequence hopping, no SRS group hopping
* * *
Table A.1-11: SRS Configuration Update for measurement time requirements, 40 ≤
SRS RBs ≤ 96
* * *
Number of SRS resource blocks 40 48 60 64 72 80 96 Channel bandwidth 10 MHz 10
MHz 15 MHz 15 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 20 MHz UL bandwidth n50 n50 n75 n75 n75 n100
n100 srsBandwidthConfiguration bw2 bw1 bw2 bw1 bw0 bw2 bw1 srsBandwidth bw0
bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 bw0 srsHoppingBandwidth hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0 hbw0
frequencyDomainPosition 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 srs-ConfigIndex 165 165 165 165 165 165
165 srsAntennaPort an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 an1 Note 1: No SRS sequence
hopping, no SRS group hopping
* * *
Table A.1-12: SRS configuration update for measurement time requirements,
Physical cell ID
* * *
Channel bandwidth 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz UE number 1 1 1 1 1
1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 5 2 1 1 1 1 1 6 2 1 1 1 1 1 7 2
1 1 1 1 1 8 2 1 1 1 1 1 9 3 2 1 1 1 1 10 3 2 1 1 1 1 11 3 2 1 1 1 1 12 3 2 1 1
1 1 13 4 2 1 1 1 1 14 4 2 1 1 1 1 15 4 2 1 1 1 1 16 4 2 1 1 1 1
* * *
Table A.1-13: SRS configuration update for measurement time requirements, SRS
cyclic
* * *
Channel bandwidth 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz UE number 1 cs0 cs0
cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 2 cs4 cs2 cs1 cs1 cs1 cs1 3 cs0 cs4 cs2 cs2 cs2 cs2 4 cs4 cs6
cs3 cs3 cs3 cs3 5 cs0 cs0 cs4 cs4 cs4 cs4 6 cs4 cs2 cs5 cs5 cs5 cs5 7 cs0 cs4
cs6 cs6 cs6 cs6 8 cs4 cs6 cs7 cs7 cs7 cs7 9 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 cs0 10 cs4 cs2
cs1 cs1 cs1 cs1 11 cs0 cs4 cs2 cs2 cs2 cs2 12 cs4 cs6 cs3 cs3 cs3 cs3 13 cs0
cs0 cs4 cs4 cs4 cs4 14 cs4 cs2 cs5 cs5 cs5 cs5 15 cs0 cs4 cs6 cs6 cs6 cs6 16
cs4 cs6 cs7 cs7 cs7 cs7
* * *
Table A.1-14: SRS configuration update for measurement time requirements,
transmission comb
* * *
Channel bandwidth 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz UE number 1 0 0 0 0
0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 6 0 1 0 0 0 0 7 1
1 0 0 0 0 8 1 1 0 0 0 0 9 0 0 1 1 1 1 10 0 0 1 1 1 1 11 1 0 1 1 1 1 12 1 0 1 1
1 1
* * *
###### ## Annex B (informative): Propagation conditions
# B.1 Static Propagation condition
The propagation for the static performance measurement is an Additive White
Gaussian Noise (AWGN) environment. No fading or multi-paths exist for this
propagation model.
# B.2 Multi-path fading propagation conditions
Tables B.2-1 -- B.2.3 show multi-path delay profiles that are used for the
performance measurements in multi-path fading environment. All taps have
classical Doppler spectrum, defined as:
(CLASS) {width="1.5729166666666667in" height="0.1875in"} for
{width="0.6666666666666666in" height="0.1875in"}.
Table B.2-1 Extended Pedestrian A model (EPA)
+------------------+----------------+ | Excess tap delay | Relative power | | | | | [ns] | [dB] | +------------------+----------------+ | 0 | 0.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 30 | -1.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 70 | -2.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 90 | -3.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 110 | -8.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 190 | -17.2 | +------------------+----------------+ | 410 | -20.8 | +------------------+----------------+
Table B.2-2 Extended Typical Urban model (ETU)
+------------------+----------------+ | Excess tap delay | Relative power | | | | | [ns] | [dB] | +------------------+----------------+ | 0 | -1.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 50 | -1.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 120 | -1.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 200 | 0.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 230 | 0.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 500 | 0.2 | +------------------+----------------+ | 1600 | -3.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 2300 | -5.0 | +------------------+----------------+ | 5000 | -7.0 | +------------------+----------------+
###### ## Annex C (informative): Characteristics of the interfering signals
# C.1 Interfering signals in LMU RF tests
The interfering signal for the 1.4 MHz in-channel requirement shall be a
PUCCH. For the other requirements the interferer shall be a PUSCH containing
data and reference symbols. Normal cyclic prefix is used. The data content
shall be uncorrelated to the wanted signal and modulated according to clause 5
of TS 36.211 [3]. Mapping of the PUCCH and PUSCH modulation to receiver
requirement are specified in table C-1.1.
Table C-1.1: Modulation of the interfering signal
* * *
Receiver requirement Signal/Modulation In-channel selectivity (1.4 MHz
channel) PUCCH/QPSK In-channel selectivity (3, 5,10, 15 and 20 MHz channel)
PUSCH/16QAM Adjacent channel selectivity and narrow-band blocking PUSCH/QPSK
Blocking PUSCH/QPSK Receiver intermodulation PUSCH/QPSK
* * *
# C.2 Interfering signals in LMU performance tests
The interfering signal from UEs not modelled explicitely in the test, e.g.,
other than 16 UE in tests with parallel measurements, shall be AWGN.
###### ## Annex D (informative): Environmental requirements for the LMU
equipment
# D.1 General
For each test in the present document, the environmental conditions under
which the LMU is to be tested are defined.
# D.2 Normal test environment
When a normal test environment is specified for a test, the test should be
performed within the minimum and maximum limits of the conditions stated in
Table D.1.
Table D.1: Limits of conditions for Normal Test Environment
* * *
Condition Minimum Maximum Barometric pressure 86 kPa 106 kPa Temperature 15°C
30°C Relative Humidity 20 % 85 % Power supply Nominal, as declared by the
manufacturer  
Vibration Negligible
* * *
The ranges of barometric pressure, temperature and humidity represent the
maximum variation expected in the uncontrolled environment of a test
laboratory. If it is not possible to maintain these parameters within the
specified limits, the actual values shall be recorded in the test report.
NOTE: This may, for instance, be the case for measurements of radiated
emissions performed on an open field test site.
# D.3 Extreme test environment
The manufacturer shall declare one of the following:
1) the equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in the IEC 60
721-3-3 [4];
2) the equipment class for the equipment under test, as defined in the IEC 60
721-3-4 [5];
3) the equipment that does not comply to the mentioned classes, the relevant
classes from IEC 60 721 documentation for Temperature, Humidity and Vibration
shall be declared.
NOTE: Reduced functionality for conditions that fall outside of the standard
operational conditions are not tested in the present document. These may be
stated and tested separately.
## D.3.1 Extreme temperature
When an extreme temperature test environment is specified for a test, the test
shall be performed at the standard minimum and maximum operating temperatures
defined by the manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test.
**Minimum temperature:**
The test shall be performed with the environment test equipment and methods
including the required environmental phenomena into the equipment, conforming
to the test procedure of IEC 60 068-2-1 [6].
**Maximum temperature:**
The test shall be performed with the environmental test equipment and methods
including the required environmental phenomena into the equipment, conforming
to the test procedure of IEC 60 068-2-2 [7].
NOTE: It is recommended that the equipment is made fully operational prior to
the equipment being taken to its lower operating temperature.
# D.4 Vibration
When vibration conditions are specified for a test, the test shall be
performed while the equipment is subjected to a vibration sequence as defined
by the manufacturer's declaration for the equipment under test. This shall use
the environmental test equipment and methods of inducing the required
environmental phenomena in to the equipment, conforming to the test procedure
of IEC 60 068-2-6 [8]. Other environmental conditions shall be within the
ranges specified in clause D.2.
NOTE: The higher levels of vibration may induce undue physical stress in to
equipment after a prolonged series of tests. The testing body should only
vibrate the equipment during the RF measurement process.
# D.5 Power supply
When extreme power supply conditions are specified for a test, the test shall
be performed at the standard upper and lower limits of operating voltage
defined by manufacturer\'s declaration for the equipment under test.
**Upper voltage limit:**
The equipment shall be supplied with a voltage equal to the upper limit
declared by the manufacturer (as measured at the input terminals to the
equipment). The tests shall be carried out at the steady state minimum and
maximum temperature limits declared by the manufacturer for the equipment, to
the methods described in IEC 60 068-2-1 [6] Test Ab/Ad and IEC 60 068-2-2 [7]
Test Bb/Bd: Dry Heat.
**Lower voltage limit:**
The equipment shall be supplied with a voltage equal to the lower limit
declared by the manufacturer (as measured at the input terminals to the
equipment). The tests shall be carried out at the steady state minimum and
maximum temperature limits declared by the manufacturer for the equipment, to
the methods described in IEC 60 068-2-1 [6] Test Ab/Ad and IEC 60 068-2-2 [7]
Test Bb/Bd: Dry Heat.
# D.6 Measurement of test environments
The measurement accuracy of the LMU test environments defined in Annex D, Test
environments shall be.
> Pressure: ±5 kPa.
>
> Temperature: ±2 degrees.
>
> Relative Humidity: ±5 %.
>
> DC Voltage: ±1,0 %.
>
> AC Voltage: ±1,5 %.
>
> Vibration: 10 %.
>
> Vibration frequency: 0,1 Hz.
The above values shall apply unless the test environment is otherwise
controlled and the specification for the control of the test environment
specifies the uncertainty for the parameter.
###### ## Annex E (informative): General Rules for statistical testing
# E.1 Error Definition
For the RF requirements testing, a correct event is when the LMU detects the
wanted signal with the false alarm rate as specified in TS 36.111 clause
5.1.1. To pass a RF requirements test, the detection probability has to be at
least 99% and the false alarm rate below 0.1%.
For the UL RTOA measurement testing, a correct event is when the LMU returns a
measurement response with a correct UL RTOA measurement within the time as
specified in clauses 7.2.5, 7.3.5 and 7.4.5, whichever applies. To pass a UL
RTOA measurement test, at least 90% of the events have to be correct.
For the UL RTOA measurement accuracy testing, a correct event is when the LMU
returns a measurement response with a correct UL RTOA measurement that has a
value less than or equal to the corresponding required value in Tables
8.2.5-1, 8.3.5-1, 8.4.5-1 and 8.5.5-1, whichever applies. To pass a UL RTOA
measurement accuracy test, at least 90% of the events have to be correct.
# E.2 Test Method
Each test is performed in the following manner:
a) Setup the required test conditions.
b) Record the number of samples tested and the number of correct events.
c) Stop the test when the number of correct events is sufficient to pass the
test or after a given time.
d) Once the test is stopped decide whether the test has been passed or not.
###### ## Annex F (informative): Test tolerances and derivation of test
requirements
# F.1 Test tolerances and derivation of test requirements
The Test Requirements in this specification have been calculated by relaxing
the Minimum Requirements of the core specification using the Test Tolerances
defined in clause 4. When the Test Tolerance is zero, the Test Requirement
will be the same as the Minimum Requirement. When the Test Tolerance is non-
zero, the Test Requirements will differ from the Minimum Requirements, and the
formula used for this relaxation is given in tables F.1, F.2 and F.3.
Note that a formula for applying Test Tolerances is provided for all tests,
even those with a test tolerance of zero. This is necessary in the case that
the Test System uncertainty is greater than that allowed in clause 4. In this
event, the excess error shall be subtracted from the defined test tolerance in
order to generate the correct tightened Test Requirements as defined in clause
4.
For example, a Test System having 0.9 dB accuracy for test 6.2.1 LMU Reference
sensitivity (which is 0.2 dB above the limit specified in clause 4.) would
subtract 0.2 dB from the Test Tolerance of 0.7 dB defined in clause 4. This
new test tolerance of 0.5 dB would then be applied to the Minimum Requirement
using the formula defined in Table F.1-1 to give a new wanted signal power of
-130.3 dBm for the reference sensitivity.
Using this same approach for the case where a test had a test tolerance of 0
dB, an excess error of 0.2 dB would result in a modified test tolerance of
-0.2 dB.
Table F.1-1: Derivation of RF Test Requirements
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Test | Test Tolerance\ | Test Requirement in | | | (TT) | TS 36.112 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.2 Reference | 0.7 dB, f ≤ 3.0 GHz | Formula: Reference | | sensitivity | | sensitivity level + | | | 1.0 dB, 3.0 GHz \< f | TT | | | ≤ 4.2 GHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.3 Dynamic range | 0.3 dB | Formula: Wanted | | | | signal level + TT | | | | | | | | AWGN level unchanged | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.4 In-channel | 1.4 dB, f ≤ 3.0 GHz | Formula: Wanted | | selectivity | | signal level + TT | | | 1.8 dB, 3.0 GHz \< f | | | | ≤ 4.2 GHz | W-CDMA interferer | | | | level unchanged | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.5 Adjacent channel | 1.4 dB, f ≤ 3.0 GHz | Formula: Wanted | | selectivity (ACS) | | signal level + TT | | and narrowband | 1.8 dB, 3.0 GHz \< f | | | blocking | ≤ 4.2 GHz | Interferer level | | | | unchanged | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.6 Blocking | [In-band blocking, | Formula: Wanted | | | using modulated | signal level + TT | | | inte | | | | rferer:]{.underline} | Interferer level | | | | unchanged | | | 1.6 dB, f ≤ 3.0GHz | | | | | | | | 2.0 dB, 3.0GHz \< f | | | | ≤ 4.2GHz | | | | | | | | [Out of band | | | | blocking, using CW | | | | inte | | | | rferer:]{.underline} | | | | | | | | 1.3 dB, 1MHz \< | | | | f~interferer~ ≤ 3 | | | | GHz | | | | | | | | 1.6 dB, 3.0GHz \< | | | | f~interferer~ ≤ 4.2 | | | | GHz | | | | | | | | 3.2 dB, 4.2GHz \< | | | | f~interferer~ ≤ | | | | 12.75 GHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.7 Receiver | 2.0 dB, 30 MHz ≤ f ≤ | Add TT to Maximum | | spurious emissions | 4 GHz | level in table | | | | 6.7.5-1 | | | 4.0 dB, 4 GHz \< f ≤ | | | | 19 GHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 6.7 Receiver | ±1.8 dB, f ≤ 3.0GHz | Formula: Wanted | | intermodulation | | signal level + TT | | | ±2.4 dB, 3.0GHz \< f | | | | ≤ 4.2GHz | Interferer1 level | | | | unchanged | | | | | | | | Interferer2 level | | | | unchanged | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table F.1-2: Derivation of UL RTOA Measurement Time Requirements
* * *
Test Test Tolerance\ Test Requirement in TS 36.112 (TT)
7.2, Requirements for FDD without DRX 0.3 dB Minimum requirement + TT
7.3, Requirements for TDD without DRX 0.3 dB Minimum requirement + TT
* * *
Table F.1-3: Derivation of UL RTOA Accuracy Requirements
* * *
Test Test Tolerance\ Test Requirement in TS 36.112 (TT)
8.2, UL RTOA measurement accuracy for a UE not configured with CA 0.3 dB
Minimum requirement + TT
8.3, UL RTOA measurement accuracy for a UE configured with CA 0.3 dB Minimum
requirement + TT
8.4 UL RTOA measurement accuracy when LMU is performing multiple UL RTOA
measurements in parallel 0.3 dB Minimum requirement + TT
* * *
###### ## Annex G (informative): Measurement system setup
# G.1 Receiver RF Requirements Testing
The measurement set-ups in this clause are for the LMU RF requirements for
class 2 and class 3 LMUs specified in Section 5 of TS 36.111. The test ports
and the RF requirements applicability are as specified in Section 5.1 of TS
36.111. If any external apparatus, e.g., a RX amplifier, a filter or the
combination of such devices is used, LMU RF requirements apply and are tested
at the far end antenna connector (port B); otherwise, the requirements apply
at port A. No additional testing is necessary for class 1 LMUs, in addition to
base station conformance tests specified in TS 36.141.
Degradation of the base station DL performance and base station UL performance
may occur when LMU class 2 is co-sited with the base station; therefore the
impact on BS shall also be tested in conjunction with the LMU Receiver RF
conformance tests of this specification.
## G.1.1 Receiver sensitivity level
Figure G.1.1-1 Measuring system setup for class 2 and class 3 LMU receiver
sensitivity level
## G.1.2 Dynamic range
Figure G.1.2-1 Measuring system setup for class 2 and class 3 LMU dynamic
range
## G.1.3 In-channel selectivity
Figure G.1.3-1 Measuring system setup for class 2 and class 3 LMU In-channel
selectivity
## G.1.4 Adjacent channel selectivity (ACS) and narrow-band blocking
Figure G.1.4-1 Measuring system setup for LMU Adjacent channel selectivity and
narrow-band blocking
## G.1.5 Blocking
Figure G.1.5-1 Measuring system setup for class 2 and class 3 LMU Blocking
## G.1.6 Receiver spurious emissions
Figure G.1.6-1 Measuring system setup for class 2 and class 3 LMU Receiver
spurious emissions
## G.1.7 Receiver intermodulation
Figure G.1.7-1 Measuring system setup for class 2 and class 3 LMU Receiver
intermodulation
# G.2 UL RTOA measurement time requirements Testing
The measurement set-ups for the UL RTOA measurement time are common to class
1, class 2 and class 3 LMUs. The test ports are as specified in Section 5.1 of
TS 36.111. If any external apparatus, e.g., a RX amplifier, a filter or the
combination of such devices is used, the LMU requirements are tested at the
far end antenna connector (port B); otherwise, the requirements apply at port
A.
## G.2.1 UL RTOA measurement time, FDD without DRX
Figure G.2.1-1 Measuring system setup for LMU UL RTOA measurement time, FDD
without DRX
## G.2.2 UL RTOA measurement time, TDD without DRX
Figure G.2.2-1 Measuring system setup for LMU UL RTOA measurement time, TDD
without DRX
# G.3 UL RTOA measurement accuracy requirements Testing
The measurement set-ups for the UL RTOA measurement accuracy are common to
class 1, class 2 and class 3 LMUs. The test ports are as specified in Section
5.1 of TS 36.111. If any external apparatus, e.g., a RX amplifier, a filter or
the combination of such devices is used, the LMU requirements are tested at
the far end antenna connector (port B); otherwise, the requirements apply at
port A.
## G.3.1 UL RTOA measurement accuracy for a UE not configured with CA
Figure G.1.3-1 Measuring system setup for UL RTOA measurement accuracy for LMU
without CA
## G.3.2 UL RTOA measurement accuracy for a UE configured with CA
Figure G.3.2-1 Measuring system setup for UL RTOA measurement accuracy for LMU
with CA
## G.3.3 UL RTOA measurement accuracy when LMU is performing multiple UL RTOA
measurements in parallel
Figure G.3.3-1 Measuring system setup for UL RTOA measurement accuracy with
multiple parallel measurements
#