# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the Access Stratum (AS) part of the Idle Mode
procedures applicable to a UE. The non-access stratum (NAS) part of Idle mode
procedures and processes is specified in TS 23.122 [5].
The present document specifies the model for the functional division between
the NAS and AS in a UE.
The present document applies to all UEs that support at least E-UTRA,
including multi-RAT UEs as described in 3GPP specifications, in the following
cases:
\- When the UE is camped on an E-UTRA cell;
\- When the UE is searching for a cell to camp on;
NOTE: When the UE is camped on or searching for a cell to camp on belonging to
other RATs, the UE behaviour is described in the specifications of the other
RAT.
The Idle Mode procedures defined in this specification are also applicable for
a UE in RRC_INACTIVE state unless specified otherwise.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non-specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 25.990: \"Vocabulary for UTRAN\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.300: \"E-UTRA and E-UTRAN Overall Description; Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.331: \"E-UTRA; Radio Resource Control (RRC) - Protocol
Specification\".
[4] 3GPP TS 22.011: \"Service accessibility\".
[5] 3GPP TS 23.122: \"NAS functions related to Mobile Station (MS) in idle
mode\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"E-UTRA; Physical layer procedures\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.214: \"E-UTRA; Physical layer; Measurements\".
[8] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode\"
[9] 3GPP TS 43.022: \"Functions related to Mobile Station in idle mode and
group receive mode\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.133: \"Requirements for Support of Radio Resource
Management\".
[11] void
[12] void
[13] void
[14] void
[15] void
[16] 3GPP TS 24.301: \"Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) protocol for Evolved Packet
System (EPS); Stage 3\"
[17] 3GPP2 C.S0024-C v2.0: \"cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface
Specification\".
[18] 3GPP2 C.S0005-F v1.0: \"Upper Layer (Layer 3) Signalling Standard for
cdma2000 Spread Spectrum Systems\".
[19] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"User Equipment (UE) procedures in idle mode and
procedures for cell reselection in connected mode\".
[20] 3GPP TS 24.008: \"Mobile Radio Interface Layer 3 specification; Core
Network Protocols; Stage 3\"
[21] 3GPP TS 37.320: \"Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (UTRA) and Evolved
Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA); Radio measurement collection for
Minimization of Drive Tests (MDT); Overall description; Stage 2\".
[22] 3GPP TS 26.346: \"Multimedia Broadcast/Multicast Service (MBMS);
Protocols and codecs\".
[23] 3GPP TS 23.401: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN) access\".
[24] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[25] 3GPP TS 23.402: \"Architecture enhancements for non-3GPP accesses\".
[26] IEEE 802.11, Part 11: \"Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
Physical Layer (PHY) specifications, IEEE Std.\".
[27] Wi-Fi Alliance Technical Committee, Hotspot 2.0 Technical Task Group:
\"Hotspot 2.0 (Release 2) Technical Specification\".
[28] 3GPP TS 24.302: \"Access to the 3GPP Evolved Packet Core (EPC) via
non-3GPP access networks\".
[29] 3GPP TS 23.303: \"Proximity-based services (ProSe); Stage 2\".
[30] 3GPP TS 36.321: \"E-UTRA; Medium Access Control (MAC) protocol
specification\".
[31] 3GPP TS 24.105: \"Application specific Congestion control for Data
Communication (ACDC) Management Object (MO)\".
[32] 3GPP TS 31.102: \"Characteristics of the Universal Subscriber Identity
Module (USIM) application\".
[33] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[34] Void
[35] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[36] 3GPP TS 23.285: \"Technical Specification Group Services and System
Aspects; Architecture enhancements for V2X services\".
[37] 3GPP TS 38.331: \"NR; Radio Resource Control (RRC); Protocol
specification\".
[38] 3GPP TS 38.304: \"New Generation Radio Access Network; User Equipment
(UE) procedures in Idle mode and RRC Inactive state\".
[39] 3GPP TS 23.501: \"System Architecture for the 5G System; Stage 2\".
[40] Void
[41] 3GPP TS 22.261: \"Service requirements for the 5G system\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply:
**Acceptable Cell:** A cell that satisfies certain conditions as specified in
4.3. A UE can always attempt emergency calls on an acceptable cell, but
restriction as in 5.3.3 apply.
**CSG Whitelist** : A list provided by NAS containing all the CSG identities
and their associated PLMN IDs of the CSGs to which the subscriber belongs.
NOTE: This list is known as Allowed CSG List in Rel-8 Access Stratum
specifications.
**Available PLMN(s):** One or more PLMN(s) for which the UE has found at least
one cell and read its PLMN identity(ies).
**Barred Cell** : A cell a UE is not allowed to camp on.
**Camped on a cell:** UE has completed the cell selection/reselection process
and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system information and (in most cases)
paging information.
**Camped on any cell** : UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell irrespective of PLMN
identity.
**Closed Subscriber Group (CSG):** A Closed Subscriber Group identifies
subscribers of an operator who are permitted to access one or more cells of
the PLMN but which have restricted access (CSG cells).
**CN type:** The type of core network connectivity supported by an E-UTRA
cell, either EPC or 5GC.
**Commercial Mobile Alert System:** Public Warning System that delivers
_Warning Notifications_ provided by _Warning Notification Providers_ to CMAS
capable UEs.
**CSG cell:** A cell broadcasting a CSG indication that is set to TRUE and a
specific CSG identity.
**CSG identity:** An identifier broadcast by a CSG or hybrid cell/cells and
used by the UE to facilitate access for authorised members of the associated
Closed Subscriber Group.
**CSG member cell:** a cell broadcasting the identity of the selected PLMN,
registered PLMN or equivalent PLMN and for which the CSG whitelist of the UE
includes an entry comprising cell\'s CSG ID and the respective PLMN identity.
**DRX cycle:** Individual time interval between monitoring Paging Occasion for
a specific UE.
**eDRX cycle:** Time interval between the first Paging Occasions occurring
after successive extended DRX periods.
**eCall Only Mode:** A UE configuration option that allows the UE to attach at
EPS and register in IMS to perform only eCall Over IMS, and a non-emergency
IMS call for test and/or terminal reconfiguration services.
**EHPLMN:** Any of the PLMN entries contained in the Equivalent HPLMN list TS
23.122 [5].
**Equivalent PLMN list:** List of PLMNs considered as equivalent by the UE for
cell selection, cell reselection, and handover according to the information
provided by the NAS.
**EU-Alert:** Public Warning System that delivers Warning Notifications
provided by Warning Notification Providers using the same AS mechanisms as
defined for CMAS.
**Home PLMN:** A PLMN where the Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile Network
Code (MNC) of the PLMN identity are the same as the MCC and MNC of the IMSI.
**HNB Name** : The Home eNodeB Name is a broadcast string in free text format
that provides a human readable name for the Home eNodeB CSG identity and any
broadcasted PLMN identity.
**HSDN cell** : A cell that has higher priority than other cells for cell
reselection for HSDN capable UE in a High-mobility state.
**Hybrid cell:** A cell broadcasting a CSG Indicator that is set to FALSE and
a specific CSG identity.
**Hyper SFN:** Index broadcast in System Information that increments at every
SFN wrap around (i.e every 10.24s).
**Korean Public Alert System (KPAS):** Public Warning System that delivers
Warning Notifications provided by Warning Notification Providers using the
same AS mechanisms as defined for CMAS.
**Location Registration (LR):** UE registers its presence in a registration
area, for instance regularly or when entering a new tracking area.
**MBMS-dedicated cell** : cell dedicated to MBMS transmission.
**MBMS/****Unicast-mixed cell** : cell supporting both unicast and MBMS
transmissions.
**FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cell** : cell supporting MBMS transmission and unicast
transmission as SCell.
**NB-IoT:** NB-IoT allows access to network services via E-UTRA with a channel
bandwidth limited to 200 kHz.
**Paging Time Window:** The period configured for a UE in extended DRX, during
which the UE monitors Paging Occasions following DRX cycle.
**Power saving mode** : Mode allowing the UE to reduce its power consumption,
as defined in TS 24.301 [16], TS 23.401 [23], TS 23.682 [24].
**Process:** A local action in the UE invoked by a RRC procedure or an Idle
Mode or RRC_INACTIVE state procedure.
**Radio Access Technology:** Type of technology used for radio access, for
instance E-UTRA, UTRA, GSM, CDMA2000 1xEV-DO (HRPD) or CDMA2000 1x (1xRTT).
**Registered PLMN:** This is the PLMN on which certain Location Registration
outcomes have occurred TS 23.122 [5].
**Registration Area** : (NAS) registration area is an area in which the UE may
roam without a need to perform location registration, which is a NAS
procedure.
**Reserved Cell** : A cell on which camping is not allowed, except for
particular UEs, if so indicated in the system information.
**Restricted Cell** : A cell on which camping is allowed, but access attempts
are disallowed for UEs whose access classes are indicated as barred.
**Selected PLMN:** This is the PLMN that has been selected by the NAS, either
manually or automatically.
**Serving cell:** The cell on which the UE is camped.
**Sidelink** : UE to UE interface for sidelink communication, V2X sidelink
communication and sidelink discovery. The Sidelink corresponds to the PC5
interface as defined in TS 23.303 [29].
**Sidelink communication** : AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct
Communication as defined in TS 23.303 [29], between two or more nearby UEs,
using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any network node. The terminology
\"sidelink communication\" without \"V2X\" prefix only concerns PS unless
specifically stated otherwise.
**Sidelink discovery** : AS functionality enabling ProSe Direct Discovery as
defined in TS 23.303 [29], using E-UTRA technology but not traversing any
network node.
**Strongest cell:** The cell on a particular carrier that is considered
strongest according to the layer 1 cell search procedure TS 36.213 [6], TS
36.214 [7].
**Suitable Cell:** This is a cell on which an UE may camp. For a E-UTRA cell,
the criteria are defined in clause 4.3, for a UTRA cell in TS 25.304 [8], for
a GSM cell in TS 43.022 [9], and for a NR cell in TS 38.304 [38].
**V2X sidelink communication:** AS functionality enabling V2X Communication as
defined in TS 23.285 [36], between nearby UEs, using E-UTRA technology but not
traversing any network node.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
1xRTT CDMA2000 1x Radio Transmission Technology
AS Access Stratum
AC Access Class (of the USIM)
ACDC Application specific Congestion control for Data Communication
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
BL Bandwidth reduced Low complexity
BR-BCCH Bandwidth Reduced Broadcast Control Channel
BSS Basic Service Set
CMAS Commercial Mobile Altert System
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DRX Discontinuous Reception
DL-SCH Downlink Shared Channel
EHPLMN Equivalent Home PLMN
EPC Evolved Packet Core
EPS Evolved Packet System
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
E-UTRAN Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GERAN GSM/EDGE Radio Access Network
HPLMN Home PLMN
HSDN High Speed Dedicated Network
H-SFN Hyper System Frame Number
HRPD High Rate Packet Data
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast-Multicast Service
MBSFN Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network
MCC Mobile Country Code
MCCH Multicast Control Channel
MDT Minimization of Drive Tests
MM Mobility Management
MNC Mobile Network Code
MPDCCH MTC Physical Downlink Control Channel
MTCH Multicast Traffic Channel
NAS Non-Access Stratum
NB-IoT NarrowBand Internet of Things
NR NR Radio Access
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
ProSe Proximity-based Services
PSM Power Saving Mode
PTW Paging Time Window
PWS Public Warning System
RAT Radio Access Technology
RNA RAN-based Notification Area
RNAU RAN-based Notification Area Update
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
SIBX SystemInformationBlockTypeX
TDD Time Division Duplex
UAC Unified Access Control
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
V2X Vehicle-to-Everything
WUS Wake Up Signal
# 4 General description of Idle mode
## 4.1 Overview
The idle mode tasks can be subdivided into four processes:
\- PLMN selection;
\- Cell selection and reselection;
\- Location registration;
\- Support for manual CSG selection.
The relationship between these processes is illustrated in Figure 4.1-1.
Figure 4.1-1: Overall Idle Mode process
When a UE is switched on, a public land mobile network (PLMN) is selected by
NAS. For the selected PLMN, associated RAT(s) may be set TS 23.122 [5]. The
NAS shall provide a list of equivalent PLMNs, if available, that the AS shall
use for cell selection and cell reselection.
With the cell selection, the UE searches for a suitable cell of the selected
PLMN and chooses that cell to provide available services, further the UE shall
tune to its control channel. This choosing is known as \"camping on the
cell\".
For E-UTRA a cell may be associated with more than one CN type (EPC and/or
5GC) and hence the selected cell can be suitable for more than one CN type.
The CN type(s) for which the selected cell is suitable are reported to NAS
which selects a CN type to be used for camping and for the NAS registration
procedure (see below). Note that CN type selection is only applicabe for UE
supporting E-UTRA connected to 5GC.
The UE shall, if necessary, then register its presence, by means of a NAS
registration procedure, in the tracking area of the chosen cell and as outcome
of a successful Location Registration the selected PLMN becomes the registered
PLMN TS 23.122 [5].
If the UE finds a more suitable cell, according to the cell reselection
criteria, it reselects onto that cell and camps on it. Similar to cell
selection procedure, if the reselected cell is an E-UTRA cell and the UE
supports E-UTRA connected to 5GC, the CN type(s) for which the cell is
suitable are reported to NAS which selects one of them. If the new cell does
not belong to at least one tracking area to which the UE is registered,
location registration is performed. In RRC_INACTIVE state, if the new cell
does not belong to the configured RNA, a RNA update procedure is performed.
If necessary, the UE shall search for higher priority PLMNs at regular time
intervals as described in TS 22.011 [4] and search for a suitable cell if
another PLMN has been selected by NAS.
Search of available CSGs may be triggered by NAS to support manual CSG
selection.
If the UE loses coverage of the registered PLMN, either a new PLMN is selected
automatically (automatic mode), or an indication of which PLMNs are available
is given to the user, so that a manual selection can be made (manual mode).
Registration is not performed by UEs only capable of services that need no
registration.
The UE may perform sidelink communication or V2X sidelink communication or
sidelink discovery while in-coverage or out-of-coverage for sidelink, as
specified in clause 11.
The purpose of camping on a cell in idle mode is fivefold:
a) It enables the UE to receive system information from the PLMN.
b) When registered and if the UE wishes to establish an RRC connection, it can
do this by initially accessing the network on the control channel of the cell
on which it is camped.
c) If the PLMN receives a call for the registered UE, it knows (in most cases)
the set of tracking areas (in RRC_IDLE state) or RNAs (in RRC_INACTIVE state)
in which the UE is camped. It can then send a \"paging\" message for the UE on
the control channels of all the cells in this set of tracking areas. The UE
will then receive the paging message because it is tuned to the control
channel of a cell in one of the registered tracking areas and the UE can
respond on that control channel.
d) It enables the UE to receive ETWS and CMAS notifications.
e) It enables the UE to receive MBMS services.
If the UE is unable to find a suitable cell to camp on or if the location
registration failed (except for LR rejected with cause #12, cause #14, cause
#15 or cause #25, see TS 23.122 [5] and TS 24.301 [16]), it attempts to camp
on a cell irrespective of the PLMN identity, and enters a \"limited service\"
state.
When NAS indicates that PSM starts, the AS configuration (e.g. priorities
provided by dedicated signalling and logged measurements) is kept, all running
timers continue to run but the UE need not perform any idle mode tasks. If a
timer expires while the UE is in PSM it is up to UE implementation whether it
performs the corresponding action immediately or the latest when PSM ends.
When NAS indicates that PSM ends, the UE shall perform all idle mode tasks.
## 4.2 Functional division between AS and NAS in Idle mode
Table 1 presents the functional division between UE non-access stratum (NAS)
and UE access stratum (AS) in idle mode. The NAS part is specified in TS
23.122 [5] and the AS part in the present document.
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Idle Mode Process | UE Non-Access | UE Access Stratum | | | Stratum | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PLMN Selection | Maintain a list of | Search for available | | | PLMNs in priority | PLMNs. | | | order according to | | | | TS 23.122 [5]. | If associated RAT(s) | | | Select a PLMN using | is (are) set for the | | | automatic or manual | PLMN, search in this | | | mode as specified in | (these) RAT(s) and | | | TS 23.122 [5] and | other RAT(s) for | | | request AS to select | that PLMN as | | | a cell belonging to | specified in TS | | | this PLMN. For each | 23.122 [5]. | | | PLMN, associated | | | | RAT(s) may be set. | Perform measurements | | | | to support PLMN | | | Evaluate reports of | selection. | | | available PLMNs and, | | | | for E-UTRA if the | Synchronise to a | | | UEs supports E-UTRA | broadcast channel to | | | connected to 5GC, CN | identify found PLMNs | | | type(s) from AS for | (and CN type(s). | | | PLMN selection. | | | | | Report available | | | Maintain a list of | PLMNs with | | | equivalent PLMN | associated RAT(s) | | | identities. | and, for E-UTRA if | | | | the UE supports | | | | E-UTRA connected to | | | | 5GC, CN type(s) to | | | | NAS on request from | | | | NAS or autonomously. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell\ | Control cell | Perform measurements | | Selection | selection for | needed to support | | | example by | cell selection. | | | indicating RAT(s) | | | | associated with the | Detect and | | | selected PLMN to be | synchronise to a | | | used initially in | broadcast channel. | | | the search of a cell | Receive and handle | | | in the cell | broadcast | | | selection. NAS is | information. Forward | | | also maintaining | NAS system | | | lists of forbidden | information to NAS. | | | registration areas | | | | and a list of CSG | Search for a | | | IDs and their | suitable cell. The | | | associated PLMN ID | cells broadcast one | | | on which the UE is | or more \'PLMN | | | allowed (**CSG | identity\' in the | | | whitelist**) and | system information. | | | provide these lists | Respond to NAS | | | to AS. | whether such cell is | | | | found or not. | | | NAS may indicate | | | | whether the use of | If associated RATs | | | coverage | is (are) set for the | | | enhancements is not | PLMN, perform the | | | authorized for the | search in this | | | selected PLMN. | (these) RAT(s) and | | | | other RATs for that | | | NAS may indicate | PLMN as specified in | | | whether the CE mode | TS 23.122 [5]. | | | B is restricted for | | | | the UE supporting CE | If such a cell is | | | mode B. | found, the cell is | | | | selected to camp on. | | | For E-UTRA if the UE | | | | supports E-UTRA | For E-UTRA if the UE | | | connected to 5GC, | supports E-UTRA | | | NAS indicates the CN | connected to 5GC, AS | | | type to be used for | reports the CN | | | the selected cell. | type(s) for which | | | | the selected cell is | | | | suitable to NAS. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cell\ | Control cell | Perform measurements | | Reselection | reselection by for | needed to support | | | example, maintaining | cell reselection. | | | lists of forbidden | | | | registration areas. | Detect and | | | | synchronise to a | | | Maintain a list of | broadcast channel. | | | equivalent PLMN | Receive and handle | | | identities and | broadcast | | | provide the list to | information. Forward | | | AS. | NAS system | | | | information to NAS. | | | Maintain a list of | | | | forbidden | Change cell if a | | | registration areas | more suitable cell | | | and provide the list | is found. | | | to AS. | | | | | For E-UTRA if the UE | | | Maintain a list of | supports E-UTRA | | | CSG IDs and their | connected to 5GC, | | | associated PLMN ID | the UE reports the | | | on which the UE is | CN type(s) for which | | | allowed (**CSG | the selected cell is | | | whitelist**) to camp | suitable to NAS. | | | and provide the list | | | | to AS. | | | | | | | | For E-UTRA if the UE | | | | supports E-UTRA | | | | connected to 5GC, | | | | NAS indicates the CN | | | | type to be used for | | | | the selected cell. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Location | Register the UE as | Report registration | | registration | active after power | area information to | | | on. | NAS. | | | | | | | Register the UE\'s | | | | presence in a | | | | registration area, | | | | for instance | | | | regularly or when | | | | entering a new | | | | tracking area. | | | | | | | | Maintain lists of | | | | forbidden | | | | registration areas. | | | | | | | | Deregister UE when | | | | shutting down. | | | | | | | | Control and restrict | | | | location | | | | registration for a | | | | UE in eCall only | | | | mode. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Support for manual | Provide request to | Search for cells | | CSG selection | search for available | with a CSG ID. | | | CSGs. | | | | | Read the HNB name | | | Evaluate reports of | from BCCH on SIB9 if | | | available CSGs from | a cell with a CSG ID | | | AS for CSG | is found. | | | selection. | | | | | Report CSG ID of the | | | Select a CSG and | found cell | | | request AS to select | broadcasting a CSG | | | a cell belonging to | ID together with the | | | this CSG. | HNB name and PLMN(s) | | | | to NAS. | | | | | | | | On selection of a | | | | CSG by NAS, select | | | | any cell belonging | | | | to the selected CSG | | | | fulfilling the cell | | | | selection criteria | | | | and not barred or | | | | reserved for | | | | operator use for UEs | | | | not belonging to AC | | | | 11 or 15 and give an | | | | indication to NAS | | | | that access is | | | | possible (for the | | | | registration | | | | procedure). | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | RAN Notification | Not applicable | Register the UE\'s | | Area Update | | presence in a | | | | RAN-based | | | | notification area, | | | | periodically or when | | | | entering a new | | | | RAN-based | | | | notification area. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 4.2-1: Functional division between AS and NAS in idle mode
## 4.3 Service types in Idle Mode
This clause defines the level of service that may be provided by the network
to a UE in Idle mode.
The action of camping on a cell is necessary to get access to some services.
Three levels of services are defined for UE:
\- Limited service (emergency calls, ETWS and CMAS on an acceptable cell). It
is not applicable to RRC_INACTIVE state.
\- Normal service (for public use on a suitable cell)
\- Operator service (for operators only on a reserved cell)
Furthermore, the cells are categorised according to which services they offer:
**acceptable cell:**
An \"acceptable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp to obtain limited
service (originate emergency calls and receive ETWS and CMAS notifications),
and it is not applicable to RRC_INACTIVE state. Such a cell shall fulfil the
following requirements, which is the minimum set of requirements to initiate
an emergency call and to receive ETWS and CMAS notification in a E-UTRAN
network:
\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;
\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2;
**suitable cell:**
A \"suitable cell\" is a cell on which the UE may camp on to obtain normal
service. The UE shall have a valid USIM and such a cell shall fulfil all the
following requirements.
\- The cell is part of either:
\- the selected PLMN, or:
\- the registered PLMN, or:
\- a PLMN of the Equivalent PLMN list
\- For a CSG cell, the cell is a CSG member cell for the UE;
According to the latest information provided by NAS:
\- The cell is not barred, see clause 5.3.1;
\- The cell is part of at least one TA that is not part of the list of
\"forbidden tracking areas for roaming\" TS 22.011 [4], which belongs to a
PLMN that fulfils the first bullet above;
\- The cell selection criteria are fulfilled, see clause 5.2.3.2;
\- Except for NB-IoT, if the UE supports authorization of coverage
enhancements and upper layers indicated that use of coverage enhancements is
not authorized for the selected PLMN:
\- the cell selection criterion S in normal coverage shall be fulfilled;
\- If the UE supports CE mode B and upper layers indicated that CE mode B is
restricted:
\- the cell selection criterion S in normal coverage based on values
Q~rxlevmin~ and Q~qualmin~ or in enhanced coverage based on values
Q~rxlevmin_CE~ and Q~qualmin_CE~ shall be fulfilled.
If more than one PLMN identity is broadcast in the cell, the cell is
considered to be part of all TAs with TAIs constructed from the PLMN
identities and the TAC broadcast in the cell.
**barred cell:**
A cell is barred if it is so indicated in the system information TS 36.331
[3].
**reserved cell:**
A cell is reserved if it is so indicated in system information TS 36.331 [3].
Following exceptions to these definitions are applicable for UEs:
\- camped on a cell that belongs to a registration area that is forbidden for
regional provision of service; a cell that belongs to a registration area that
is forbidden for regional provision service (TS 23.122 [5], TS 24.301 [16]) is
suitable but provides only limited service.
\- as an outcome of the manual CSG selection procedure the UE is allowed to
access an acceptable cell which fulfils the cell selection criteria and is not
barred or reserved for operator use for UEs not belonging to AC 11 or 15 and
inform NAS that access is possible (for location registration procedure).
NOTE: UE is not required to support manual search and selection of PLMN or
CSGs while in RRC CONNECTED state. The UE may use local release of RRC
connection to perform manual search if it is not possible to perform the
search while RRC connected.
\- if a UE has an ongoing emergency call, all acceptable cells of that PLMN
are treated as suitable for the duration of the emergency call.
\- if the UE in RRC_IDLE fulfils the conditions to support sidelink
communication or PS related sidelink discovery in limited service state as
specified in TS 23.303 [29, 4.5.6], the UE may perform sidelink communication
or PS-related sidelink discovery.
\- if the UE in RRC_IDLE fulfils the conditions to support V2X sidelink
communication in limited service state as specified in TS 23.285 [36, 4.4.8],
the UE may perform V2X sidelink communication.
For E-UTRA the cell categorization defined above is per CN type. In this
specification, when the term suitable/acceptable cell is used without
specifying the CN type, it means the cell is suitable/acceptable for any of
the CN type(s) supported by the UE.
NOTE: The selected CN Type is not considered during cell selection and
reselection procedure.
## 4.4 NB-IoT functionality in Idle Mode
This specification is applicable to NB-IoT, except for the following
functionality which is not applicable to NB-IoT:
\- Acceptable cell
\- Accessibility measurements
\- Access Control based on ACDC categories
\- Camped on Any cell state
\- Camping on E-UTRA connected to 5GC
\- CSG, including support for manual CSG selection and CSG or Hybrid cell
related functionality in PLMN selection, or HNB name (SIB9), Cell selection
and Cell reselection.
\- Emergency call
\- E-UTRAN Inter-frequency Redistribution procedure
\- Inter-RAT Cell Selection and Reselection including measurements in other
RATs
\- Logged measurements
\- Mobility History Information
\- Mobility states of a UE
\- Priority based reselection
\- Public warning system including CMAS, ETWS, PWS.
\- RAN-assisted WLAN interworking
\- RRC_INACTIVE state
\- Sidelink operation
# 5 Process and procedure descriptions
## 5.1 PLMN selection
In the UE, the AS shall report available PLMNs to the NAS on request from the
NAS or autonomously. For E-UTRA, if UE supports E-UTRA connected to 5GC, the
AS shall also report CN type associated with the PLMN to NAS.
During PLMN selection, based on the list of PLMN identities in priority order,
the particular PLMN may be selected either automatically or manually. Each
PLMN in the list of PLMN identities is identified by a \'PLMN identity\'. In
the system information on the broadcast channel, the UE can receive one or
multiple \'PLMN identity\' (and, for E-UTRA, the CN type associated with the
PLMN) in a given cell. The result of the PLMN selection performed by NAS (see
TS 23.122 [5]) is an identifier of the selected PLMN.
### 5.1.1 Void
### 5.1.2 Support for PLMN selection
#### 5.1.2.1 General
On request of the NAS the AS shall perform a search for available PLMNs and
report them to NAS.
#### 5.1.2.2 E-UTRA and NB-IoT case
The UE shall scan all RF channels in the E-UTRA bands according to its
capabilities to find available PLMNs. On each carrier, the UE shall search for
the strongest cell and read its system information, in order to find out which
PLMN(s) the cell belongs to. If the UE can read one or several PLMN identities
in the strongest cell, each found PLMN (see the PLMN reading in TS 36.331 [3])
shall be reported to the NAS as a high quality PLMN (but without the RSRP
value), provided that the following high quality criterion is fulfilled:
1\. For an E-UTRAN and NB-IoT cell, the measured RSRP value shall be greater
than or equal to -110 dBm.
Found PLMNs that do not satisfy the high quality criterion, but for which the
UE has been able to read the PLMN identities are reported to the NAS together
with the RSRP value. The quality measure reported by the UE to NAS shall be
the same for each PLMN found in one cell.
For each found PLMN, if the UE supports E-UTRA connected to 5GC, the
associated CN type(s) shall also be reported to the NAS.
If the cell is barred for connectivity to EPC (as indicated by the
_cellBarred_ /cellBarred-CRS flag being set to the value barred, see clause
5.3.1) a UE supporting E-UTRA connected to 5GC shall only report the available
5GC PLMNs to NAS.
The search for PLMNs may be stopped on request of the NAS. The UE may optimise
PLMN search by using stored information e.g. carrier frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters from previously received
measurement control information elements.
Once the UE has selected a PLMN, the cell selection procedure shall be
performed in order to select a suitable cell of that PLMN to camp on.
If a CSG ID is provided by NAS as part of PLMN selection, the UE shall search
for an acceptable or suitable cell belonging to the provided CSG ID to camp
on. When the UE is no longer camped on a cell with the provided CSG ID, AS
shall inform NAS.
#### 5.1.2.3 UTRA case
Support for PLMN selection in UTRA is described in TS 25.304 [8].
#### 5.1.2.4 GSM case
Support for PLMN selection in GERAN is described in TS 43.022 [9].
#### 5.1.2.5 CDMA2000 case
For CDMA2000 the network determination for HRPD and 1xRTT is described in [17]
and [18] respectively.
#### 5.1.2.6 NR case
Support for PLMN selection in NR is described in TS 38.304 [38].
## 5.2 Cell selection and reselection
### 5.2.1 Introduction
UE shall perform measurements for cell selection and reselection purposes as
specified in TS 36.133 [10].
The NAS can control the RAT(s) in which the cell selection should be
performed, for instance by indicating RAT(s) associated with the selected
PLMN, and by maintaining a list of forbidden registration area(s) and a list
of equivalent PLMNs. The UE shall select a suitable cell based on idle mode
measurements and cell selection criteria.
In order to speed up the cell selection process, stored information for
several RATs may be available in the UE.
When camped on a cell, the UE shall regularly search for a better cell
according to the cell reselection criteria. If a better cell is found, that
cell is selected. The change of cell may imply a change of RAT, or if the
current and selected cell are both E-UTRA cells, a change of the CN type.
Details on performance requirements for cell reselection can be found in TS
36.133 [10].
The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection results in changes
in the received system information relevant for NAS.
For normal service, the UE shall camp on a suitable cell, tune to that cell\'s
control channel(s) so that the UE can:
\- Receive system information from the PLMN; and
\- receive registration area information from the PLMN, e.g., tracking area
information; and
\- receive other AS and NAS Information; and
\- if registered:
\- receive paging and notification messages from the PLMN; and
\- initiate transfer to connected mode.
### 5.2.2 States and state transitions in Idle Mode
Except for NB-IoT, figure 5.2.2-1 shows the states and state transitions and
procedures in RRC_IDLE. Whenever a new PLMN selection is performed, it causes
an exit to number 1.
Figure 5.2.2-1: RRC_IDLE Cell Selection and Reselection
For NB-IoT, figure 5.2.2-2 shows the states and state transitions and
procedures in RRC_IDLE. Whenever a new PLMN selection is performed, it causes
an exit to number 1.
Figure 5.2.2-2: RRC_IDLE Cell Selection and Reselection for NB-IoT
### 5.2.3 Cell Selection process
#### 5.2.3.1 Description
> The UE shall use one of the following two cell selection procedures:
a) Initial Cell Selection
This procedure requires no prior knowledge of which RF channels are E-UTRA or
NB-IoT carriers. The UE shall scan all RF channels in the E-UTRA bands
according to its capabilities to find a suitable cell. On each carrier
frequency, the UE need only search for the strongest cell. Once a suitable
cell is found this cell shall be selected.
b) Stored Information Cell Selection
This procedure requires stored information of carrier frequencies and
optionally also information on cell parameters, from previously received
measurement control information elements or from previously detected cells.
Once the UE has found a suitable cell the UE shall select it. If no suitable
cell is found the Initial Cell Selection procedure shall be started.
NOTE 1: Priorities between different frequencies or RATs provided to the UE by
system information or dedicated signalling are not used in the cell selection
process.
NOTE 2: If BL UE, UE in enhanced coverage or NB-IoT UE has been provisioned
with EARFCN, the UE may use this information during Initial Cell Selection and
Stored Information Cell Selection to find a suitable cell.
#### 5.2.3.2 Cell Selection Criterion
For NB-IoT the cell selection criterion is defined in clause 5.2.3.2a.
The cell selection criterion S in normal coverage is fulfilled when:
* * *
Srxlev > 0 AND Squal > 0
* * *
where:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev = Q~rxlevmeas~ -- (Q~rxlevmin~ + Q~rxlevminoffset~) -- | | Pcompensation - **Qoffset~temp~** | | | | Squal = Q~qualmeas~ -- (Q~qualmin~ + Q~qualminoffset~) - | | **Qoffset~temp~** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
where:
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev | Cell selection RX level value (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Squal | Cell selection quality value (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Qoffset~temp~** | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as | | | specified in TS 36.331 [3] (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmeas~ | Measured cell RX level value (RSRP) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmeas~ | Measured cell quality value (RSRQ) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmin~ | Minimum required RX level in the cell (dBm) . | | | Q~rxlevmin~ is obtained from _q-RxLevMin_ in | | | SIB1, SIB3, SIB5, or NR SIB5. | | | | | | When the UE who is camped on a NR cell is | | | evaluating an E-UTRA cell, if | | | Q~rxlevminoffsetcell~ is signalled in NR SIB5 | | | in TS 38.331 [37] for the E-UTRA cell, this | | | cell specific offset is added to _q-RxLevMin_ | | | to achieve the required minimum RX level in | | | the E-UTRA cell. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmin~ | Minimum required quality level in the cell | | | (dB) | | | | | | When the UE who is camped on a NR cell is | | | evaluating an E-UTRA cell, if | | | Q~qualminoffsetcell~ is signalled in NR SIB5 | | | in TS 38.331 [37] for the E-UTRA cell, this | | | cell specific offset is added to achieve the | | | required minimum quality level in the E-UTRA | | | cell. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevminoffset~ | Offset to the signalled Q~rxlevmin~ taken into | | | account in the Srxlev evaluation as a result | | | of a periodic search for a higher priority | | | PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN TS | | | 23.122 [5] | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualminoffset~ | Offset to the signalled Q~qualmin~ taken into | | | account in the Squal evaluation as a result of | | | a periodic search for a higher priority PLMN | | | while camped normally in a VPLMN TS 23.122 | | | [5] | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Pcompensation | If the UE supports the _additionalPmax_ in the | | | _NS-PmaxList_ , if present, in SIB1, SIB3 and | | | SIB5: | | | | | | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) -- | | | (min(P~EMAX2~, P~PowerClass~) -- min(P~EMAX1~, | | | P~PowerClass~)) (dB); | | | | | | else: | | | | | | if P~PowerClass~ is 14 dBm: | | | | | | max(P~EMAX1~ --(P~PowerClass~ -- Poffset), 0) | | | (dB); | | | | | | else: | | | | | | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | P~EMAX1~, P~EMAX2~ | Maximum TX power level an UE may use when | | | transmitting on the uplink in the cell (dBm) | | | defined as P~EMAX~ in TS 36.101 [33]. | | | P~EMAX1~ and P~EMAX2~ are obtained from the | | | _p-Max_ and the _NS-PmaxList_ respectively in | | | SIB1, SIB3 and SIB5 as specified in TS 36.331 | | | [3]. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | P~PowerClass~ | Maximum RF output power of the UE (dBm) | | | according to the UE power class as defined in | | | TS 36.101 [33] | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
The signalled values Q~rxlevminoffset~ and Q~qualminoffset~ are only applied
when a cell is evaluated for cell selection as a result of a periodic search
for a higher priority PLMN while camped normally in a VPLMN TS 23.122 [5].
During this periodic search for higher priority PLMN the UE may check the S
criteria of a cell using parameter values stored from a different cell of this
higher priority PLMN.
If cell selection criterion S in normal coverage is not fulfilled for a cell,
UE shall consider itself to be in enhanced coverage if the cell selection
criterion S for enhanced coverage is fulfilled, where:
* * *
Q~rxlevmin~ UE applies coverage specific value Q~rxlevmin_CE~ (dBm) Q~qualmin~
UE applies coverage specific value Q~qualmin_CE~ (dB)
* * *
If cell selection criterion S in normal coverage is not fulfilled for a cell
and UE does not consider itself in enhanced coverage based on coverage
specific values Q~rxlevmin_CE~ and Q~qualmin_CE~, UE shall consider itself to
be in enhanced coverage if UE supports CE Mode B and CE mode B is not
restricted by upper layers and the cell selection criterion S for enhanced
coverage is fulfilled, where:
Q~rxlevmin~ UE applies coverage specific value Q~rxlevmin_CE1~ (dBm)
* * *
Q~qualmin~ UE applies coverage specific value Q~qualmin_CE1~ (dB)
For the UE in enhanced coverage, coverage specific values Q~rxlevmin_CE~ and
Q~qualmin_CE~ (or Q~rxlevmin_CE1~ and Q~qualmin_CE1~) are only applied for the
suitability check in enhanced coverage (i.e. not used for measurement and
reselection thresholds).
#### 5.2.3.2a Cell Selection Criterion for NB-IoT
The cell selection criterion S is fulfilled when:
* * *
Srxlev > 0 AND Squal > 0
* * *
where:
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev = Q~rxlevmeas~ -- Q~rxlevmin~ -- Pcompensation - | | **Qoffset~temp~** | | | | Squal = Q~qualmeas~ -- Q~qualmin~ - **Qoffset~temp~** | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
where:
+--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Srxlev | Cell selection RX level value (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Squal | Cell selection quality value (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | **Qoffset~temp~** | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as | | | specified in TS 36.331 [3] (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmeas~ | Measured cell RX level value (RSRP) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmeas~ | Measured cell quality value (RSRQ) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~rxlevmin~ | Minimum required RX level in the cell (dBm) | | | | | | If UE is not authorized for enhanced coverage | | | and **Qoffset~authorization\ ~** is valid then | | | Q~rxlevmin~ = Q~rxlevmin~ + | | | **Qoffset~authorization~.** | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Q~qualmin~ | Minimum required quality level in the cell | | | (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | Pcompensation | If the UE supports the _additionalPmax_ in the | | | _NS-PmaxList-NB_ , if present, in SIB1-NB, | | | SIB3-NB and SIB5-NB: | | | | | | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) -- | | | (min(P~EMAX2~, P~PowerClass~) -- min(P~EMAX1~, | | | P~PowerClass~)) (dB); | | | | | | else: | | | | | | if P~PowerClass~ is 14 dBm: | | | | | | max(P~EMAX1~ --(P~PowerClass~ -- Poffset), 0) | | | (dB); | | | | | | else: | | | | | | max(P~EMAX1~ --P~PowerClass~, 0) (dB) | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | P~EMAX1~, P~EMAX2~ | Maximum TX power level an UE may use when | | | transmitting on the uplink in the cell (dBm) | | | defined as P~EMAX~ in TS 36.101 [33]. | | | P~EMAX1~ and P~EMAX2~ are obtained from the | | | _p-Max_ and the _NS-PmaxList-NB_ respectively | | | in SIB1-NB, SIB3-NB and SIB5-NB as specified | | | in TS 36.331 [3]. | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+ | P~PowerClass~ | Maximum RF output power of the UE (dBm) | | | according to the UE power class as defined in | | | TS 36.101 [33] | +--------------------+------------------------------------------------+
#### 5.2.3.3 CSG cells and Hybrid cells in Cell Selection
In addition to normal cell selection rules a manual selection of CSGs shall be
supported by the UE upon request from higher layers as defined in clause 5.5.
#### 5.2.3.4 GSM case in Cell Selection
The cell selection criteria and procedures in GSM are specified in TS 43.022
[9].
#### 5.2.3.5 UTRAN case in Cell Selection
The cell selection criteria and procedures in UTRAN are specified in TS 25.304
[8].
#### 5.2.3.6 NR case in Cell Selection
The cell selection criteria and procedures in NR are specified in TS 38.304
[38].
### 5.2.4 Cell Reselection evaluation process
#### 5.2.4.1 Reselection priorities handling
Absolute priorities of different E-UTRAN frequencies or inter-RAT frequencies
may be provided to the UE in the system information, in the
_RRCConnectionRelease_ or _RRCEarlyDataComplete_ message, or by inheriting
from another RAT at inter-RAT cell (re)selection. In the case of system
information, an E-UTRAN frequency or inter-RAT frequency may be listed without
providing a priority (i.e. the field _cellReselectionPriority_ is absent for
that frequency). If priorities are provided in dedicated signalling, the UE
shall ignore all the priorities provided in system information. If UE is in
_camped on any cell_ state, UE shall only apply the priorities provided by
system information from current cell, and the UE preserves priorities provided
by dedicated signalling and _deprioritisationReq_ received in
_RRCConnectionReject_ unless specified otherwise. When the UE in _camped
normally_ state, has only dedicated priorities other than for the current
frequency, the UE shall consider the current frequency to be the lowest
priority frequency (i.e. lower than any of the network configured values).
While the UE is camped on a suitable CSG cell in normal coverage, the UE shall
always consider the current frequency to be the highest priority frequency
(i.e. higher than any of the network configured values), irrespective of any
other priority value allocated to this frequency. When the HSDN capable UE is
in High-mobility state, the UE shall always consider the HSDN cells to be the
highest priority (i.e. higher than any other network configured priorities).
When the HSDN capable UE is not in High-mobility state, the UE shall always
consider HSDN cells to be the lowest priority (i.e. lower than network
configured priorities). If the UE capable of sidelink communication is
configured to perform sidelink communication and can only perform the sidelink
communication while camping on a frequency, the UE may consider that frequency
to be the highest priority. If the UE capable of V2X sidelink communication is
configured to perform V2X sidelink communication and can only perform the V2X
sidelink communication while camping on a frequency, the UE may consider that
frequency to be the highest priority. If the UE capable of V2X sidelink
communication is configured to perform V2X sidelink communication and can only
use pre-configuration while not camping on a frequency, the UE may consider
the frequency providing inter-carrier V2X sidelink configuration to be the
highest priority. If the UE capable of sidelink discovery is configured to
perform Public Safety related sidelink discovery and can only perform the
Public Safety related sidelink discovery while camping on a frequency, the UE
may consider that frequency to be the highest priority.
NOTE 1: The prioritization among the frequencies which UE considers to be the
highest priority frequency is left to UE implementation.
If the UE is capable either of MBMS Service Continuity or of SC-PTM reception
and is receiving or interested to receive an MBMS service and can only receive
this MBMS service while camping on a frequency on which it is provided, the UE
may consider that frequency to be the highest priority during the MBMS session
TS 36.300 [2] as long as the two following conditions are fulfilled:
1) Either:
\- the UE is capable of MBMS service continuity and the reselected cell is
broadcasting SIB13; or
\- the UE is capable of SC-PTM reception and the reselected cell is
broadcasting SIB20;
2) Either:
\- SIB15 of the serving cell indicates for that frequency one or more MBMS
SAIs included and associated with that frequency in the MBMS User Service
Description (USD) TS 26.346 [22] of this service; or
\- SIB15 is not broadcast in the serving cell and that frequency is included
in the USD of this service.
If the UE is capable either of MBMS Service Continuity or of SC-PTM reception
and is receiving or interested to receive an MBMS service provided on a
downlink only MBMS frequency, on a frequency used by dedicated MBMS cells, on
a frequency used by FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cells as defined in TS 36.300 [2], or
on a frequency belonging to PLMN different from its registered PLMN, the UE
may consider cell reselection candidate frequencies at which it can not
receive the MBMS service to be of the lowest priority during the MBMS session
TS 36.300 [2], as long as the above mentioned condition 1) is fulfilled for
the cell on the MBMS frequency which the UE monitors or this cell broadcasts
SIB1-MBMS and as long as the above mentioned condition 2) is fulfilled for the
serving cell.
NOTE 2: Example scenarios in which the previous down-prioritisation may be
needed concerns the cases where camping is not possible, while the UE can only
receive this MBMS frequency when camping on a subset of cell reselection
candidate frequencies, e.g. the MBMS frequency is a downlink only carrier, the
MBMS frequency is used by dedicated MBMS cells, the MBMS frequency is used by
FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cells TS 36.300 [2], or the MBMS frequency belongs to a
PLMN different from UE\'s registered PLMN.
If the UE is not capable of MBMS Service Continuity but has knowledge on which
frequency an MBMS service of interest is provided, it may consider that
frequency to be the highest priority during the MBMS session TS 36.300 [2] as
long as the reselected cell is broadcasting SIB13.
If the UE is not capable of MBMS Service Continuity but has knowledge on which
downlink only frequency, on which frequency used by dedicated MBMS cells, on
which frequency used by FeMBMS/Unicast-mixed cells as defined in TS 36.300 [2]
or on which frequency belonging to PLMN different from its registered PLMN an
MBMS service of interest is provided, it may consider cell reselection
candidate frequencies at which it can not receive the MBMS service to be of
the lowest priority during the MBMS session TS 36.300 [2] as long as the cell
on the MBMS frequency which the UE monitors is broadcasting SIB13 or
SIB1-MBMS.
> NOTE 3: The UE considers that the MBMS session is ongoing using the session
> start and end times as provided by upper layers in the USD i.e. the UE does
> not verify if the session is indicated on MCCH.
In case UE receives _RRCConnectionReject_ with _deprioritisationReq_ , UE
shall consider current carrier frequency and stored frequencies due to the
previously received _RRCConnectionReject_ with _deprioritisationReq_ or all
the frequencies of EUTRA to be the lowest priority frequency (i.e. lower than
any of the network configured values) while T325 is running irrespective of
camped RAT. The UE shall delete the stored deprioritisation request(s) when a
PLMN selection is performed on request by NAS TS 23.122 [5].
NOTE 4: Connecting to CDMA2000 does not imply PLMN selection.
NOTE 5: UE should search for a higher priority layer for cell reselection as
soon as possible after the change of priority. The minimum related performance
requirements specified in TS 36.133 [10] are still applicable.
The UE shall delete priorities provided by dedicated signalling when:
\- the UE enters a different RRC state; or
\- the optional validity time of dedicated priorities (T320) expires; or
\- a PLMN selection is performed on request by NAS TS 23.122 [5].
NOTE 6: Equal priorities between RATs are not supported.
The UE shall only perform cell reselection evaluation for E-UTRAN frequencies
and inter-RAT frequencies that are given in system information and for which
the UE has a priority provided.
The UE shall not consider any black listed cells as candidate for cell
reselection.
The UE shall inherit the priorities provided by dedicated signalling and the
remaining validity time (i.e., T320 in E-UTRA and NR, T322 in UTRA and T3230
in GERAN), if configured, at inter-RAT cell (re)selection.
NOTE 7: The network may assign dedicated cell reselection priorities for
frequencies not configured by system information.
While T360 is running, redistribution target is considered to be the highest
priority (i.e. higher than any of the network configured values). UE shall
continue to consider the serving frequency as the highest priority until
completion of E-UTRAN Inter-frequency Redistribution procedure specified in
5.2.4.10 if triggered on T360 expiry/ stop.
#### 5.2.4.2 Measurement rules for cell re-selection
For NB-IoT measurement rules for cell re-selection is defined in clause
5.2.4.2.a.
When evaluating Srxlev and Squal of non-serving cells for reselection
purposes, the UE shall use parameters provided by the serving cell.
Following rules are used by the UE to limit needed measurements:
\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev > S~IntraSearchP~ and Squal >
S~IntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform intra-frequency
measurements.
\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform intra-frequency measurements.
\- The UE shall apply the following rules for E-UTRAN inter-frequencies and
inter-RAT frequencies which are indicated in system information and for which
the UE has priority provided as defined in 5.2.4.1:
\- For an E-UTRAN inter-frequency or inter-RAT frequency with a reselection
priority higher than the reselection priority of the current E-UTRA frequency
the UE shall perform measurements of higher priority E-UTRAN inter-frequency
or inter-RAT frequencies according to TS 36.133 [10].
\- For an E-UTRAN inter-frequency with an equal or lower reselection priority
than the reselection priority of the current E-UTRA frequency and for inter-
RAT frequency with lower reselection priority than the reselection priority of
the current E-UTRAN frequency:
\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev > S~nonIntraSearchP~ and Squal >
S~nonIntraSearchQ~, the UE may choose not to perform measurements of E-UTRAN
inter-frequencies or inter-RAT frequency cells of equal or lower priority
unless the UE is triggered to measure an E-UTRAN inter-frequency which is
configured with _redistributionInterFreqInfo_.
\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform measurements of E-UTRAN inter-frequencies
or inter-RAT frequency cells of equal or lower priority according to TS 36.133
[10].
\- If the UE supports relaxed monitoring and _s-SearchDeltaP_ is present in
_SystemInformationBlockType3_ , the UE may further limit the needed
measurements, as specified in clause 5.2.4.12.
#### 5.2.4.2a Measurement rules for cell re-selection for NB-IoT
When evaluating Srxlev and Squal of non-serving cells for reselection
purposes, the UE shall use parameters provided by the serving cell.
Following rules are used by the UE to limit needed measurements:
\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev > S~IntraSearchP~, the UE may choose not
to perform intra-frequency measurements.
\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform intra-frequency measurements.
\- The UE shall apply the following rules for NB-IoT inter-frequencies which
are indicated in system information:
\- If the serving cell fulfils Srxlev > S~nonIntraSearchP~, the UE may choose
not to perform inter-frequency measurements.
\- Otherwise, the UE shall perform inter-frequency measurements.
\- If the UE supports relaxed monitoring and _s-SearchDeltaP_ is present in
_SystemInformationBlockType3-NB_ , the UE may further limit the needed
measurements, as specified in clause 5.2.4.12.
#### 5.2.4.3 Mobility states of a UE
Besides Normal-mobility state a High-mobility and a Medium-mobility state are
applicable if the parameters (T~CRmax~, N~CR_H~, N~CR_M~, T~CRmaxHyst~ and
_cellEquivalentSize_) are sent in the system information broadcast of the
serving cell.
**State detection criteria:**
Medium-mobility state criteria:
\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ exceeds N~CR_M~
and not exceeds N~CR_H~
High-mobility state criteria:
\- If number of cell reselections during time period T~CRmax~ exceeds N~CR_H~
The UE shall not count consecutive reselections between same two cells into
mobility state detection criteria if same cell is reselected just after one
other reselection. If the UE is capable of HSDN and the _cellEquivalentSize_
is configured, the UE counts the number of cell reselections for this cell as
_cellEquivalentSize_ configured for this cell.
**State transitions:**
The UE shall:
\- if the criteria for High-mobility state is detected:
\- enter High-mobility state.
\- else if the criteria for Medium-mobility state is detected:
\- enter Medium-mobility state.
\- else if criteria for either Medium- or High-mobility state is not detected
during time period T~CRmaxHys**t** ~:
\- enter Normal-mobility state.
If the UE is in High- or Medium-mobility state, the UE shall apply the speed
dependent scaling rules as defined in clause 5.2.4.3.1.
##### 5.2.4.3.1 Scaling rules
UE shall apply the following scaling rules:
\- If neither Medium- nor Highmobility state is detected:
\- no scaling is applied.
\- If High-mobility state is detected:
\- Add the _sf-High_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~\" to
Q~hyst~ if sent on system information
\- For E-UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the _sf-High_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~\" if sent on system
information
\- For UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~UTRA~** by the _sf-High_ of \"Speed
dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~UTRA~\" if sent on system information
\- For GERAN cells multiply **Treselection~GERA~** by the _sf-High_ of \"Speed
dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~GERA~ state\" if sent on system
information
\- For CDMA2000 HRPD cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~** by the _sf-
High_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for **Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~** \" if
sent on system information
\- For CDMA2000 1xRTT cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~** by the _sf-
High_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for **Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~** \"
if sent on system information
\- For NR cells multiply **Treselection~NR~** by the _sf-High_ of \"Speed
dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~\" if sent on system information
\- If Medium-mobility state is detected:
\- Add the _sf-Medium_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Q~hyst~\" to
Q~hyst~ if sent on system information
\- For E-UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~EUTRA~** by the _sf-Medium_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~\" if sent on system
information
\- For UTRAN cells multiply **Treselection~UTRA~** by the _sf-Medium_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~UTRA~\" if sent on system
information
\- For GERAN cells multiply **Treselection~GERA~** by the _sf-Medium_ of
\"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~GERA~\" if sent on system
information
\- For CDMA2000 HRPD cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~** by the _sf-
Medium_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for **Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~** \"
if sent on system information
\- For CDMA2000 1xRTT cells Multiply **Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~** by the _sf-
Medium_ of \"Speed dependent ScalingFactor for **Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~** \"
if sent on system information
\- For NR cells multiply **Treselection~NR~** by the _sf-Medium_ of \"Speed
dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~\" if sent on system information
In case scaling is applied to any **Treselection~RAT~** parameter the UE shall
round up the result after all scalings to the nearest second.
#### 5.2.4.4 Cells with cell reservations, access restrictions or unsuitable
for normal camping
For the highest ranked cell (including serving cell) according to cell
reselection criteria specified in clause 5.2.4.6, for the best cell according
to absolute priority reselection criteria specified in clause 5.2.4.5, the UE
shall check if the access is restricted according to the rules in clause
5.3.1.
If that cell and other cells have to be excluded from the candidate list, as
stated in clause 5.3.1, the UE shall not consider these as candidates for cell
reselection. This limitation shall be removed when the highest ranked cell
changes.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an intra-frequency or inter-frequency cell which is not
suitable for a CN type due to being part of the \"list of forbidden TAs for
roaming\" or belonging to a PLMN which is not indicated as being equivalent to
the registered PLMN, the UE shall not consider this cell and other cells on
the same frequency, as candidates for reselection for the CN type for a
maximum of 300s. If the UE enters into state _any cell selection_ , any
limitation shall be removed. If the UE is redirected under E-UTRAN control to
a frequency for which the timer is running, any limitation on that frequency
shall be removed.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is an inter-RAT cell which is not suitable due to being part
of the \"list of forbidden TAs for roaming\" or belonging to a PLMN which is
not indicated as being equivalent to the registered PLMN, the UE shall not
consider this cell and other cells on the same frequency as candidates for
reselection for a maximum of 300s. In case of UTRA further requirements are
defined in the TS 25.304 [8]. In case of NR further requirements are defined
in the TS 38.304 [38]. If the UE enters into state _any cell selection_ , any
limitation shall be removed. If the UE is redirected under E-UTRAN control to
a frequency for which the timer is running, any limitation on that frequency
shall be removed.
If the highest ranked cell or best cell according to absolute priority
reselection rules is a CSG cell which is not suitable due to not being a CSG
member cell, the UE shall not consider this cell as candidate for cell
reselection but shall continue considering other cells on the same frequency
for cell reselection.
#### 5.2.4.5 E-UTRAN Inter-frequency and inter-RAT Cell Reselection criteria
For NB-IoT inter-frequency cell reselection shall be based on ranking as
defined in clause 5.2.4.6.
If **_threshServingLowQ_** is provided in _SystemInformationBlockType3_ and
more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell, cell reselection to a cell on a higher priority E-UTRAN frequency or
inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- A cell of a higher priority EUTRAN, NR or UTRAN FDD RAT/ frequency fulfils
Squal > Thresh~X,\ HighQ~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; or
\- A cell of a higher priority UTRAN TDD, GERAN or CDMA2000 RAT/ frequency
fulfils Srxlev > Thresh~X,\ HighP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~.
Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a higher priority E-UTRAN frequency
or inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- A cell of a higher priority RAT/ frequency fulfils Srxlev > Thresh~X,\
HighP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; and
\- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell.
Cell reselection to a cell on an equal priority E-UTRAN frequency shall be
based on ranking for Intra-frequency cell reselection as defined in clause
5.2.4.6.
If **_threshServingLowQ_** is provided in _SystemInformationBlockType3_ and
more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell, cell reselection to a cell on a lower priority E-UTRAN frequency or
inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- The serving cell fulfils Squal \
Thresh~X,\ LowQ~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~; or
\- The serving cell fulfils Squal \
Thresh~X,\ LowP~ during a time interval Treselection~RAT~.
Otherwise, cell reselection to a cell on a lower priority E-UTRAN frequency or
inter-RAT frequency than the serving frequency shall be performed if:
\- The serving cell fulfils Srxlev \ Thresh~X,\ LowP~ during a time
interval Treselection~RAT~; and
> \- More than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
> cell.
Cell reselection to a higher priority RAT/ frequency shall take precedence
over a lower priority RAT/ frequency, if multiple cells of different
priorities fulfil the cell reselection criteria.
The UE shall not perform cell reselection to NR or UTRAN FDD cells for which
the cell selection criterion S is not fulfilled.
For cdma2000 RATs, Srxlev is equal to -FLOOR(-2 x 10 x log10 Ec/Io) in units
of 0.5 dB, as defined in [18], with Ec/Io referring to the value measured from
the evaluated cell.
For cdma2000 RATs, Thresh~X,\ HighP~ and Thresh~X,\ LowP~ are equal to -1
times the values signalled for the corresponding parameters in the system
information.
In all the above criteria the value of Treselection~RAT~ is scaled when the UE
is in the medium or high mobility state as defined in clause 5.2.4.3.1. If
more than one cell meets the above criteria, the UE shall reselect a cell as
follows:
\- If the highest-priority frequency is an E-UTRAN frequency, a cell ranked as
the best cell among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies) meeting
the criteria according to clause 5.2.4.6;
\- If the highest-priority frequency is from another RAT, a cell ranked as the
best cell among the cells on the highest priority frequency(ies) meeting the
criteria of that RAT.
Cell reselection to another RAT, for which Squal based cell reselection
parameters are broadcast in system information, shall be performed based on
the Squal criteria if the UE supports Squal (RSRQ) based cell reselection to
E-UTRAN from all the other RATs provided by system information which UE
supports. Otherwise, cell reselection to another RAT shall be performed based
on Srxlev criteria.
Cell reselection to NR, for which a cell reselection parameter, _q-
RxLevMinSUL_ is broadcast in system information and the UE supports SUL, shall
be performed based on Srxlev criteria taking the parameter into account.
#### 5.2.4.6 Intra-frequency and equal priority inter-frequency Cell
Reselection criteria
The cell-ranking criterion R~s~ for serving cell and R~n~ for neighbouring
cells is defined by:
where:
+----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Q~meas~ | RSRP measurement quantity used in cell | | | reselections. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Qoffset | For intra-frequency: Equals to Qoffset~s,n~, if | | | Qoffset~s,n~ is valid, otherwise this equals to | | | zero. | | | | | | For inter-frequency: | | | | | | Except for NB-IoT, equals to Qoffset~s,n~ plus | | | Qoffset~frequency~, if Qoffset~s,n~ is valid, | | | otherwise this equals to Qoffset~frequency~. | | | | | | For NB-IoT equals to QoffsetDedicated~frequency~ | | | for any frequency other than the frequency of the | | | dedicated frequency offset, if | | | QoffsetDedicated~frequency~ is valid, otherwise | | | this equals to Qoffset~frequency~ (if | | | QoffsetDedicated~frequency~ is valid | | | Qoffset~frequency~ is not used). | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Qoffset~temp~ | Offset temporarily applied to a cell as specified | | | in TS 36.331 [3] | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+ | Qoffset~SCPTM~ | Offset temporarily applied to an SC-PTM frequency | | | as specified below. The offset is applied to all | | | cells on the SC-PTM frequency. If Qoffset~SCPTM~ | | | is valid, Qoffset for inter-frequency neighbour | | | cells is not used. | +----------------+----------------------------------------------------+
If the NB-IoT UE or UE in enhanced coverage is capable of SC-PTM reception and
is receiving or interested to receive an MBMS service and can only receive
this MBMS service while camping on a frequency on which it is provided (SC-PTM
frequency), the UE considers Qoffset~SCPTM~ to be valid during the MBMS
session TS 36.300 [2] as long as the following condition is fulfilled:
Either:
\- SIB15 (or SIB15-NB) of the serving cell indicates for that frequency one or
more MBMS SAIs included in the MBMS User Service Description (USD) TS 26.346
[22] of this service; or
\- SIB15 (or SIB15-NB) is not broadcast in the serving cell and that frequency
is included in the USD of this service.
NOTE: UE should search for a higher ranked cell on another frequency for cell
reselection as soon as possible after the UE stops using Qoffset~SCPTM~.
The UE shall perform ranking of all cells that fulfil the cell selection
criterion S, which is defined in 5.2.3.2 (5.2.3.2a for NB-IoT), but may
exclude all CSG cells that are known by the UE not to be CSG member cells.
The cells shall be ranked according to the R criteria specified above,
deriving Q~meas,n~ and Q~meas,s~ and calculating the R values using averaged
RSRP results.
If a cell is ranked as the best cell the UE shall perform cell reselection to
that cell. If this cell is found to be not-suitable, the UE shall behave
according to clause 5.2.4.4.
In all cases, the UE shall reselect the new cell, only if the following
conditions are met:
\- the new cell is better ranked than the serving cell during a time interval
Treselection~RAT~;
\- more than 1 second has elapsed since the UE camped on the current serving
cell.
When the UE uses infinite dBs for Qoffset~SCPTM~, the UE shall use
Qoffset~SCPTM~ zero and rank the cells on the SC-PTM frequency(ies) only
first. If the UE cannot find a suitable cell on an SC-PTM frequency, the UE
shall rank the cells on all frequencies.
#### 5.2.4.6a Reselection for enhanced coverage
Ranking as defined in clause 5.2.4.6 is applied for intra-frequency and inter-
frequency cell reselection (irrespective of configured frequency priorities,
if any) while the UE is in enhanced coverage.
#### 5.2.4.7 Cell reselection parameters in system information broadcasts
Cell reselection parameters are broadcast in system information and are read
from the serving cell as follows:
**cellReselectionPriority**
This specifies the absolute priority for E-UTRAN frequency or NR frequency or
UTRAN frequency or group of GERAN frequencies or band class of CDMA2000 HRPD
or band class of CDMA2000 1xRTT.
**cellReselectionSubPriority**
This specifies the fractional priority value added to cellReselectionPriority
for E-UTRAN frequency or NR frequency.
**Poffset**
This specifies the offset for 14 dBm power class for BL or NB-IoT UE.
**Qoffset~authorization~**
This specifies the offset for enhanced coverage authorization for NB-IoT.
**Qoffset~s,n~**
This specifies the offset between the two cells.
**Qoffset~frequency~**
Frequency specific offset for equal priority E-UTRAN frequencies.
**Qoffset~scptm~**
This specifies the offset to be used for cell re-selection for SC-PTM service
reception for BL UE, UE in enhanced coverage and NB-IoT UE. The same offset is
applicable to all frequencies providing MBMS services via SC-PTM.
**Qoffset~temp~**
This specifies the additional offset to be used for cell selection and re-
selection. It is temporarily used in case the T300 expires consecutively on
the cell as specified in TS 36.331 [3].
**Q~hyst~**
This specifies the hysteresis value for ranking criteria.
**Q~qualmin~**
This specifies the minimum required quality level in the cell in dB.
**Q~qualmin_CE,~ Q~qualmin_CE1~**
This specifies the coverage specific minimum required quality level in the
cell in dB.
**Q~rxlevmin~**
This specifies the minimum required Rx level in the cell in dBm.
**Q~rxlevmin_CE,~ Q~rxlevmin_CE1~**
This specifies the coverage specific minimum required Rx level in the cell in
dBm.
**RedistributionFactorFreq**
This specifies the redistribution factor for a neighbour E-UTRAN frequency.
**RedistributionFactorCell**
This specifies the redistribution factor for a neighbour E-UTRAN cell.
**RedistributionFactorServing**
This specifies the redistribution factor for serving cell or serving
frequency.
**Treselection~RAT~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value. For each target E-UTRA
frequency and for each RAT (other than E-UTRA) a specific value for the cell
reselection timer is defined, which is applicable when evaluating reselection
within E-UTRAN or towards other RAT (i.e. Treselection~RAT~ for E-UTRAN is
Treselection~EUTRA~, for NR Treselection~NR,~ for UTRAN Treselection~UTRA~ for
GERAN Treselection~GERA~, for Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~, and for
Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~). For NB-IoT intra-frequency and inter-frequency
specific values for the cell reselection timer are defined, which are
applicable when evaluating reselection within NB-IoT.
> NOTE: Treselection~RAT~ is not sent on system information, but used in
> reselection rules by the UE for each RAT.
**Treselection~EUTRA_\ CE~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for E-UTRAN
when a neighbour cell is evaluated for camping in enhanced coverage. The
parameter can be set per E-UTRAN frequency.
**Treselection~EUTRA~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for E-UTRAN.
The parameter can be set per E-UTRAN frequency TS 36.331 [3].
**Treselection~NR~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for NR.
**Treselection~NB-IoT_Intra~**
This specifies the intra-frequency cell reselection timer value
Treselection~RAT~ for NB-IoT.**Treselection~NB-IoT_Inter~**
This specifies the inter-frequency cell reselection timer value
Treselection~RAT~ for NB-IoT.
**Treselection~UTRA~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for UTRAN.
**Treselection~GERA~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for GERAN.
**Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for CDMA
HRPD.
**Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~**
This specifies the cell reselection timer value Treselection~RAT~ for CDMA
1xRTT.
**Thresh~X,\ HighP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of E-UTRAN, NR and UTRAN, each group of GERAN frequencies, each
band class of CDMA2000 HRPD and CDMA2000 1xRTT might have a specific
threshold.
**Thresh~X,\ HighQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a higher priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of E-UTRAN, NR and UTRAN FDD might have a specific threshold.
**Thresh~X,\ LowP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of E-UTRAN, NR and UTRAN, each group of GERAN frequencies, each
band class of CDMA2000 HRPD and CDMA2000 1xRTT might have a specific
threshold.
**Thresh~X,\ LowQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE when reselecting
towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency than the current serving frequency.
Each frequency of E-UTRAN, NR and UTRAN FDD might have a specific threshold.
**Thresh~Serving,\ LowP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the serving cell
when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.
**Thresh~Serving,\ LowQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) used by the UE on the serving cell
when reselecting towards a lower priority RAT/ frequency.
**S~IntraSearchP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency measurements.
**S~IntraSearchQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for intra-frequency measurements.
**S~nonIntraSearchP~**
This specifies the Srxlev threshold (in dB) for E-UTRAN inter-frequency and
inter-RAT measurements.
**S~nonIntraSearchQ~**
This specifies the Squal threshold (in dB) for E-UTRAN inter-frequency and
inter-RAT measurements.
S~SearchDeltaP~
This specifies the Srxlev delta threshold (in dB) during relaxed monitoring.
##### 5.2.4.7.1 Speed dependant reselection parameters
**T~CRmax~**
This specifies the duration for evaluating allowed amount of cell
reselection(s).
**N~CR_M~**
This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter Medium-
mobility state.
**N~CR_H~**
This specifies the maximum number of cell reselections to enter High-mobility
state.
**T~CRmaxHyst~**
This specifies the additional time period before the UE can enter Normal-
mobility state.
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Qhyst**
This specifies scaling factor for Qhyst in _sf-High_ for High-mobility state
and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~NR~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~NR~ in _sf-High_ for High-
mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~EUTRA~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~EUTRA~ in _sf-High_ for High-
mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~UTRA~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~UTRA~ in _sf-High_ for High-
mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~GERA~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~GERA~ in H _sf-High_ for High-
mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~CDMA_HRPD~ in _sf-High_ for
High mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
**Speed dependent ScalingFactor for Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~**
This specifies scaling factor for Treselection~CDMA_1xRTT~ in _sf-High_ for
High mobility state and _sf-Medium_ for Medium-mobility state
#### 5.2.4.8 Cell reselection with CSG cells
##### 5.2.4.8.1 Cell reselection from a non-CSG cell to a CSG cell
In addition to normal cell reselection, the UE shall use an autonomous search
function to detect at least previously visited CSG member cells on non-serving
frequencies, including inter-RAT frequencies, according to the performance
requirements specified in TS 36.133 [10], when at least one CSG ID with
associated PLMN identity is included in the UE\'s CSG whitelist. The UE may
also use autonomous search on the serving frequency. The UE shall disable the
autonomous search function for CSG cells if the UE\'s CSG whitelist is empty.
NOTE: The UE autonomous search function, per UE implementation, determines
when and/or where to search for CSG member cells.
If the UE detects one or more suitable CSG cells on different frequencies,
then the UE shall reselect to one of the detected cells irrespective of the
frequency priority of the cell the UE is currently camped on, if the concerned
CSG cell is the highest ranked cell on that frequency.
If the UE detects a suitable CSG cell on the same frequency, it shall reselect
to this cell as per normal reselection rules (5.2.4.6.).
If the UE detects one or more suitable CSG cells on another RAT, the UE shall
reselect to one of them according to TS 25.304 [19].
##### 5.2.4.8.2 Cell reselection from a CSG cell
While camped on a suitable CSG cell, the UE shall apply the normal cell
reselection rules as defined in clause 5.2.4.
To search for suitable CSG cells on non-serving frequencies, the UE may use an
autonomous search function. If the UE detects a CSG cell on a non-serving
frequency, the UE may reselect to the detected CSG cell if it is the highest
ranked cell on its frequency.
If the UE detects one or more suitable CSG cells on another RAT, the UE may
reselect to one of them if allowed according to TS 25.304 [19].
#### 5.2.4.9 Cell reselection with Hybrid cells
In addition to normal cell reselection rules, the UE shall use an autonomous
search function to detect at least previously visited hybrid cells whose CSG
ID and associated PLMN identity is in the UE\'s CSG whitelist according to the
performance requirements specified in TS 36.133 [10]. The UE shall treat
detected hybrid cells as CSG cells if the CSG ID and associated PLMN identity
of the hybrid cell is in the UE\'s CSG whitelist and as normal cells
otherwise.
#### 5.2.4.10 E-UTRAN Inter-frequency Redistribution procedure
If a UE is redistribution capable and _redistributionServingInfo_ is included
in _SystemInformationBlockType3_ and _redistributionInterFreqInfo_ is included
in _SystemInformationBlockType5_ and _the UE is not configured with dedicated
priorities_ and
\- if T360 is not running and if _redistrOnPagingOnly_ is not present in
_SystemInformationBlockType3_ ; or
\- if T360 expires and if _redistrOnPagingOnly_ is not present in
_SystemInformationBlockType3_ ; or
\- if _Paging_ message is received and the _redistributionIndication_ is
included:
\- Perform inter-frequency measurement as specified in 5.2.4.2;
\- Once measurement results are available perform redistribution target
selection as specified in 5.2.4.10.1;
\- Start T360.
The UE shall stop T360 and cease to consider a frequency or cell to be
redistribution target when:
\- the UE enters RRC_CONNECTED state; or
\- T360 expires; or
\- if _Paging_ message is received and the _redistributionIndication_ is
included while T360 is running; or
\- the UE reselects a cell not belonging to redistribution target.
##### 5.2.4.10.1 Redistribution target selection
The UE shall compile a sorted list of one or more candidate redistribution
targets, and for each candidate entry [j] a valid _redistrFactor[j]_ , in
which entries are added in increasing index order starting with index 0 as
follows:
\- for the serving frequency (_redistributionFactorServing_ is included in
_SystemInformationBlockType3 whenever redistribution is configured):_
\- the serving cell if _redistributionFactorCell_ is included;
\- otherwise the serving frequency;
\- In both cases, _redistrFactor_[0] is set to _redistributionFactorServing_ ;
\- for each entry in _InterFreqCarrierFreqList_ and subsequent for each entry
in _InterFreqCarrierFreqListExt:_
\- the cell ranked as the best cell on this frequency according to clause
5.2.4.6 if _redistributionNeighCellList_ is configured and includes this cell;
\- otherwise, the concerned frequency if _redistributionFactorFreq_ is
configured and if at least one cell on the frequency fullfills the cell
selection criterion S defined in 5.2.3.2;
\- If the cell is included, _redistrFactor_[j] is set to the corresponding
_redistributionFactorCell_ ; If the frequency is included, _redistrFactor_[j]
is set to the corresponding _redistributionFactorFreq_ ;
The UE shall choose a redistribution target as follows:
\- If [0], the UE shall choose the frequency or the cell corresponding to
redistrFactor[0] as its redistribution target or;
\- If , then the UE shall choose the frequency or cell corresponding to
_redistrFactor_[i] as its redistribution target;
If there are no redistribution candidates apart from the serving frequency or
cell, the redistrRange[0] = 1.
Otherwise, the redistrRange[i] of E-UTRAN frequency or cell is defined by:
Where: maxCandidates is the total number of frequencies/cells with valid
redistrFactor[j].
#### 5.2.4.11 Cell reselection or CN type change when storing UE AS context
For UEs storing UE AS context and _resumeIdentity_ as specified in TS 36.331
[3], upon cell reselection to another RAT or upon reselecting to another CN
type, the UE shall discard the stored UE AS context and _resumeIdentity_.
#### 5.2.4.12 Relaxed monitoring
##### 5.2.4.12.0 Relaxed monitoring measurement rules
When the UE is required to perform intra-frequency or inter-frequency
measurement according to the measurement rules in clause 5.2.4.2 or 5.2.4.2a,
the UE may choose not to perform intra-frequency or inter-frequency
measurements when:
\- The relaxed monitoring criterion in clause 5.2.4.12.1 is fulfilled for a
period of T~SearchDeltaP~, and
\- Less than 24 hours have passed since measurements for cell reselection were
last performed, and
\- The UE has performed intra-frequency or inter-frequency measurements for at
least T~SearchDeltaP~ after selecting or reselecting a new cell.
##### 5.2.4.12.1 Relaxed monitoring criterion
The relaxed monitoring criterion is fulfilled when:
\- (Srxlev~Ref~ -- Srxlev) \ 0, or
\- If the relaxed monitoring criterion has not been met for T~SearchDeltaP~:
\- the UE shall set the value of Srxlev~Ref~ to the current Srxlev value of
the serving cell;
\- T~SearchDeltaP~ = 5 minutes, or the eDRX cycle length if eDRX is configured
and the eDRX cycle length is longer than 5 minutes.
#### 5.2.4.13 Cell reselection or CN type change in RRC_INACTIVE state
For UE in the RRC_INACTIVE state, upon cell reselection to another RAT or CN
type change, UE transitions from RRC_INACTIVE to RRC_IDLE and performs actions
as specified in TS 36.331 [3].
### 5.2.5 Void
### 5.2.6 Camped Normally state
This state is applicable for RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE state.
When camped normally, the UE shall perform the following tasks:
\- monitor the paging channel of the cell as specified in clause 7 according
to information sent in system information;
\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in TS 36.331 [3];
\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;
\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:
1) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in TS 36.133
[10];
2) When information on the BCCH or BR-BCCH used for the cell reselection
evaluation procedure has been modified.
### 5.2.7 Cell Selection at transition to RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE state
For NB-IoT cell selection at transition to RRC_IDLE state is defined in clause
5.2.7a.
At reception of _RRCConnectionRelease_ message or _RRCEarlyDataComplete_
message to move the UE into RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE, UE shall attempt to camp
on a suitable cell according to _redirectedCarrierInfo_ , if included in the
_RRCConnectionRelease_ or _RRCEarlyDataComplete_ message. If the UE cannot
find a suitable cell, the UE is allowed to camp on any suitable cell of the
indicated RAT. If the _RRCConnectionRelease_ message or _RRCEarlyDataComplete_
message does not contain the _redirectedCarrierInfo_ UE shall attempt to
select a suitable cell on an EUTRA carrier. If no suitable cell is found
according to the above, the UE shall perform a cell selection starting with
Stored Information Cell Selection procedure in order to find a suitable cell
to camp on.
When returning to RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE state after UE moved to
RRC_CONNECTED state from _camped on any cell_ state, UE shall attempt to camp
on an acceptable cell according to _redirectedCarrierInfo_ , if included in
the _RRCConnectionRelease_ message. If the UE cannot find an acceptable cell,
the UE is allowed to camp on any acceptable cell of the indicated RAT. If the
_RRCConnectionRelease_ message does not contain _redirectedCarrierInfo_ UE
shall attempt to select an acceptable cell on an EUTRA carrier. If no
acceptable cell is found according to the above, the UE shall continue to
search for an acceptable cell of any PLMN in state _any cell selection_.
### 5.2.7a Cell Selection at transition to RRC_IDLE state for NB-IoT
At reception of _RRCConnectionRelease-NB_ message or _RRCEarlyDataComplete-NB_
message to move the UE into RRC_IDLE, UE shall attempt to camp on a suitable
cell according to _redirectedCarrierInfo_ , if included in the
_RRCConnectionRelease-NB_ message or _RRCEarlyDataComplete-NB_ message. If the
UE cannot find a suitable cell, the UE is allowed to camp on a suitable cell
of any NB-IoT carrier. If the _RRCConnectionRelease-NB_ message or
_RRCEarlyDataComplete-NB_ message does not contain the _redirectedCarrierInfo_
UE shall attempt to select a suitable cell on a NB-IoT carrier.
### 5.2.8 Any Cell Selection state
For NB-IoT Any Cell Selection state is defined in clause 5.2.8a.
This state is applicable for RRC_IDLE and RRC_INACTIVE state. In this state,
the UE shall perform cell selection process to find a suitable cell. If the
cell selection process fails to find a suitable cell after a complete scan of
all RATs and all frequency bands supported by the UE, the UE shall attempt to
find an acceptable cell of any PLMN to camp on, trying all RATs that are
supported by the UE and searching first for a high quality cell, as defined in
clause 5.1.2.2.
The UE, which is not camped on any cell, shall stay in this state.
### 5.2.8a Any Cell Selection state for NB-IoT
In this state, the UE shall attempt to find a suitable cell of any PLMN to
camp on and searching first for a high quality cell, as defined in clause
5.1.2.2.
The UE, which is not camped on any cell, shall stay in this state until a
suitable cell is found.
### 5.2.9 Camped on Any Cell state
In this state, the UE shall perform the following tasks:
\- monitor the paging channel of the cell as specified in clause 7 according
to information sent in system information;
\- monitor relevant System Information as specified in TS 36.331 [3];
\- perform necessary measurements for the cell reselection evaluation
procedure;
\- execute the cell reselection evaluation process on the following
occasions/triggers:
1) UE internal triggers, so as to meet performance as specified in TS 36.133
[10];
2) When information on the BCCH or BR-BCCH used for the cell reselection
evaluation procedure has been modified;
\- regularly attempt to find a suitable cell trying all frequencies of all
RATs that are supported by the UE. If a suitable cell is found, UE shall move
to _camped normally_ state;
\- if the UE supports voice services and the current cell does not support
emergency call as indicated in System information specified in TS 36.331 [3],
the UE should perform cell selection/ reselection to an acceptable cell of any
supported RAT regardless of priorities provided in system information from
current cell, if no suitable cell is found.
NOTE: The UE is allowed to not perform reselection to an inter-frequency
E-UTRAN cell in order to prevent camping on a cell on which it cannot initiate
an IMS emergency call.
## 5.3 Cell Reservations and Access Restrictions
There are two mechanisms which allow an operator to impose cell reservations
or access restrictions. The first mechanism uses indication of cell status and
special reservations for control of cell selection and reselection procedures.
The second mechanism, referred to as Access Control, shall allow preventing
selected classes of users or ACDC categories from sending initial access
messages for load control reasons. For Access Control based on Access Classes,
at subscription, one or more Access Classes are allocated to the subscriber
and stored in the USIM TS 22.011 [4]. For Access Control based on ACDC
categories, at subscription at least four ACDC categories are allocated to the
subscriber and stored in the ACDC MO TS 24.105 [31] or USIM TS 31.102 [32].
### 5.3.1 Cell status and cell reservations
Cell status and cell reservations are indicated in the
_SystemInformationBlockType1_ message (or _SystemInformationBlockType1-BR_
message or _SystemInformationBlockType1-NB_ message) TS 36.331 [3] by means of
the following fields:
\- **_cellBarred_** (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\ This field
indicates if the cell is barred for connectivity to EPC.\ This field is
ignored by the UEs supporting _crs-IntfMitig_ while _crs-IntfMitigEnabled_ is
included in SIB1 _._ \ This field is ignored by the BL UEs or UEs in CE
supporting _ce-CRS-IntfMitig_ while _crs-IntfMigitNumPRBs_ is included in
SIB1-BR.\ In case of multiple EPC PLMNs indicated in SIB1/SIB1-BR, this field
is common for all EPC PLMNs
\- _cellBarred-5GC_ (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\ This field
indicates if the cell is barred for connectivity to 5GC.\ This field is
ignored if the UE does not support E-UTRA connected to 5GC or if the UE
supports network-based CRS interference mitigation and _nw-BasedCRS-
InterferenceMitigation_ is included in _SystemInformationBlockType1_.\ In case
of multiple 5GC PLMNs indicated in SIB1, this field is common for all 5GC
PLMNs.
\- **_cellReservedForOperatorUse_** (IE type: \"reserved\" or \"not
reserved\")\ This field indicates if the cell is reserved for operator use.\
This field is ignored by the UEs supporting _crs-IntfMitig_ while _crs-
IntfMitigEnabled_ is included in SIB1 _._ \ This field is ignored by the BL
UEs or UEs in CE supporting _ce-CRS-IntfMitig_ while _crs-IntfMigitNumPRBs_ is
included in SIB1-BR _._ \ In case of multiple EPC or 5GC PLMNs indicated in
SIB1/SIB1-BR, this field is specified per EPC or 5GC PLMN.
\- _cellBarred-CRS_ (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\ This field
indicates if the cell is barred for connectivity to EPC for UEs supporting
network-based CRS interference mitigation.\ _barred_ means the cell is barred
for UEs supporting _crs-IntfMitig_ while _crs-IntfMitigEnabled_ is included in
SIB1. For BL UEs or UEs in CE capable of _ce-CRS-IntfMitig_ , _barred_ means
the cell is barred while _crs-IntfMitigNumPRBs_ is included in SIB1-BR.\ This
field is ignored by the UE if the UE does not support CRS interference
mitigation or while _crs-IntfMitigConfig_ is not included in SIB1 (SIB1-BR for
BL UEs or UEs in CE).\ In case of multiple PLMNs indicated in SIB1/SIB1-BR,
this field is common for all PLMNs.
\- _cellBarred-5GC-CRS_ (IE type: \"barred\" or \"not barred\")\ This field
indicates if the cell is barred for connectivity to 5GC for UEs supporting
network-based CRS interference mitigation.\ This field is ignored if the UE
does not support E-UTRA connected to 5GC or network-based CRS interference
mitigation.\ In case of multiple 5GC PLMNs indicated in SIB1, this field is
common for all 5GC PLMNs.
\- **_cellReservedForOperatorUse-CRS_** (IE type: \"reserved\" or \"not
reserved\")\ This field indicates if the cell is reserved for operator use for
UEs supporting network-based CRS interference mitigation.\ _reserved_ means
the cell is \"reserved\" for operator use for UEs supporting _crs-IntfMitig_
while _crs-IntfMitigEnabled_ is included in SIB1.\ For BL UEs or UEs in CE
capable of _ce-CRS-IntfMitig_ , _reserved_ means the cell is \"reserved\" for
operator use while _crs-IntfMitigNumPRBs_ is included in SIB1-BR.\ This field
is ignored if the UE does not support CRS interference mitigation or while
_crs-IntfMitigConfig_ is not included in SIB1 (SIB1-BR for BL UEs or UEs in
CE).\ In case of multiple PLMNs indicated in SIB1/SIB1-BR, this field is
specified per PLMN.
The following description for handling of barred and reserved cells is per CN
type. If the UE supports more than one CN type, the UE shall only exclude a
cell as candidate for selection/reselection if it is excluded for both CN
types.
NOTE 1: Fields _cellBarred-CRS_ and **_cellReservedForOperatorUse-CRS_** are
not indicated in _SystemInformationBlockType1-NB_
When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"not reserved\" for
operator use,
\- All UEs shall treat this cell as candidate during the cell selection and
cell reselection procedures.
When cell status is indicated as \"not barred\" and \"reserved\" for operator
use for any PLMN,
\- UEs assigned to Access Class 11 or 15 (or corresponding Access Identity)
operating in their HPLMN/EHPLMN shall treat this cell as candidate during the
cell selection and reselection procedures if the field
**_cellReservedForOperatorUse for that PLMN set to \"reserved\"._**
**_\- UEs assigned to an_** Access Class **_in the range of 0 to 9 (or
corresponding Access Identity 0), 12 to 14 (or corresponding Access Identity)
or to Access Identity 1 or 2 shall behave as if the cell status is \"barred\"
in case the cell is \"reserved for operator use\" for the registered PLMN or
the selected PLMN._**
NOTE 2: ACs 11, 15 (or corresponding Access Identity) are only valid for use
in the HPLMN/ EHPLMN; ACs 12, 13, 14 (or corresponding Access Identity) are
only valid for use in the home country TS 22.011 [4].
NOTE 3: Access Identities 1, 2 are valid in the PLMNs as specified in TS
22.261 [41].
When cell status \"barred\" is indicated or to be treated as if the cell
status is \"barred\",
\- The UE is not permitted to select/reselect this cell, not even for
emergency calls.
\- The UE shall consider other cells for cell selection/reselection according
to the following rule:
\- If the cell is to be treated as if the cell status is \"barred\" due to
being unable to acquire the _MasterInformationBlock (_ or
_MasterInformationBlock-NB),_ the _SystemInformationBlockType1 (_ or
_SystemInformationBlockType1-BR_ message or _SystemInformationBlockType1-NB),_
or the _SystemInformationBlockType2 (_ or _SystemInformationBlockType2-NB)_ :
\- the UE may exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for up to 300 seconds.
\- the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if the selection
criteria are fulfilled.
\- the UE may select the same cell in normal coverage if the UE was barred in
the cell due to being unable to acquire _MasterInformationBlock_ ,
_SystemInformationBlockType1-BR_ , or _SystemInformationBlockType2_ in
enhanced coverage, but was able to acquire _MasterInformationBlock_ ,
_SystemInformationBlockType1_ , and _SystemInformationBlockType2_ in normal
coverage, if the selection criteria are fulfilled.
\- else
\- If the cell is a CSG cell:
\- the UE may select another cell on the same frequency if the
selection/reselection criteria are fulfilled.
\- else
\- If the field _intraFreqReselection_ in field _cellAccessRelatedInfo_ in
_SystemInformationBlockType1 (_ or _SystemInformationBlockType1-BR_ message or
_SystemInformationBlockType1-NB)_ message is set to \"allowed\", the UE may
select another cell on the same frequency if re-selection criteria are
fulfilled.
\- The UE shall exclude the barred cell as a candidate for cell
selection/reselection for 300 seconds.
\- If the field _intraFreqReselection_ in field _cellAccessRelatedInfo_ in
_SystemInformationBlockType1_ (or _SystemInformationBlockType1-BR_ message or
_SystemInformationBlockType1-NB_) message is set to \"not allowed\" the UE
shall not re-select a cell on the same frequency as the barred cell;
\- The UE shall exclude the barred cell and the cells on the same frequency as
a candidate for cell selection/reselection for 300 seconds.
The cell selection of another cell may also include a change of RAT or, if the
previous and selected cell are both E-UTRA cells, a change of the CN type.
### 5.3.2 Access control
For UE camping on E-UTRA connected to EPC, information on cell access
restrictions associated with the Access Classes or ACDC categories is
broadcast as system information, TS 36.331 [3]. For UE camping on E-UTRA
connected to 5GC, information on cell access restrictions associated with
Access Categories and Identities is broadcast as system information, TS 36.331
[3].
For UE camping on E-UTRA connected to EPC, the UE shall ignore Access Class or
ACDC category related cell access restrictions when selecting a cell to camp
on, i.e. it shall not reject a cell for camping on because access on that cell
is not allowed for any of the Access Classes or ACDC categories of the UE. A
change of the indicated access restriction shall not trigger cell reselection
by the UE. For UE camping on E-UTRA connected to 5GC, the UE shall ignore
Access Category and Identity related cell access restrictions for cell
reselection. A change of the indicated access restriction shall not trigger
cell reselection by the UE.
For UE camping on E-UTRA connected to EPC, access Class or ACDC category
related cell access restrictions shall be checked by the UE when starting RRC
connection establishment procedure as specified in TS 36.331 [3]. For UE
camping on E-UTRA connected to 5GC, Access Category and Identity related cell
access restrictions shall be checked by the UE for NAS initiated access
attempts and RNAU as specified in TS 36.331 [3].
### 5.3.3 Emergency call
A restriction on emergency calls, if needed, is indicated by the field _ac-
BarringForEmergency_ TS 36.331 [3]. If access class 10 is indicated as barred
in a cell, UEs with access class 0 to 9 or without an IMSI are not allowed to
initiate emergency calls in this cell. For UEs with access classes 11 to 15,
emergency calls are not allowed if both access class 10 and the relevant
access class (11 to 15) are barred. Otherwise, emergency calls are allowed for
those UEs.
Full details of operation under \"Access class barred list\" are described in
TS 22.011 [4].
For E-UTRA connected to 5GC, the restriction on emergency calls is indicated
by access control information of access category 2 under unified access
control TS 36.331 [3].
## 5.4 Tracking Area registration
In the UE, the AS shall report tracking area information to the NAS.
If the UE reads more than one PLMN identity in the current cell, the UE shall
report the found PLMN identities that make the cell suitable in the tracking
area information to NAS.
The NAS part of the location registration process is specified in TS 23.122
[5].
Actions for the UE AS upon reception of Location Registration reject are
specified in TS 22.011 [4] and TS 24.301 [16].
## 5.5 Support for manual CSG selection
### 5.5.1 E-UTRA case
In the UE on request of NAS, the AS shall scan all RF channels in the E-UTRA
bands according to its capabilities to find available CSGs. On each carrier,
the UE shall at least search for the strongest cell, read its system
information and report available CSG ID(s) together with their \"HNB name\"
(if broadcast) and PLMN(s) to the NAS. The search for available CSGs may be
stopped on request of the NAS.
If NAS has selected a CSG and provided this selection to AS, the UE shall
search for an acceptable or suitable cell belonging to the selected CSG to
camp on.
### 5.5.2 UTRA case
Support for manual CSG selection in UTRA is described in TS 25.304 [8].
## 5.6 RAN-assisted WLAN interworking
The purpose of this procedure is to facilitate RAN-assisted WLAN interworking.
### 5.6.1 RAN assistance parameter handling in RRC_IDLE
RAN assistance parameters may be provided to the UE in
_SystemInformationBlockType17_ or in the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_
message. RAN assistance parameters are used only if the UE is camped normally.
### 5.6.2 Access network selection and traffic steering rules
The rules in this clause are only applicable for WLANs for which identifiers
has been signaled to the UE by E-UTRAN and the UE is capable of RAN-assisted
WLAN interworking based on access network selection and traffic steering
rules. Coexistence with ANDSF based WLAN selection and traffic steering
methods on the UE is based on mechanism described in TS 23.402 [25]. The rules
refer to the following quantities:
* * *
ChannelUtilizationWLAN WLAN channel utilization as defined in clause 8.4.2.30
in [26]. BackhaulRateDlWLAN WLAN DLBandwidth as defined in clause 9.1.2 in
[27]. BackhaulRateUlWLAN WLAN ULBandwidth as defined in clause 9.1.2 in [27].
WLANRSSI WLAN RSSI as defined in TS 36.214 [7]. RSRPmeas Qrxlevmeas in
RRC_IDLE, and PCell RSRP in RRC_CONNECTED as defined in TS 36.331 TS 36.331
[3]. RSRQmeas Qqualmeas in RRC_IDLE, and PCell RSRQ in RRC_CONNECTED as
defined in TS 36.331 TS 36.331 [3].
* * *
The upper layers in the UE shall be notified _(see TS 24.302 [28])_ when and
for which WLAN(s), that matches all the provided identifiers (in clause 5.6.3)
for a specific entry in the list, the following conditions 1 and 2 for
steering traffic from E-UTRAN to WLAN are satisfied for a time interval
Tsteering~WLAN~:
1\. In the E-UTRAN serving cell:
\- RSRPmeas \ Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ High~; and
\- BackhaulRateUlWLAN > Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ High~; and
\- WLANRSSI > Thresh~WLANRSSI,\ High~;
The UE shall not consider the metrics for which a threshold has not been
provided. The UE shall evaluate the E-UTRAN conditions on PCell only. If not
all metrics related to the provided thresholds can be acquired for a WLAN BSS,
the UE shall exclude that WLAN BSS from the evaluation of the above rule.
The upper layers in the UE shall be notified _(see TS 24.302 [28])_ when the
following conditions 3 or 4 for steering traffic from WLAN to E-UTRAN are
satisfied for a time interval Tsteering~WLAN~:
1\. In the source WLAN:
\- ChannelUtilizationWLAN > Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ High~; or
\- BackhaulRateDlWLAN \ Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ HighP;~ and
\- RSRQmeas > Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ HighQ;~
The UE shall not consider the metrics for which a threshold has not been
provided. The UE shall evaluate the E-UTRAN conditions on PCell only.
### 5.6.3 RAN assistance parameters definition
The following RAN assistance parameters for RAN-assisted WLAN interworking may
be provided:
**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ LowP~**
This specifies the RSRP threshold (in dBm) used by the UE for traffic steering
to from E-UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ HighP~**
This specifies the RSRP threshold (in dBm) used by the UE for traffic steering
from WLAN to E-UTRAN.
**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ LowQ~**
This specifies the RSRQ threshold (in dB) used by the UE for traffic steering
from E-UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~ServingOffloadWLAN,\ HighQ~**
This specifies the RSRQ threshold (in dB) used by the UE for traffic steering
from WLAN to E-UTRAN.
**Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ Low~**
This specifies the WLAN channel utilization (BSS load) threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from E-UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~ChUtilWLAN,\ High~**
This specifies the WLAN channel utilization (BSS load) threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from WLAN to E-UTRAN.
**Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ Low~**
This specifies the backhaul available downlink bandwidth threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from WLAN to E-UTRAN.
**Thresh~BackhRateDLWLAN,\ High~**
This specifies the backhaul available downlink bandwidth threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from E-UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ Low~**
This specifies the backhaul available uplink bandwidth threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from WLAN to E-UTRAN.
**Thresh~BackhRateULWLAN,\ High~**
This specifies the backhaul available uplink bandwidth threshold used by the
UE for traffic steering from E-UTRAN to WLAN.
**Thresh~WLANRSSI,\ Low~**
This specifies the WLAN RSSI threshold used by the UE for traffic steering
from WLAN to E-UTRAN.
**Thresh~WLANRSSI,\ High~**
This specifies the Beacon RSSI threshold used by the UE for traffic steering
from E-UTRAN to WLAN.
**Tsteering~WLAN~**
This specifies the timer value Tsteering~WLAN~ during which the rules should
be fulfilled before starting traffic steering between E-UTRAN and WLAN.
**WLAN identifiers**
Only the SSIDs, BSSIDs and HESSIDs which are provided in this parameter shall
be considered for traffic steering between E-UTRAN and WLAN based on the rules
in this clause.
# 6 Reception of broadcast information
## 6.1 Reception of system information
The NAS is informed if the cell selection and reselection results in changes
in the received NAS system information.
The UE shall monitor the Paging Occasions (POs) as described in clause 7.1 to
receive System Information change notifications in RRC_IDLE. Changes in the
system information are indicated by the network using a _Paging_ message or
Direct Indication information on MPDCCH and NPDCCH respectively. When the
_Paging_ message or Direct Indication information indicates system information
changes then the UE shall re-acquire the concerned system information, as
specified in TS 36.331 [3].
## 6.2 Reception of MBMS
A UE, except for BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage or NB-IoT UE, interested to
receive MBMS services provided using MBSFN transmission shall apply the MCCH
information acquisition procedure as specified in TS 36.331 [3] to receive the
MCCH information upon entering the corresponding MBSFN area and upon receiving
a notification that the MCCH information has changed. A UE interested to
receive MBMS services provided using MBSFN transmission identifies if a
service that it is interested to receive is started or ongoing by receiving
the MCCH information, and then receives a MTCH corresponding to the identified
service.
A UE interested to receive MBMS services provided using SC-PTM transmission
shall apply the SC-MCCH information acquisition procedure as specified in TS
36.331 [3] to receive the SC-MCCH information upon entering a new cell and
upon receiving a notification that the SC-MCCH information has changed. A UE
interested to receive MBMS services provided using SC-PTM transmission
identifies if a service that it is interested to receive is started or ongoing
by receiving the SC-MCCH information, and then receives a SC-MTCH configured
using the SC-MRB establishment procedure in TS 36.331 [3] and using the DL-SCH
reception and SC-PTM DRX procedure as specified in TS 36.321 [30].
For BL UE or UE in enhanced coverage or NB-IoT UE interested to receive MBMS
services provided using SC-PTM transmission, in case of conflict, reception of
paging or establishment of a RRC connection for Mobile Terminated Call and
Mobile Originated Signalling takes precedence over SC-PTM reception.
# 7 Paging
## 7.1 Discontinuous Reception for paging
The UE may use Discontinuous Reception (DRX) in idle mode in order to reduce
power consumption. One Paging Occasion (PO) is a subframe where there may be
P-RNTI transmitted on PDCCH or MPDCCH or, for NB-IoT on NPDCCH addressing the
paging message. In P-RNTI transmitted on MPDCCH case, PO refers to the
starting subframe of MPDCCH repetitions. In case of P-RNTI transmitted on
NPDCCH, PO refers to the starting subframe of NPDCCH repetitions unless
subframe determined by PO is not a valid NB-IoT downlink subframe then the
first valid NB-IoT downlink subframe after PO is the starting subframe of the
NPDCCH repetitions. The paging message is same for both RAN initiated paging
and CN initiated paging.
The UE initiates RRC Connection Resume procedure upon receiving RAN paging. If
the UE receives a CN initiated paging in RRC_INACTIVE state, the UE moves to
RRC_IDLE and informs NAS.
One Paging Frame (PF) is one Radio Frame, which may contain one or multiple
Paging Occasion(s). When DRX is used the UE needs only to monitor one PO per
DRX cycle.
One Paging Narrowband (PNB) is one narrowband, on which the UE performs the
paging message reception.
PF, PO, and PNB are determined by following formulae using the DRX parameters
provided in System Information:
PF is given by following equation:
SFN mod T= (T div N)*(UE_ID mod N)
Index i_s pointing to PO from subframe pattern defined in 7.2 will be derived
from following calculation:
i_s = floor(UE_ID/N) mod Ns
If P-RNTI is monitored on MPDCCH, the PNB is determined by the following
equation:
PNB = floor(UE_ID/(N*Ns)) mod Nn
> If P-RNTI is monitored on NPDCCH and the UE supports paging on a non-anchor
> carrier, and if paging configuration for non-anchor carrier is provided in
> system information, then the paging carrier is determined by the paging
> carrier with smallest index n (0  n  Nn-1) fulfilling the following
> equation:
floor(UE_ID/(N*Ns)) mod W \ 3MHz:
Ns PO when i_s=0 PO when i_s=1 PO when i_s=2 PO when i_s=3
* * *
1 9 N/A N/A N/A 2 4 9 N/A N/A 4 0 4 5 9
\- If P-RNTI is transmitted on MPDCCH with system bandwidth of 1.4MHz and
3MHz:
Ns PO when i_s=0 PO when i_s=1 PO when i_s=2 PO when i_s=3
* * *
1 5 N/A N/A N/A 2 5 5 N/A N/A 4 5 5 5 5
TDD (all UL/DL configurations):
\- If P-RNTI is transmitted on PDCCH or NPDCCH, or if P-RNTI is transmitted on
MPDCCH with system bandwidth > 3MHz:
Ns PO when i_s=0 PO when i_s=1 PO when i_s=2 PO when i_s=3
* * *
1 0 N/A N/A N/A 2 0 5 N/A N/A 4 0 1 5 6
\- If P-RNTI is transmitted on MPDCCH with system bandwidth of 1.4MHz and
3MHz:
Ns PO when i_s=0 PO when i_s=1 PO when i_s=2 PO when i_s=3
* * *
1 1 N/A N/A N/A 2 1 6 N/A N/A 4 1 1 6 6
## 7.3 Paging in extended DRX
The UE may be configured by upper layers with an extended DRX (eDRX) cycle
T~eDRX~. Except for NB-IoT, the UE may operate in extended DRX only if the UE
is configured by upper layers and the cell indicates support for eDRX in
System Information. For NB-IoT, the UE may operate in extended DRX only if the
UE is configured by upper layers. If the UE is configured with a T~eDRX~ cycle
of 512 radio frames, it monitors POs as defined in 7.1 with parameter T = 512.
Otherwise, a UE configured with eDRX monitors POs as defined in 7.1 (i.e,
based on the upper layer configured DRX value and a default DRX value
determined in 7.1), during a periodic Paging Time Window (PTW) configured for
the UE or until a paging message including the UE\'s NAS identity is received
for the UE during the PTW, whichever is earlier. The PTW is UE-specific and is
determined by a Paging Hyperframe (PH), a starting position within the PH
(PTW_start) and an ending position (PTW_end). PH, PTW_start and PTW_end are
given by the following formulae:
> The PH is the H-SFN satisfying the following equation:
H-SFN mod T~eDRX,H~= (UE_ID_H mod T~eDRX,H~), where
\- UE_ID_H:
\- 10 most significant bits of the Hashed ID, if P-RNTI is monitored on PDCCH
or MPDCCH
\- 12 most significant bits of the Hashed ID, if P-RNTI is monitored on NPDCCH
\- T ~eDRX,H~ : eDRX cycle of the UE in Hyper-frames, (T~eDRX,H~ =1, 2, ...,
256 Hyper-frames) (for NB-IoT, T~eDRX,H~ =2, ..., 1024 Hyper-frames) and
configured by upper layers.
> PTW_start denotes the first radio frame of the PH that is part of the PTW
> and has SFN satisfying the following equation:
SFN = 256* i~eDRX~, where
\- i~eDRX~ = floor(UE_ID_H /T~eDRX,H~) mod 4
PTW_end is the last radio frame of the PTW and has SFN satisfying the
following equation:
SFN = (PTW_start + L*100 - 1) mod 1024, where
\- L = Paging Time Window length (in seconds) configured by upper layers
Hashed ID is defined as follows:
> Hashed_ID is Frame Check Sequence (FCS) for the bits b31, b30..., b0 of
> S-TMSI
>
> S-TMSI = \ as defined in TS 23.003 [35]
>
> The 32-bit FCS shall be the ones complement of the sum (modulo 2) of Y1 and
> Y2, where
\- Y1 is the remainder of x^k^ (x^31^ + x^30^ + x^29^ + x^28^ + x^27^ + x^26^
+ x^25^ + x^24^ + x^23^ + x^22^ + x^21^ + x^20^ + x^19^ + x^18^ + x^17^ +
x^16^ + x^15^ + x^14^ + x^13^ + x^12^ + x^11^ + x^10^ + x^9^ + x^8^ + x^7^ +
x^6^ + x^5^ + x^4^ + x^3^ + x^2^ + x^1^ + 1) divided (modulo 2) by the
generator polynomial x^32^ + x^26^ + x^23^ + x^22^ + x^16^ + x^12^ + x^11^ +
x^10^ + x^8^ + x^7^ + x^5^ + x^4^ + x^2^ + x + 1, where k is 32; and
\- Y2 is the remainder of Y3 divided (modulo 2) by the generator polynomial
x^32^ + x^26^ + x^23^ + x^22^ + x^16^ + x^12^ + x^11^ + x^10^ \+ x^8^ + x^7^ +
x^5^ + x^4^ + x^2^ + x + 1, where Y3 is the product of x^32^ by \"b31, b30...,
b0 of S-TMSI\", i.e., Y3 is the generator polynomial x^32^ (b31*x^31^ +
b30*x^30^ + ... + b0*1).
NOTE: The Y1 is 0xC704DD7B for any S-TMSI value. An example of hashed ID
calculation is in Annex B.
## 7.4 Paging with Wake Up Signal
Paging with Wake Up Signal is only used in the cell in which the UE most
recently entered RRC_IDLE triggered by:
\- reception of _RRCEarlyDataComplete_ ; or
\- reception of _RRCConnectionRelease_ not including _noLastCellUpdate_ ; or
\- reception of _RRCConnectionRelease_ including _noLastCellUpdate_ and the UE
was using WUS in this cell prior to this RRC connection attempt.
When the UE supports WUS and WUS configuration is provided in system
information, the UE shall monitor WUS using the WUS parameters provided in
System Information. When DRX is used and the UE detects WUS the UE shall
monitor the following PO. When extended DRX is used and the UE detects WUS the
UE shall monitor the following _numPOs_ POs or until a paging message
including the UE\'s NAS identity is received, whichever is earlier. If the UE
does not detect WUS the UE is not required to monitor the following PO(s). If
the UE missed a WUS occasion (e.g. due to cell reselection), it monitors every
PO until the start of next WUS or until the PTW ends, whichever is earlier.
\- _numPOs_ = Number of consecutive Paging Occasions (PO) mapped to one WUS
provided in system information where (_numPOs_ 1).
The WUS configuration, provided in system information, includes time-offset
between end of WUS and start of the first PO of the _numPOs_ POs UE is
required to monitor. The timeoffset in subframes, used to calculate the start
of a subframe _g_ 0 (see TS 36.213 [6]), is defined as follows:
\- for UE using DRX, it is the signalled _timeoffsetDRX_ ;
\- for UE using eDRX, it is the signalled _timeoffset-eDRX-Short_ if
_timeoffset-eDRX-Long_ is not broadcasted;
\- for UE using eDRX, it is the value determined according to Table 7.4-1 if
_timeoffset-eDRX-Long_ is broadcasted
Table 7.4-1: Determination of GAP between end of WUS and associated PO
                                          *timeoffset-eDRX-Long*
* * *
                                          *1000ms*                     *2000ms*
_UE Reported wakeUpSignalMinGap-eDRX_ **_40ms or not reported_** _timeoffset-
eDRX-Short_ _timeoffset-eDRX-Short_ **_240ms_** _timeoffset-eDRX-Short_
_timeoffset-eDRX-Short_ **_1000ms_** _timeoffset-eDRX-Long_ _timeoffset-eDRX-
Long_ **_2000ms_** _timeoffset-eDRX-Short_ _timeoffset-eDRX-Long_
The timeoffset is used to determine the actual subframe _g_ 0 as follows
(taking into consideration resultant SFN and/or H-SFN wrap-around of this
computation):
_g_ 0 = PO -- timeoffset, where PO is the Paging Occasion subframe as defined
in clause 7.1
For UE using eDRX, the same timeoffset applies between the end of WUS and
associated first PO of the _numPOs POs_ for all the WUS occurrences for a PTW.
The timeoffset, _g_ 0, is used to calculate the start of the WUS as defined in
TS 36.213 [6].
# 8 Logged measurements
The UE may be configured to perform logging of measurement results in RRC_IDLE
mode with the _LoggedMeasurementConfiguration_ message as specified in TS
36.331 [3]_._ This configuration _is valid while the logging duration timer is
running._
If the configuration of logged measurements is valid, _the UE shall perform
logging of measurement results if all of the following conditions are met:_
\- The UE is in _camped normally_ state in RRC_IDLE mode;
\- The RPLMN of the UE is the same as the RPLMN at the point of time of
_LoggedMeasurementConfiguration message reception_ , or is present in the
_plmn-IdentityList_ (see TS 36.331 [3]) if configured _;_
_\- The UE is_ camped on a cell belonging to the _areaConfiguration_ (see TS
36.331 [3]), if configured;
\- The UE is camped on the RAT where the logged measurement configuration was
received;
> \- The UE receives MBMS service from MBSFN area(s) belonging to
> **_targetMBSFN-AreaList_** , if included in the logged measurement
> configuration;
>
> \- The IDC capable UE does not detect the presence of in-device coexistence
> interference.
If the configuration of logged measurements is valid, but the UE is in _any
cell_ selection state in RRC_IDLE mode, the UE perform logging of available
information (i.e. at least indicator on _any cell selection_ state and time
stamp).
If the configuration of logged MBSFN measurements is valid, the UE shall
perform logging of measurement results in RRC_CONNECTED in addition to
RRC_IDLE, as described in TS 36.331 [3].
Otherwise, the logging of measurement results shall be suspended.
NOTE: Even if logging of measurement results is suspended, the logging
duration timer and time stamp will continue, and the logged measurement
configuration and corresponding log are kept.
# 9 Accessibility measurements
The UE logs failure information when the RRC connection establishment
procedure fails as specified in TS 36.331 [3].
# 10 Mobility History Information
The UE stores the history of serving cells as specified in TS 36.331[3].
# 11 Sidelink operation
## 11.1 Sidelink communication and V2X sidelink communication
The UE may transmit or receive sidelink communication if it fulfils the
condition(s) defined in TS 36.331 [3, 5.10.1a]. The UE may transmit or receive
V2X sidelink communication if it fulfils the condition(s) defined in TS 36.331
[3, 5.10.1d]. When UE is in-coverage for sidelink operation as defined in
clause 11.4, the UE may perform the sidelink communication according to
_SystemInformationBlockType18_ or perform the V2X sidelink communication
according to _SystemInformationBlockType21_ or _SystemInformationBlockType26,_
and when out-of-coverage for sidelink, the UE may perform the sidelink
communication according to _SL-Preconfiguration_ or perform V2X sidelink
communication according to _SL-V2X-Preconfiguration_ or according to
_SystemInformationBlockType21_ or _SystemInformationBlockType26_ of the cell
on the frequency which provides inter-carrier V2X sidelink configuration, as
specified in TS 36.331 [3]. The UE shall not perform V2X sidelink
communication according to _SL-V2X-Preconfiguration_ if the UE detects a cell
providing V2X sidelink configuration or inter-carrier V2X sidelink
configuration for the frequency UE is interested to perform V2X sidelink
communication on.
## 11.2 Sidelink discovery
The UE may transmit sidelink discovery if it fulfils the condition(s) defined
in TS 36.331 [3, 5.10.1b and 5.10.1c]. When UE is in-coverage for sidelink as
defined in clause 11.4, the UE may perform the sidelink discovery according to
_SystemInformationBlockType19_ , and when out-of-coverage for sidelink as
defined in clause 11.4, the UE may perform the sidelink discovery according to
_SL-Preconfiguration_ , as specified in TS 36.331 [3].
NOTE: Sidelink discovery reception in idle mode is up to UE implementation.
## 11.3 Sidelink synchronisation
The UE may perform sidelink synchronisation according to
_SystemInformationBlockType18_ for sidelink communication,
_SystemInformationBlockType19_ for sidelink discovery or
_SystemInformationBlockType21_ for V2X sidelink communication, as specified in
TS 36.331 [3].
## 11.4 Cell selection and reselection for sidelink
The requirements defined in this clause for sidelink operation apply for UEs
in RRC_IDLE and in RRC_CONNECTED.
When UE is interested to perform sidelink communication or sidelink discovery
announcement on non-serving frequency, it shall perform measurements on that
frequency for cell selection and intra-frequency reselection purpose in
accordance with TS 36.133 [10]. When UE is interested to perform V2X sidelink
communication on non-serving frequency, it may perform measurements on that
frequency or the frequencies which can provide inter-carrier V2X sidelink
configuration for that frequency for cell selection and intra-frequency
reselection purpose in accordance with TS 36.133 [10].
If the UE detects at least one cell on the frequency which UE is configured to
perform sidelink operation on fulfilling the S criterion in accordance with
clause 11.4.1, it shall consider itself to be in-coverage for sidelink
operation on that frequency. If the UE cannot detect any cell on that
frequency meeting the S criterion, it shall consider itself to be out-of-
coverage for sidelink operation on that frequency.
If the UE has selected a cell on a non-serving frequency for sidelink
communication or V2X sidelink communication or sidelink discovery
announcement, it shall perform additional intra-frequency reselection process
to select a better cell for sidelink operation on that frequency in accordance
with clause 11.4.1.
NOTE 1: The UE may consider the carrier pre-configured for sidelink
communication or V2X sidelink communication, or the frequencies pre-configured
for providing inter-carrier V2X sidelink configuration to have the highest
cell reselection priority in accordance with clause 5.2.4.1.
NOTE 2: If the frequency the UE is configured to perform sidelink
communication on is a serving frequency, the UE uses the serving cell on that
frequency for the sidelink operation.
### 11.4.1 Parameters used for cell selection and reselection triggered for
sidelink
When evaluating S criterion or R criterion (ranking), as defined in clause
5.2.3.2 and clause 5.2.4.6 respectively, for cell selection/reselection
triggered for sidelink communication or V2X sidelink communication or sidelink
discovery announcement on a non-serving frequency, UE shall perform the
evaluation as follows:
\- if the UE intends to perform sidelink discovery announcement and it is
configured with _discCellSelectionInfo_ applicable for that frequency as
specified in TS 36.331 [3], the UE shall use cell selection/reselection
parameters included in the _discCellSelectionInfo_ for the evaluation, and for
a parameter used in the evaluation but not included in the
_discCellSelectionInfo_ applicable for that frequency, UE shall apply zero
value.
\- else, the UE shall use cell selection/reselection parameters broadcast by
the concerned cell (i.e. selected cell for the sidelink operation) for the
evaluation.
# 12\. General description of UE camping on E-UTRA connected to 5GC
The functions listed below are applicable to UE camping on E-UTRA connected to
5GC:
_\- RAN paging (only applicable to RRC_INACTIVE state)_
_\- Unified Access Control_
The functions listed below are not applicable to UE camping on E-UTRA
connected to 5GC:
_\- 5.5 Support for manual CSG selection_
_\- 5.6 RAN-assisted WLAN interworking_
_\- 6.2 Reception of MBMS_
_\- 7.3 Paging in extended DRX_
_\- 8 Logged measurements_
_\- 9 Accessibility measurements_
_\- 11 Sidelink operation_
###### ## Annex A (informative): Void
###### ## Annex B (informative): Example of Hashed ID Calculation using 32-bit
FCS
**Inputs:**
\- Least significant bits of S-TMSI: 0x12341234
\- Generator polynomial: 0x104C11DB7 (1 0000 0100 1100 0001 0001 1101 1011
0111)
**Procedure to Calculate Hashed ID:**
step a)
\- k = 32
\- numerator: 0xFFFF FFFF 0000 0000
\- denominator: 0x1 04C1 1DB7
\- remainder Y1 = 0xC704DD7B
step b)
\- numerator: 0x1234 1234 0000 0000
\- denominator: 0x1 04C1 1DB7
\- remainder Y2 = 0x1D66F1A6
**Hashed_ID** = FCS = ones complement of (remainder Y1 XOR remainder Y2)
= ones complement of (0xC704DD7B XOR 0x1D66F1A6)
= negation of (0xDA622CDD)
**= 0x259DD322**
#