# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the technical report for the study item \"Further
Enhancements LTE Device to Device, UE to Network Relays for IoT and
Wearables\" [2].
The objective of this SI is to study enhancements to ProSe UE-to-network
relaying and to the LTE D2D framework for commercial and public safety
applications such as wearable and IoT devices. It is assumed that evolved
ProSe Remote UEs can support both WAN and D2D connection, and that evolved
ProSe Remote UEs have 3GPP subscription credentials. The D2D connection is
realized by either LTE sidelink or non-3GPP technology. All non-3GPP
technologies should be considered transparent for generic relay architecture
over them. The primary objective of the study is to address power efficiency
for evolved ProSe Remote UEs (e.g. wearable devices).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-161303: \"Further Enhancements LTE Device to Device, UE to Network
Relays for IoT and Wearables.
[3] 3GPP TR 36.843: \"Study on LTE Device to Device Proximity Services; Radio
Aspects (Release 12)\".
[4] 3GPP TR 45.820: \"Cellular system support for ultra-low complexity and low
throughput Internet of Things (CIoT) (Release 13)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"**Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".**
**[6] R1-1712511: \"Performance Evaluation Summary of Sidelink Communication
Enhancements for Wearable-centric Scenario\", Intel Corporation, Prague, Czech
Republic, August 2017.**
**[7] R1-1712512: \"Performance Evaluation Summary of Sidelink Communication
Enhancements for IoT-centric Scenario\", Intel Corporation, Prague, Czech
Republic, August 2017.**
**[8] R1-1712513: \"Performance Evaluation Summary of Sidelink Discovery
Enhancements for Wearable and IoT Use Cases\", Intel Corporation, Prague,
Czech Republic, August 2017.**
**[9]** **R1-1712522: \"Considerations on Sidelink Design Enhancements to
Support One PRB BW Limited Remote UEs\", Intel Corporation, Prague, Czech
Republic, August 2017.**
**[10] R1-1714600: \"Evaluation of sidelink enhancements for scenario 1\",
Sony, Prague, Czech Republic, August 2017.**
**[11] R1-1713997: \"Evaluation results for FeD2D communication in scenario
1\", Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell, Prague, Czech Republic, August 2017.**
**[12] R1-1713998: \"Evaluation results for FeD2D communication in scenario
2\", Nokia, Nokia Shanghai Bell, Prague, Czech Republic, August 2017.**
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Scenarios and requirements
_Editor notes: This section is to describe supported LTE Device to Device, UE
to Network Relays for IoT and Wearables scenarios._
## 4.1 Assumptions
The section describes the assumptions for designing evolved ProSe Remote UE
and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
\- Any specific enhancements to Bluetooth (BT) or WiFi is not part of this
study;
\- Co-existence with Rel-12/13 UEs supporting sidelink operation in the same
spectrum is taken into account;
\- There is no differentiation between PS and commercial use cases from Access
Stratum (AS) perspective, with the assumption that the core network will have
full control to authorize out-of-coverage operation for certain UEs;
\- The evolved ProSe Remote UE can be of any UE category;
\- For PS, allowing a Rel-13 remote UE to connect to a Rel-14 evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE is not a primary objective of this study. There is
nothing that prohibits a Rel-14 UE to implement Rel-13 features/mechanism to
connect to Rel-13 ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UEs;
\- It is not required to support service continuity between Release 13 ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE and Release 14 evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
## 4.2 Requirements
_Editor notes: This section is to describe high level requirements for
designing solutions._
The candidate solutions to be considered in this study should meet the
following requirements:
### 4.2.1 Relaying solution requirements
The purpose of this section is to present the requirements on the relaying
solution.
#### 4.2.1.1 Requirement 1 -- Visibility and reachability
The evolved ProSe Remote UE shall be visible and reachable by the network.
#### 4.2.1.2 Requirement 2 -- Traffic differentiation
The eNB shall be capable of distinguishing traffic originating from the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay and traffic originating from evolved ProSe
Remote UEs connected to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay.
The eNB shall be capable of distinguishing traffic originating from different
evolved ProSe Remote UEs connected to the same evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay.
#### 4.2.1.3 Requirement 3 -- Power consumption
As a primary requirement, under the defined scenarios, use cases, and traffic
models the relay solution shall allow for decrease in power consumption of
evolved ProSe Remote UE when using indirect 3GPP connection as compared to
direct 3GPP connection.
As a secondary requirement, under the defined scenarios, use cases, and
traffic models negative impact on power consumption in the evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay should be minimized.
#### 4.2.1.4 Requirement 4 -- Device complexity
As a guideline, the device complexity of the evolved ProSe Remote UE should be
taken into account when analysing the solutions.
Under the defined scenarios, use cases, and traffic models negative impact of
the relaying solution on the device complexity of the evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay should be minimized.
#### 4.2.1.5 Requirement 5 -- Efficient signalling
Under the defined scenarios, use cases, and traffic models, the signalling
(e.g. messages and procedures) shall facilitate efficient operation (e.g.
setup, management, release). This includes signalling over both PC5 and Uu.
#### 4.2.1.6 Requirement 6 -- Traffic types
The relay solution shall support different traffic types including VoIP,
streaming services, instant messaging, small data, MTC traffic etc. in an
efficient manner.
#### 4.2.1.7 Requirement 7 -- Co-existence with Rel-12/13 Public Safety UEs
The relay solution shall support co-existence on the same carrier between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay on one side
and Rel-12/13 Public Safety (PS) UEs on the other.
#### 4.2.1.8 Requirement 8 -- Service continuity
The relay solution shall support service continuity when the evolved ProSe
Remote UE selects or switches its path between Uu and PC5. Following service
continuity scenarios are considered in this study with a lower priority
compared to the path switch between Uu and PC5:
\- service continuity among different evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UEs
(i.e. reselection of evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE) for PC5 and
non-3GPP access;
\- service continuity for the switching scenario between direct 3GPP
connection and indirect non-3GPP connection.
The service continuity of switching from PC5 to non-3GPP access (and vice
versa) within the same evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE or switching from
non-3GPP access to another non-3GPP access is not studied as part of this
study. The service continuity of the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE moving together from one cell to another cell is
supported in this study.
#### 4.2.1.9 Requirement 9 -- Data security
The relay solution shall support data security such that signalling and/or
data traffic between the eNB and the evolved ProSe Remote UE is not deciphered
or attacked by the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay.
#### 4.2.1.10 Requirement 10 -- Common relay architecture
A common relay architecture for both 3GPP and non-3GPP should be targeted, if
possible.
#### 4.2.1.11 Requirement 11 -- QoS support
The relay solution shall allow for various QoS configurations to meet
requirements of different services and traffic types. The level of QoS while
using indirect 3GPP connection based on PC5 should be comparable to that
achieved while using direct 3GPP connection for the same service.
## 4.3 Scenarios
The coverage scenarios considered in this study focus on the followings.
\- Evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE are EUTRAN
in-coverage;
\- Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is in EUTRAN coverage and evolved
ProSe Remote UE can be in enhanced coverage (enhanced coverage implies that
the UE is connecting to the network via Rel-13 MTC in CE mode);
\- Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is in EUTRAN coverage and evolved
ProSe Remote UE is out of coverage of EUTRAN.
The considered scenarios are reflected in Figure 4.3-1. The shown connections
for the Uu interface indicate coverage and reachability, i.e. the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE shown is not necessarily in RRC_CONNECTED, but is
in coverage and can communicate with the network on Uu interface. In this
study, scenario of the UE context for the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE maintained in the same eNB is
prioritized.
Figure 4.3-1: Coverage scenarios
In Figure 4.3-1, \"in coverage\" for the evolved ProSe Remote UE may include
extended coverage.
In the below, \"linked\" means that the short range link is setup between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and both
UEs can exchange data in any direction. For PC5, \"linked\" state is
equivalent to state of PC5 connection established. It is assumed that trust
relationship between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE, if required, is handled by upper layers. The state of trust
relationship being established is defined as \"associated\".
The following procedures are supported for these scenarios:
\- In Scenario 2, either the evolved ProSe Remote UE or the network can
initiate establishing a link between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE;
\- In scenario 3, either the evolved ProSe Remote UE or the network can
initiate establishing a link between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE;
\- It can be considered if there should be further restrictions on the network
initiated cases.
The evolved ProSe Remote UE is not required to be in RRC_CONNECTED while
linked with an evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.The evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE may be in RRC_IDLE while linked with an evolved ProSe Remote
UE. RRC connection state of the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE may change independently of their connection state of
PC5/non-3GPP access. Both the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the
evolved ProSe Remote UE are in RRC_CONNECTED while unicast data is being
relayed.
When used to describe the evolved ProSe Remote UE, RRC_CONNECTED means that
the UE has a context in the eNB. The evolved ProSe Remote UE behaviour in RRC
states is FFS.
The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE can provide both unicast and
multicast services.
# 5 Technical support for LTE device to device, UE-to- Network relays for IoT
and wearables
## 5.1 Layer 2 evolved UE-to-Network relay solution
_Editor notes: Including necessary enhancements for supporting a generic Layer
2 evolved UE-to-Network relay including architecture, methods for the network
to identify, address, and reach an evolved Remote UE via an evolved UE-to-
Network Relay UE._
### 5.1.1 Architecture
In this subclause, a protocol architecture for supporting Layer 2 evolved UE-
to-Network Relay UE is given for the user plane and the control plane.
For protocol architecture for the user plane and control plane, relaying is
performed above RLC sublayer. The evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s user plane and
control plane data are relayed above RLC via the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE from the evolved ProSe Remote UE to network and vice versa. Uu PDCP
and RRC are terminated between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the eNB while
RLC, MAC and PHY and the non-3GPP transport layers are terminated in each link
(i.e. the link between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay UE and the link between the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
UE and the eNB). The user plane protocol stack and the control plane protocol
stack when PC5 is used between the evolved ProSe remote UE and the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is shown in Figure 5.1.1-1 and Figure 5.1.1-2.
The user plane protocol stack and the control plane protocol stack when
non-3GPP access is used between the evolved ProSe remote UE and the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is shown in Figure 5.1.1-3 and Figure 5.1.1-4.
Editor\'s Note: PC5-S is supported (e.g. for establishing a secure connection)
using the legacy Rel-13 protocol stack. The illustrated protocol stacks below
are only for relay traffic.
Figure 5.1.1-1: User plane radio protocol stack for layer 2 evolved UE-to-
Network relay (PC5)
Figure 5.1.1-2: Control plane radio protocol stack for layer 2 evolved UE-to-
Network relay (PC5)
Figure 5.1.1-3: User plane radio protocol stack for layer 2 evolved UE-to-
Network relay (non-3GPP access)
Figure 5.1.1-4: Control plane radio protocol stack for layer 2 evolved UE-to-
Network relay (non-3GPP access)
Traffic of one or multiple evolved ProSe Remote UEs may be mapped to a single
DRB of Uu interface of the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. Multiple Uu
DRBs may be used to carry traffic of different QoS classes, for one or
multiple evolved ProSe Remote UEs. It is also possible to multiplex traffic of
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE itself onto the Uu DRB, which is used to
relay traffic to/from evolved ProSe Remote UEs. In the PC5 case, different
bearers are distinguished on the sidelink by different LCIDs; in the non-3GPP
case, this distinction is made by the adaptation layer as described below. How
the mapping of the traffic between sidelink bearers and Uu bearers is done is
up to the eNB implementation and the mapping is configured in evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE by the eNB. An adaptation layer over Uu is supported to
identify the evolved ProSe Remote UE/evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and
the corresponding bearer.
The adaptation layer between the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the
eNB is able to differentiate between bearers (SRBs, DRBs) of a particular
evolved ProSe Remote UE. The QoS associated with different bearers between the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the eNB can be applied. How to
guarantee end-to-end bearer-level QoS for evolved ProSe Remote UE is not fully
studied, pending on further discussion on QoS over PC5 in the normative phase.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS how DRBs are configured, defined, and handled on Uu
and PC5.
Within a Uu DRB, different evolved ProSe Remote UEs and different bearers of
the evolved ProSe Remote UE are indicated by additional information included
in adaptation layer header which is added to PDCP PDU. The evolved ProSe
Remote UE is identified in the adaptation layer header on Uu by only local
identifier (i.e. an index), which is known to at least the eNB and evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. For identifying bearer of the evolved ProSe
Remote UE, a bearer identity is indicated by additional information included
in adaptation layer header.
For non-3GPP access and PC5, no additional UE identifier needs to be provided
by the adaptation layer. The evolved ProSe Remote UE is identified on the
short range link by the RAT-specific Layer 2 identifier (i.e. MAC address for
non-3GPP access and FFS for PC5). The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
needs to be aware of the mapping between evolved ProSe Remote UE identities on
the short range link and on Uu interface.
Editor\'s Note: The details of the local identifier are left for the WI phase.
An adaptation layer is supported over non-3GPP access for the short range link
between the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
UE. Adaptation layer header is added to PDCP PDU. The adaptation layer header
on non-3GPP access includes a DRB identity. The SRBs of evolved ProSe Remote
UE are carried in SRBs of evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and SRB
identity is included in the adaptation layer for the non-3GPP case. No
additional bearer identity is required to be exchanged between the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the evolved ProSe Remote UE over the PC5.
The adaptation layer can be considered as part of PDCP sublayer or a separate
new layer between PDCP sublayer and RLC sublayer.
Editor\'s Note: The details of the header structure/adaptation layer location
are left for the WI phase.
### 5.1.2 Protocol enhancements
#### 5.1.2.1 Discovery and connection establishment procedure
Discovery is defined as the process that detects and identifies another UE in
proximity. For PC5, legacy relay discovery procedure is assumed to be used as
a baseline. The legacy discovery physical channel is assumed to be used and
the size of the discovery message is assumed to be fixed to 232 bits as the
legacy discovery message size.
Editor\'s Note: RAN2 can study if additional enhancements to the relay
discovery procedure are needed.
In order for evolved ProSe Remote UE to communicate with the network via
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE, it is necessary to establish connection
between evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. For
PC5, \"PC5 Signalling Protocol\" (using the Rel-13 protocol stack) is assumed
to be used for establishing a secure connection and the legacy connection
establishment procedure is assumed to be used.
Editor\'s Note: RAN2 can study RAN2 specific enhancements related to
connection establishment for power consumption purposes.
#### 5.1.2.2 Paging for evolved ProSe Remote UE
In this study, it is assumed that the evolved ProSe Remote UE should be linked
with the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE in order to receive paging via
the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. The evolved ProSe Remote UE supports
reception of paging over the linked evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE while
the evolved ProSe Remote UE is in and out of E-UTRAN coverage. The evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE supports forwarding of paging for the evolved
ProSe Remote UE located in and out of E-UTRAN coverage.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if the eNB can configure the evolved ProSe Remote UE
whether it should monitor Uu for reception of the paging message or the
evolved ProSe Remote UE should monitor sidelink for reception of the paging
message while evolved ProSe Remote UE is in-coverage.
There are multiple possible paging options with which the evolved ProSe Remote
UE in RRC_IDLE can be reachable in downlink when it is in E-UTRAN coverage or
out of E-UTRAN coverage as shown below. Down-scoping of the paging options is
left to WI phase.
Option 1: The evolved ProSe Remote UE monitors its own paging occasion (PO)
over Uu interface, so the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE does not need
to relay the evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s paging over short range link. The
evolved ProSe Remote UE with single receiver need to monitor Uu only in this
option since the evolved ProSe Remote UE cannot be linked to the evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE via PC5 interface to send or receive data while
monitoring POs via Uu simultaneously. This option is shown in Figure
5.1.2.2-1.
{width="4.638888888888889in" height="2.459722222222222in"}
Figure 5.1.2.2-1: Paging for evolved ProSe Remote UE (Option 1)
> Advantages:
\- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE does not need to relay the evolved
ProSe Remote UE\'s paging over short range link so that additional power
consumption for L2 relay UE and additional use of SL resource are not
required.
> Disadvantages:
\- It is not applicable when the evolved ProSe Remote UE is out of E-UTRAN
coverage;
\- If the evolved ProSe Remote UE is linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE while receiving via Uu, the evolved ProSe Remote UE needs to attempt
paging reception over downlink in addition to the reception of short range
link while linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. This is less
power efficient for the evolved ProSe Remote UE.
Option 2: The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE monitors its linked evolved
ProSe Remote UE\'s PO in addition to its own PO. The evolved ProSe Remote UE
does not need to attempt paging reception over downlink while linked to the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
may need to monitor multiple paging occasions. The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE has to know the paging occasion of the evolved ProSe Remote UE and
has to decode a paging message and determine which evolved ProSe Remote UE the
paging is for. Also, the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE may need to
relay the evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s paging over short range link. This option
is shown in Figure 5.1.2.2-2.
{width="4.386805555555555in" height="2.8048611111111112in"}
Figure 5.1.2.2-2: Paging for evolved ProSe Remote UE (Option 2)
> Advantages:
\- It is commonly applicable to both when the evolved ProSe Remote UE is in
and out of E-UTRAN coverage;
\- The evolved ProSe Remote UE does not need to attempt paging reception over
DL while linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. This is more
power efficient for the evolved ProSe Remote UE;
\- No need for network to know whether the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE are linked or associated.
> Disadvantages:
\- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE needs to monitor multiple POs.
This is less power efficient for the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE as
the power consumption may increase depending on the number of evolved ProSe
Remote UEs linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE;
\- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE needs to relay evolved ProSe
Remote UE\'s paging over short range link. This causes additional power
consumption for the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and additional use of
SL resource.
Option 3: The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE monitors its own PO only
and paging for the linked evolved ProSe Remote UE is also sent in the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE\'s PO. The evolved ProSe Remote UE does not need
to attempt paging reception over downlink while linked to the evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE. The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE has to decode
a paging message, determine which evolved ProSe Remote UE the paging is for
and needs to relay the evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s paging over short range
link. In order to page the evolved ProSe Remote UE, the core network (i.e.
MME) is required to know linked status between the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE and the evolved ProSe Remote UE and remap evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s
paging messages to occur on evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE\'s POs when
evolved ProSe Remote UE are linked. This option is shown in Figure 5.1.2.2-3.
{width="4.620138888888889in" height="2.9194444444444443in"}
Figure 5.1.2.2-3: Paging for evolved ProSe Remote UE (Option 3)
> Advantages:
\- It is commonly applicable to both when the evolved ProSe Remote UE is in
and out of E-UTRAN coverage;
\- The evolved ProSe Remote UE does not need to attempt paging reception over
DL while linked to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. This is more
power efficient for the evolved ProSe Remote UE;
\- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE does not need to monitor multiple
POs. This is more power efficient for the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
compared to the option 2.
> Disadvantages:
\- The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE needs to relay evolved ProSe
Remote UE\'s paging over short range link. This causes additional power
consumption for evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and additional use of SL
resource;
\- The network needs to know linked status between the evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE and the evolved ProSe Remote UE.
Based on the system impact, Option 2 is selected as a paging relaying solution
for further work. For this option, the exact timing relationship between the
relay of paging message and the evolved ProSe Remote UE PO on Uu interface
needs to be further discussed in work item phase.
#### 5.1.2.3 System information reception for evolved ProSe Remote UE
The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE supports relaying of system
information for the linked evolved ProSe Remote UEs located in-coverage of
E-UTRAN coverage as well as out of E-UTRAN coverage. The eNB can configure the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE whether it can forward the system
information to linked in-coverage evolved ProSe Remote UEs. Alternatively the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is expected to forward the system
information to the in-coverage evolved ProSe Remote UE. The linked evolved
ProSe Remote UE utilizes the system information of the serving cell of the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
Not all system information is relayed to the linked evolved ProSe Remote UE
via the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. Essential SIBs are required to
be relayed from the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE to all linked evolved
ProSe Remote UEs commonly. At least the following SIBs can be considered
asessential SIBs: MIB (SFN, bandwidth), SIB1 (PLMN, cell information), SIB2
(Access Barring information), FeD2D SIB related info (e.g. SIB18/19 or new
SIBs). Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE can optionally forward other SIBs
(e.g., SIB10/11/12/13/14/15) depending on the linked evolved ProSe Remote UEs.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS which other SIBs needs to be forwarded to the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and what information is provided to the evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE to indicate which SIBs are needed by the evolved ProSe
Remote UE.
The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is expected to purely forward the
SIBs without changing the information and format of the SIB. This approach is
recommended. Alternatively, the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE can only
forward a subset of information of the SIB to the evolved ProSe Remote UE.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if there is a use case for the evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE forwarding only subset of information of the SIB to the
evolved ProSe Remote UE.
An evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE forwards SIB over sidelink using
broadcast/multi-cast.
Editor\'s Note: It is FFS if unicast transmission is used for evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE forwarding SIB.
The system information is not delivered periodically to the evolved ProSe
Remote UE, but only when deemed necessary. The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE can determine that SIB delivery is deemed necessary for the evolved
ProSe Remote UE when system information is updated.
Editor\'s Note: Other reasons for the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
determining that SIB delivery is deemed necessary are left for WI phase.
#### 5.1.2.4 Group mobility of evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and
evolved ProSe Remote UEs
In this scenario, both of the evolved ProSe Remote UE (wearable device) and
the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE are moved (i.e. in case of mobility)
from one eNB to another eNB. The evolved ProSe Remote UE remains connected to
the same evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
Figure 5.1.2.4-1: Scenario for group handover
When the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is handed over between serving
cells, any evolved ProSe Remote UEs served by it need to be considered for
handover as well, so that their contexts in the network can remain collocated
with the context of the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. Several options
are considered to facilitate this type of group mobility as shown below.
However, the detailed impacts of each option have not been discussed during
the study item.
A \"group\" of UEs can be identified by the serving eNB, where how to identify
the group is subject to RAN2/SA2 discussion. Once a group has been identified,
the eNB may use various inputs, e.g. measurement report(s), to prepare group
handover towards the most likely candidate target cell(s). This will increase
the time available for handover execution, reduce the risk of handover
failure, and result in more accurate resource allocation at the target cell.
As the group handover optimisations are not considered to maintain independent
signalling of the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE, it was concluded to not further pursue group handover specification
in the normative phase.
##### 5.1.2.4.1 Group handover command
The \"group handover command\" approach combines the reconfiguration messages
for the relay UE and the remote UE(s), for over the air transmission, as shown
in Figure 5.1.2.4.1-1.
Figure 5.1.2.4.1-1: Group handover command
The serving (source) eNB combines the _RRCConnectionReconfiguration_ commands
to trigger mobility for the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE, and for the
evolved ProSe Remote UE(s), into a single transmission on the Uu interface.
The evolved ProSe Remote UE should only receive its own configuration. FFS how
to handle the evolved ProSe Remote UE(s), which are not handed over together
with the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
The PC5-S message is used over sidelink to deliver the messages between the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the evolved ProSe Remote UE. FFS
whether it carries RRC reconfiguration message via transparent container or
new message is defined.
The exact order of operations for steps 6a through 8b is FFS, e.g. it could be
possible that the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE sends its own
\"handover complete\" message before receiving all \"reconfiguration
complete\" messages from the evolved ProSe Remote UEs.
##### 5.1.2.4.2 Group handover response
The \"group handover response\" approach means that the evolved ProSe Remote
UEs\' responses to their respective reconfiguration messages are collected by
the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and forwarded over the air in a
single combined transmission, as shown in Figure 5.1.2.4.2-1. The evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE has the responsibility to deliver the group
handover response to the target eNB as it completes its own handover.
Figure 5.1.2.4.2-1: Group handover response
Considering the identified drawbacks and complexities, this option will not be
pursued further.
##### 5.1.2.4.3 Group handover in-network
**Solution 1: Separate Handover of evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE with evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE relationship**
_Note: this solution only applies to the case in which PC5 is used between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE._
In this solution, X2 signalling (e.g. Handover Request, Handover Request ACK,
UE Context Release) and S1 signalling (e.g. Path Switch Request, Path Switch
Request ACK) of evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote
UE are sent separately. And the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and
evolved ProSe Remote UE relationship information is included in HANDOVER
REQUEST messages, the target eNB need to wait until receiving all the Handover
Request messages for both evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved
ProSe Remote UE, take all the related information into account to prepare the
resources for all the related UE.
{width="6.256944444444445in" height="3.7847222222222223in"}
Figure 5.1.2.4.3-1 Separate S1/X2 Handover with evolved ProSe Remote UE and
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE relationship
1\. eNB1 makes decision on group Handover of evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE.
2\. eNB1 triggers the handover of evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE from
eNB1 cellular link to eNB2 cellular link, by sending HANDOVER REQUEST message
with the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE
relationship information (e.g. evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE id and a
list of evolved ProSe Remote UE ids).
3\. eNB1 triggers the handover of evolved ProSe Remote UE from eNB1 Relay link
to eNB2 Relay link, by sending HANDOVER REQUEST message with the evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE relationship information.
4\. Upon receiving all the HANDOVER REQUEST messages related to the indicated
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE relationship
information, the eNB2 performs admission control and prepare the resources for
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE.
5\. eNB2 sends the HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message of evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay UE to the eNB1.
6\. eNB2 sends the HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message of evolved ProSe
Remote UE to the eNB1.
7\. The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE moves
together to eNB2.
8\. eNB2 triggers the path switch procedure for evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE.
9\. eNB2 triggers the path switch procedure for evolved ProSe Remote UE.
10\. eNB2 triggers the UE context release procedure toward eNB1 for evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
11\. eNB2 triggers the UE context release procedure toward eNB1 for evolved
ProSe Remote UE.
12\. eNB1 release the resources for evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and
evolved ProSe Remote UE.
> _Note: Steps 2 and 3 could happen in any sequence, Steps 5 and 6 could
> happen in any sequence, Steps 8 and 9 could happen in any sequence, Steps 10
> and 11 could happen in any sequence._
>
> _Note: details of handover execution phase i.e. step 7 is subject to RAN2
> decision._
>
> _Note: whether new RRC container is needed in Step5 and 6 is subject to RAN2
> decision._
**RAN3 impacts:**
\- Include evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE
relationship (e.g. evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE id and a list of
evolved ProSe Remote UE ids) in HANDOVER REQUEST message.
**Solution 2: Group Handover of evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay UE**
_Note: this solution only applies to the case in which PC5 is used between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE._
In this solution, group X2 Handover procedure will be used to move the evolved
ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE together from eNB1 to
eNB2. Group Handover Request and Group Handover Request ACK messages are
introduced.
Figure 5.1.2.4.3-2 group handover of evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE
1\. eNB1 makes group Handover decision.
2\. eNB1 sends GROUP HANDOVER REQUEST message of the evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE towards the eNB2.
3\. eNB2 performs admission control and prepares the resource for the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE.
4\. eNB2 sends GROUP HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE message to eNB1.
5\. the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and evolved ProSe Remote UE moves
together to eNB2.
6\. eNB2 triggers the path switch procedure for evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE.
7\. eNB2 triggers the path switch procedure for evolved ProSe Remote UE.
8\. eNB2 triggers the UE context release procedure toward eNB1 for evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
9\. eNB2 triggers the UE context release procedure toward eNB1 for evolved
ProSe Remote UE.
10\. eNB1 release the resources for evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and
evolved ProSe Remote UE.
Note: The details of GROUP HANDOVER REQUEST and GROUP HANDOVER REQUEST
ACKNOWLEDGE messages will be further discussed in normative phase.
_Note: details of handover execution phase i.e. step 5 is subject to RAN2
decision._
**RAN3 impact:**
Introduce GROUP HANDOVER REQUEST and GROUP HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE
messages. In these messages, both the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and
evolved ProSe Remote UEs context will be included.
The serving eNB breaks out the combined GROUP HANDOVER REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE
message into separate configurations for each of the affected UEs. It is FFS
if the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE could move to the target cell
before receiving the reconfiguration responses from the evolved ProSe Remote
UEs.
##### 5.1.2.4.4 Combined approaches
The different approaches of sections 5.1.2.4.1-5.1.2.4.3 can be combined. If
they are all applied, it results in a message flow as shown in Figure
5.1.2.4.4-1.
Figure 5.1.2.4.4-1: Group handover with all approaches combined
#### 5.1.2.5 Path switch
##### 5.1.2.5.1 Path switch scenarios
There are two main scenarios for path change for evolved ProSe Remote UE and
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
_Note: D2D/PC5 illustrated in the scenarios and solutions in this section does
not preclude the usage of non 3GPP communication between the evolved ProSe
Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE._
**Scenario 1: evolved ProSe Remote UE moves between Cellular and Relay link _
Intra eNB**
In this scenario, the path of the evolved ProSe Remote UE (wearable device) is
changed between cellular link, and relay link with an evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE served by the same eNB.
{width="2.8541666666666665in" height="1.3534722222222222in"}
Scenario 1a Scenario 1b
Figure 5.1.2.5.1-1: Path switch scenario 1
**Scenario 2: evolved ProSe Remote UE moves between Cellular and Relay link _
Inter eNB**
In this scenario, the path of the evolved ProSe Remote UE (wearable device) is
changed between cellular link of an eNB, and relay link with an evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE served by a different eNB.
{width="2.6979166666666665in" height="1.9152777777777779in"}
Scenario 2a Scenario 2b
Figure 5.1.2.5.1-2: Path switch scenario 2
Two options for path switch procedure between cellular link and relay link
were studied by RAN2.
**Option 1:** eNB configures the evolved ProSe Remote UE with set of criteria
and the evolved ProSe Remote UE triggers a notification to the network when
the criteria are met. The eNB decides if the evolved ProSe Remote UE should
switch.
**Option 2:** eNB configures the evolved ProSe Remote UE with set of criteria
and the evolved ProSe Remote UE can decide to reselect the path on its own
when the criteria are met. After switching the path, the evolved ProSe Remote
UE sends a notification/reconfiguration request message.
In both of these options, the evolved ProSe Remote UE switches path from
cellular link to relay link or vice versa based on RRC Reconfiguration message
from its serving eNB. Path switch based on pre-condition will be considered as
a possible optimisation.
For the solutions in this section, some optimization to avoid sending the full
RRC configuration message for the cases in which the evolved ProSe Remote UE
moves from the link via evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE to Uu on the same
cell will be considered.
Editor\'s Note: There is some eNB involvement but details of the procedures
are left FFS.
In section 5.1.2.5.2 and section 5.1.2.5.3, some detailed solutions for Option
1 for scenario 1 and scenario 2 are provided respectively.
##### 5.1.2.5.2 Solutions for Scenario 1
**Solution 1-1:**
_Note: this solution only applies to the case in which PC5 is used between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE._
Figure 5.1.2.5.2-1 below depicts the path change procedure for an evolved
ProSe Remote UE from Relay Link to Cellular Link within the same eNB (Scenario
1b). Similar RAN3 impacts are foreseen to support the path change for an
evolved ProSe Remote UE from Cellular Link to Relay Link within the same eNB
(Scenario 1a in Figure 5.1.2.5.1-1).
Figure 5.1.2.5.2-1: evolved ProSe Remote UE moves from Relay Link to Cellular
Link within same eNB
1\. Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE has already access to the network and
active.
2\. Evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
connect via PC5.
3\. The evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s RRC connection request, RRC connection
setup, RRC connection setup complete messages procedures, via PC5-U between
the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE, and
Uu between the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the eNB are performed.
4\. The eNB triggers Initial UE message procedure towards the evolved ProSe
Remote UE\'s MME, with the information of evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE relationship.
5\. The MME triggers Initial UE context setup procedure, to provide UE context
to the eNB.
6\. The eNB triggers UE context modification procedure towards the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE\'s MME, with the information of evolved ProSe
Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE relationship.
7\. The eNB triggers RRC reconfiguration of the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE.
8\. The evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s RRC connection reconfiguration, RRC
connection reconfiguration complete messages procedures, via PC5-U between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE, and Uu
between the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the eNB are performed.
9\. The eNB triggers to send Initial Context Setup Response to the evolved
ProSe Remote UE\'s serving MME.
10\. The eNB makes decision on changing the evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s path
from Relay Link to Cellular Link.
11\. The eNB triggers RRC reconfiguration of the evolved ProSe Remote UE.
> _Note: the RRC Connection Reconfiguration Complete message maybe transmitted
> via Cellular link, subject to RAN2 discussion._
12\. The eNB triggers RRC reconfiguration of the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE.
13\. The eNB updates the evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE relationship of the evolved ProSe Remote UE to the evolved
ProSe Remote UE\'s serving MME.
14\. The eNB updates the evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE relationship of the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE to
the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE\'s serving MME.
> _Note: The need for relationship information exchange in step 4, 6, 13 and
> 14 are pending to RAN2 and SA2 decision. MME awareness is subject to RAN2
> and SA2 discussion of Paging and Charging, etc._
>
> _Note: Step 6 and 14may not be needed in case the relationship information
> can be transmitted between MMEs directly, pending to SA2._
**RAN3 impact:**
\- eNB to provide and update the evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay UE relationship towards the MME;
\- Introduce evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
relationship in S1AP: INITIAL UE MESSAGE, in S1AP: UE CONTEXT MODIFICATION
INDICATION message, or a new S1AP message;
> _Note: the details of \"evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-
> Network Relay UE relationship\" is FFS. In case the MME needs to be aware of
> the relationship of eRemote and eRelay, it provides information on whether
> the evolved ProSe Remote UE is connected to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
> Relay UE or not._
\- Introduce evolved ProSe Remote UE (FFS) and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE authorization in S1AP: INITIAL CONTEXT SETUP REQUEST, and other
related S1/X2 messages.
> _Note: the MME may provide the authorization of the evolved ProSe Remote UE
> (FFS) and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE to the eNB, which is pending
> to SA2 discussion._
##### 5.1.2.5.3 Solutions for Scenario 2
**Solution 2a-1**
_Note: this solution only applies to the case in which PC5 is used between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE._
This solution focuses on Scenario 2a in Figure 5.1.2.5.1-2: The evolved ProSe
Remote UE switches from Uu to PC5 for inter eNB case.
\- The evolved ProSe Remote UE may or may not be able to directly connect to
target eNB, so there is no guarantee that the evolved ProSe Remote UE can
first hand over to target eNB, then switch to PC5. A more general mechanism is
needed to allow the evolved ProSe Remote UE to switch from Uu to PC5 directly.
Current handover procedure should be reused for this case, with the following
differences:
\- The evolved ProSe Remote UE may be able to set up the PC5 connection before
the handover;
\- There may no need for radio resource allocation in the target eNB, since
the evolved ProSe Remote UE connects to the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay
UE;
\- The admission control performed in target eNB is different from the normal
Uu handover. Admission control may be performed based on the Relay\'s QoS
status, e.g. checking whether the Relay still has bandwidth to support the
Uu\'s required QoS.
Figure 5.1.2.5.3-1: Call flow for inter-eNB Uu to PC5 switch
Small updates to current handover procedure may be needed, e.g. indicating
that the UE is changing to PC5 in target eNB, including the information for
the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
_Note: Further progress in RAN2 is needed in order to add further details._
The impact to S1AP procedure is similar to the intra-eNB case.
**Solution 2a-2**
_Note: this solution only applies to the case in which PC5 is used between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE._
This solution focus on Scenario 2a in Figure 5.1.2.5.1-2: The UE switch from
Uu to PC5 for inter eNB case.
In this scenario, the evolved remote UE communicates directly with the eNB via
Uu interface, and then switches to the evolved relay UE served by a cell
belonging to another eNB which is different from the previous serving cell of
the evolved remote UE.
Figure 5.1.2.5.3-2 illustrates an example signalling procedure for this
scenario.
Figure 5.1.2.5.3-2: Path switch from cellular link to relay link in different
cells
1\. The evolved ProSe Remote UE performs relay discovery procedure and selects
a suitable evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
2\. The evolved ProSe Remote UE reports to the serving eNB with the
information of selected evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE, e.g. via
measurement report message.
3\. The serving eNB of the evolved ProSe Remote UE (i.e. source eNB) decides
to switch the evolved ProSe Remote UE from cellular link to relay link via the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE. The source eNB initiates HO request to
the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE\'s serving eNB (i.e. the target eNB
for the evolved ProSe Remote UE).
4\. The target eNB responses the HO response message.
5\. The source eNB delivers the handover command information to the evolved
ProSe Remote UE via the RRC connection reconfiguration message which includes
mobilitycontrolinfo.
6\. The evolved ProSe Remote UE establishes PC5 connection with the evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
7\. The target eNB sends RRCconnectionreconfiguration message to evolved ProSe
UE-to-Network Relay UE.
8\. The source eNB sends SN Status Transfer to the target eNB.
9\. The evolved ProSe Remote UE connects to target eNB via evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay UE. (The detail is to be decided by RAN2)
10\. The target eNB sends a PATH SWITCH REQUEST message to MME to inform that
the UE has changed cell. The path switch request procedure may also update the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE relationship
in the MME.
11\. The MME confirms the path switch message with the Path Switch Request
Acknowledge message.
**RAN3 impact:** \- Source eNB to provide the evolved ProSe Remote UE and
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE relationship towards to target eNB;
\- eNB to provide and update the evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-
to-Network Relay UE relationship towards the MME;
\- Introduce evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
relationship in S1AP: PATH SWITCH REQUEST message.
> _Note: including the \"evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-
> Network Relay UE relationship\"in PATH SWITCH REQUEST message is FFS. It
> only applies to the case that the MME needs to be aware of the relationship
> of eRemote and eRelay._
>
> _Note: including the authorization information of evolved ProSe Remote UE in
> PATH SWITCH REQUEST ACKNOWLEDGE is FFS, which is pending to SA2 discussion._
**Solution 2b-1**
_Note: this solution only applies to the case in which PC5 is used between the
evolved ProSe Remote UE and evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE._
This solution focus on Scenario 2b in Figure 5.1.2.5.1-2: The UE switch from
PC5 to Uu for inter eNB case.
The scenario can also reuse current handover procedure. A possible call flow
is shown as below:
Figure 5.1.2.5.3-3: Call flow for inter-eNB PC5 to Uu switch
The impact to S1AP procedure is similar to the intra-eNB case.
#### 5.1.2.6 Access control
Access control check is performed at evolved ProSe Remote UE using the
parameters of the cell it intends to access (e.g. via the evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE). The evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE does not perform
access control check for the evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s data.
## 5.2 LTE sidelink enhancements
_Editor notes: Including necessary enhancements for enabling QoS, more
efficient, reliable, and/or low complexity/cost & low energy sidelink._
### 5.2.1 General considerations on sidelink enhancements
**On bandwidth capabilities of evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and
evolved ProSe Remote UEs:**
\- Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE _s support all DL/UL/SL system
bandwidth capabilities (i.e. system BW from 1.4MHz and above is supported);_
\- _BW limitations are supported for evolved ProSe Remote UEs;_
\- RAN1 focuses on UEs that can transmit and receive in at least 6 PRBs at the
upcoming meetings (till RAN1#89);
\- RAN1 can study whether 1 PRB BW limitation can be supported by reusing
solutions similar to the ones defined for 6 PRB case at least for physical
layer design.
**On UEs with 1 PRB bandwidth:**
For Remote UEs with 1 PRB bandwidth limitation new SLSS/PSBCH format is needed
\- PSBCH/SLSS bandwidth is one PRB _;_
\- New PSBCH format includes the legacy PSBCH content _._
NOTE: for UEs w/o sidelink reception capabilities new SLSS/PSBCH format is not
needed
The following is assumed for further design of sidelink communication,
synchronization, and discovery for 1 PRB bandwidth limited UEs
\- SC-FDMA waveform can be used for sidelink transmission and reception;
\- RAN1 discussed the possibility of reducing UE implementation complexity by
using OFDM waveform but sufficient study was not conducted on this aspect.
\- TBCC can be used as a channel coding scheme for all sidelink physical
channels;
\- Support of sub-PRB and 3.75 kHz subcarrier spacing sidelink
transmission/reception is deprioritized.
For Remote UEs with 1 PRB bandwidth limitation new PSDCH format is needed
The following discovery design options are identified for UEs with 1 PRB BW
limitation
\- Option 1: Define 1 PRB / 1 TTI physical structure and reduce payload size;
\- Option 2: Define 1 PRB / 2 TTIs physical structure and keep the same
payload size;
\- Option 3: Define 1 PRB / 1 TTI physical structure and increase modulation
order (e.g. to 16-QAM);
\- Other options are not precluded.
Specific design options can be down-selected in the normative phase
At least the following sidelink enhancements for UEs with 6 PRB bandwidth
limitation can be applicable for UEs with 1 PRB bandwidth limitations;
\- eNB controlled and Relay UE assisted resource allocation modes;
\- Sidelink SPS;
\- Sidelink power control;
\- Sidelink feedback;
\- Sidelink measurements.
At least the following additional work is needed to support 1 PRB UEs
\- Additional consideration on PSCCH/PSSCH resource pool configuration;
\- Restriction of TBS size and/or TTI bundling aspects for sidelink
communication;
\- Sidelink measurement accuracy.
**_On evolved ProSe Remote UE Types:_**
\- Two types of evolved ProSe Remote UEs are considered;
\- Type 1 -- UEs that have DL and SL reception capabilities;
\- Type 2 -- UEs that do not have SL reception capabilities.
\- Low complexity evolved ProSe Remote UEs can have single RX chain;
\- In unidirectional relaying case, the chain can be fixed to DL or FFS
switched to SL for discovery;
\- In bidirectional relaying case, the receiver chain may be switched between
DL and SL for discovery and communication.
Discontinuous reception (DRX) is studied for PC5. DRX on PC5 should be
supported for the _evolved ProSe Remote UE_ in L2 relaying for all RRC states.
DRX on PC5 can be supported for the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE for
all RRC states. For the evolved ProSe Remote UE in RRC connected state and the
_evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE_ in RRC connected state, as the general
PC5 DRX procedure for L2 relaying, eNB configures the PC5 DRX configuration to
the evolved ProSe Remote UE via the _evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE_.
After receiving PC5 DRX configuration forwarded by the _evolved ProSe UE-to-
Network Relay UE_ , the evolved ProSe Remote UE performs DRX on PC5 to receive
data or signaling from the eNB.
Editor\'s Note: Details of PC5 DRX configuration are FFS (e.g. if explicit DRX
configuration or configuration based on pool configuration). The details for
IDLE mode depends on paging mechanism/option chosen.
RLC AM is supported for PC5 in this study. Enhancement to the existing RLC AM
is not considered in this study.
**_On semi-persistent transmission:_**
Semi-persistent transmission (e.g. similar to SPS) over sidelink is considered
useful.
_Sidelink SPS is studied in RAN1, and following enhancements are considered:_
\- _eNB schedules sidelink SPS via evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE
forwarding for the evolved ProSe Remote UE linked with the relay UE_ ;
\- eNB schedules sidelink SPS for the evolved ProSe Remote UE linked with the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE;
\- _Relay UE schedules sidelink SPS for the evolved ProSe Remote UE linked
with the_ evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE _._
Multiple SPS _configurations_ can be configured for sidelink operation of
Remote and Relay UE.
In eNB _controlled_ _resource_ allocation mode
\- eNB can configure and activate/deactivate sidelink SPS via Relay UE
forwarding for the Remote UE linked with the Relay UE;
\- eNB can use DL control signaling to configure and activate/deactivate
sidelink SPS for the Remote UE linked with the relay UE.
### 5.2.2 Synchronization aspects
_In-coverage Relay UE can serve as a synchronization source for in-coverage
evolved ProSe Remote UE._
\- For sidelink communication in FeD2D, _evolved ProSe Remote UE_ does not
transmit SLSS/PSBCH;
\- FFS for the case when evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and _evolved
ProSe Remote UE_ s use different asynchronous reference cells.
\- FFS on evolved ProSe Remote UE\'s SLSS/PSBCH transmission for sidelink
discovery in FeD2D;
\- SLSS/PSBCH format in Rel-12/13 can be reused for FeD2D at least for 6 PRB
bandwidth limited UEs;
\- FFS for 1 PRB BW limited UEs.
### 5.2.3 Discovery aspects
**On discovery enhancements:**
The following discovery design enhancements are further studied:
\- Multi-shot _discovery_ _transmission_ across bandwidth of discovery pool(s)
for evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE;
\- eNB assistance _signaling_ to allow/_improve_ evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE discovery;
\- Association of _discovery_ _transmission_ and reception resources;
\- Narrowband definition _for_ discovery _operation_ including 1 PRB and 6 PRB
narrowband;
\- _FFS whether discovery enhancements can be discovery model specific._
Other design options are not precluded.
RAN1 observes that it is beneficial for the radio-layer to have information
about location of resources used for discovery transmission and reception,
e.g. to enable the following features
\- Multiple transmissions of the same UE-to-NW Relay discovery message on
different frequency resources;
\- For Model B discovery sidelink discovery resource(s) for solicitation
is/are associated with sidelink discovery resource(s) for response;
\- FFS whether association is predefined by specification or signaled by Relay
UE.
\- Further discussion is needed whether these enhancements and information
about resource locations are defined at radio-layers or higher layers.
When discovery solicitation is sent by Remote UE, eNB can provide additional
signaling to assist in UE-to-NW Relay discovery. In this case Relay UE is not
expected to send discovery response message on sidelink
**_On discovery enhancements to aid communication establishment:_**
For bandwidth limited _evolved ProSe Remote UE_ s, discovery enhancements to
aid communication establishment for UE-to-NW relaying are _beneficial._ The
following enhancements are further studied:
\- eNB assistance signaling;
\- Association of discovery and communication resources.
Other design options are not precluded.
RAN1 observes that it is beneficial for the radio-layer to have information
about location of resources used for communication transmission and reception,
e.g. to enable the following features
\- Sidelink discovery resources are associated with sidelink communication
resources;
\- Further discussion is needed whether these enhancements and information
about resource locations are defined at radio-layers or higher layers.
### 5.2.4 Communication and UE-to-NW relaying aspects
**On resource allocation enhancements**
The following enhancements for sidelink unicast communication are studied:
\- _eNB controlled resource allocation and configuration for communication
between_ evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE _and evolved ProSe Remote UE_ ;
\- eNB decision on resource allocation is relayed to _evolved ProSe Remote UE_
by evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE.
\- Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE _assisted resource allocation and
configuration under eNB control;_
\- _Evolved ProSe Remote UE assisted resource allocation._
_eNB can schedule sidelink transmission resource for evolved ProSe Remote UE
and_ evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE _transmission by sending sidelink
grant._
\- _Relay UE can forward sidelink grant generated by eNB to evolved ProSe
Remote UE._
RAN1 identified that in case of Relay UE forwarding the following needs to be
addressed. The solutions can be discussed in normative phase.
\- How eNB can indicate and control transmission time of Remote UE via Relay
UE forwarding;
\- Remote UE identification.
Relay UE can control sidelink radio-resources used for transmission and
reception by evolved ProSe Remote UEs within sidelink resource pools which are
configured by eNB.
\- _FFS control signaling details._
For Relay UE assisted resource allocation the following control signaling
options are considered
\- _SCI;_
\- _Higher layer signaling (e.g. MAC CE)._
In case of evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE assisted resource allocation,
two mechanisms to determine transmission parameters (MCS, TX power, number of
TTIs, frequency sub-channel, etc.) of evolved ProSe Remote UE are considered.
\- Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE _may constrain evolved ProSe Remote UE
resource pool;_
\- _FFS if sidelink grant can be generated by Relay UE or evolved ProSe Remote
UE or both options are supported._
In Relay UE assisted resource allocation mode
\- Relay UE can use higher layer signaling to configure Remote UE to monitor
subset of sidelink communication resources within sidelink resource pools;
\- FFS conditions to enable this operation;
\- FFS if additional mechanism beside sidelink DRX are necessary.
\- Relay UE can use higher layer signaling to configure sidelink transmission
resources of Remote UEs within sidelink resource pools configured by eNB;
\- In this case Remote UE is expected to autonomously select resource for
transmission within restricted resources;
\- FFS control signaling details (pools, set of resources within pools, SPS
configuration, etc.).
**On sidelink resource configuration enhancements**
\- _Three sidelink resource configuration options are further analysed;_
\- TDM between PSCCH / PSSCH from UE and system perspective (Similar to R12);
\- FDM between PSCCH / PSSCH from UE and system perspective (Similar to R14);
\- FDM between PSCCH / PSSCH from system perspective but TDM from UE
perspective.
At least TDM multiplexing between PSCCH and PSSCH is supported from both the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and _evolved ProSe Remote UE_
transmission perspective.
RAN1 made the following working assumption on resource pool configuration
\- FDM between PSCCH / PSSCH pools from system perspective is supported;
\- FDM between PSCCH / PSSCH pools from single UE perspective is supported;
\- FFS for 1 PRB UE.
\- The LTE R14 PSCCH/PSSCH resource pool configuration is used as a baseline
for sidelink resource pool configuration, not precluding additional
enhancements;
\- FFS if PSCCH and PSSCH pools can overlap (e.g. for 1 PRB UEs).
**On sidelink feedback enhancements**
\- _No new sidelink physical channel to be introduced solely to provide
feedback;_
\- _Piggyback in existing channels is not precluded._
\- _Study the following feedback information to be exchanged between the
receiving and transmitting UEs for sidelink link adaptation;_
\- Decoding status, taking into account the impacts on complexity and _evolved
ProSe Remote UE_ power consumption;
\- Adaptation of MCS, number of (re)transmissions and resource for
transmission;
\- FFS on sidelink CSI feedback.
\- SL measurements e.g. SL-RSSI/RSRP/RSRQ. FFS on details.
\- _Time-frequency resource specific SL-RSSI measurement/report are supported
in FeD2D._
**On sidelink power control**
\- Sidelink power control taking into account propagation characteristics
between evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and _evolved ProSe Remote UE_ is
further studied;
\- Propagation characteristics can include sidelink pathloss, received signal
quality, interference level etc;
\- FFS details of sidelink power control operation.
\- Companies are encouraged to quantify gains of sidelink power control
enhancements and provide more evaluation for the next meeting relative to R12
power control operation;
\- _For sidelink power control for FeD2D, unless instructed by TPC command
from the eNB, the UE transmits at a power no larger than the calculated power
based on open loop power control between the UE and the eNB as described in
Section 14.1.1.5 of TS 36.213;_
\- Maximum _power_ of sidelink transmission, and open loop power control
parameters (P0, alpha) are configured by eNB;
\- For out of coverage operation power control parameters (P0, alpha = 0) can
be pre-configured;
\- FFS if UE is _not_ required to monitor DL.
\- UE can set transmit power below the upper limit based on UE-UE channel
propagation conditions;
\- FFS details and specification impact (e.g. whether the power setting can be
up to UE implementation or mandated by specification).
**On evolved UE-to-NW relaying modes**
Continue analysis of unidirectional UL and bidirectional relaying modes and
identify commonality from physical layer perspective.
Table 5.2.4-1: below provides comparative analysis of unidirectional and
bidirectional relaying from RAN1 perspective.
_Table 5.2.4-1: Comparative analysis of bidirectional and unidirectional
relaying approaches._
* * *
Design Aspects Bidirectional Relaying Unidirectional Relaying  
Synchronization _evolved ProSe Remote UE_ coverage In-coverage and partial
coverage scenarios. In-coverage and DL only coverage scenarios Sync Source eNB
or Relay UE transmitting SLSS eNB Discovery procedure PSDCH based evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE discovery enhancements The enhancements are
beneficial and can be considered The enhancements are required **Relaying
operation** DL-SCH reception From evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE From
eNB without relaying UL-SCH transmission Through evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE Through evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE Resource management
Whether eNB can control Remote UE TX/RX resources Yes Yes Whether evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE can control _evolved ProSe Remote UE_ TX/RX
resources Yes No Whether _evolved ProSe Remote UE_ can use autonomous resource
allocation mode Yes Yes ACK/NACK feedback From evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE perspective, whether legacy HARQ operation can be reused for DL and
UL transmission with potential enhancements for DL transmission Yes Yes From
_evolved ProSe Remote UE_ perspective For UL transmission, either legacy
principle is reused or relaying of feedback can be used For UL transmission,
only Legacy principle of operation can be reused For DL transmission either
legacy principle is reused or relaying of feedback can be used For DL
transmission either legacy principle is reused or relaying of feedback can be
used **Measurements** Whether evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE can perform
sidelink measurements (e.g. PC5 RSRP/RSSI) Yes Yes Whether _evolved ProSe
Remote UE_ can perform sidelink measurements (e.g. PC5 RSRP/RSSI) Yes No
Sidelink Power Control -- Bidirectional sidelink power control is possible w/o
tight eNB involvement, i.e. sidelink power control can be done at both the
evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and _evolved ProSe Remote UE_ side.
_evolved ProSe Remote UE_ sidelink power control can be done through
additional eNB signaling. DL CSI Feedback From evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE perspective Legacy principle can be reused Legacy principle can be
reused From _evolved ProSe Remote UE_ perspective In DL relaying scenario the
DL CSI feedback may not be necessary DL CSI either needs to be relayed or
transmitted directly to eNB or omitted
* * *
Study further whether and how to limit collisions of SL TX/RX and UL TX.
Study further whether and how to limit collisions of DL RX and SL RX for
Remote UE.
_To avoid collisions of SL_ RX _and DL RX from the perspective of remote UE,_
\- Legacy DRX procedures can be reused;
\- FFS if any enhancements are needed.
_RAN1 consider_ that _it is beneficial for Relay UE to be aware about Remote
UE sidelink DRX cycle._
_From the Relay_ UE _perspective, simultaneous transmission of UL and SL is
not supported on the same carrier._
### 5.2.5 Summary on LTE sidelink enhancements
RAN1 identified a set of physical layer sidelink enhancements targeting IoT
and Wearable use cases (sections 5.2.1-5.2.4). The following enhancements of
sidelink synchronization, discovery and communication frameworks are
considered as beneficial to provide more efficient, reliable, and/or low
complexity/cost & low energy sidelink operation.
\- Synchronization (section 5.2.2);
\- Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE serving as a synchronization source
for in-coverage evolved ProSe Remote UE.
\- Discovery (section 5.2.3);
\- Sidelink discovery design enhancements to support more efficient discovery
and communication/connection establishment with evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE by bandwidth limited evolved ProSe Remote UEs.
\- Communication (section 5.2.4);
\- Enabling sidelink communication for bandwidth limited low complexity
evolved ProSe UEs;
\- Sidelink power control enhancements;
\- Sidelink semi-persistent transmissions/scheduling;
\- Evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE assisted resource allocation and eNB
controlled resource allocation modes and sidelink resource allocation modes;
\- Sidelink measurements and reporting / feedback.
The down selection of specific solutions to support identified enhancements
are described in sections 5.2.1-5.2.4 and can be further discussed and down-
selected in the normative WI phase.
# 6 Evaluation results
_Editor notes: Detailed evaluation assumptions are placed in Annex A._
The evaluation results were provided by four sources as follows:
\- Source 1 from [6]-[8];
\- Source 2 from [10];
\- Source 3 from [11]-[12];
\- Source 4 from [9].
## 6.1 Common Evaluation Assumptions
The following common evaluation assumptions for two scenarios are used
captured in Table 6.1-1.
Table 6.1-1: Common evaluation assumption for discovery and communication
* * *
Scenario 1 Scenario 2
Traffic model VoIP FTP Model 2 with 10 kB packet size, 5 seconds mean reading
time\ \ Optional:\ FTP Model 3, 7 packets per second per cell, Truncated
Pareto distributed packet size with minimum 20 byte and maximum 200 byte,
shape parameter 2.5
UE TX maximum power 23 dBm 23 dBm
Remote UE bandwidth 6 PRB 6 PRB
Number of relay UEs per cell 10 20 and 40
Number of remote UEs 2 and 8 per relay UE 70 per cell
In-band or out of band relaying In-band In-band
Traffic direction (for communication) DL and UL DL and UL
Discovery period 320 ms
* * *
## 6.2 Discovery Analysis
This clause summarizes the evaluation results of potential discovery
enhancements to support UE-to-NW Relay discovery by bandwidth limited low
complexity UEs. The results are presented for the two agreed deployment
scenarios: Scenario 1 (wearable centric) and Scenario 2 (IoT centric).
For discovery, the following performance metrics are used:
\- Mean time to discover target Relay measured in [ms];
\- Mean energy spent to discover target Relay measured in [unit];
\- Number of discovered Relay UEs depending on discovery period index.
### 6.2.1 Scenario 1 -- Wearable Centric
For wearable Scenario 1, the evaluation assumptions are collected first in
Table 6.2-1 and Table 6.2-2.
Table 6.2-1: Evaluation assumption for baseline discovery performance
* * *
Source 1 Source 2 Source 3
PSDCH resource pool configuration 48 PRB, 8 subframes 48 PRB, 8 subframes 48
PRB, 8 subframes
PSDCH number of TTIs 2 2 2
PSDCH number of RBs 2 2 2
PSDCH time-frequency pattern / hopping Rel.12 half-band hopping NA no hopping
Sidelink power control max power max power max power
Discovery Model assumption Model-B Model-A Model-B
Discovery Type Type 1 Type 1 Type 1
Resource allocation details Rel.12 random selection within 48 bandwidth One
shot transmission.\ Rel.12 random selection within 48 bandwidth Rel.12 random
selection within 48 bandwidth.
Decoding capability 1 decoding per 2 PRB resource 6PRB in one subframe 1
decoding per 2 PRB resource
Other assumptions Ideal solicitation reception Remote UEs randomly select
monitoring sub-channel
* * *
Table 6.2-2: Evaluation assumption for enhanced discovery performance
* * *
Source 1 Source 2 Source 3 PSDCH resource pool configuration 48 PRB, 8
subframes 48 PRB, 8 subframes 48 PRB, 8 subframes PSDCH number of TTIs 2 4 2
PSDCH number of RBs 2 2 2 PSDCH time-frequency pattern / hopping Rel.12 half-
band hopping NA no hopping Sidelink power control max power max power max
power Discovery Model assumption Model-B Model-A Model-B Discovery Type Type 1
Type 1 Type 1 Resource allocation details Response is sent in the sub-band
where the solicitation was received 4 multi-shot transmission. Random resource
selection within selected 4 sub-channel. Response is sent in the sub-band
where the solicitation was received Decoding capability 1 decoding per 2 PRB
resource 6PRB in one subframe 1 decoding per 2 PRB resource Other assumptions
Ideal solicitation reception Remote UEs randomly select monitoring sub-channel
* * *
The evaluation results based on the above assumptions are presented in tables
in figured below. In particular, the number of discovered UEs depending on
discovery period index for the two considered Remote UE densities is shown in
Figure 6.2-1.
* * *
{width="3.3993055555555554in" height="2.6625in"} {width="3.158333333333333in"
height="2.654166666666667in"}
* * *
Figure 6.2-1: Number of discovered UEs depending on discovery period index for
Scenario 1
The time to discover a relay and the corresponding energy consumption is
presented in Table 6.2-3 and Table 6.2-4.
Table 6.2-3: Mean time to discover and mean energy to discover target relay in
Scenario 1 with M = 2
* * *
                                                     Baseline   Enhanced                                             
                                                     Source 1   Source 2   Source 3   Source 1       Source 2        Source 3
Mean time to discover target Relay, ms 2120.73 1997.25 1469.00 327.2 (548%)
372.58 (436%) 118.19 (1142%) Mean energy spent to discover target Relay, unit
21.18 22.58 20.81 3.257 (550%) 5.64 (300%) 3.48 (497%)
* * *
Table 6.2-4: Mean time to discover and mean energy to discover target relay in
Scenario 1 with M = 8
* * *
                                                     Baseline   Enhanced                                             
                                                     Source 1   Source 2   Source 3   Source 1       Source 2        Source 3
Mean time to discover target Relay, ms 2120.73 2125.02 - 327.2 (548%) 391.25
(443%) - Mean energy spent to discover target Relay, unit 21.18 25.21 - 3.257
(550%) 318%) -
* * *
### 6.2.2 Scenario 2 -- IoT Centric
For IoT centric Scenario 1, the evaluation assumptions are collected first in
Table 6.2-5 and Table 6.2-6.
Table 6.2-5: Evaluation assumption for baseline discovery performance
* * *
Source 1 Source 3 PSDCH resource pool configuration 48 PRB, 8 subframes 48
PRB, 8 subframes PSDCH number of TTIs 2 2 PSDCH number of RBs 2 2 PSDCH time-
frequency pattern / hopping Rel.12 half-band hopping no hopping Sidelink power
control max power max power Discovery Model assumption Model-B Model-B
Discovery Type Type 1 Type 1 Resource allocation details Rel.12 random
selection within 48 bandwidth Rel.12 random selection within 48 bandwidth
Decoding capability 1 decoding per 2 PRB resource 1 decoding per 2 PRB
resource Other assumptions Ideal solicitation reception
* * *
Table 6.2-6: Evaluation assumption for enhanced discovery performance.
* * *
Source 1 Source 3 PSDCH resource pool configuration 48 PRB, 8 subframes 48
PRB, 8 subframes PSDCH number of TTIs 2 2 PSDCH number of RBs 2 2 PSDCH time-
frequency pattern / hopping Rel.12 half-band hopping no hopping Sidelink power
control max power max power Discovery Model assumption Model-B Model-B
Discovery Type Type 1 Type 1 Resource allocation details Response is sent in
the sub-band where the solicitation was received Response is sent in the sub-
band where the solicitation was received Decoding capability 1 decoding per 2
PRB resource 1 decoding per 2 PRB resource Other assumptions Ideal
solicitation reception
* * *
The evaluation results based on the above assumptions are presented in tables
in figured below. In particular, the number of discovered UEs depending on
discovery period index is shown in Figure 6.2-2.
* * *
{width="3.238888888888889in" height="2.6958333333333333in"}
{width="3.248611111111111in" height="2.6958333333333333in"}
* * *
Figure 6.2-2: Number of discovered UEs depending on discovery period index for
Scenario 2
The time to discover a relay and the corresponding energy consumption for the
two considered Relay UE densities is presented in Table 6.2-7 and Table 6.2-8.
Table 6.2-7: Mean time to discover and mean energy to discover target relay in
Scenario 2 with N = 20
* * *
                                                     Baseline   Enhanced                 
                                                     Source 1   Source 3   Source 1      Source 3
Mean time to discover target Relay, ms 2133 1514 344 (520%) 532 (184%) Mean
energy spent to discover target Relay, unit 21.31 16.8 3.42 (523%) 4.8 (250%)
* * *
Table 6.2-8: Mean time to discover and mean energy to discover target relay in
Scenario 2 with N = 40
* * *
                                                     Baseline   Enhanced                   
                                                     Source 1   Source 3   Source 1        Source 3
Mean time to discover target Relay, ms 2115.72 1213.74 335.88 (530%) 225.77
(438%) Mean energy spent to discover target Relay, unit 21.14 12 3.342 (533%)
(246%)
* * *
### 6.2.3 Observations on Discovery Evaluations
Based on discovery evaluation results provided by three sources, the following
observations are made:
\- For scenario 1, if Model A is enhanced with multi-shot discovery message
transmission across Relay UE bandwidth, substantial gains (\~443%) in time to
discover and mean energy to discover the target relay are observed comparing
to the legacy behaviour. Moreover, the number of discovered candidate Relay
UEs with times increases;
\- For both scenarios, if Model B is enhanced with association of solicitation
and response resources, substantial gains (184-1142%) in time to discover and
mean energy to discover the target relay are observed comparing to the legacy
behaviour. Moreover, the number of discovered candidate Relay UEs with times
increases.
## 6.3 Communication Analysis
This clause summarizes the evaluation results of potential enhancements to
support UE-to-NW Relaying and sidelink communication by bandwidth limited low
complexity UEs. The results are presented for the two agreed deployment
scenarios: Scenario 1 (wearable centric) and Scenario 2 (IoT centric).
### 6.3.1 Scenario 1 -- Wearable Centric
For wearable Scenario 1, the evaluation assumptions are collected first in
Table 6.3-1 and Table 6.3-2.
Table 6.3-1: Evaluation assumption for baseline sidelink communication
performance for Scenario 1
* * *
Source 1 Source 2 Source 3 Sidelink parameters  
PSCCH resource pool configuration 4 subframes, 50 PRB, PSCCH period 40 ms 4
subframes, 48 PRB 8 subframes, 40 PRB, PSCCH period 40 ms PSCCH number of TTIs
2 2 2 PSCCH number of RBs 1 2 1 PSSCH resource pool configuration 36 subrames,
50 PRB 36 subrames, 50 PRB 32 subrames, 40 PRB PSCCH time-frequency pattern /
hopping Rel.12 Not applied Rel.12 PSSCH number of TTIs 4 4 2 PSSCH number of
RBs 6 6 2 PSSCH time-frequency pattern Enabled Disabled Random PSSCH MCS 3
Fixed MCS 3 6 Sidelink power control Alpha 1, P0 = -105, eNB-UE pathloss
compensation Based on Uu link PL, P0=-90dBm, α=1 Alpha 1, P0 = -90, eNB-UE
pathloss compensation, Pmax = 0dBm Resource allocation mode and details Rel.12
Mode-2 Resource allocation mode: 1 Rel.12 Mode-2 Decoding status feedback
assumption No No feedback assumption No Other assumptions PSCCH is not
modelled only taken as an overhead PSCCH is not modelled PSCCH is not modelled
only taken as an overhead Downlink parameters  
Relay UE MIMO mode and antenna configuration 1 TX, 2 RX, Closed Loop Spatial
Multiplexing NA  
Other assumptions Ideal DL is assumed  
Uplink parameters  
UL power control parameters for Remote UE Alpha 1, P0 = -100 NA  
UL power control parameters for Relay UE Alpha 1, P0 = -100 NA  
Other assumptions Ideal UL is assumed
* * *
Table 6.3-2: Evaluation assumption for enhanced sidelink communication
performance for Scenario 1
* * *
Source 1 Source 2 Source 3 Sidelink parameters  
PSCCH resource pool configuration 4 subframes, 50 PRB, PSCCH period 40 ms 4
subframes, 48 PRB 8 subframes, 40 PRB, PSCCH period 40 ms PSCCH number of TTIs
2 2 2 PSCCH number of RBs 1 2 1 PSSCH resource pool configuration 36 subrames,
50 PRB 36 subrames, 50 PRB 32 subrames, 40 PRB PSCCH time-frequency pattern /
hopping Rel.12 Not applied Rel.12 PSSCH number of TTIs 1-4 1-4 2 PSSCH number
of RBs 6 6 2 PSSCH time-frequency pattern Enabled Disabled Random PSSCH MCS
Adaptive Adaptive 6 Sidelink power control Alpha 1, P0 = -105, UE-UE pathloss
compensation Based on sidelink PL, P0=-90dBm, α=1 Alpha 1, P0 = -95, UE-UE
pathloss compensation Resource allocation mode and details Relay UE-controlled
orthogonal resource assignment Relay assisted resource allocation Relay UE
assisted resource allocation Decoding status feedback assumption RLC AM status
reporting RLC AM No Other assumptions PSCCH is not modelled only taken as an
overhead PSCCH is not modelled PSCCH is not modelled only taken as an overhead
Downlink parameters  
Relay UE MIMO mode and antenna configuration 1 TX, 2 RX, Closed Loop Spatial
Multiplexing NA  
Other assumptions Ideal DL is assumed  
Uplink parameters  
UL power control parameters for Remote UE Alpha 1, P0 = -100 NA  
UL power control parameters for Relay UE Alpha 1, P0 = -100 NA  
Other assumptions Ideal UL is assumed
* * *
#### 6.3.1.1 DL Direction, M = 2
The energy savings for Scenario 1 for DL and M = 2 are presented in Figure
6.3-1. The average energy efficiency and percentage of successful packets and
links are shown in Table 6.3-3.
{width="4.723611111111111in" height="2.75625in"}
Figure 6.3-1: DL energy efficiency CDF for Scenario 1, M = 2
Table 6.3-3: Percentage of successful packets, successful VoIP links, an
average energy efficiency for Scenario 1, M = 2, DL
* * *
                                                                                           **Baseline**   **Enhanced**                                              
                                                                                           Source 1       Source 2       Source 3   Source 1        Source 2        Source 3
Percentage of successful packets 99.8 92.24 98.57 100 (0.2%) 95.01 (2.77%)
99.72 (1.15%) Percentage of successful VoIP links 99.4 89.85 66.67 100 (0.6%)
93.57 (3.72%) 96.49 (29.82%) Average energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs
(see the first worksheet for details) 0.0049 0.0025 0.0068 0.0012 (308%)
0.0013 (92%) 0.0067 (1,49%)
* * *
#### 6.3.1.2 UL Direction, M = 2
The energy savings for Scenario 1 for UL and M = 2 are presented in Figure
6.3-2. The average energy efficiency and percentage of successful packets and
links are shown in Table 6.3-4.
{width="4.746527777777778in" height="2.75625in"}
Figure 6.3-2: UL energy efficiency CDF for Scenario 1, M = 2
Table 6.3-4: Percentage of successful packets, successful VoIP links, an
average energy efficiency for Scenario 1, M = 2, UL.
* * *
                                                                                           **Baseline**   **Enhanced**                                              
                                                                                           Source 1       Source 2       Source 3   Source 1        Source 2        Source 3
Percentage of successful packets 96.4 94.83 96 97.6 (1.2%) 97.02 (2.19%) 99.96
(3.96%) Percentage of successful VoIP links 90.24 90.24 21.32 93.45 (3.21%)
96.43 (6.19%) 99.39 (78.07%) Average energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs
(see the first worksheet for details) 0.015 0.0182 0.0064 0.0015 (900%) 0.0017
(972%) 0.0061 (4.9%)
* * *
#### 6.3.1.3 DL Direction, M = 8
The energy savings for Scenario 1 for DL and M = 8 are presented in Figure
6.3-3. The average energy efficiency and percentage of successful packets and
links are shown in Table 6.3-5.
{width="4.746527777777778in" height="2.75625in"}
Figure 6.3-3: DL energy efficiency CDF for Scenario 1, M = 8
Table 6.3-5: Percentage of successful packets, successful VoIP links, an
average energy efficiency for Scenario 1, M = 8, DL.
* * *
                                                                                           **Baseline**   **Enhanced**                                              
                                                                                           Source 1       Source 2       Source 3   Source 1        Source 2        Source 3
Percentage of successful packets 99.9 82.76 94.53 100 (0.1%) 88.56 (5.8%)
98.63 (4.1%) Percentage of successful VoIP links 99.76 78.59 32.04 100 (0.24%)
85.24 (6.65%) 79.06 (47.02%) Average energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs
(see the first worksheet for details) 0.0049 0.0028 0.0071 0.0012 (308%)
0.0018 (56%) 0.0068 (4.4%)
* * *
#### 6.3.1.4 UL Direction, M = 8
The energy savings for Scenario 1 for DL and M = 2 are presented in Figure
6.3-4. The average energy efficiency and percentage of successful packets and
links are shown in Table 6.3-6.
{width="4.746527777777778in" height="2.75625in"}
Figure 6.3-4: UL energy efficiency CDF for Scenario 1, M = 8
Table 6.3-6: Percentage of successful packets, successful VoIP links, an
average energy efficiency for Scenario 1, M = 8, UL
* * *
                                                                                           **Baseline**   **Enhanced**                                               
                                                                                           Source 1       Source 2       Source 3   Source 1         Source 2        Source 3
Percentage of successful packets 71.4 85.56 56.91 88.9 (17.5%) 88.56 (3%) 98.7
(41.79%) Percentage of successful VoIP links 50.57 80.81 0 65.03 (14.46%)
85.24 (4.43%) 75.24 (75.24%) Average energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs
(see the first worksheet for details) 0.0151 0.0185 0.011 0.0019 (695%) 0.0018
(928%) 0.0062 (77%)
* * *
### 6.3.2 Scenario 2 -- IoT Centric
For IoT centric Scenario 2, the evaluation assumptions are collected first
Table 6.3-7 and Table 6.3-8.
Table 6.3-7: Evaluation assumption for baseline sidelink communication
performance for Scenario 2
* * *
Source 1 Source 3 Sidelink parameters  
PSCCH resource pool configuration 4 subframes, 50 PRB, PSCCH period 40 ms 8
subframes, PSCCH period 40ms PSCCH number of TTIs 2 2 PSCCH number of RBs 1 1
PSSCH resource pool configuration 36 subrames, 50 PRB 32 subrames, 40 PRB
PSCCH time-frequency pattern / hopping Rel.12 Rel.12 PSSCH number of TTIs 4 2
PSSCH number of RBs 6 2 PSSCH time-frequency pattern Enabled Enabled PSSCH MCS
Fixed 6 Sidelink power control Alpha 1, P0 = -96, eNB-UE pathloss compensation
Alpha 1, P0 = -90, eNB-UE pathloss compensation; Pmax = 23dBm Resource
allocation mode and details Rel.12 Mode-2 Rel.12 Mode-2 Decoding status
feedback assumption No No Other assumptions PSCCH is not modelled only taken
as an overhead PSCCH is not modelled only taken as an overhead Downlink
parameters  
Relay UE MIMO mode and antenna configuration 1 TX, 2 RX, Closed Loop Spatial
Miltiplexing  
Other assumptions  
Uplink parameters  
UL power control parameters for Remote UE Alpha 1, P0 = -100  
UL power control parameters for Relay UE Alpha 1, P0 = -100  
Other assumptions
* * *
Table 6.3-8: Evaluation assumption for enhanced sidelink communication
performance for Scenario 2
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Source 1 | Source 3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sidelink parameters | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PSCCH resource pool | 4 subframes, 50 PRB, | 8 subframes, PSCCH | | configuration | PSCCH period 40 ms | period 40ms | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PSCCH number of TTIs | 2 | 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PSCCH number of RBs | 1 | 1 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PSSCH resource pool | 36 subrames, 50 PRB | 32 subrames, 40 PRB | | configuration | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PSCCH time-frequency | Rel.12 | Rel.12 | | pattern / hopping | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PSSCH number of TTIs | 1-4 | 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PSSCH number of RBs | 6 | 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PSSCH time-frequency | Enabled | Enabled | | pattern | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PSSCH MCS | Adaptive | 6 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Sidelink power | Alpha 1, P0 = -96, | Alpha_dl, P0_dl = | | control | UE-UE pathloss | -90, eNB-UE pathloss | | | compensation | compensation; | | | | | | | | Alpha_sl, P0_sl = | | | | -95, UE-UE pathloss | | | | compensation; Pmax = | | | | 23dBm. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Resource allocation | Relay UE-controlled | Rel.12 Mode-2 | | mode and details | orthogonal resource | | | | assignment | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Decoding status | RLC AM status | No | | feedback assumption | reporting | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Other assumptions | PSCCH is not | PSCCH is not | | | modelled only taken | modelled only taken | | | as an overhead | as an overhead | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Downlink parameters | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Relay UE MIMO mode | 1 TX, 2 RX, Closed | | | and antenna | Loop Spatial | | | configuration | Multiplexing | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Other assumptions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Uplink parameters | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL power control | Alpha 1, P0 = -100 | | | parameters for | | | | Remote UE | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UL power control | Alpha 1, P0 = -100 | | | parameters for Relay | | | | UE | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Other assumptions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
#### 6.3.2.1 DL Direction, N = 20
The energy savings for Scenario 2 for DL and N = 20 are presented in Figure
6.3-5. The average energy efficiency and UE packet throughput are shown in
Table 6.3-9.
{width="4.746527777777778in" height="2.75625in"}
Figure 6.3-5: DL energy efficiency CDF for Scenario 2, N = 20
Table 6.3-9: UE average throughput and average energy efficiency for Scenario
2, N = 20, DL
* * *
                                                     Baseline   Enhanced                    
                                                     Source 1   Source 3    Source 1        Source 3
UE average throughput, Mbps 1.97 0.0037468 2.18 (10.6%) 0.0037459 (-0.02%)
Average energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs 0.00045 0.001995 0.00026
(73%) 0.0020641 (-3.3%)
* * *
#### 6.3.2.2 UL Direction, N = 20
The energy savings for Scenario 2 for UL and N = 20 are presented in Figure
6.3-6. The average energy efficiency and UE packet throughput are shown in
Table 6.3-10.
{width="4.758333333333334in" height="2.75625in"}
Figure 6.3-6: UL energy efficiency CDF for Scenario 2, N = 20
Table 6.3-10: UE average throughput and average energy efficiency for Scenario
2, N = 20, UL
* * *
                                                     Baseline   Enhanced                      
                                                     Source 1   Source 3    Source 1          Source 3
UE average throughput, Mbps 0.81 0.0034845 1.59 (96.3%) 0.0035437 (1.7%)
Average energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs 0.01655 0.0062653 0.00094
(1660%) (15.1%)
* * *
#### 6.3.2.3 DL Direction, N = 40
The energy savings for Scenario 2 for DL and N = 40 are presented in Figure
6.3-7. The average energy efficiency and UE packet throughput are shown in
Table 6.3-11.
{width="4.746527777777778in" height="2.75625in"}
Figure 6.3-7: DL energy efficiency CDF for Scenario 2, N = 40
Table 6.3-11: UE average throughput and average energy efficiency for Scenario
2, N = 40, DL
* * *
                                                     Baseline   Enhanced                       
                                                     Source 1   Source 3    Source 1           Source 3
UE average throughput, Mbps 1.87 0.0047805 2.18 (16.6%) 0.004702 (-1.64%)
Average energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs 0.0005 0.00096 0.00024
(108.3%) (6.67%)
* * *
#### 6.3.2.4 UL Direction, N = 40
The energy savings for Scenario 2 for UL and N = 40 are presented in Figure
6.3-8. The average energy efficiency and UE packet throughput are shown in
Table 6.3-12.
{width="4.746527777777778in" height="2.75625in"}
Figure 6.3-8: UL energy efficiency CDF for Scenario 2, N = 40
Table 6.3-12: UE average throughput and average energy efficiency for Scenario
2, N = 40, UL
* * *
                                                     Baseline   Enhanced                      
                                                     Source 1   Source 3    Source 1          Source 3
UE average throughput, Mbps 0.6 0.0046038 1.5 (150%) 0.0046636 (1.3%) Average
energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs 0.0155 0.00164 0.00053 (2824%)
(10.1%)
* * *
### 6.3.3 Analysis of 1 PRB Bandwidth Limited UEs
In case of 1 PRB bandwidth limited UEs, the evaluation results are provided
for wearable Scenario 1. The evaluation assumptions are captured in Table
6.3-13.
Table 6.3-13: Evaluation assumption for baseline and enhanced sidelink
communication performance for Scenario 1 for 1 PRB bandwidth limited UEs.
* * *
Source 4 - baseline Source 4 - enhanced
Sidelink parameters
PSCCH resource pool configuration N/A 4 subframes, 50 PRB, PSCCH period 40 ms
PSCCH number of TTIs N/A 2
PSCCH number of RBs N/A 1
PSSCH resource pool configuration N/A 36 subrames, 50 PRB
PSCCH time-frequency pattern / hopping N/A Rel.12
PSSCH number of TTIs N/A 1-4
PSSCH number of RBs N/A 1
PSSCH time-frequency pattern N/A Enabled
PSSCH MCS N/A Adaptive
Sidelink power control N/A Alpha 1, P0 = -96, UE-UE pathloss compensation
Resource allocation mode and details N/A Relay UE-controlled orthogonal
resource assignment
Decoding status feedback assumption N/A RLC AM status reporting
Other assumptions N/A PSCCH is not modelled only taken as an overhead
Downlink parameters
Relay UE MIMO mode and antenna configuration 1 TX, 2 RX, Closed Loop Spatial
Multiplexing 1 TX, 2 RX, Closed Loop Spatial Multiplexing
Other assumptions \"Direct communication, 1 PRB UE bandwidth limitation FTP
Model 2, 10 kB packet size, 5 sec packet reading time
Uplink parameters
UL power control parameters for Remote UE Alpha 1, P0 = -100 Alpha 1, P0 =
-100
UL power control parameters for Relay UE N/A Alpha 1, P0 = -100
Other assumptions Direct communication, 1 PRB UE bandwidth limitation\ FTP
Model 2, 10 kB packet size, 5 sec packet reading time FTP Model 2, 10 kB
packet size, 5 sec packet reading time
* * *
The evaluation results with DL and UL energy efficiency for M = 2 and 8 are
shown in Figure 6.3-9. The corresponding average energy efficiency is shown in
Table 6.3-14.
* * *
{width="3.3847222222222224in" height="1.9694444444444446in"}
{width="3.3847222222222224in" height="1.9694444444444446in"}
{width="3.3847222222222224in" height="1.9694444444444446in"}
{width="3.3847222222222224in" height="1.9694444444444446in"}
* * *
Figure 6.3-9: DL and UL energy efficiency CDF for Scenario 1, M = 2 and 8, 1
PRB UEs
Table 6.3-14: DL and UL energy efficiency for M = 2 and 8 for Scenario 1 for 1
PRB bandwidth limited UEs
* * *
                                                        M = 2                 M = 8                                       
                                                        Source 4 - baseline   Source 4 - enhanced   Source 4 - baseline   Source 4 - enhanced
DL average energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs 0.0013 0.00011 (1081%)
0.00193 0.0001 (1830%) UL average energy efficiency per bit for Remote UEs
0.00186 0.0001 (1520%) 0.00227 0.000119 (1807%)
* * *
### 6.3.4 Observations on Sidelink Communication Evaluations
Based on the results provided by four sources, the following observation are
made:
\- Energy efficiency gains are observed in all scenarios.
\- The fraction of successful VoIP links and successful packets increases with
applied enhancements by 1-75% depending on scenario, traffic direction, and
source of the results.
\- It is shown that substantial energy efficiency gains are achieved by
application of enhanced power control in combination with adaptive MCS and
number of retransmissions. In the same time, application of only enhanced
power control without modelling UL as showed by Source 3, provides lower gains
comparing to the combination with link adaptation.
\- In Scenario 2 for FTP traffic model 2, the UE throughput gains are observed
by some sources while almost no gain is observed by other sources. It is
noted, that without gains in UE throughput the energy efficiency improvement
is still observed.
\- In case of 1 PRB bandwidth limited UEs, the same or higher order to energy
efficiency gains is observed comparing to 6 PRB bandwidth limited UEs.
# 7 Conclusions
_Editor notes: Summarize the findings of the study on Further Enhancements to
LTE Device to Device, UE to Network Relays for IoT and Wearables._
Bi-directional Layer 2 evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE is feasible from
RAN2 perspective.
The impact of unidirectional relay was not fully analysed from RAN2
perspective.
DRX enhancements over PC5 is feasible from RAN2 perspective.
As the group handover optimisations are not considered to maintain independent
signalling of the evolved ProSe Remote UE and the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE, it was concluded to not further pursue group handover specification
in the normative phase.
Three path switch/mobility scenarios are listed, and different solutions are
provided for each scenario with the preliminarily identified RAN3 impacts. The
down selection of the solutions, if and how to standardize these solutions may
be discussed in the normative phase. Note that the further work on inter-relay
path change scenario may be undertaken, depending on RAN2 progress.
The associated QoS between the evolved ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE and the
eNB can be applied. QoS on PC5 will be discussed further in the normative
phase.
Based on the system impact, Option 2 is selected as a paging relaying solution
for further work.
The following sidelink enhancements are considered as feasible from RAN1
perspective and can be considered for further normative work:
\- Sidelink support for evolved ProSe UEs with single RX chain, RF bandwidth
limitation (including UEs with 1 and 6 PRB bandwidth limitation), with or
without sidelink reception capabilities. It is noted that from physical layer
perspective more standardization efforts and specification impact are expected
to support evolved ProSe UEs with 1 PRB bandwidth limitation primarily due to
additional work on sidelink synchronization and discovery comparing to 6 PRB
bandwidth limited UEs;
\- Enhancements of sidelink synchronization procedure aiming to enable evolved
ProSe UE-to-Network Relay UE to serve as a synchronization source for evolved
ProSe Remote UE;
\- Enhanced discovery procedure and signalling aiming to improve discovery
performance and communication establishment with evolved ProSe UE-to-Network
Relay UE for bandwidth limited evolved ProSe Remote UEs;
\- Enhancements targeting sidelink unicast communication, including eNB-
controlled and evolved ProSe UE-to-NW Relay UE assisted resource allocation
modes, semi-persistent scheduling, sidelink power control, sidelink
measurements and reporting / feedback for sidelink link adaptation.
###### ### Annex A: Evaluation methodology
# A.1 Evaluation assumptions
## A.1.1 Deployment Scenarios
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameters | Scenario 1 | Scenario 2 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Network layout | Network Layout | Network Layout | | | Option 1 from [3]: | Option 5 from [3] | | | | with ISD = 1732 m | | | Urban macro (500m | | | | ISD) + 1 RRH/Indoor | | | | Hotzone per cell | | | | | | | | Generation of Pico | | | | eNBs in Indoor | | | | Hotzones is disabled | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Carrier frequency | 2 GHz for all links, | 700 MHz for all | | | FDD paired spectrum | links, FDD paired | | | with 10 MHz per UL | spectrum with 10 MHz | | | and DL | per UL and DL | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel model | Apply channel models | Remote UE -- eNB | | | from [3]. | channel model: | | | | | | | For UE-UE channel | Use outdoor LOS path | | | model, when distance | loss for 700 MHz and | | | is below 1 m apply | ISD = 1732 m | | | the pathloss value | deployment option | | | calculated at 1 m | from [3] plus a | | | | building penetration | | | | loss calculated | | | | according to | | | | Scenario 2 from | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | Relay UE -- eNB | | | | channel model: | | | | | | | | Use [3] | | | | assumptions | | | | | | | | Relay UE -- Remote | | | | UE and Remote UE -- | | | | Remote UE and Relay | | | | UE -- Relay UE | | | | | | | | Use the [3] models | | | | where each value of | | | | 20 dB penetration | | | | loss is replaced by | | | | the statistical BPL | | | | value calculated | | | | according to | | | | Scenario 2 from | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | No spatial | | | | correlation of | | | | building penetration | | | | loss for UE -- UE | | | | links. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | eNB parameters | According to network | According to network | | | layout Option 1 from | layout Option 5 from | | | [3] | [3] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Remote UE dropping | The dropping | Independent dropping | | | procedure ensures | of relay, and remote | | | each Relay UE has M | UEs is supported | | | remote UEs in | | | | proximity of | M = 70 per cell. | | | [D1,D2] | Other values can be | | | | modelled optionally | | | D1 and D2 are | | | | defined in distance | Minimum UE-UE | | | range. D1 is the | distance is 3 meters | | | minimum distance | | | | between relay UE and | | | | UE, D2 is maximum | | | | distance | | | | | | | | D1 = 0 m, D2 = 15 m | | | | | | | | M = 1, 2, 8 per | | | | relay UE. M = 4 is | | | | optional | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Relay UE dropping | 10 per cell | 20 per cell are | | | | dropped uniformly | | | | outdoor. 40 Relay | | | | UEs is optional. | | | | Other values are not | | | | precluded | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Remote UE parameters | Number of Antennas: | | | | 1 TX, 1 RX | | | | | | | | Antenna gain: 0 dB | | | | | | | | Noise figure: 9 dB | | | | | | | | Maximum TX power: 0, | | | | 23 dBm | | | | | | | | Duplex: Remote UE | | | | cannot | | | | simultaneously | | | | receive in DL and SL | | | | and receive in DL if | | | | transmits in SL/UL | | | | (Half Duplex UE) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Relay UE parameters | Number of Antennas: | | | | 1 TX, 2 (4 optional) | | | | RX | | | | | | | | Antenna gain: 0 dB | | | | | | | | Noise figure: 9 dB | | | | | | | | Maximum TX power: 23 | | | | dBm | | | | | | | | Duplex: Relay UE can | | | | simultaneously | | | | receive in DL and SL | | | | as well as transmit | | | | in UL/SL while | | | | receive in DL. Note | | | | that this | | | | encompassed both in | | | | band and out of band | | | | relaying | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
## A.1.2 Traffic Models
The following non-full buffer traffic models are applied:
\- For Scenarios 1 and 2, reuse traffic models from [3];
\- VoIP;
\- FTP model 2 with 10 Kbyte mean packet size. Two options are considered:
\- Option 1: Fixed packet size 10Kbyte;
\- Option 2: 10 Kbyte mean packet size. Use Pareto distribution with shape
parameter alpha = 0.5, minimum packet size is 1 Kbyte, maximum packet size is
100 Kbyte.
\- Optionally, for Scenario 2, additionally use the NB-IoT traffic model;
\- Periodic and aperiodic MAR model with Pareto distributed packet size and
mixed packet arrivals as defined in [4], section E.2;
\- Consider to use FTP model 3 with packet arrival rate 7 packets/sec per
cell. This emulates periodic traffic.
## A.1.3 Power Consumption Model
Rel.12 UE power consumption model from [3] is used as a baseline
\- Notations:
\- Idle power = I units per sub-frame;
\- Sleep power = S units per sub-frame;
\- RX power = R units per sub-frame;
\- T -- min TX power consumption component.
\- TX power:
\- T units per sub-frame for X dBm TX power and below;
\- T•k units per sub-frame for maximum power (23 dBm);
\- Linearly scaled with transmit power between T and T•k.
\- Values [I, S, R, X, k, T] are the following:
\- Cat.1+ UE: I = 0.01, S = 0.01, R = 1, X = 0 dBm, k = 4, T = 1 (as specified
in current [3]);
\- Low complexity UEs: I = 0.01, S = 0.01, R = 0.4, X = 0 dBm, k = 8, T = 0.4.
## A.1.4 Transmitter Imperfections Modeling
### A.1.4.1 In-band Emission Model
For all types of UEs except the NB-IoT, use the IBE model from [3] defined for
UE operation bandwidth. For NB-IoT UE, use the IBE mask defined in [5],
section 6.5.2F.3.
### A.1.4.2 Out-of-band Emissions Model
Out-of-band emissions of eMTC and NB-IoT devices operating in-band or in
guard-band with LTE UL system bandwidth are modeled according to [5], sections
6.6.2 and 6.6.2F.
## A.1.5 Performance Metrics
### A.1.5.1 Performance metrics for communication
[Energy efficiency]{.underline}
In addition to the defined in [3] (throughput, packet throughput, system
capacity, power consumption), use energy efficiency:
\- Defined as energy spent to transmit a bit of information measured in [power
units • sec / bit];
\- To be reported for relay UEs and remote UEs separately.
[Average energy efficiency]{.underline}
_UE average energy efficiency calculated as average over energy efficiency of
multiple packets of the UE (see formula below):_
{width="1.2361111111111112in" height="0.6527777777777778in"}
where, P = the power used to transmit the TB; TB = the size of the packet; k =
number of packets, T = duration of packet transmission.
Every simulation needs to provide energy efficiency and/or power consumption
per TTI values.
#