# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item of introduction
of TDD operating band in the L-band for LTE, which was approved at TSG RAN#74.
The objective of this work item is to specify technical requirements for
deploying LTE TDD operation in the L-band.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 30.007: "Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Work item objective
**The objective of this work item is the following:**
\- Study the feasible channelling arrangement(s) of L-band (1427 -- 1518 MHz)
considering the above ITU TDD options and relevant protection requirements of
EESS below 1 427 MHz and MSS above 1518 MHz, considering the results of
relevant ongoing ITU-R studies, including:
\- TDD: 90 MHz (1427 -- 1517 MHz), considering 1 MHz GB with MSS at the upper
edge,
\- Note: the upper edge refinement is based on results of ongoing
compatibility studies with MSS. For example option of 88 MHz (1427 -- 1515
MHz) considers 3 MHz GB with MSS at the upper edge.
\- Specify RF requirements for the feasible plan, band numbering and core
requirements, as necessary.
\- Support of 3, 5, 10, 15 and 20 MHz channel bandwidths
## 4.2 Work item background
At the ITU World Radio communication Conference in 2015 (WRC-15), the
frequency band 1 427-1 518 MHz (hereafter, L-band) was identified for
International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT). In accordance with this outcome
at WRC-15, ITU-R Working Party 5D (WP 5D) initiated to revise Recommendation
ITU-R M.1036 "Frequency arrangements for implementation of the terrestrial
component of International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) in the bands
identified for IMT in the Radio Regulations". For this revision, it has been
proposed to include a new TDD arrangement.
In 3GPP, the Study Item required transmission restrictions of UE and BS to
meet the unwanted emission limit (-- 62dBW/27MHz with UE transmit power of
15dBm; -72dBw/27MHz at the BS antenna connector) for protection of the Earth
Exploration-Satellite Service (EESS) was investigated. Also, MSS protection
has been taking into account, for the BS case and EU case.
According to results of the studies, the implementation of TDD arrangement in
the L-band is a realistic option while achieving the protection of the EESS
and MSS.
# 5 Band plan allocation and regulatory background
## 5.1 Current regulatory background
According to international regulation, WRC-15 and previous WRCs (ITU-R) have
allocated the 1427-1518MHz band to mobile service and the WRC15 has
indentified the 1427-1518MHz band for IMT in a large majority of countries
through the world .
In addition and before the WRC15, CEPT has also allocated a part of the Lband
(1452-1492MHz) to MFCN (Mobile/Fixed Communications Networks) the 03-07-2015.
MFCN bands are designed for commercial use as the LTE or the 5G-NR but not
limited to these standards.
## 5.2 TDD band plan
Based on the work item objective, the possible band plan is:
{width="6.363888888888889in" height="0.8388888888888889in"}
TDD Arrangement (a)
"Up to 18 Blocks of 5 MHz + 1 MHz Block" the final number of blocks will be
based on the results of compatibility studies
{width="6.409027777777778in" height="0.8729166666666667in"}
TDD Arrangement (b)
"1 Block of 3 MHz + and up to 17 Blocks of 5 MHz + 1 Block of 3 MHz" the final
number of blocks will be based on the results of compatibility studies
Figure 5.2-1: Possible frequency band channelization in the 1427-1518MHz band
## 5.3 In-band services
{width="6.542361111111111in" height="2.0305555555555554in"}
Figure 5.3-1: 1427 - 1518 MHz spectrum allocation
There are several allocations in the L Band (1427-1518MHz) and in adjacent
frequency bands:
\- EESS (Earth Exploration Satellite Service / adjacent to the new IMT band),
\- Radio Astronomy (adjacent to the new IMT band),
\- Fixed Service (FS) (in the new IMT band)
\- Aeronautical service (in the new IMT band)
\- Mobile service (in the new IMT band)
\- Terrestrial broadcasting service (in the new IMT band)
\- Satellite broadcasting service (in the new IMT band)
\- Mobile satellite Service (adjacent to the new IMT band),
For all cases \"in IMT band\", the best option is to move to new frequency
band the incumbent services (e.g. for fixed service, CEPT has study the
possibility to move the narrow band fixed service in a new frequency band as
describe in the ECC Report 219), or, to find another technical solution (e.g.
use fiber). If there is no possible to find a solution to the incumbent users,
at national level or between countries, it is necessary to develop some
specific agreements between incumbent users and IMT systems.
Thus, for the cases \"in IMT band\", there is no direct and immediate need to
adapt the standard to the regulation.
For the cases \"adjacent IMT band\", there will be, maybe, the necessity to
adapt the new standard to guaranty the compatibility between IMT and the
incumbent users in adjacent bands. There are 3 incumbent users in adjacent
frequency bands:
\- Below 1427MHz => For EESS the maximum OOB has already been defined during
the last WRC15. Thus, it is necessary to adapt the standardization to these
protections levels,
\- Below 1427MHz => For Radio Astronomy and taking into account the low
deployment of this service, the best way is to have some specific agreements.
The Agreement can be study at national level or if a Radio Astronomy site is
near a borderline, between administrations.
\- Above 1518MHz => For Mobile Satellite Service, CEPT has already study the
compatibility between MFCN for the base station down link (LTE,...) and MSS.
The standard shall comply to the CEPT requests. For the compatibility between
IMT uplink terminal and MSS, this report will propose some compatibility
studies.
Thus, there are two services (EESS & MSS) which shall be studied by 3GPP RAN4
because these two systems will get the protection by the standardization. The
other incumbent services will be protected by relevant regulation framework at
national level or between administrations.
## 5.4 Earth exploration-satellite service (EESS) (passive) compatibility
At the last WRC15, some protection levels have defined for the IMT base
station and for the IMT terminal. The RESOLUTION 750 (REV.WRC-15) provides the
protection levels. In the table 5.4-1 below summaries the different protection
levels for the EESS in the 1400-1427MHz band:
Table 5.4-1: Limits of unwanted emission power in the 1400-1427MHz band from
mobile service in the 1427-1452MHz
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | EESS (passive) | Active service | Active service | Limits of | | band | band | | unwanted | | | | | emission power | | | | | from active | | | | | service | | | | | stations in a | | | | | specified | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | within the | | | | | EESS (passive) | | | | | band (1) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 400-1 427 | 1 427-1 452 | Mobile | −72 dBW in the | | MHz | MHz | | 27 MHz of the | | | | | EESS (passive) | | | | | band for IMT | | | | | base stations\ | | | | | −62 dBW in the | | | | | 27 MHz of the | | | | | EESS (passive) | | | | | band for IMT | | | | | mobile | | | | | stations (2, | | | | | 3) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Note 1: The | | | | | unwanted | | | | | emission power | | | | | level is to be | | | | | understood | | | | | here as the | | | | | level measured | | | | | at the antenna | | | | | port. | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: This | | | | | limit does not | | | | | apply to | | | | | mobile | | | | | stations in | | | | | the IMT | | | | | systems for | | | | | which the | | | | | notification | | | | | information | | | | | has been | | | | | received by | | | | | the | | | | | Radi | | | | | ocommunication | | | | | Bureau by 28 | | | | | November 2015. | | | | | For those | | | | | systems, −60 | | | | | dBW/27 MHz | | | | | applies as the | | | | | recommended | | | | | value. | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: The | | | | | unwanted | | | | | emission power | | | | | level is to be | | | | | understood | | | | | here as the | | | | | level measured | | | | | with the | | | | | mobile station | | | | | transmitting | | | | | at an average | | | | | output power | | | | | of 15 dBm. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
Thus, it is proposed to study the RF requirements to comply to the regulatory
requests.
## 5.5 Mobile Satellite Service compatibility at 1518MHz
The CEPT has already study the protection levels need between IMT and MSS (see
ECC Report 263). The key conclusions about this protection are cited as below:
_"Based on the final results of its compatibility studies, it is concluded
that:_
\- the minimum in-band blocking characteristic for land mobile earth stations
receivers from a 5 MHz broadband signal interferer (LTE) operating below 1518
MHz shall be −30dBm above 1520 MHz** _^1^_** ,
\- the base station unwanted emission limits e.i.r.p. for a broadband signal
interferer (LTE) operating below 1518 MHz shall be −30dBm/MHz above 1520 MHz.
This figure is 10 dB more stringent than ECC Decision (13)03 due to a
different service in the adjacent band.
_It is noted that the IMT block ends at 1517 MHz"_
Based on this request, 3GPP RAN 4 needs to study the feasibility of base
station to comply to the CEPT requests.
# 6 List of band specific issues for introduction of TDD operating band in the
L-band for LTE
\- General issues
\- Frequency band arrangement
\- E-UTRA issues
\- UE transmitter requirements
\- UE receiver requirements
\- BS Transmitter requirements
\- BS Receiver requirements
# 7 General issues
## 7.1 Frequency band arrangement
To optimize the spectrum use and to align the TDD band on the SDL band plan,
the final band plan adopted by 3GPP RAN4 is:
\- B50
{width="6.491666666666666in" height="1.6458333333333333in"}
\- B51 (only
{width="6.491666666666666in" height="1.4020833333333333in"}
UE that complies with the E-UTRA Band [50] minimum requirements in this
specification shall also comply with the E-UTRA Band [51] minimum requirements
# 8 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 8.1 For BS (unwanted regional emission level) in the band(s) 1492 -- 1517
MHz
The regulatory requirements for base stations operating within 1492 -- 1517
MHz are specified by ECC Report in terms of EIRP, which corresponds to the
unwanted emission limit of -30dB/MHz in the band 1520-1559MHz, to protect the
Mobile Satellite Service (MSS). The same requirements may be considered in
other regions. When that is required, manufacturer declaration of unwanted
emissions may be used to verify the compliance with the regional requirements.
Table 8.1-1: Declared emission to 1492-1518 MHz
* * *
Filter centre frequency, F~filter~ Declared emission level [dBm] Measurement
bandwidth 1518.5 MHz ≤ F~filter~ ≤ 1519.5 MHz P'~EM,x~ 1 MHz 1520.5 MHz ≤
F~filter~ ≤ 1558.5 MHz P~EM,x~ 1 MHz
* * *
_NOTE: The regional requirement is defined in terms of EIRP, which is
dependent on both the BS emissions at the antenna connector and the deployment
(including antenna gain and feeder loss). The requirement defined above
provides the characteristics of the base station needed to verify compliance
with the regional requirement. The assessment of the EIRP level is described
in Annex H of TS36.104._
## 8.2 For BTS in the band(s) 1427-1432 MHz & 1432-1452 MHz
Additional spurious emission requirements for the base station need to be
specified. These requirements may apply in certain regions for the protection
of other systems operating inside or near each supported E-UTRA BS downlink
operating band.
The requirements in the table below may apply in regions or country. For
E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 50 & 51 1427-1432 MHz & 1432-1452 MHz, spurious
emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in Tables 8.2-1.
It is observed that for base stations operating on channels located at the
lower frequency range of this band, the maximum output power may be reduced
since there is no guard band at 1427 MHz to allow for filter transition.
Table 8.2-1: Additional operating band unwanted emission limits for E-UTRA
band 50 & 51 within 1427-1432 MHz & 1432-1452 MHz
* * *
Operating Bands Filter center frequency, F~filter~ Maximum Level [dBm]
Measurement bandwidth 50 & 51 F~filter~ = 1413.5 MHz -42 27 MHz
* * *
## 8.3 For UE in the band(s) 1492 -- 1517 MHz to protect MSS
It was decided at the 3GPP RAN4 meeting#83 in Hangzhou, China, 15 - 19 May,
2017 to define the MSS protection levels as:
\- 1 MHz guard band (1517-1518MHz)
\- Protection level for Tx UE => -30dBm/MHz EIRP in the 1518-1559MHz band
To comply to the maximum level define above, A-MPR study has been made, as
describe below.
**Simulation results about A-MPR to protect MSS**
In this section, we provided the simulation results, which present necessary
power back off relative to 23dBm for meeting the emission limit to protect the
MSS band (1518-1559MHz).
(1) First 3 MHz of TDD L-Band (1514 -- 1517 MHz) to protect the MSS frequency
range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz
separation frequency between IMT/LTE and MSS
Figure 8.3-1 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1514-1517MHz band.
{width="3.6416666666666666in" height="3.0875in"}
Figure 8.3-1 Simulation results for first 3 MHz at 1514-1517MHz
Based on power back off result in Figure 8.3-1, an example of possible A-MPR
scheme is presented in Figure 8.3-1a and Table 8.3-1.
{width="3.80625in" height="3.8965277777777776in"}
Figure 8.3-1a: A-MPR scheme for the first 3 MHz case
Table 8.3-1: A-MPR scheme for the first 3 MHz case
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D  
RB~start~ 0 -- 3 4 -- 7 8-10 11-14  
L~CRB~ [RBs] 8-11 ≥ 12 ≥ 8 ≥ 3 ≥ 1 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 3 ≤ 5 ≤ 6 ≤ 3 ≤ 3 Note: RB
allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit
power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(2) Second 3 MHz of TDD L-Band (1511-- 1514 MHz)
3 MHz of TDD L-Band to protect the MSS frequency range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS
protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz separation frequency between IMT/LTE
and MSS
Figure 8.3-2 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1511-- 1514 MHz band
{width="3.863888888888889in" height="3.55in"}
Figure 8.3-2 Simulation results for second 3 MHz in L-Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
Based on the result in Figure 8.3-2 and Table 8.3-2 give an example of
possible A-MPR scheme for the second 3MHz case.
Table 8.3-2: A-MPR scheme for the second 3 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A RB~start~ 0 L~CRB~ [RBs] 12 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 1 Note: RB
allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit
power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(3) First 5 MHz of TDD L-Band (1512 -- 1517 MHz) to protect the MSS frequency
range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz
separation frequency between IMT/LTE and MSS
Figure 8.3-3 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1512-1517MHz band.
{width="3.626388888888889in" height="3.0444444444444443in"}
Figure 8.3-3 Simulation results for first 5 MHz at 1512-1517MHz
Based on power back off result in Figure 2.4-3, an example of possible A-MPR
scheme is presented in Figure 8.3-3a and Table 8.3-3.
{width="3.1958333333333333in" height="2.8673611111111112in"}
Figure 8.3-3a: A-MPR scheme for the first 5 MHz case
Table 8.3-3: A-MPR scheme for the first 5 MHz case
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D  
RB~start~ 0 -- 5 6 -- 11 12-16 17-24  
L~CRB~ [RBs] 12-16 ≥ 17 9-12 ≥ 13 5-8 ≥ 9 1-6 ≥ 7 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 5 ≤ 9 ≤ 6 ≤ 10
≤ 4 ≤ 9 ≤ 4 ≤ 6 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is
permitted to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(4) Second 5 MHz of TDD L-Band (1507-- 1512 MHz) => New study
5 MHz of TDD L-Band to protect the MSS frequency range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS
protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz separation frequency between IMT/LTE
and MSS
Figure 8.3-4 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1507-- 1512 MHz band
{width="3.8958333333333335in" height="3.55in"}
Figure 8.3-4: Simulation results for second 5 MHz channel in L-Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
Based on the result in Figure 8.3-4 and Table 8.3-4 give an example of
possible A-MPR scheme for the second 5MHz case.
Table 8.3-4: A-MPR scheme for the second 5 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A RB~start~ 0 -- 1 L~CRB~ [RBs] 20 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 1 Note: RB
allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit
power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(5) Third 5 MHz of TDD L-Band (1507-- 1512 MHz) => New study
5 MHz of TDD L-Band to protect the MSS frequency range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS
protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz separation frequency between IMT/LTE
and MSS
Figure 8.3-5 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1507-- 1512 MHz band
{width="3.848611111111111in" height="3.5388888888888888in"}
Figure 8.3-5 Simulation results for third 5 MHz in L- Band (50)
For this case, there is no need A-MPR.
(6) First 10 MHz of TDD L-Band (1507 -- 1517 MHz) to protect the MSS frequency
range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz
separation frequency between IMT/LTE and MSS
Figure 8.3-6 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1507-1517MHz band.
{width="4.210416666666666in" height="3.5965277777777778in"}
Figure 8.3-6 Simulation results for first 10 MHz at 1507-1517MHz
Based on power back off result in Figure 8.3-6, an example of possible A-MPR
scheme is presented in Figure 8.3-6a and Table 8.3-5.
{width="4.540972222222222in" height="4.597916666666666in"}
Figure 8.3-6a: A-MPR scheme for the first 10 MHz case
Table 8.3-5: A-MPR scheme for the first 10 MHz case
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D  
RB~start~ 0 -- 22 23 -- 27 28-35 36-49  
L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥ 20 15-19 ≥ 20 3-14 ≥ 15 1-9 ≥ 10 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 4 ≤ 4 ≤ 9 ≤ 4 ≤
10 ≤ 3 ≤ 8 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is
permitted to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(7) second 10 MHz of TDD L-Band (1502 -- 1512 MHz) => New study
10 MHz of TDD L-Band to protect the MSS frequency range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS
protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz separation frequency between IMT/LTE
and MSS
Figure 8.3-7 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1502 -- 1512 MHz band
{width="3.8819444444444446in" height="3.55in"}
Figure 8.3-7 Simulation results for second 10 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
Based on the result in Figure 8.3-7 and Table 8.3-6 give an example of
possible A-MPR scheme for the second 10MHz case.
Table 8.3-6: A-MPR scheme for the second 10 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D Region E Region F Region G
Region H RB~start~ 0 -1 2 -- 5 6 -- 13 14 -- 20 21 -- 26 27-39 40-42 43-44
L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥32 ≥ 30 ≥27 ≥24 ≥20 ≥20 ≥5 ≥5 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 4 ≤ 3 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 0 ≤
1 ≤ 2 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted
to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(8) Third 10 MHz of TDD L-Band (1497 -- 1507 MHz) => New study
10 MHz of TDD L-Band to protect the MSS frequency range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS
protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz separation frequency between IMT/LTE
and MSS
Figure 8.3-8 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1497 -- 1507 MHz band
{width="3.895138888888889in" height="3.5381944444444446in"}
Figure 8.3-8 Simulation results for third 10 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
Based on the result in Figure 8.3-8 and Table 8.3-7 give an example of
possible A-MPR scheme for the third 10MHz case.
Table 8.3-7: A-MPR scheme for the third 10 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A RB~start~ 0 -- 5 L~CRB~ [RBs] 40 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 1 Note: RB
allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit
power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(9) First 15 MHz of TDD L-Band (1502 -- 1517 MHz) to protect the MSS frequency
range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz
separation frequency between IMT/LTE and MSS
Figure 8.3-9shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1502-1517MHz band.
{width="4.222916666666666in" height="3.670138888888889in"}
Figure 8.3-9 Simulation results for first 15 MHz at 1502-1517MHz
Based on power back off result in Figure 8.3-9, an example of possible A-MPR
scheme is presented in Figure 8.3-9a and Table 8.3-8.
{width="4.210416666666666in" height="4.208333333333333in"}
Figure 8.3-9a: A-MPR scheme for the first 15 MHz case
Table 8.3-8: A-MPR scheme for the first 15 MHz case
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D  
RB~start~ 0 -- 22 23 -- 48 49-60 61-74  
L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥ 36 9-23 ≥ 24 1-14 ≥ 15 ≥ 1 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 4 ≤ 3 ≤ 5 ≤ 3 ≤ 9 ≤ 4
Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to
transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(10) Second 15 MHz of TDD L-Band (1497 -- 1512 MHz) => New study
15 MHz of TDD L-Band to protect the MSS frequency range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS
protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz separation frequency between IMT/LTE
and MSS
Figure 8.3-10 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1497 -- 1512 MHz band
{width="3.8944444444444444in" height="3.55in"}
Figure 8.3-10 Simulation results for second 15 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
Based on the result in Figure 8.3-10 and Table 8.3-9 give an example of
possible A-MPR scheme for the first 15MHz case.
Table 8.3-9: A-MPR scheme for the second 15 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D Region E Region F Region G
Region H Region I Region J RB~start~ 0 -- 3 4 - 17 18 -- 28 29 -- 32 33 -- 39
40-45 46-52 53-58 59-61 62 - 74 L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥40 ≥26 ≥32 ≥30 ≥27 ≥24 ≥18 ≥ 6 ≥
2 ≥ 0 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 4 ≤ 2 ≤ 4 ≤ 4 ≤ 2 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 ≤ 2 Note: RB allocations
other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit power with
A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(11) Third 15 MHz of TDD L-Band (1492 -- 1507 MHz) => New study
15 MHz of TDD L-Band to protect the MSS frequency range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS
protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz separation frequency between IMT/LTE
and MSS
Figure 8.3-11 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1492 -- 1507 MHz band
{width="3.8680555555555554in" height="3.5375in"}
Figure 8.3-11 Simulation results for second 15 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
Based on the result in Figure 8.3-11 and Table 8.3-10 give an example of
possible A-MPR scheme for the second 15MHz case.
Table 8.3-10: A-MPR scheme for the second 15 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D Region E Region F Region G
Region H RB~start~ 0 -- 3 4 - 10 11 -- 22 23 -- 30 31 -- 66 67-69 70 - 71 72 -
74 L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥40 ≥64 ≥ 48 ≥ 40 ≥ 40 ≥ 4 ≥ 1 ≥ 0 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 4 0 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 =
0 ≤ 1 ≤ 2 ≤ 2 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is
permitted to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(12) First 20 MHz of TDD L-Band (1497 -- 1517 MHz) to protect the MSS
frequency range 1518-1559MHz.
Figure 8.3-12 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1497-1517MHz band.
{width="6.190972222222222in" height="3.8368055555555554in"}
Figure 8.3-12 Simulation results for first 20 MHz at 1497-1517MHz
Based on power back off result in Figure 8.3-12, an example of possible A-MPR
scheme is presented in Figure 8.3-12 and Table 8.3-11.
{width="4.492361111111111in" height="4.597916666666666in"}
Figure 8.3-12: A-MPR scheme for the first 20 MHz case
Table 8.3-11: A-MPR scheme for the first 20 MHz case
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D Region E  
RB~start~ 0 - 20 21 -- 40 41 -- 60 61 -- 80 81 -- 99  
L~CRB~ [RBs] 24-47 ≥ 48 ≥ 40 15-29 ≥ 30 1-17 ≥18 1-14 ≥ 15 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 2 ≤ 4
≤ 3 ≤2 ≤ 4 ≤ 3 ≤ 4 ≤ 3 ≤ 6 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this
table, UE is permitted to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(13) Second 20 MHz of TDD L-Band (1492 -- 1512 MHz),
20 MHz of TDD L-Band to protect the MSS frequency range 1518-1559MHz. the MSS
protection level is -30MHz/MHz with 1MHz separation frequency between IMT/LTE
and MSS
Figure 8.3-13 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -30dBm/MHz in 1492 -- 1512 MHz band
{width="3.9243055555555557in" height="3.535416666666667in"}
Figure 8.3-13 Simulation results for second 20 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
Based on the result in Figure 8.3-13 and Table 8.3-12 give an example of
possible A-MPR scheme for the second 20MHz case.
Table 8.3-12: A-MPR scheme for the second 20 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D Region E Region F Region G
Region H Region I Region J RB~start~ 0 -- 8 9 - 17 18 -- 20 21 -- 34 35 -- 44
45- 57 58- 63 64- 71 72- 75 76 - 100 L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥ 64 48-53 / 54-60 / ≥61
48-53 / 54-60 / ≥61 48-53 / 54 / ≥55 ≥ 32 ≥ 30 ≥ 27 ≥ 12 ≥ 6 ≥ 0 A-MPR [dB] ≤
12 ≤4 / =0 / ≤4 ≤4 / =0 / ≤4 ≤1 / =0 / ≤3 ≤3 ≤ 4 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 ≤ 2 Note: RB
allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit
power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
## 8.4 For UE in the bands 1427-1432 MHz & 1432-1452 MHz to protect EESS
Maximum spurious emission can be require and may apply in regions for the
protection of other systems. To capture the regulatory requirement for the
user equipment operating in the frequency range 1427-1432 MHz & 1432-1452 MHz
(a part of B50) for the protection of EESS (passive service) operating in the
range 1400 -- 1427 MHz, the following table is proposed to be added to 36.101.
For UE operating in Bands 50 & 51 within 1427-1432 MHz & 1432-1452 MHz,
emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in Tables 8.4-1.
It is observed that for user equipment operating on channels located at the
lower frequency range of this band, the maximum output power may be reduced
since there is no guard band at 1427 MHz to allow for filter transition.
Table 8.4-1: Additional operating band unwanted emission limits for E-UTRA
bands 50 & 51 within 1427-1432 MHz & 1432-1452 MHz
* * *
Operating Band Filter center frequency, F~filter~ Maximum Level [dBm]
Measurement bandwidth 50 & 51 F~filter~ = 1413.5 MHz -32 27 MHz
* * *
To comply to the maximum level define in the table above, A-MPR study has been
made, as describe below.
**Simulation results about A-MPR to protect EESS**
In this section, we provided the simulation results, which present necessary
power back off relative to average 15dBm for meeting the emission limit of
EESS protection. Based on the evaluation of back off power, the region where
back off is less than or equal to 8 dB is defined as the \"permitted region\".
This is because no back off is needed for 15 dBm in the \"permitted region\".
As a result, A-MPR is unnecessary in the \"permitted region\", while back off
power from average 15 dBm is proposed as A-MPR for the rest region.
**[Band 51 (1427-1432MHz)]{.underline}**
(1) First 3 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1427 -- 1430 MHz)
Figure 8.4-1 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to average
15 dBm meeting the emission limit of -62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="4.597916666666666in" height="3.5659722222222223in"}
Figure 8.4-1 Simulation results for first 3 MHz in L-Band (B51)
For the first 3 MHz case, as discussed above, A-MPR is only proposed for the
region where power back off is larger than 8 dB. Based on the result in Figure
8.4-1, an example of possible A-MPR is showed in Figure 8.4-1a and Table 8.4-2
below.
{width="3.36875in" height="3.2083333333333335in"}
Figure 8.4-1a: A-MPR scheme for the first 3 MHz case (B51)
Table 8.4-2: A-MPR scheme for the first 3 MHz case (B51)
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C  
RB~start~ 0 1-- 2 3 -- 6  
L~CRB~ [RBs] 1 ≥2 2 ≥ 3 5-6 ≥8 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 11 ≤ 16 ≤ 9 ≤ 15 ≤ 12 ≤ 14 Note:
RB allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit
power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(2) Upper 3 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1429 -- 1432 MHz)
Figure 8.4-2 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to average
15dBm meeting the emission limit of - 62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="3.911111111111111in" height="3.5375in"}
Figure 8.4-2 Simulation results for upper 3 MHz channel in L-Band (B51)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
In addition, it is necessary to add 8dB to the A-MPR to get the final A-MPR
level aligned on the maximum power of +23dBm. Based on the result in Figure
8.4-2 and Table 8.4-3 give an example of possible A-MPR scheme for the first
3MHz case.
Table 8.4-3: A-MPR scheme for the first 3 MHz case (B51)
* * *
Parameters Region A RB~start~ 0 L~CRB~ [RBs] 12 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 9 Note: RB
allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit
power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(3)First 5 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1427 -- 1432 MHz)
Figure 8.4-3 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="4.042361111111111in" height="3.0729166666666665in"}
Figure 8.4-3 Simulation results for first 5 MHz in L- Band (B51)
For the region where power back off is larger than 8 dB in Figure 8.4-3, an
example of possible A-MPR scheme is presented in Figure 8.4-3a and Table
8.4-4.
{width="3.7916666666666665in" height="3.884027777777778in"}
Figure 8.4-3a: A-MPR scheme for the first 5 MHz case (B51)
Table 8.4-4: A-MPR scheme for the first 5 MHz case
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D  
RB~start~ 0 - 1 2 -- 4 5 -- 7 8 -- 10  
L~CRB~ [RBs] 2 ≥3 4-6 ≥ 7 8-10 ≥11 12 ≥15 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 12 ≤ 16 ≤ 13 ≤ 16 ≤ 12
≤ 15 ≤ 10 ≤ 12 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is
permitted to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
**[Band 50 (1432-1517MHz)]{.underline}**
(4) First 3 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1432 -- 1435 MHz)
Based on the case (2) "Upper 3 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1429 -- 1432 MHz)", there
is no need about the A-MPR for this case (4)
(5) Second 3 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1435 -- 1438 MHz)
{width="3.926388888888889in" height="3.536111111111111in"}
Figure 8.4-4 Simulation results for second 3 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
For this case, there is no need A-MPR.
(6) First 5 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1432 -- 1437 MHz)
Figure 8.4-5 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="4.672916666666667in" height="3.490972222222222in"}
Figure 8.4-5 Simulation results for first 5 MHz in L-Band (50)
The largest power back off shown in Figure 8.4-5 is less than 3 dB, so A-MPR
is unnecessary for this case.
(7) Second 5 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1437 -- 1442 MHz)
Figure 8.4-6 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to average
15dBm meeting the emission limit of - 62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="3.8965277777777776in" height="3.535416666666667in"}
Figure 8.4-6 Simulation results for second 3 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
There is no need of A-MPR for this case.
(8) First 10 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1432 -- 1442 MHz)
Figure 8.4-7 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to average
15dBm meeting the emission limit of -62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="3.9090277777777778in" height="3.5368055555555555in"}
Figure 8.4-7 Simulation results for first 10 MHz in L- Band
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
In addition, it is necessary to add 8dB to the A-MPR to get the final A-MPR
level aligned on the maximum power of +23dBm. Based on the result in Figure
8.4-7 and Table 8.4-5 give an example of possible A-MPR scheme for the first
10MHz case.
Table 8.4-5: A-MPR scheme for the first 10 MHz case
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B RB~start~ 0 -- 4 5 -- 6 L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥ 36 ≥ 40
A-MPR [dB] ≤ 11 ≤ 10 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this table,
UE is permitted to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(9) Second 10 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1437 -- 1447 MHz)
Figure 8.4-8 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to 23dBm
meeting the emission limit of -62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="4.839583333333334in" height="3.6256944444444446in"}
Figure 8.4-8 Simulation results for second 10 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
Based on the result shown in Figure 8.4-8, the largest power back off
evaluated is not larger than 3.5 dB, thus A-MPR is not needed in this case.
(10) First 15 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1432 -- 1447 MHz)
Figure 8.4-9 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to average
15dBm meeting the emission limit of -62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="3.9090277777777778in" height="3.5368055555555555in"}
Figure 8.4-9 Simulation results for first 15 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
In addition, it is necessary to add 8dB to the A-MPR to get the final A-MPR
level aligned on the maximum power of +23dBm. Based on the result in Figure
8.4-9 and Table 8.4-6 give an example of possible A-MPR scheme for the first
15MHz case.
Table 8.4-6: A-MPR scheme for the first 15 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D Region E RB~start~ 0 -1 2 -- 6
7 -- 11 12 -- 13 14 -- 15 L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥36 ≥ 40 ≥48 26-40 ≥54 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 12
≤ 12 ≤ 11 ≤ 10 ≤ 10 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in this table,
UE is permitted to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(11) second 15 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1437 -- 1452 MHz)
Figure 8.4-10 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to
average 15dBm meeting the emission limit of -62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="3.9256944444444444in" height="3.535416666666667in"}
Figure 8.4-10 Simulation results for second 15 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
In addition, it is necessary to add 8dB to the A-MPR to get the final A-MPR
level aligned on the maximum power of +23dBm. Based on the result in Figure
8.4-10 and Table 8.4-7 give an example of possible A-MPR scheme for the first
15MHz case.
Table 8.4-7: A-MPR scheme for the first 15 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A RB~start~ 0 L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥72 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 10 Note: RB
allocations other than indicated in this table, UE is permitted to transmit
power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
(12) First 20 MHz of TDD UL L-Band (1432 -- 1452 MHz)
Figure 8.4-11 shows the simulation result of power back off relative to
average 15dBm meeting the emission limit of -62 dBW/27MHz (-32dBm/27MHz).
{width="3.9243055555555557in" height="3.535416666666667in"}
Figure 8.4-11 Simulation results for second 20 MHz in L -- Band (B50)
A-MPR is considered for the region where power back off is greater than 0 dB.
In addition, it is necessary to add 8dB to the A-MPR to get the final A-MPR
level aligned on the maximum power of +23dBm. Based on the result in Figure
8.4-11 and Table 8.4-8 give an example of possible A-MPR scheme for the first
20MHz case.
Table 8.4-8: A-MPR scheme for the first 20 MHz case (B50)
* * *
Parameters Region A Region B Region C Region D Region E Region F Region G
Region H  
RB~start~ 0 1 -- 4 5 -- 6 7 -- 9 10 -- 11 12-16 17-20 21-26  
L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥36 45-53 ≥ 54 ≥33 ≥48 ≥50 ≥60 ≥64 ≥64 A-MPR [dB] ≤ 12 ≤ 11 ≤ 12
≤ 12 ≤ 12 ≤ 12 ≤ 12 ≤ 11 ≤ 10 Note: RB allocations other than indicated in
this table, UE is permitted to transmit power with A-MPR = 0.
* * *
## 8.5 BS filter
As the band plan for TDD L band and SDL L band is same, it is assumed that the
filter performance will be similar for TDD and SDL, as described in the TR
36.934.
## 8.6 UE sensitivity for E-UTRA
The band plan for TDD L band and SDL L band is the same. Hence it is foreseen
the receiver filter performance and reference sensitivity will be similar.
The reference sensitivity is specified in Table 8.6-1 for Band 50 and Band 51.
Table 8.6-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **_Ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | | ndwid | | | | | | | | | th_** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | **_E | * |_** 3 | **_5 |_** 10 | **_15 |_** 20 | **_D | | -UTRA |_ *1.4 | M | M | M | M | M | uplex | | Ba | M | Hz** _| Hz_**| Hz** _| Hz_**| Hz** _| Mo | | nd_**| Hz** _| | | | | | de_**| | | | * | * | * | * | * | | | | * |**(dB | **(dB |**(dB | **(dB |**(dB | | | | **(dB | m)**_| m)_**| m)**_| m)_**| m)**_| | | | m)___| | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ |_ 50_ | _-_ | _-1 | * |_ -97 _|_ \- | _-94_ | _TDD_ | | | | 02.2 _| -100_ | | 95.2 _| | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 51 | |_ -1 | -100 | | | | | | | | 02.2* | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
# 9 Study of MSR specific issues
(Void)
# 10 Channel numbering for E-UTRA, MSR
For 1427-1517MHz Band the E-UTRA frequency band is defined as in Table 10-1.
Table 10-1 E-UTRA frequency bands
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                          F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
50 1432 MHz -- 1517 MHz 1432 MHz -- 1517 MHz TDD
51 1427 MHz -- 1432 MHz 1427 MHz -- 1432 MHz TDD
* * *
EARFCN for 1427-1517MHz Band is defined as in Table 10-2.
Table 10-2: EARFCN allocated for E-UTRA Band 50 & 51
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ **[MHz]** N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ **[MHz]** N~Offs-UL~
Range of N~UL~ 50 1432 58240 58240 - 59089 1432 58240 58240 - 59089 51 1427
59090 59090 - 59139 1427 59090 59090 - 59139
* * *
# 11 Required changes to E-UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarised in a Table 11-1.
Table 11-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
* * *
3GPP specification Clause in TR 30.007 where the required changes are given
Clause in the present document identifying additional changes TS 36.101
8.2.1.1  
TS 36.104 8.2.1.2  
TS 36.106 8.2.1.3  
TS 36.113 8.2.1.4  
TS 36.124 8.2.1.5  
TS 36.133 8.2.1.6  
TS 36.141 8.2.1.7  
TS 36.143 8.2.1.8  
TS 36.307 8.2.1.9  
TS 25.101 8.2.2.1  
TS 25.104 8.2.2.3  
TS 25.106 8.2.2.5  
TS 25.123 8.2.2.7  
TS 25.133 8.2.2.9  
TS 25.141 8.2.2.10  
TS 25.143 8.2.2.12  
TS 25.461 8.2.2.15  
TS 25.466 8.2.2.16  
TS 37.104 8.2.3.1  
TS 37.113 8.2.2.2  
TS 37.141 8.2.2.3
* * *
#