# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item "450 MHz Band for
LTE in Region 3", which was approved at TSG RAN#75 [3].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TR 30.007: \"Guideline on WI/SI for new Operating Bands \".
>
> [3] RP-170159: \"New WID on 450 MHz Band for LTE in Region 3 \".
>
> [4] R4-1702409: \"Information: new WID_450MHz Band for LTE in Region 3\".
>
> [5] ITU R15-WP5D-C-0515, China (People's Republic of) PROPOSED MODIFICATION
> OF THE 450 MHz BAND TO THE WORKING DOCUMENT TOWARDS A PRELIMINARY DRAFT
> REVISION OF RECOMMENDATION ITU-R M.1036-5
>
> [6] ITU R15-WP5D-170214-TD-0247, MSW-E-Working document towards a
> preliminary draft revision of Recommendation ITU-R M.1036-5
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
As a background, China Government has adopted 10MHz band from 450MHz to 470MHz
for LTE trial in 8 cities of China, which aims to clear 10 MHz for mobile
broadband services. And the related agreement that IMT system would be
allocated with 2x5MHz FDD band from 450MHz to 470MHz have been approved in
CCSA TC5 WG8 #79 meeting , and the final licence of 450MHz will be published
in foreseeable months in China.
Meanwhile, during February 2017 meeting of ITU Working Party 5D , many
countries are working on IMT frequency planning entitled " Recommendation
ITU-R M. 1036", in which the frequency arrangements on 450MHz should be
determined. Input document (R15-WP 5D/515-E) from China (People's Republic of)
[5] [6], provides a proposal on the frequency arrangement in the frequency
band 450-470MHz.
To maximize the spectrum efficiency of 450 MHz band, and satisfy the
development demands of IMT network, the China administration has issued a new
FDD arrangement for IMT in 450-470 MHz band. And considering the difference
with other needs on 450MHz (like South America's or Europe's), the arrangement
is shown as following:
• Bandwidth: 5 MHz
• Uplink: 450-455 MHz
• Downlink: 460-465 MHz
• Centre gap: 5 MHz
• Duplex separation: 10 MHz
To facilitate 450 MHz eco-system development in Region 3 including China in a
timely manner, it is proposed to standardize a new E-UTRA operating band based
on 10MHz band plan:
2x5MHz, 450MHz-455MHz (UL), 460MHz-465MHz (DL)
Besides, due to the propagation behaviour, 450MHz should be taken into account
as good candidate band for NB-IoT or eMTC.
# 5 Band plan allocation and regulatory background
As described in Clause 4, the band plan for the new FDD E-UTRA band is shown
as following:
\- 450MHz-455MHz（UL）
\- 460MHz-465MHz（DL）
\- Duplex separation: 10 MHz
\- Channel bandwidth: 1.4 MHz, 3 MHz and 5MHz
The last frequency allocation in ITU-R can be found in the following table:
Table 5-1: Table of frequency allocation to services
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Allocation to | | | | services | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Region 1 | Region 2 | Region 3 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 450-455 FIXED | | | | | | | | MOBILE 5.286AA | | | | | | | | 5.209 5.271 5.286 | | | | 5.286A 5.286B 5.286C | | | | 5.286D 5.286E | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 455-456 | 455-456 | 455-456 | | | | | | FIXED | FIXED | FIXED | | | | | | MOBILE 5.286AA | MOBILE 5.286AA | MOBILE 5.286AA | | | | | | 5.209 5.271 5.286A | MOBILE-SATELLITE | 5.209 5.271 5.286A | | 5.286B 5.286C 5.286E | | 5.286B 5.286C 5.286E | | | ( | | | | Earth-to-space)5.209 | | | | 5.286A 5.286B 5.286C | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 456-459 FIXED | | | | | | | | MOBILE 5.286AA | | | | | | | | 5.271 5.287 5.288 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 459-460 | 459-460 | 459-460 | | | | | | FIXED | FIXED | FIXED | | | | | | MOBILE 5.286AA | MOBILE 5.286AA | MOBIL E 5.286AA | | | | | | 5.209 5.271 5.286A | MOBILE-STATELLITE | 5.209 5.271 5.286A | | 5.286B 5.286C 5.286E | | 5.286B 5.286C 5.286E | | | ( | | | | Earth-to-space)5.209 | | | | 5.286A 5.286B 5.286C | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 460-470 FIXED | | | | | | | | MOBILE 5.286AA | | | | | | | | Mete | | | | orological-satellite | | | | (space-to-Earth) | | | | | | | | 5.287 5.288 5.289 | | | | 5.290 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 470-694 | 470-512 | 470-585 | | | | | | BROADCASTING | BROADCASTING | Fixed | | | | | | 5.149 5.291A 5.294 | Fixed | Mobile 5.296A | | 5.296 | | | | | Mobile | BROADCASTING | | 5.300 5.304 5.306 | | | | 5.311A | 5.292 5.293 5.295 | 5.291 5.298 | | | | | | 5.312 | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 512-608 | 585-610 | | | | | | | BROADCASTING | Fixed | | | | | | | 5.295 5.297 | Mobile 5.296A | | | | | | | | BROADCASTING | | | | | | | | RADIONAVIGATION | | | | | | | | 5.149 5.305 5.206 | | | | 5.307 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 608-614 | | | | | | | | RADIO ASTRONOMY | | | | | | | | Mobile-satellite | | | | except | | | | | | | | aeronautical | | | | mobile-satellite | | | | (Earth-to-space) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | 614-698 | 610-890 | | | | | | | BROADCASTING | Fixed | | | | | | | Fixed | Mobile 5.296A 5.313A | | | | 5.317A | | | Mobile | | | | | BROADCASTING | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
The table above provides that the mobile allocation and notes is in the
**[450 to 455 MHz band:]{.underline}**
**\- 5.286AA** The frequency band 450-470 MHz is identified for use by
administrations wishing to implement International Mobile Telecommunications
(IMT). See Resolution **224 (Rev.WRC-15)**. This identification does not
preclude the use of this frequency band by any application of the services to
which it is allocated and does not establish priority in the Radio
Regulations. (WRC-15)
**\- 5.209** The use of the bands 137-138 MHz, 148-150.05 MHz, 399.9-400.05
MHz, 400.15-401 MHz, 454-456 MHz and 459-460 MHz by the mobile-satellite
service is limited to non-geostationary-satellite systems. (WRC-97)
**\- 5.271** _Additional allocation:_ in Belarus, China, India, Kyrgyzstan and
Turkmenistan, the band 420-460 MHz is also allocated to the aeronautical
radionavigation service (radio altimeters) on a secondary basis. (WRC-07)
**\- 5.286** The band 449.75-450.25 MHz may be used for the space operation
service (Earth-to-space) and the space research service (Earth-to-space),
subject to agreement obtained under No. **9.21**.
**\- 5.286B** The use of the band 454-455 MHz in the countries listed in No.
**5.286D** , 455-456 MHz and 459-460 MHz in Region 2, and 454-456 MHz and
459-460 MHz in the countries listed in No. **5.286E** , by stations in the
mobile-satellite service, shall not cause harmful interference to, or claim
protection from, stations of the fixed or mobile services operating in
accordance with the Table of Frequency Allocations. (WRC-97)
**\- 5.286C** The use of the band 454-455 MHz in the countries listed in No.
**5.286D** , 455-456 MHz and 459-460 MHz in Region 2, and 454-456 MHz and
459-460 MHz in the countries listed in No. **5.286E** , by stations in the
mobile-satellite service, shall not constrain the development and use of the
fixed and mobile services operating in accordance with the Table of Frequency
Allocations. (WRC-97)
**\- 5.286D** _Additional allocation:_ in Canada, the United States and
Panama, the band 454-455 MHz is also allocated to the mobile-satellite service
(Earth-to-space) on a primary basis. (WRC-07)
**\- 5.286E** _Additional allocation:_ in Cape Verde, Nepal and Nigeria, the
bands 454-456 MHz and 459-460 MHz are also allocated to the mobile-satellite
(Earth-to-space) service on a primary basis. (WRC-07)
**[460-465MHz band]{.underline}**
**\- 5.286AA** The frequency band 450-470 MHz is identified for use by
administrations wishing to implement International Mobile Telecommunications
(IMT). See Resolution **224 (Rev.WRC-15)**. This identification does not
preclude the use of this frequency band by any application of the services to
which it is allocated and does not establish priority in the Radio
Regulations. (WRC-15)
**\- 5.287** Use of the frequency bands 457.5125-457.5875 MHz and
467.5125-467.5875 MHz by the maritime mobile service is limited to on-board
communication stations. The characteristics of the equipment and the
channeling arrangement shall be in accordance with Recommendation ITU-R
M.1174-3. The use of these frequency bands in territorial waters is subject to
the national regulations of the administration concerned. (WRC-15)
**\- 5.288** In the territorial waters of the United States and the
Philippines, the preferred frequencies for use by on-board communication
stations shall be 457.525 MHz, 457.550 MHz, 457.575 MHz and 457.600 MHz
paired, respectively, with 467.750 MHz, 467.775 MHz, 467.800 MHz and 467.825
MHz. The characteristics of the equipment used shall conform to those
specified in Recommendation ITU-R M.1174-3. (WRC-15)
**\- 5.289** Earth exploration-satellite service applications, other than the
meteorological-satellite service, may also be used in the bands 460-470 MHz
and 1 690-1 710 MHz for space-to-Earth transmissions subject to not causing
harmful interference to stations operating in accordance with the Table.
**\- 5.290** _Different category of service:_ in Afghanistan, Azerbaijan,
Belarus, China, the Russian Federation, Japan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and
Turkmenistan, the allocation of the band 460-470 MHz to the meteorological-
satellite service (space-to-Earth) is on a primary basis (see No. **5.33**),
subject to agreement obtained under No. **9.21**. (WRC-12)
**[450-470MHz band]{.underline}**
**-** ITU_R RESOLUTION 646 (WRC-15) on public protection and disaster relief
radio communication systems resolves to adopt a regionally harmonized
frequency ranges for Region 3 that include 406.1-430 and 440-470 MHz
**-** APT Report REP-73 on Harmonization Of Frequency Ranges For Use By
Wireless PPDR Applications In Asia-Pacific Region (No. APT/AWG/REP-73 Edition:
April 2017), Section 2 of Annex 1 on Harmonized Frequency Arrangements adopted
a regionally harmonized band for narrowband PPDR in parts of the frequency
ranges 406.1-430 and 440-470 MHz in particular, the band 457.50625--459.9875 /
467.50625--469.9875 for narrowband (12.5KHz) Mobile PPDR, 10MHz duplex spacing
In summary, there is already primary Mobile allocation in Region 3 and also in
Region 1 and 2. The use of these two blocks of 5MHz in China and other
countries in Region 3 for mobile services and applications are consistent with
radio regulations. In Region 3, both Mobile service and Fixed service are
allocated on primary basis, a specific spectrum regulation and rules can be
developed at national level to ensure different applications and services are
protected. Between countries, the mobile deployments can be subjected to
agreement e.g. bilateral or multi-lateral cross border coordination agreement,
if necessary.
# 6 List of band specific issues
General issues
\- Coexistence with existing systems in adjacent spectrum
E-UTRA issues
\- UE RF requirements
\- BS RF requirements
# 7 General issues
## 7.1 Coexistence with existing systems in adjacent spectrum
Results and conclusions of the coexistence studies are proposed for Region 3.
ITU-R studies have been used to assess coexistence and compatabilty scenarios
of the proposed band plan. Further outcomes are based on CCSA studies in China
using existing and planned arrangements in the frequency range 450-470MHz and
in adjacent bands.
This introduces summary of coexistence scenarios for E-UTRA Band 73 with land
mobile radio systems including radio train dispatching, railway LTE-R and TV
Broadcasting systems etc.
Note that for other countries in Region 3, similar or different scenarios
might exist, in particular aspects related to APT Report-73(No. APT/AWG/REP-73
Edition: April 2017)
### 7.1.1 Coexistence study from CCSA {#coexistence-study-from-ccsa .list-
paragraph}
China Communications Standards Association (CCSA) have also done some related
works on co-existence study of 450MHz-470MHz in August 2015 in China. And the
final study report of 450-470MHz frequency band has been approved in CCSA TC5
WG8 #79 meeting [1].
Methodology, results and conclusions of the coexistence studies can be found
in CCSA report, which mainly introduces the actual usage of 450-470MHz
frequency band, analyses coexistence issues of IMT and adjacent different non-
IMT systems including railway and broadcasting TV systems, and gives out the
recommendations on IMT FDD band arrangement with
**450.0MHz-455.0MHz(UL)/460.0MHz-465.0MHz(DL)** as high priority.
And the following aspects on co-existence study will be introduced：
1\. IMT FDD system (450-455MHz(UL)/460-465MHz(DL)) and Radio train dispatching
system(457.2-458.675MHz/467.2-468.675MHz)
{width="5.040972222222222in" height="0.5in"}
Figure 7.1.1-1: Co-existence between IMT FDD system and Radio train
dispatching system
**Observation 1:** **According to the co-existence study report of IMT system
and Radio train dispatching system on 450-470MHz, it's feasible for adjacent
frequency coexistence of IMT FDD system and Radio train dispatching system
with applicable site isolation.**
2\. IMT FDD system (450-455MHz (UL)/460-465MHz (DL)) and Railway LTE-R system
(455-460MHz (UL)/465-470MHz (DL))
{width="4.991666666666666in" height="0.5465277777777777in"}
Figure 7.1.1-2: Co-existence between IMT FDD system and Railway LTE-R system
**Observation2: It's feasible for adjacent frequency coexistence of IMT FDD
system and Radio train dispatching system with applicable site isolation. The
requirement of IMT FDD and LTE-R FDD system isolation is at least 110.2dB, and
in addition the site isolation distance should be no less than 5.1km (or 20.9
km in worst case).**
3\. IMT FDD system (450-455MHz (UL)/460-465MHz (DL)) and Broadcasting service
system (470\~478MHz）
**Observation 3: According to co-existence requirement of Europe IMT FDD
system and the adjacent broadcasting TV system on 790MHz, guard-band should be
set as 1 MHz for inter-system protection. IMT FDD system on 450-470MHz should
reserve 5MHz at 470MHz as guard band so as to reduce the interference of
inter-systems. **
The report suggests that co-existence works can follow the general
requirements of unwanted emission in TS 36.101, including the emission within
the occupied bandwidth, the OOB emissions and the far out spurious emission
domain, with no additional requirement. Besides, IMT FDD 450-470MHz system co-
existences with adjacent non-IMT systems (like railway communication, LTE-R,
and broadcasting TV) are actually regional. And it can be well coordinated via
local regulations of the related administrative departments. It's feasible for
adjacent frequency coexistence of IMT FDD system with other local systems
(Radio train dispatching system, broadcasting system) by adopting suitable
distance isolation or other regional solutions.
### 7.1.2 Coexistence study from ITU-R {#coexistence-study-from-itu-r .list-
paragraph}
#### 7.1.2.1 Clarification for Adjacent 440-450 MHz
According to Article 5 of the Radio Regulations, FIXED and MOBILE (except
aeronautical mobile) services having a primary allocation, and Radiolocation
service has a secondary allocation in Region 1, 2 and 3 in the Section IV--
Table of Frequency Allocations as below.
Table7.1.2.1-1: Section IV -- Table of Frequency Allocations
+-------------------------------------+----------+----------+ | Allocation to services | | | +-------------------------------------+----------+----------+ | Region 1 | Region 2 | Region 3 | +-------------------------------------+----------+----------+ | 440-450 FIXED | | | | | | | | MOBILE except aeronautical mobile | | | | | | | | Radiolocation | | | | | | | | 5.269 5.270 5.271 5.284 5.285 5.286 | | | +-------------------------------------+----------+----------+
Note 1: 5.269 Different category of service: in Australia, the United States,
India, Japan and the United Kingdom, the allocation of the bands 420-430 MHz
and 440-450 MHz to the radiolocation service is on a primary basis (see No.
5.33).
Note 2: 5.270 Additional allocation: in Australia, the United States, Jamaica
and the Philippines, the bands 420-430 MHz and 440-450 MHz are also allocated
to the amateur service on a secondary basis.
Note 3: 5.271 Additional allocation: in Belarus, China, India, Kyrgyzstan and
Turkmenistan, the band 420-460 MHz is also allocated to the aeronautical radio
navigation service (radio altimeters) on a secondary basis. (WRC-07)
Note 4: 5.284 Additional allocation: in Canada, the band 440-450 MHz is also
allocated to the amateur service on a secondary basis.
Note 5: 5.285 Different category of service: in Canada, the allocation of the
band 440-450 MHz to the radiolocation service is on a primary basis (see No.
5.33).
Note 6: 5.286 The band 449.75-450.25 MHz may be used for the space operation
service (Earth-to-space) and the space research service (Earth-to-space),
subject to agreement obtained under No. 9.21.
And in Region 3 (especially China and India), the band 450-460 MHz is also
allocated to the aeronautical radio navigation service (radio altimeters) on a
secondary basis. Thus, there is no necessity for co-existence study of
secondary service with primary service which are already assigned or may be
assigned at a later date, as mentioned in Section II Categories of service and
allocation.
Therefore, it only needs to be considered sharing studies between IMT and
FIXED and MOBILE services in the adjacent 440-450MHz. And the results can be
found in ITU-R M.2110 report, which indicate that sharing studies between
Mobile IMT and radio navigation, radio location service in the adjacent
440-450 MHz are domestic issues, and it is can be well coordinated via local
regulations of the related administrative departments. Besides, the adjacent
compatibility including primary or secondary allocation if there is really an
issue between countries is also feasible.
#### 7.1.2.1 Sharing studies summary in ITU-R M.2110 report
Agenda item 1.4 of the 2007 World Radio communication Conference (WRC-07)
calls upon the ITU-R "...to consider frequency-related matters for the future
development of IMT‑2000 and systems beyond IMT‑2000 taking into account the
results of ITU‑R studies in accordance with Resolution 228 (Rev.WRC‑03).
Resolution 228 (Rev.WRC‑03) resolves that the ITU-R should undertake among
other studies, "...sharing and compatibility studies with services already
having allocations in potential spectrum for the future development of
IMT‑2000 and systems beyond IMT‑2000 taking into account the needs of other
services."
As part of its responsibility to provide the text to the CPM for Agenda item
1.4, Working Party 8F studied several candidate bands for IMT systems
including the 450-470 MHz band. And it has developed a report \"ITU-R M.2110
sharing studies between radio communication services and IMT systems operating
in the 450-470 MHz band.\"
In this report, sharing studies between one member of the IMT family, i.e.
IMT-2000 CDMA multi-carrier (CDMA-MC), operating in the 450-470 MHz band and
the radio communication services having a primary allocation in Section IV of
Article 5 of the Radio Regulations (RR) -- Table of Frequency allocations in
the 450-470 MHz band and in the adjacent 420-450 MHz and 470-480 MHz bands --
were conducted. The study evaluated the feasibility of sharing between IMT
(CDMA450) system and radiolocation services, mobile, fixed, and/or
broadcasting services in the above mentioned bands.
The feasibility of certain scenarios is subject to a trade-off between
technical, regulatory and economical factors. In this Report different points
of view have been reflected which correspond to different trade off choices.
The views are by no means excluding other points of views. The conclusions
below reflect only the studies made in this Report. The results of the study
are summarized in the following tables corresponding to each scenario
evaluated.
Table 7.1.2.1-1: Results of the study of fixed and mobile service base
stations\ interfering with IMT (CDMA450) base station
* * *
Fixed and mobile systems IMT base station  
Separation distance Separation distance/ filtering GMSK based fixed system
(FS) 53.86 km 1.6 km/70 dB DQPSK based fixed system (FS) -- IF BW = 0.3 MHz
105.45 km 3 km/70 dB DQPSK based fixed system (FS) -- IF BW = 3.14 MHz 116.92
km 3.4 km/70 dB 16-QAM based fixed system (FS) 132.73 km 3.9 km/70 dB 32-QAM
based fixed system (FS) -- IF BW = 0.15 MHz 63.81 km 1.9 km/70 dB 32-QAM based
fixed system (FS) -- IF BW = 1.6 MHz 94.43 km 2.8 km/70 dB Point-to-multipoint
systems (P-MP) 71.32 km 2 km/70 dB FM 21.45 km 1 km/60 dB TETRA 25.6 km 1
km/60 dB NMT 49.14 km 1 km/70 dB Trunked land mobile systems -- analog FM
43.14 km 1 km/70 dB Trunked land mobile systems -- digital/C4FM 38.6 km 1
km/70 dB Trunked land mobile systems -- digital/BPSK/QPSK/8-PSK/16-QAM 112 km
3 km/70 dB
* * *
The results indicate that coexistence between IMT base stations and the
various fixed and mobile service base stations may be a challenge even with
the use of significant filtering to provide the required attenuation. While
the separation distance between the two systems is significantly reduced if a
filter at the IMT base station receiver can provide at least 60 dB-70 dB
rejection of the unwanted emissions, the value of the separation distance may
be large to permit coexistence in a few cases. Other possible mitigation
measures are available that could be used to decrease the possibility of
harmful interference even further, such as the use of guard bands and/or
disabling of one or more IMT carriers.
Table 7.1.2.1-2: Results of the study of IMT (CDMA450) base station
interfering\ with fixed and mobile systems
* * *
Fixed and mobile systems IMT base station
                                                                  Separation distance   Separation distance/ filtering
GMSK based fixed system (FS) 146.1 km 2.4 km/80 dB
DQPSK based fixed system (FS) --\ 212.8 km 3.6 km/80 dB IF BW = 0.3 MHz
DQPSK based fixed system (FS) --\ 142.9 km 2.3 km/80 dB IF BW = 3.14 MHz
16-QAM based fixed system (FS) 219.2 km 3.7 km/80 dB
32-QAM based fixed system (FS) --\ 231.7 km 4 km/80 dB IF BW = 0.15 MHz
32-QAM based fixed system (FS) --\ 203.4 km 3.47 km/80 dB IF BW = 1.6 MHz
Point-to-multipoint systems (P-MP) 41 km 1.7 km/60 dB
FM 13 km 1.2 km/40 dB
TETRA 69.8 km 1 km/80 dB
NMT 46.7 km 2 km/60 dB
Trunked land mobile systems -- analog FM 61.3 km 1 km/80 dB
Trunked land mobile systems -- digital/C4FM 51.2 km 1.2 km/70 dB
Trunked land mobile systems -- digital/BPSK/QPSK/8-PSK/16-QAM 175.9 km 3 km/80
dB
* * *
The results indicate that coexistence between IMT base stations and the
various fixed and mobile service base stations may be a challenge even with
the use of significant filtering to provide the required attenuation. While
the separation distance between the two systems is significantly reduced if a
notch filter at the IMT base stations transmitter can provide at least 60 dB
to 80 dB attenuation of the unwanted emissions, the value of the separation
distance may be large to permit coexistence in few cases.
When ITU-R Report M.2110-0 was developed in 2007, the IMT technology used in
the sharing studies was based on CDMA. Work is on-going in CEPT to assess
sharing studies in 450-470MHz based on LTE and is expected to be completed in
early 2018. Results would be used to further assess the compatibility
assumptions based on LTE and initiate update of existing ITU R studies.
Other possible mitigation measures are available that could be used to
decrease the possibility of harmful interference even further, such as the use
of guard bands and/or disabling of one or more IMT carriers.
# 8 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 8.1 UE RF requirements
Due to very similar band arrangement with band 31 the transmitter requirements
will be very similar for band 73 as those are for band 31.
### 8.1.1 Maximum output power {#maximum-output-power .list-paragraph}
In Rel-12, Band 31 was introduced, which is a similar operating band as the
new band in 450MHz frequency. Both bands are 2x 5MHz band arrangement and
support 1.4/3/5 MHz channel bandwidths. Similar approach as Band 31 can be
taken for this new band specification. The same maximum output power and UE
reference sensitivity as Band 31 can be adopted, since the same performance of
front-end devices is expected.
Table 8.1.1-1: E-UTRA frequency bands
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                          F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
31 452.5 MHz -- 457.5 MHz 462.5 MHz -- 467.5 MHz FDD
73 450 MHz -- 455 MHz 460 MHz -- 465 MHz FDD
* * *
Standard LTE Transmitter output power class will be specified as power class 3
with ± 2 dB tolerances.
UE category M1 Transmitter output power classes will be specified as power
classes 3 and 5 with ± 2 dB tolerances.
UE category NB1/NB2 Transmitter output power classes will be specified as
power classes 3 and 5 with ± 2 dB tolerances and power class 6 with ± 2.5 dB
tolerances.
### 8.1.2 Spurious emission band UE coexistence {#spurious-emission-band-ue-
coexistence .list-paragraph}
Band number 71 was assigned to the newly proposed USA 600MHz band in the last
RAN Plenary [RP-170051]. In [R4-1703211] we propose band number 72 to the new
450MHz FDD Europe band. In [R4-1703214], we propose to number this new band as
Band 73. The following table shows the spurious emission band UE coexistence
of this new band and the other bands which will be deployed in the same
region/country.
_====== Start of text extracted from TS 36.101 ======_
#### 6.6.3.1A Spurious emission band UE co-existence
This clause specifies the requirements for the specified E-UTRA band, for
coexistence with protected bands.
NOTE: For measurement conditions at the edge of each frequency range, the
lowest frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be
set at the lowest boundary of the frequency range plus MBW/2. The highest
frequency of the measurement position in each frequency range should be set at
the highest boundary of the frequency range minus MBW/2. MBW denotes the
measurement bandwidth defined for the protected band.
Table 6.6.3.1A-1: Requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | Band | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | NOTE | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1880 | | 1895 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 27 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1895 | | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 2 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 3 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 13 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 13 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 4 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 5 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | 859 | - | 869 | -27 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 26 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -40 | 1 | 39 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 39 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 39 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 6 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 875 | -37 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 875 | - | 895 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 7 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 919.6 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1 | - | 1 | | | 8 | | | | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 7 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2570 | - | 2575 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2575 | - | 2595 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2620 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 21 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 8 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 7, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 8 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 23 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 23 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 23 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 9 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 10 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 11 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 13 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 14 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 30 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 15 | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 14 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 769 | - | 775 | -35 | 0. | 12, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 15 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | 11, | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | 12, | | | range | | | | | | 15 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 17 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 48 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 12 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 18 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 860 | - | 890 | -40 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 19 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 69 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 788 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 21 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | 839.9 | | 879.9 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2545 | - | 2575 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2595 | - | 2645 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 22 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 69 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3510 | - | 3525 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 3525 | - | 3590 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 23 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 66 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 24 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 25 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 4, 5, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 0,12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 43 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 26 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 703 | - | 799 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 803 | -40 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 945 | - | 960 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 27 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | 790 | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 28 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 799 | - | 805 | -35 | 0. | | | | uency | | | | | 00625 | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 28 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 4, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 25 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 19, | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | 24 | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 470 | - | 694 | -42 | 8 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 35 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 470 | - | 710 | -26.2 | 6 | 34 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 662 | - | 694 | -26.2 | 6 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 758 | - | 773 | -32 | 1 | 15 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 773 | - | 803 | -50 | 1 | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 19 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 30 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 5, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 69 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 33 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 34 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 5 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 8,39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 35 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 36 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 37 | | | - | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 39 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 8, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1805 | | 1855 | -40 | 1 | 33 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1855 | | 1880 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26,33 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 40 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 41 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13 , | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 30 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 9, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8, 30 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 8 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 43 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 1,32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 69, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | [ | [1] | 3 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | -50] | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 22 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 44 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 45 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 5, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 45 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | 2.44, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 47 | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 3, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 73 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 5925 | - | 5950 | -30 | 1 | 38, | | | uency | | | | | | 40 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 5815 | - | 5855 | -30 | 1 | 38 | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 48 | E | FD~L\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | D~L_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 65 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 69 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 41 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 36 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 34 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1 | - | 1 | -41 | 0.3 | 37 | | | uency | 884.5 | | 915.7 | | | | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1900 | - | 1915 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | Freq | 1915 | - | 1920 | +1.6 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 26, | | | range | | | | | | 27 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 66 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 7, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 48 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 68 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 7, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | ... | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 70 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 73 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 1, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 47 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 3, 5, | | | | | | | | | 8, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 40 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | refer | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 5.5-1 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | Due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | spre | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | tside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | (2MHz | | | | | | | | | + N x | | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | | ~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 180 | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: To | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 5: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | non | | | | | | | | | sy | | | | | | | | | nchro | | | | | | | | | nised | | | | | | | | | TDD | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | meet | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | some | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | estri | | | | | | | | | ction | | | | | | | | | will | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | n | | | | | | | | | eeded | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | ither | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 6: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 7: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1919. | | | | | | | | | 6MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 8: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | co | | | | | | | | | -exis | | | | | | | | | tence | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PHS | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ystem | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 884.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1915. | | | | | | | | | 7MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 9: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 10: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 11: | | | | | | | | | Wh | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | 793-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | stead | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | 799-8 | | | | | | | | | 05MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | TBD | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 12: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sions | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | ffici | | | | | | | | | ently | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | ave | | | | | | | | | raged | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | nsure | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sta | | | | | | | | | ndard | | | | | | | | | devi | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | \ 3\. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 24: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -38 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 25: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -36 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 27: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1920 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1980 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 927.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 929.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1930 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1938 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 28: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 29: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 30: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | 45-25 | | | | | | | | | 75MHz | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | 95-26 | | | | | | | | | 45MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | is 10 | | | | | | | | | or 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 31: | | | | | | | | | N/A | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 32: | | | | | | | | | Void | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 33: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | -1920 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | (r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | 1RB | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1880 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pecif | | | | | | | | | ied). | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 892.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 894.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1895 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1903 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 34: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for 5 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | allo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | 18-72 | | | | | | | | | 8MHz. | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 30 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | > 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | \ 3\. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 12: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1920 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1980 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 927.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 929.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1930 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1938 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NO | | | | | | | | | TE13: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 14: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2500 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2570 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 560.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 562.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2552 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2560 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 15: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_15 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.8 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | net | | | | | | | | | work. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 16: | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | S_09 | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.3.4 | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | sign | | | | | | | | | alled | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 17: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 1765 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 18: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | 45-25 | | | | | | | | | 75MHz | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | 25 | | | | | | | | | 95-26 | | | | | | | | | 45MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | is 10 | | | | | | | | | or 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 19: | | | | | | | | | Void | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 20: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | -1920 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | (r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | 1RB | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 1880 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1885 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | pecif | | | | | | | | | ied). | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 892.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | 894.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 1895 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 1903 | | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 21: | | | | | | | | | As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -38 | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | m/MHz | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | An | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | there | | | | | | | | | is at | | | | | | | | | least | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | indiv | | | | | | | | | idual | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (see | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | | MBW). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 22: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 703 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 733 | | | | | | | | | MHz, | | | | | | | | | othe | | | | | | | | | rwise | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | -25 | | | | | | | | | dBm | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | of 8 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | app | | | | | | | | | lies. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 23: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for 5 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | allo | | | | | | | | | cated | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | 7 | | | | | | | | | 18-72 | | | | | | | | | 8MHz. | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 10 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth, | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 30 | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | RB | | | | | | | | | start | | | | | | | | | > 1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | R | | | | | | | | | Bstar | | | | | | | | | t\ a. | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | > ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | -BW/2 | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | F~Iof | | | | | | | | | fset, | | | | | | | | | \ cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | > b. | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | > ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | +BW/2 | | | | | | | | | > \+ | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | F~Iof | | | | | | | | | fset, | | | | | | | | | \ cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | F~I | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | unw | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | enter | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | reque | | | | | | | | | ncies | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
For the UE which supports inter band CA configuration in Table 7.3.1-1A,
P~Interferer~ power defined in Table 7.6.1.1-2 is increased by the amount
given by ΔR~IB,c~ in Table 7.3.1-1A.
#### 7.6.2.1 Minimum requirements
The throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum throughput of the reference
measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.2.2, A.2.3 and A.3.2 (with one
sided dynamic OCNG Pattern OP.1 FDD/TDD for the DL-signal as described in
Annex A.5.1.1/A.5.2.1) with parameters specified in Tables 7.6.2.1-1 and
7.6.2.1-2. For operating bands with an unpaired DL part (as noted in Table
5.5-1), the requirements only apply for carriers assigned in the paired part.
For Table 7.6.2.1-2 in frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to
$\text{max}$exceptions are allowed for spurious response frequencies in each
assigned frequency channel when measured using a 1MHz step size, where
$N_{\text{RB}}$ is the number of resource blocks in the downlink transmission
bandwidth configuration (see Figure 5.6-1). For these exceptions the
requirements of subclause 7.7 Spurious response are applicable.
For Table 7.6.2.1-2 in frequency range 4, up to $\text{max}$exceptions are
allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned frequency channel
when measured using a 1MHz step size, where $N_{\text{RB}}$ is the number of
resource blocks in the downlink transmission bandwidth configurations (see
Figure 5.6-1) and $L_{\text{CRBs}}$ is the number of resource blocks allocated
in the uplink. For these exceptions the requirements of clause 7.7 spurious
response are applicable.
Table 7.6.2.1-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | Para | | annel | | | | | | | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Power | dBm | RE | | | | | | | in | | FSENS | | | | | | | Tr | | + | | | | | | | ansmi | | ch | | | | | | | ssion | | annel | | | | | | | Band | | band | | | | | | | width | | width | | | | | | | Con | | spe | | | | | | | figur | | cific | | | | | | | ation | | value | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | 6 | 6 | 6 | 6 | 7 | 9 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 4dB | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | PCM | | | | | | | | | AX_L | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | PCM | | | | | | | | | AX_L | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | 6 | | | | | | | | | .2.5. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | FD | | | | | | | | | D/TDD | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | A.5. | | | | | | | | | 1.1/A | | | | | | | | | .5.2. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | RE | | | | | | | | | FSENS | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.3 | | | | | | | | | .1-1a | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | four | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | tenna | | | | | | | | | p | | | | | | | | | orts, | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 4: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | cat | | | | | | | | | egory | | | | | | | | | M1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | M2 | | | | | | | | | UE, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | refe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ensit | | | | | | | | | ivity | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | cat | | | | | | | | | egory | | | | | | | | | M1 in | | | | | | | | | table | | | | | | | | | 7.3 | | | | | | | | | .1E-3 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | cat | | | | | | | | | egory | | | | | | | | | M2 in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 7.3 | | | | | | | | | .1E-8 | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | hould | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | RE | | | | | | | | | FSENS | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | Conf | | | | | | | | | igura | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | N | | | | | | | | | OTE5: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | cat | | | | | | | | | egory | | | | | | | | | M1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | M2 | | | | | | | | | UE, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | param | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | pply. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.2.1-2: Out of band blocking
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | Pa | Units | Fr | | | | | band | rameter | | equency | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | Range 4 | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | P~Inte | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | -15 | | | rferer~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1, 2, | F~Inte | MHz | F~D | F~D | F~D | - | | 3, 4, | rferer~ | | L_low~ | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | 5, 6, | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | 9, 10, | | | F~D | F~D | 1 MHz | | | 11, 12, | | | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | 13, 14, | | | -60 | -85 | | | | 17, 18, | | | | | | | | 19, 20, | | | | | | | | 21, 22, | | | | | | | | 23, 24, | | | | | | | | 25, 26, | | | | | | | | 27, 28, | | | | | | | | 30, 31, | | | | | | | | 33, 34, | | | | | | | | 35, 36, | | | | | | | | 37, 38, | | | | | | | | 39, 40, | | | | | | | | 41, 42 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 2), 43 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 2), 44, | | | | | | | | 45, 48 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 2), 65, | | | | | | | | 66, 68, | | | | | | | | 70, 73 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | F~DL | F~DL | F~DL | - | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | _high~ | | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL | F~DL | +12750 | | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | MHz | | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2, 5, | F~Inte | MHz | - | - | - | F~U | | 12, 17 | rferer~ | | | | | L_low\ | | | | | | | | **-** ~ | | | | | | | | F~UL | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 5) | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | upports | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band 21 | | | | | | | | the out | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | is FFS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | erferer | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | P~Inter | | | | | | | | ferer~) | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | odified | | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | | F~Inte | | | | | | | | rferer~ | | | | | | | | > 2800 | | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | | F~Inte | | | | | | | | rferer~ | | | | | | | | \< 4400 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | | UE that | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | upports | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | 66, the | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | ut-of-b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | elative | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | F~D | | | | | | | | L_low~ | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | F~DL | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | of Band | | | | | | | | 66. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | sup | | | | | | | | porting | | | | | | | | CA_2 | | | | | | | | 0A-28A, | | | | | | | | CA_1A- | | | | | | | | 3A-7A-2 | | | | | | | | 0A-28A, | | | | | | | | CA_ | | | | | | | | 1A-3A-2 | | | | | | | | 0A-28A, | | | | | | | | CA_ | | | | | | | | 1A-7A-2 | | | | | | | | 0A-28A, | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | A_1A-2 | | | | | | | | 0A-28A, | | | | | | | | CA_ | | | | | | | | 3A-7A-2 | | | | | | | | 0A-28A, | | | | | | | | CA_3A- | | | | | | | | 20A-28A | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | CA_7A- | | | | | | | | 20A-28A | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Band 20 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band 28 | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | F~D | | | | | | | | L_low~ | | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | tricted | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 28 and | | | | | | | | F~DL | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | by Band | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | | (Table | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | .5A-2). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | | Range 4 | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | ategory | | | | | | | | M1 and | | | | | | | | M2. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#### 7.6.2.1F Minimum requirements for category NB1 and NB2
The category NB1 and NB2 UE throughput shall be ≥ 95% of the maximum
throughput of the reference measurement channels as specified in Annexes A.3.2
with parameters specified in Table 7.6.2.1F-1.
For Table 7.6.2.1F-1 in frequency range 1, 2 and 3, up to 24 exceptions are
allowed for spurious response frequencies in each assigned frequency channel
when measured using a 1MHz step size. For these exceptions the requirements of
subclause 7.7.1F spurious response are applicable.
Table 7.6.2.1F-1: Out-of-band blocking parameters for category NB1 and NB2 UE
+--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | Parameter | Units | Frequency | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | P~wanted~ | dBm | REFSENS + 6 | | | | | | dB | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | P | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | | ~interferer~ | | | | | | (CW) | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | F | MHz | F~DL_low~ - | F~DL_low~ - | F~DL_low~ - | | ~interferer~ | | 15 to | 60 to | 85 to 1 MHz | | range | | F~DL_low~ - | F~DL_low~ - | | | | | 60 | 85 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | MHz | F~DL_high~ | F~ | F~ | | | | + 15 to | DL_high\ +~ | DL_high\ +~ | | | | F~DL_high~ | 60 to | 85 to 12750 | | | | + 60 | F~DL_high~ | MHz | | | | | + 85 | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For | | | | | | operating | | | | | | bands which | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | band | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range is | | | | | | between 729 | | | | | | MHz \< f \< | | | | | | 1 GHz the | | | | | | power level | | | | | | of the | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | (P~ | | | | | | Interferer~) | | | | | | for Range 3 | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | modified to: | | | | | | -18 dBm for | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range which | | | | | | is bounded | | | | | | by | | | | | | F~DL_low~ - | | | | | | 150 MHz of | | | | | | the lowest | | | | | | band that UE | | | | | | supports in | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range 729 | | | | | | MHz \< f \< | | | | | | 1 GHz and | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 150 MHz of | | | | | | the highest | | | | | | band that UE | | | | | | supports in | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range 729 | | | | | | MHz \< f \< | | | | | | 1 GHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For | | | | | | operating | | | | | | bands which | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | band | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range is | | | | | | between | | | | | | 1475.9 MHz | | | | | | \< f \< 2200 | | | | | | MHz the | | | | | | power level | | | | | | of the | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | (P~ | | | | | | Interferer~) | | | | | | for Range 3 | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | modified to: | | | | | | -20 dBm for | | | | | | the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range which | | | | | | is bounded | | | | | | by | | | | | | F~DL_low~- | | | | | | 200 MHz of | | | | | | the lowest | | | | | | band that UE | | | | | | supports in | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range 1475.9 | | | | | | MHz \< f \< | | | | | | 2200 MHz and | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 200 MHz of | | | | | | the highest | | | | | | band that UE | | | | | | supports | | | | | | supports in | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range 1475.9 | | | | | | MHz \< f \< | | | | | | 2200 MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | operating | | | | | | bands which | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | band | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range is | | | | | | between 460 | | | | | | MHz \< f \< | | | | | | 467.5 MHz | | | | | | the power | | | | | | level of the | | | | | | interferer | | | | | | (P~ | | | | | | Interferer~) | | | | | | for Range 3 | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | modified to: | | | | | | -- 18 dBm | | | | | | for the | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range which | | | | | | is bounded | | | | | | by | | | | | | F~DL_low~ - | | | | | | 150 MHz of | | | | | | the lowest | | | | | | band that UE | | | | | | supports in | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range 460 | | | | | | MHz \< f \< | | | | | | 467.5 0 MHz | | | | | | and | | | | | | F~DL_high~ | | | | | | + 150 MHz of | | | | | | the highest | | | | | | band that UE | | | | | | supports | | | | | | supports in | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | range 460 | | | | | | MHz \< f \< | | | | | | 467.5. | | | | | +--------------+-------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
_====== End of text extracted from TS 36.101 ======_
## 8.2 BS RF requirements
The following 36.104 changes are expected due to introduction of Band 73:
### 8.2.1 Operating band unwanted emissions {#operating-band-unwanted-
emissions .list-paragraph}
_====== Start of text extracted from TS 36.104 ======_
#### 6.6.3.1 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category A)
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 26, 27, 28,
29, 31, 44, 68, 73 emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in
Tables 6.6.3.1‑1 to 6.6.3.1-3.
#### 6.6.3.2 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category B)
##### 6.6.3.2.1 Category B requirements (Option 1)
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 5, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 20, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31,
44, 68, 67, 73 emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in
Tables 6.6.3.2.1-1 to 6.6.3.2.1-3:
#### 6.6.4.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements
##### 6.6.4.3.1 Minimum Requirement
Table 6.6.4.3.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands
* * *
System type for E-UTRA to co-exist with Frequency range for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note E-UTRA Band 31 462.5 -
467.5 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating
in band 31, 72 and 73. 452.5 - 457.5 MHz -49 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does
not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in band 31, since it is already covered by
the requirement in subclause 6.6.4.2. This requirement does not apply to
E-UTRA BS operating in band 72and 73. E-UTRA Band 72 461 - 466 MHz -52 dBm 1
MHz This requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in band 31, 72 and
73. 451 - 456 MHz -49 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS
operating in band 72, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-
clause 6.6.4.2. This requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in band
73. E-UTRA Band 73 460 - 465 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply
to E-UTRA BS operating in band 31, 72]and 73. 450 - 455 MHz -49 dBm 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in band 73, since it is
already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 6.6.4.2.
* * *
#### 6.6.4.4 Co-location with other base stations
##### 6.6.4.4.1 Minimum Requirement
Table 6.6.4.4.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note WA E-UTRA Band 73 450 - 455 MHz -96 dBm 100
kHz
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note LA E-UTRA Band 73 450 - 455 MHz -88 dBm 100
kHz
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-3: BS Spurious emissions limits for Medium range BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note MR E-UTRA Band 73 450 - 455 MHz -91 dBm 100
kHz
* * *
_====== End of text extracted from TS 36.104 ======_
### 8.2.2 General blocking requirement {#general-blocking-requirement .list-
paragraph}
_====== Start of text extracted from TS 36.104 ======_
##### 7.6.1.1 Minimum requirement
Table 7.6.1.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 73 | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +5) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | 73 | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +5) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | wer/h | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | 73 | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +5) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for NB-IoT
standalone operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 73, | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 74 | -20) | | +5) | | 6dB* | 1.1-4 | 1.1-4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-5: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for E-UTRA
with NB-IoT in-band/guard band operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 31, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 72, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 73, | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 74 | -20) | | +5) | | 6dB* | 1.1-6 | 1.1-6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +5) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
#### 7.6.2 Co-location with other base stations
##### 7.6.2.1 Minimum requirement
Table 7.6.2.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA and NB-IoT Wide
Area BS when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal WA E-UTRA Band 73 460 -- 465 +16** P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal LA E-UTRA Band 73 460 -- 465 -6 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Medium Range BS
when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal MR E-UTRA Band 73 460 -- 465 +8 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
_====== End of text extracted from TS 36.104 ======_
# 9 Study of MSR specific issues
# 10 Channel numbering for E-UTRA, MSR
## 10.1 Band plan
In the WID, a band plan of 2x5MHz with duplex gap of 5MHz was proposed, which
UL is at 450-455MHz and DL is at 460-465MHz. The duplex separation is 10MHz.
In the existing LTE bands, there is one band (Band 31) which is quite similar
to this new band. Band 31 is also in the 450MHz frequency range. It is a
2x5MHz band with duplex gap of 5MHz, which UL is at 452.5-457.5MHz and DL is
at 462.5-467.5MHz. The duplex separation is also 10MHz. The only difference
between these two bands is the 2.5MHz offset.
Extensive studies were done when Band 31 was defined. This 2x5Mz with 5MHz
duplex gap is feasible. So, this new band plan can be as following.
**_\- 2x5MHz: 450 -- 455 MHz (UL) / 460 -- 465 MHz (DL)_**
## 10.2 Band number and channel bandwidths
This new band can be numbered as Band 73. The follow two table show its band
number, operating band frequency, and channel bandwidths.
Table 10.2-1: Band number
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                          F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
1 1920 MHz -- 1980 MHz 2110 MHz -- 2170 MHz FDD
... ... ... ...
... ... ... ...
31 452.5 MHz -- 457.5 MHz 462.5 MHz -- 467.5 MHz FDD
... ... ... ...
70 1695 MHz -- 1710 MHz 1995 MHz -- 2020 MHz FDD^10^
... ... ...
73 450 MHz -- 455 MHz 460 MHz -- 465 MHz FDD
* * *
Table 10.2-2: Channel bandwidths
* * *
E-UTRA band / Channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 1 Yes Yes **Yes** **Yes**
...  
**31** **Yes** **Yes^1^** **Yes^1^**  
**...**  
70 Yes Yes Yes Yes **...**  
73 **Yes** **Yes^1^** **Yes^1^**
* * *
## 10.3 EARFCN
Band number 71 was assigned to the newly proposed USA 600MHz band in the last
RAN Plenary [RP-170051]. Band number 72 is proposed for the 450MHz FDD Europe
new band in [R4-1703211]. The following table provides the EARFCN for this
450MHz FDD band in Europe.
Table 10.3-1: EARFCN
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | D | Uplink | | | | | | Op | ownlink | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | F~D | N~O | Range | F~U | N~O | Range | | | L_low~ | ffs-DL~ | of | L_low~ | ffs-UL~ | of | | | (MHz) | | N~DL~ | (MHz) | | N~UL~ | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1 | 2110 | 0 | 0 -- | 1920 | 18000 | 18000 | | | | | 599 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 18599 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 31 | 462.5 | 9870 | 9870 -- | 452.5 | 27760 | 27760 | | | | | 9919 | | | -- | | | | | | | | 27809 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ... | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 70^6^ | 1995 | 68336 | 68336 - | 1695 | 132972 | 132972 | | | | | 68585 | | | - | | | | | | | | 133121 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 71 | 617 | 68586 | 68586 - | 663 | 133122 | 133122 | | | | | 68935 | | | - | | | | | | | | 133471 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 72 | 461 | 68936 | 68936 - | 451 | 133472 | 133472 | | | | | 68985 | | | - | | | | | | | | 133521 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 73 | 460 | 68986 | 68986 - | 450 | 133522 | 133522 | | | | | 69035 | | | - | | | | | | | | 133571 | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
# 11 Required changes to E-UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new band are
summarised in a Table 11-1.
Table 11-1: Overview of 3GPP specifications with required changes
* * *
3GPP specification Clause in TR 36.759 where the required changes are given
Clause in the present document identifying additional changes TS 36.101
8.2.1.1  
TS 36.104 8.2.1.2  
TS 36.113 8.2.1.4  
TS 36.124 8.2.1.5  
TS 36.133 8.2.1.6  
TS 36.141 8.2.1.7  
TS 25.101 8.2.2.1  
TS 25.104 8.2.2.3  
TS 25.123 8.2.2.7  
TS 25.133 8.2.2.9  
TS 25.141 8.2.2.10  
TS 25.461 8.2.2.15  
TS 25.466 8.2.2.16  
TS 37.104 8.2.3.1  
TS 37.113 8.2.2.2  
TS 37.141 8.2.2.3
* * *
#