# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item of US 600 MHz LTE
FDD band.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-170740, New WID US 600 MHz Band for LTE.
[3] Expanding the Economic and Innovation Opportunities of Spectrum Through
Incentive Auctions, GN Docket No. 12-268, Report and Order, FCC 14-50.
[4] PROCEDURES FOR COMPETITIVE BIDDING IN AUCTION 1000, GN Docket No. 12-268,
PUBLIC NOTICE, FCC 15-78.
[5] \"Clearing Target of 84 MHz set for Stage 4 of the Broadcast Television
Spectrum Incentive Auction\", FCC Public Notice, DA16-1354.
[6] \"Experimental Radio, Auxiliary, Special Broadcast and Other Program
Distributional Services\", 47 CFR Part 74.
[7] \"Radio Broadcast Services\", 47 CFR Part 73.
[8] Miscellaneous Wireless Communications Services, Title 47, Part 27 of eCFR
[https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/47/part-27]{.underline}.
[9] ETSI EN 300 422-1 (V1.4.2) (2011-08): \"Electromagnetic compatibility and
Radio spectrum Matters (ERM); Wireless microphones in the 25 MHz to 3 GHz
frequency range; Part 1: Technical characteristics and methods of
measurement\".
[10] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[11] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
_BW_ Bandwidth
_∆f_ Separation between the channel edge frequency and the nominal -3dB point
of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
_∆f~max~_ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
_F~DL_low~_ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
_F~DL_high~_ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
_F~UL_low~_ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
_F~UL_high~_ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
_f_offset_ Separation between the channel edge frequency and the centre of the
measuring filter
_f_offset~max~_ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the
requirement
_N~DL~_ Downlink EARFCN
_N~Offs-DL~_ Offset used for calculating downlink EARFCN
_N~Offs-UL~_ Offset used for calculating uplink EARFCN
_N~UL~_ Uplink EARFCN
_P~REFSENS~_ Reference Sensitivity power level
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ACLR Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
BS Base Station
CBRS Citizens Broadband Radio Service
CIM Counter-InterModulation
CW Continuous Wave
DL Downlink
DTV Digital Television
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
eCFR electronic Code of Federal Regulation
EIRP Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
ERP Effective Radiated Power
ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GEHC GE Healthcare
HAAT Height Above Average Terrain
LA Local Area
LO Local Oscillator
MOP Maximum Output Power
MR Medium Range
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
NF Noise Figure
NRAO National Radio Astronomy Observatory
NSF National Science Foundation
PA Power Amplifier
PRB Physical Resource Block
RAS Radio Astronomy Service
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
RX Receiver
SEM Spectrum Emission Mask
TX Transmitter
UE User Equipment
UHF Ultra High Frequency
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
VLBA Very Long Baseline Array
WA Wide Area
WMTS Wireless Medical Telemetry Service
# 4 Background
The FCC has adopted rules for the Broadcast Incentive Auction [3]. The \"clock
phase\" of the auction recently closed at stage 4, which aims to clear 84 MHz
for mobile broadband services. This 84 MHz band plan [4] features a 2x35 MHz
FDD spectrum with the uplink band (mobile transmit) in the upper 35 MHz from
663 to 698 MHz and downlink band (BS transmit) in the lower 35 MHz from 617 to
652 MHz; it also features an 11 MHz duplex gap and a 3 MHz guard band above
Channel 37. The band plan is shown in Figure 4-1. With the \"clock phase\" now
concluded, the 84 MHz band plan will be the final FCC band plan.
To facilitate the US 600 MHz eco-system development in a timely manner, it is
proposed to standardize a new E-UTRA operating band based on the FCC 84 MHz
band plan [2].
{width="6.695138888888889in" height="2.138888888888889in"}
Figure 4-1: US 600 MHz Band Plan Scenarios
# 5 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
## 5.1 Operating band and channel bandwidth
The band plan for Band 71 is shown below. The Tx-Rx is \"reverse-duplex\"; in
other words, the downlink frequency band is below the duplex gap while the
uplink frequency band is above the duplex gap. This arrangement is opposite to
conventional notation; however, for this band, it provides the benefit of
aligning the uplink band adjacent to that of 700 MHz bands thereby minimizing
interference conditions at the 698 MHz boundary.
Table 5.1-1: E-UTRA operating bands
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                          F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
71 663 MHz -- 698 MHz 617 MHz -- 652 MHz FDD
* * *
Supported bandwidths are shown in Table 5.1-2.
{width="6.697916666666667in" height="2.0729166666666665in"}
Figure 5.1-1: Band 71 spectrum and possible full or split duplexer
architectures
Figure 5.1-1 above provides a view of both full band duplexer and a 15 MHz
overlap split duplexer approach. Given that frequency blocks A to G are
allocated on a 5 MHz grid both approaches support all possible 20 MHz
channels.
Band 28 already supports single and split duplexer for the same reason as seen
for Band 71. This was captured in the specification by adding a note to the 20
MHz channel bandwidth support specifying the possible allocated carriers
within two frequency ranges. In order to apply the same approach for Band 71 a
note is introduced stating that for the 20 MHz bandwidth, the minimum
requirements are specified for E-UTRA UL carrier frequencies confined to
either 673-678 MHz or 683-688 MHz. The proposed changes to Table 5.6.1-1 in TS
36.101 [10] are highlighted in the extract of the table below.
Table 5.1-2: E-UTRA channel bandwidth
* * *
E-UTRA band / Channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 71 **Yes** **Yes**
**Yes** **Yes^1^** NOTE: ^1^For the 20MHz bandwidth, the minimum requirements
are specified for E-UTRA UL carrier frequencies confined to either 673-678 MHz
or 683-688 MHz.
* * *
Tx-Rx separation is shown in Table 5.1-3.
Table 5.1-3: Default UE TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band TX -- RX\ carrier centre frequency\ separation
71 -46 MHz
* * *
## 5.2 Adjacent 3GPP bands
The nearby 3GPP bands are summarized as figure 5.2-1. The Band 12, Band 17,
Band 13, Band 14, Band 28 and Band 29 are Region 2 bands, which should be
considered especially in co-existence study of US 600 MHz band. However, Band
44, which is not utilized in Region 2, could be not taken into account in
study of US 600 MHz band.
Figure 5.2-1: Illustration on nearby 3GPP Bands
## 5.3 Nearby non-3GPP Services
### 5.3.1 Introduction
Existing primary operations near the 600 MHz Band include Television services
and Channel 37 Wireless Medical Telemetry Service (WMTS) and Radio Astronomy
Service (RAS), which are entitled to interference protection from 600 MHz
broadband wireless services. While, unlicensed white space device and wireless
microphone operations are allowed in the duplex gap, guard band and service
band where 600 MHz licensees have not commenced operations; they are subjected
to FCC rules to protect 600 MHz services from harmful interference.
Coexistence issues and possible impacts on 600 MHz band RF requirements are
analysed below.
### 5.3.2 Coexistence between 600 MHz and TV Services
84 MHz band plan consists of seven 100% unimpaired blocks in all 416 Partial
Economic Areas [5], meaning that Broadcast TV services are present only below
channel 37. Such services include licensee of full power TV stations and low-
power TV stations that have been accorded primary status as a Class A TV
licensee under the section 73.6001(a) of electronic Code of Federal Regulation
(eCFR).
Low power DTV stations are allowed to operate at a maximum ERP of 15 kW in UHF
channels; while the power level of emissions on frequencies outside the
authorized channel of operation must be attenuated below the average
transmitted power within the authorized 6 MHz channel no less than what
specified in section 74.794 of eCFR [6].
Full power DTV stations are allowed to operate in UHF channels at a maximum
ERP of 1000 kW if their antenna height above average terrain (HAAT) is at or
below 365 meters; and with lower maximum ERP levels as specified in section
73.622 (f) of eCFR at higher HAAT levels. _The power level of emissions on
frequencies outside the authorized channel of operation must be attenuated no
less than 47 [dB]{.underline} in the first 500 kHz from the channel edge, no
less than 110 [dB]{.underline} at more than 6 MHz from the channel edge; and
no less than −11.5(ΔF 3.6) dB (where ΔF is the frequency difference in MHz
from the edge of the channel) at any frequency between 0.5 and 6 MHz from the
channel edge_ [7]. This attenuation is based on a measurement bandwidth of 500
kHz.
Broadcast TV services and Band 71 Downlink are separated by 9 MHz guard band
(including channel 37), which is 2 MHz larger than the minimum frequency
separation required by FCC to protect against a TV transmitter interfering
with a mobile broadband UE receiver and an BS transmitter interfering with a
TV receiver [3]. Being such protection guard band evaluated considering the
emission limit specified by FCC in [8], no additional emission limits to
protect TV services are considered necessary to be included in RF requirements
for Band 71.
On the other hand, taking into account that the highest likely television
signal that a wireless device may experience is -15dBm (before antenna gain is
applied) as estimated in [3], the presence of broadcast TV operations in the
close channel 36 requires to consider such RX power level in the definition of
UE in band blocking requirement.
### 5.3.2 Coexistence between 600 MHz and Channel 37 WMTS and RAS Services
#### 5.3.2.1 Coexistence with WMTS
Wireless Medical Telemetry Service (WMTS) is used for remote monitoring of
patients\'vital signs and other important health parameters. WMTS devices,
regulated by subpart H of 47 CFR Part 95, are authorized to operate anywhere
within a health care facility.
_Both narrow band and broadband (i.e. spread spectrum) technologies are
allowed. If spread spectrum is used, 4 non-overlapping 1.5 MHz channels are
defined, and WMTS devices shall be capable to operate within one or more of
such 1.5 MHz channels._
WMTS is widely deployed in Channel 37 (more than 100K WMTS devices deployed,
and WMTS infrastructure installed in 1300 hospitals - according to America
Society of Health care engineering estimation at the end of 2012) Transmitters
are generally frequency division multiplexed with typical occupied bandwidth
of 10 kHz and employ relatively small TX power to permit several days of
continuous data transmission.
For channel 37 operations, WMTS devices (patient units) are generally TX only
and the DASs (routing data to central monitoring stations) are RX only.
The maximum field strength authorized for WMTS stations in the 608-614 MHz
band is 200 mV/m (10.8 dBm/120 kHz EIRP), as measured at a distance of 3
meters, using measuring instrumentation with a CISPR quasi-peak detector;
while the out-of-band emissions limit below 960 MHz is 200 μV/m (≈-49.2
dBm/120 kHz).The worst case WMTS emission at the FCC limit (200mV/m at 3 meter
separation) would result in UE received power of -32.9 dBm for a single
narrowband WMTS interferer (assuming -6 dBi UE antenna). There are no plans to
standardize UE requirements for blocking protection against WMTS transmitters.
With reference to wireless broadband BSs operations that pose a harmful
interference risk if placed adjacent to channel 37 in locations near WMTS
sites, to meet the GEHC protection criteria limiting the field strength, as
measured at the perimeter of a health care facility at the edge of channel 37,
to 20mV/m/MHz to protect WMTS from overload interference, and to 10μV/m/100
kHz (in channel 37) to provide WMTS protection from out-of-band interference,
FCC specified 3 MHz guard band between 600 MHz DL and channel 37, and
calculated example separation distances to protect WMTS from overload and OOB
interference (up to 96 meters and 245 meters respectively). No additional
emission limits to protect WMTS services are considered necessary to be
included in BS RF requirements for Band 71.
#### 5.3.2.2 Coexistence with RAS
Radio Astronomy Service (RAS) is a receive-only service that uses highly
sensitive receivers to examine and study radio waves of cosmic origin. There
are twelve RAS telescopes that have been using channel 37 or plan to use it in
the near future. Of these, ten comprise the National Radio Astronomy
Observatory\'s (NRAO\'s) Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA), which are
distributed in several locations in the United States and its territories. The
remaining two telescopes are characterized as single dish instruments (Green
Bank - WV and Arecibo - PR observatories).
To protect RAS from harmful interference, FCC requires 600 MHz wireless BSs
located within 25 kilometres of VLBA observatories to coordinate with the
National Science Foundation (NSF) prior to commencing operation; while those
located close to dish radio astronomy installations are required to notify
technical details of the proposed operations according to section 1.924 of
Part 47 CFR.
No additional emission limits need to be included in BS RF requirements for
the 600 MHz band.
### 5.3.3 Coexistence between 600 MHz and Unlicensed White Space Devices &
Wireless Microphones
Unlicensed wireless microphones and white space devices operations in 600 MHz
band are regulated by Part 15 of Title 47 of eCFR [8], which limits power, and
specifies frequency and distance separations to protect authorized services,
as reported below.
White space devices, subject to the interference protection requirements in
paragraph 15.711 and 15.712 and to emission limits in paragraph 15.709, are
permitted to operate in the:
\- Upper 6 MHz segment of 600MHz duplex gap at 40 mW EIRP.
\- TV band and 600 MHz service band, where 600 MHz licensees have not
commenced operations, at specified protection distances at up to 10 W EIRP (if
fixed devices) and at up to 100 mW EIRP (if personal/portable devices). Fixed
device operation in the 602-620 MHz band is limited to a maximum of 4 W (36
dBm) EIRP.
\- Channel 37 at up to 4 W EIRP (if fixed devices) and at up to 100 mW EIRP
(if personal/portable devices).
Unlicensed wireless microphones are permitted to operate in the:
\- upper 6 MHz segment of duplex gap at up to 20 mW EIRP;
\- guard bands adjacent to channel 37 excluding the 1MHz segment farthest from
channel 37 at up to 20 mW EIRP;
\- service band, where 600 MHz licensees have not commenced operations, at
specified separation distances beyond wireless licensee\'s service areas at up
to 50 mW EIRP;
\- channels allocated and assigned for the broadcast television service at up
to 50 mW EIRP.
_Emissions within the band from 1 MHz below to 1 MHz above the carrier
frequency shall comply with the ETSI emission mask in section 8.3 of [9].
Emissions outside this band shall comply with the limit specified at the edges
of the ETSI mask._
Low power auxiliary stations may operate in the 4 MHz segment from 1 to 5 MHz
above the lower edge of the 600 MHz duplex gap at up to 20 mW EIRP.
Eventual impacts on 600 MHz services of such unlicensed operations in the
duplex gap and guard band are not taken into account for the specifications of
600 MHz band RF requirements.
## 5.4 FCC regulation requirement
Wireless communication services in 600 MHz band are governed by Part 27 of
electronic Code of Federal Regulations (eCFR) [8] adopting for such band
technical rules similar to those in the adjacent lower 700 MHz band. Summary
of the FCC rules relevant to RAN4 is provided below.
1) Power Limits
600 MHz fixed and base stations operating in non-rural areas must not exceed
an effective radiated power (ERP) of 1000 watts (for emission bandwidths less
than 1 MHz) or 1000 watts/MHz (for emission bandwidths greater than 1 MHz) and
an antenna height of 305 meter height above average terrain (HAAT). Fixed and
base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer
persons per square mile must not exceed 2000 watts or 2000 watts/MHz ERP and
an antenna height of 305 meter HAAT. Antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT
are permitted if power levels are reduced below the maximum limits in
accordance with Table 5.4-1 below.
Table 5.4-1: Power limits vs. Antenna HAAT
* * *
**Antenna HAAT (meters/feet)** **ERP (watts)** **ERP (watts/MHz)**  
**Emission BW ≤ 1MHz** **Emission BW > 1MHz**  
**Non-rural areas** **Rural areas*** **Non-rural areas** **Rural areas*** >
1372 (4500) 65 130 65 130 1220 (4000) to 1372 (4500) 70 140 70 140 1067 (3500)
to 1220 (4000) 75 150 75 150 915 (3000) to 1067 (3500) 100 200 100 200 763
(2500) to 915 (3000) 140 280 140 280 610 (2000) to 763 (2500) 200 400 200 400
458 (1500) to 610 (2000) 350 700 350 700 305 (1000) to 458 (1500) 600 1200 600
1200 Up to 305 (1000) 1000 2000 1000 2000 NOTE:* with population density of
100 or fewer persons per square mile.
* * *
Portable stations (hand-held devices) and fixed and mobile stations in the 600
MHz uplink band are limited to 3 watts (34.8 dBm) ERP.
2) Emission Limits
The power of any emission outside a licensee´s frequency band/bands of
operations shall be attenuated below the transmitter power P, measured in
watts, by at least 43+10log10(P) dB, considering a resolution bandwidth of 100
kHz or greater, except within 0-100 kHz immediately outside and adjacent a
licensee´s frequency block where it is required to be 30 kHz. That corresponds
to a single absolute emission power spectral density limit of -13 dBm
(Emission limit = PdBW-43-PdB= - 43 dBW = -13 dBm) over the specified
resolution bandwidth for all transmitters (including base stations and
portable devices) regardless of actual ERP or frequency offset.
3) Basic interoperability requirement
Mobile and portable stations that operate on any portion of frequencies in the
600 MHz band must be capable of operating on all frequencies in the 600 MHz
band using the same air interfaces that the equipment utilizes on any
frequencies in the 600 MHz band.
# 6 List of band specific issues for US 600 [ ]{.underline} MHz frequency band
Below is the list of issues that are studied for the US 600 MHz Band 71:
\- Co-existence with other 3GPP operating bands and nearby non-3GPP service in
the USA.
\- BS unwanted emission.
\- UE MOP, unwanted emissions, REFSENS, in-band blocking and A-MPR.
# 7 Study of E-UTRA specific issues
## 7.1 UE aspect issues
### 7.1.1 UE transmitter requirements
#### 7.1.1.1 UE co-existence
It is proposed to add new 600MHz Band 71 into Table 6.6.3.2-1 of TS 36.101 to
address UE co-existence of the Band 71 with other Region 2 bands utilized in
US, which include Band 2, 4, 5, 12, 13, 14, 17, 24, 25, 26, 29, 30, 41, 48, 66
and 70, with legacy emission requirement of -50 dBm/MHz. No A-MPR or RB
restrictions are needed. Harmonic exception should be allowed for Band71 UL to
protect the DL of Band 2, 25, 41 and 70.
#### 7.1.1.2 UE TX maximum output power
Undoubtedly, power class 3 should be still maintained for US 600 MHz Band 71.
However considering current frequency range and filter implementation
challenges, following aspects should be considered in the discussion of the
lower tolerance of maximum output power of.
\- Challenged relative Duplex Gap (11 MHz/657.5 MHz) of 1.67%, legacy
agreement is lower accuracy relaxation on band edge.
\- Additional duplexer switch loss should be considered if dual-duplexer
structure used. Furthermore it is not expected that delta Tc needs to be
defined to account for the filter rolloff at frequencies within 4 MHz of the
band edge due to such filter assumption.
\- According to survey on simulation results on filter performance, TX
insertion loss is comparable to practical TX IL of Band 28 duplexer.
Corresponding relaxation on accuracy of Band 28 can be adopted for Band 71.
Based on above discussion it is proposed to introduce additional 0.5 dB lower
tolerance as an average one rather than normal way with delta Tc on the band
edge. Hence the MOP requirement in table 7.1.1.2-1 shall apply for Band 71.
Table 7.1.1.2-1: UE Power Class
* * *
EUTRA band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) 71 23 +2/-2.5
* * *
#### 7.1.1.3 NS value and Spectrum Emission Mask
In a study of the regulatory requirements, the emission limits for the 600 MHz
band were found to be consistent with those for the lower 700 MHz bands. The
lower 700 MHz bands have been defined in 3GPP with consideration for FCC
emission requirements by network signalling value NS_06. When NS_06 is
signalled by the network, the additional emission requirements shown in the
table below apply. These reflect the attenuation requirement of 43 + 10log(P)
outside of the licensee\'s band with measurement bandwidth of at least 100 kHz
except for within the first 100 kHz where 30 kHz can be used. NS_06 does not
allow any A-MPR backoff as defined today for Bands 12, 13, 14, and 17.
However, two observations are made that deserve consideration before applying
these same requirements to the 600 MHz band. The first observation is that the
existing NS_06 only includes channel bandwidths up to 10 MHz since, of course,
the existing 700 MHz bands do not support 15 and 20 MHz channels. The second
observation, is that the FCC regulation specifies a measurement bandwidth of
100 kHz for the 43 + 10log(P) attenuation requirement. However, the 3GPP-
defined NS_06 requirement specifies a measurement bandwidth of 1 MHz for the
same attenuation requirement. This is to maintain consistency with the 3GPP
general SEM requirement which is defined with measurement bandwidth of 1 MHz.
The 3GPP requirement with measurement bandwidth of 1 MHz is more stringent
than the FCC requirement. Therefore, compliance with the 3GPP requirement
automatically implies compliance with the FCC requirement. The disadvantage,
however, is that the 3GPP requirement may be unnecessarily tight and may
require A-MPR for the 15 and 20 MHz channels.
Given the above observations, there are three options to consider when
extending the NS_06 requirement to Band 71. The first option is to maintain
the NS_06 requirement, maintain the 1 MHz measurement bandwidth, and simply
extend by adding 15 and 20 MHz channels. As described above, this would result
in a 3GPP requirement that is tighter than the regulatory requirement.
Table 7.1.1.3-1: Additional requirements
+--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | | Sp | | | | | | | | | ectrum | | | | | | | | | em | | | | | | | | | ission | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | (dBm)/ | | | | | | | | | C | | | | | | | | | hannel | | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | | dwidth | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | Δ | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Measu | | f~OOB~ | | | | | | | rement | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | | | ban | | (MHz) | | | | | | | dwidth | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± | -13 | -13 | -15 | -18 | -20 | -21 | 30 kHz | | 0-0.1 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 100 | | 0.1-1 | | | | | | | kHz | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 1-2.5 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 2 | | | | | | | | | .5-2.8 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± | | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 2.8-5 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± 5-6 | | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± 6-10 | | | -25 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± | | | | -25 | -13 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 10-15 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± | | | | | -25 | -13 | 1 MHz | | 15-20 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+ | ± | | | | | | -25 | 1 MHz | | 20-25 | | | | | | | | +--------+--------+-----+-----+-----+--------+--------+--------+
The second option is to define the measurement bandwidth to be 100 kHz in
exact accordance with the FCC rules. One could argue that the existing NS_06
could be modified in a similar manner even for the 1.4, 3, 5, and 10 MHz
channel bandwidths since this is how they are specified according to FCC
rules, however, since these requirement have been in place since the Rel-8
specifications and since there is no A-MPR \"penalty\" associated with them,
it is recommended that any such change to the measurement bandwidth be only
applied in Band 71. For example, a new SEM table to supplement the existing
NS_06 table could be added as shown below. If this option is taken, due to the
change in the requirement, it may be prudent to define a new NS value for Band
71 rather than to try to reuse NS_06.
Table 7.1.1.3-2: Additional requirements for 15 MHz and 20 MHz channels
+------------------+------------------+--------+------------------+ | | Spectrum | | | | | emission limit | | | | | (dBm)/ Channel | | | | | bandwidth | | | +------------------+------------------+--------+------------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Measurement | | | | | bandwidth | | (MHz) | | | | +------------------+------------------+--------+------------------+ | ± 0-0.1 | -20 | -21 | 30 kHz | +------------------+------------------+--------+------------------+ | ± 0.1-15 | -13 | -13 | 100 kHz | +------------------+------------------+--------+------------------+ | ± 15-20 | -25^1^ | -13 | 100 kHz | +------------------+------------------+--------+------------------+ | ± 20-25 | | -25 | 1 MHz | +------------------+------------------+--------+------------------+ | Note: ^1^The | | | | | measurement | | | | | bandwidth shall | | | | | be 1 MHz. | | | | +------------------+------------------+--------+------------------+
A third option also exists to apply the 100 kHz measurement bandwidth to all
channel bandwidths 5, 10, 15, and 20 MHz in Band 71. A new NS would be needed
applicable only to Band 71 as the 700 MHz bands would retain NS_06. However,
this option may create some confusion to outside observers or regulators to
see that different NS values and different requirements apply between 600 and
700 MHz bands in 3GPP since the FCC applies the same rules to both bands.
Table 7.1.1.3-3: Additional requirements
+--------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------------+ | Δf~OOB~ | 5 | 10 | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Measurement | | | | | | | bandwidth | | (MHz) | MHz | MHz | | | (unless | | | | | | | otherwise | | | | | | | stated) | +--------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------------+ | ± 0-0.1 | -15 | -18 | -20 | -21 | 30 kHz | +--------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------------+ | ± 0.1-6 | -13 | -13 | -13 | -13 | 100 kHz | +--------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------------+ | ± 6-10 | -25^1^ | -13 | -13 | -13 | 100 kHz | +--------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------------+ | ± 10-15 | | -25^1^ | -13 | -13 | 100 kHz | +--------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------------+ | ± 15-20 | | | -25^1^ | -13 | 100 kHz | +--------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------------+ | ± 20-25 | | | | -25 | 1 MHz | +--------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------------+ | Note: ^1^The | | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | | | | | shall be 1 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | +--------------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------------+
It is proposed that the third option is adopted in the definition of Band 71
since it most accurately reflects the regulatory requirements for this band.
### 7.1.2 UE receiver requirements
#### 7.1.2.1 UE REFSENS
Evaluation results for REFSENS of Band 71 are presented in table 7.1.2.1-1.
And it is agreed to use average value to define the corresponding
requirements.
Table 7.1.2.1-1: Evaluation result summary on REFSENS(2RX) for Band 71
* * *
Source# REFSENS for 5MHz(dBm) REFSENS for 10MHz(dBm) REFSENS for 15MHz(dBm)
REFSENS for 20MHz(dBm) 1 -97 -94 -91.6 -82.2 2 -97 -94 -92.2 -87.9 3 -97 -94
-92.2 -90 4 -97 -94 -91.2 -85.5 5 -97 -94 -92.2 -88.1 6 -98 -95 -92.9 -89.2 7
-89.6 **Average value** -97.2 -94.2 -92 -87.5
* * *
Based on above assessments, the reference sensitivity requirement specified in
table 7.1.2.1-2 shall be met for E-UTRA Band 71 for an uplink transmission
bandwidth less than or equal to the specified in and table 7.1.2.1-3.
Table 7.1.2.1-2: Reference sensitivity QPSK PREFSENS(2RX)
* * *
Channel bandwidth
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz\ 3 MHz\ 5 MHz\ 10 MHz\ 15 MHz\ 20 MHz\ Duplex Mode (dBm)
(dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm)
71 - - -97.2 -94.2 -92 -87.5 FDD
* * *
Table 7.1.2.1-3: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / N~RB~ / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode 71 25 25 ^1^
20 ^1^ 20 ^1^ FDD NOTE: ^1^ refers to the UL resource blocks shall be located
as close as possible to the downlink operating band but confined within the
transmission bandwidth configuration for the channel bandwidth.
* * *
#### 7.1.2.2 In-band blocking
Rx blocking interference from broadcast TV sources was studied previously in
the context of Band 17 and MediaFLO as the interferer. An additional in-band
Rx blocking requirement was imposed on Band 17 as shown below.
Table 7.1.2.2-1: In-band blocking (including old Band 17 requirements)
+---------+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | Pa | Unit | Case 1 | Case 2 | Case 3 | Case 4 | | band | rameter | | | | | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | P~Inte | dBm | -56 | -44 | -30 | -30 | | | rferer~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | F~Inte | MHz | =-BW/2 | ≤-BW/2 | -BW/2 | -BW/2 | | | rferer~ | | -- | -- | -- 15 | -- 10 | | | ( | | F~Io | F~Io | | | | | offset) | | ffset,c | ffset,c | & | | | | | | ase\ 1~ | ase\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | -BW/2 | | | | | | & | & | -- 9 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | =+BW/2 | ≥+BW/2 | | | | | | | + | + | | | | | | | F~Io | F~Io | | | | | | | ffset,c | ffset,c | | | | | | | ase\ 1~ | ase\ 2~ | | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1, 2, | F~Inte | MHz | (Note | F~D | | | | 3, 4, | rferer~ | | 2) | L_low~ | | | | 5, 6, | | | | -- 15 | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | 9, 10, | | | | to | | | | 11, 13, | | | | | | | | 14, 18, | | | | F~DL | | | | 19, 20, | | | | _high~ | | | | 21, 22, | | | | + 15 | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 25, 33, | | | | | | | | 34, 35, | | | | | | | | 36, 37, | | | | | | | | 38, 39, | | | | | | | | 40, 41, | | | | | | | | 42, 43 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 12 | F~Inte | MHz | (Note | F~D | | F~D | | | rferer~ | | 2) | L_low~ | | L_low~ | | | | | | -- 10 | | -- 10 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | + 15 | | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 17 | F~Inte | MHz | (Note | F~D | F~D | | | | rferer~ | | 2) | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | | | | -- 9 | -- 15 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | and | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL | F~D | | | | | | | _high~ | L_low~ | | | | | | | + 15 | -- 9 | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | certain | | | | | | | | bands, | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | nwanted | | | | | | | | mo | | | | | | | | dulated | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | may not | | | | | | | | fall | | | | | | | | inside | | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | | band, | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | within | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | 15 MHz | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | the UE | | | | | | | | receive | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | valid | | | | | | | | for two | | | | | | | | frequ | | | | | | | | encies: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | > fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | > -BW/2 | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | F~Ioff | | | | | | | | set,\ c | | | | | | | | ase\ 1~ | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | > b. | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | carrier | | | | | | | | > fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | > +BW/2 | | | | | | | | > \+ | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | F~Ioffs | | | | | | | | et,\ ca | | | | | | | | se\ 1.~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | F~Inte | | | | | | | | rferer~ | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | values | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | nwanted | | | | | | | | mo | | | | | | | | dulated | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | rfering | | | | | | | | signal | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | erferer | | | | | | | | centre | | | | | | | | frequ | | | | | | | | encies. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | Case 3 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Case 4 | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | ssigned | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | of 5 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
The case 3 blocker was defined to be -30 dBm to account for the Tx power of
the TV broadcaster as well as the propagation loss to the UE receiver. The
wanted signal power level is set at 6 to 9 dB above reference sensitivity and
the blocker is defined as a 5 MHz LTE signal. The Tx power of the TV
broadcaster for MediaFLO is 50 kW and the separation from edge to edge is 12
MHz and 6 MHz between Band 17 downlink and 700 MHz blocks D and E,
respectively. The propagation loss was predicted based on models and drive
tests including data provided in [R4-100430]. It was concluded that with high
probability, the Rx power level at the UE antenna should be -30 dBm or lower.
Thus, the Rx blocker level was defined to be -30 dBm.
For the 600 MHz band, a similar situation exists with TV broadcast in adjacent
channels. However, one significant difference is that power of the TV
broadcast at 600 MHz is up to 1 MW. Assuming a similar propagation loss in 600
MHz compared to 700 MHz, the power level reaching the UE receiver is 13 dB
higher for 600 MHz band compared to Band 17. However, considering that the
propagation is slightly better at 600 MHz than 700 MHz, the maximum Rx power
with high probability is 15 dBm higher, resulting in an Rx blocker level of
-15 dBm. In FCC R&O 14-50, the television signal strength received by the UE
is estimated at -23 dBm. This derivation is based on a received power level of
-15 dBm coupled with a UE Rx antenna gain of -8 dBi. However, the 3GPP
specifications also account for the case where the antenna gain may be as high
as 0 dBi for different types of devices, for example, fixed or nomadic. In TS
36.101, it is stated that a reference antenna with a gain of 0 dBi is assumed
for each antenna port. Taking this into account, the received power level is
then also -15 dBm, consistent with the proposal here.
For the US 600 MHz band plan, the closest broadcast TV is located on Channel
36. The upper edge of Channel 36 is 608 MHz while the lower edge of the 600
MHz band is 617 MHz; thus, there exists a 9 MHz guard band. The separation
from the lower band edge of the 600 MHz band to the centre frequency of
Channel 36 is 12 MHz.
Table 7.1.2.2-2: In-band blocking
+-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Para | Unit | Case | Case | Case | Case | Case | | -UTRA | meter | | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | | band | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | P~I | dBm | -56 | -44 | -15 | Void | -38 | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | F~I | MHz | = | ≤ | | | -BW/2 | | | nterf | | -BW/2 | -BW/2 | | | - 11 | | | erer~ | | -- | -- | | | | | | (of | | F~I | F~I | | | | | | fset) | | offse | offse | | | | | | | | t,cas | t,cas | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | e\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | & | & | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | = | ≥ | | | | | | | | +BW/2 | +BW/2 | | | | | | | | + | + | | | | | | | | F~I | F~I | | | | | | | | offse | offse | | | | | | | | t,cas | t,cas | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | e\ 2~ | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1, 2, | F~I | MHz | (NOTE | F~DL\ | | | | | 3, 4, | nterf | | 2) | _low~ | | | | | 5, 6, | erer~ | | | -- 15 | | | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | | 9, | | | | to | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 11, | | | | F | | | | | 12, | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | 13, | | | | high~ | | | | | 14, | | | | + 15 | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 18, | | | | | | | | | 19, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 21, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 23, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 35, | | | | | | | | | 36, | | | | | | | | | 37, | | | | | | | | | 38, | | | | | | | | | 39, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 44, | | | | | | | | | 45, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 71 | | | | F~DL\ | F~DL | | | | | | | | _low~ | -low~ | | | | | | | | -- 12 | - 12 | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | + 15 | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 30 | F~I | MHz | (NOTE | F~DL\ | | | F~DL\ | | | nterf | | 2) | _low~ | | | _low~ | | | erer~ | | | -- 15 | | | -- 11 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | + 15 | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | rtain | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | unw | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | may | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | fall | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | ceive | | | | | | | | | band, | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | above | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | ceive | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | valid | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | two | | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | | equen | | | | | | | | | cies: | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | > a. | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | > ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | -BW/2 | | | | | | | | | > \- | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | F~Iof | | | | | | | | | fset, | | | | | | | | | \ cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | > and | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | > b. | | | | | | | | | > the | | | | | | | | | > ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | +BW/2 | | | | | | | | | > \+ | | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | | F~Iof | | | | | | | | | fset, | | | | | | | | | \ cas | | | | | | | | | e\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | F~I | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | erer~ | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | v | | | | | | | | | alues | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | unw | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | ering | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | f | | | | | | | | | reque | | | | | | | | | ncies | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
While the above describes the necessary condition for the UE to withstand TV
blocking interference, the feasibility of the UE to meet such requirement
should also be considered. It is expected that the Rx filter in the duplexer
will be required to provide rejection of the TV blocker. Given that the normal
requirement at 12 MHz offset from the band edge is -44 dBm, there is a 29 dB
difference to overcome by the filter, assuming that the normal requirement can
be met without filter assistance.
Filter simulation data is shown below. Filter vendor \"B\" was able to provide
Rx attenuation in Channel 36 of 30 dB while vendor \"A\" was only able to
provide 14 dB. Moreover, vendor \"A\" was only able to provide 39 dB Tx
isolation under typical conditions; therefore, this filter is not usable for
this band without further improvement. Filter vendor C attenuation over
Channel 36 frequencies are shown in the figure below. At the upper edge of
Channel 36 at 608 MHz, it can be seen that the Rx filter attenuation is
approximately 40 dB under typical conditions. Thus, it is expected that under
worst case conditions including manufacturing margin and temperature drift, an
attenuation of at least 29 dB can be met. Thus, the feedback from two filter
vendors is that the necessary attenuation can be met in the Rx filter to
support a blocking requirement of -15 dBm from Channel 36.
Table 7.1.2.2-3: Simulation results for the US 600 MHz band plan
* * *
Vendor pass-band Tx IL (typ.) Rx IL (typ.) Rx Iso (typ.) Tx Iso (typ.) RX Att
\@CH36 A 35 MHz 3.4 [2.3]{.underline} 65 39 14 B 35 MHz 3 (max) [2.6
(max)]{.underline} 55 (min) 55 (min) 30 (min) C 35 MHz 3.0 (max) 3.6 (max) 50
(min) 55 (min) See below
* * *
{width="6.204861111111111in" height="4.084027777777778in"}
Figure 7.1.2.2-1: Filter Attenuation
#### 7.1.2.3 Out-of-band blocking
For out-of-band blocking, the standard requirements apply to Band 71 as well.
Table 7.6.2.1-2 of [10] including Band 71 is reported below.
Table 7.1.2.3-1: Out of band blocking
+---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E-UTRA | Pa | Units | Fr | | | | | band | rameter | | equency | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | Range 1 | Range 2 | Range 3 | Range 4 | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | P~Inte | dBm | -44 | -30 | -15 | -15 | | | rferer~ | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 1, 2, | F~Inte | MHz | F~D | F~D | F~D | - | | 3, 4, | rferer~ | | L_low~ | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | 5, 6, | (CW) | | -15 to | -60 to | -85 to | | | 7, 8, | | | | | | | | 9, 10, | | | F~D | F~D | 1 MHz | | | 11, 12, | | | L_low~ | L_low~ | | | | 13, 14, | | | -60 | -85 | | | | 17, 18, | | | | | | | | 19, 20, | | | | | | | | 21, 22, | | | | | | | | 23, 24, | | | | | | | | 25, 26, | | | | | | | | 27, 28, | | | | | | | | 30, 31, | | | | | | | | 33, 34, | | | | | | | | 35, 36, | | | | | | | | 37, 38, | | | | | | | | 39, 40, | | | | | | | | 41, 42 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 2), 43 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 2), 44, | | | | | | | | 45, 48 | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 2), 65, | | | | | | | | 66, 68, | | | | | | | | 70, 71 | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | | | F~DL | F~DL | F~DL | - | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | _high~ | | | | | | +15 to | +60 to | +85 to | | | | | | | | | | | | | | F~DL | F~DL | +12750 | | | | | | _high~ | _high~ | MHz | | | | | | + 60 | +85 | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | 2, 5, | F~Inte | MHz | - | - | - | F~U | | 12, 17 | rferer~ | | | | | L_low\ | | | | | | | | **-** ~ | | | | | | | | F~UL | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE | | | | | | | | 5) | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | which | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | upports | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | Band 11 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band 21 | | | | | | | | the out | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | is FFS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | erferer | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | P~Inter | | | | | | | | ferer~) | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Range 3 | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | odified | | | | | | | | to -20 | | | | | | | | dBm for | | | | | | | | F~Inte | | | | | | | | rferer~ | | | | | | | | > 2800 | | | | | | | | MHz and | | | | | | | | F~Inte | | | | | | | | rferer~ | | | | | | | | \< 4400 | | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | | | | For the | | | | | | | | UE that | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | upports | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | 66, the | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | ut-of-b | | | | | | | | locking | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Band 4 | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | defined | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | elative | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | F~D | | | | | | | | L_low~ | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | F~DL | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | of Band | | | | | | | | 66. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | | | | For a | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | sup | | | | | | | | porting | | | | | | | | CA_ | | | | | | | | 20A-28A | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | requi | | | | | | | | rements | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | Band 20 | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | Band 28 | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | F~D | | | | | | | | L_low~ | | | | | | | | given | | | | | | | | by the | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | tricted | | | | | | | | op | | | | | | | | erating | | | | | | | | fr | | | | | | | | equency | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | in Band | | | | | | | | 28 and | | | | | | | | F~DL | | | | | | | | _high~ | | | | | | | | by Band | | | | | | | | 20 | | | | | | | | (Table | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | .5A-2). | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | | Range 4 | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | irement | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | ategory | | | | | | | | M1. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+-------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
## 7.2 BS aspect issues
The following BS specific TS 36.104 [11] changes are expected due to
introduction of Band 71 in the USA:
_Start of the extract of TS 36.104_
##### 6.6.3 Operating band unwanted emissions {#operating-band-unwanted-
emissions .H6}
##### 6.6.3.1 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category A) {#minimum-
requirements-for-wide-area-bs-category-a .H6}
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 26, 27, 28,
29, 31, 44, 68, 71 emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in
Tables 6.6.3.1‑1 to 6.6.3.1-3.
##### 6.6.3.2 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category B) {#minimum-
requirements-for-wide-area-bs-category-b .H6}
##### 6.6.3.2.1 Category B requirements (Option 1) {#category-b-requirements-
option-1 .H6}
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 5, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 20, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31,
44, 68, 67, 71 emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in
Tables 6.6.3.2.1-1 to 6.6.3.2.1-3:
##### 6.6.3.3 Additional requirements {#additional-requirements .H6}
In certain regions the following requirement may apply. For E-UTRA BS
operating in Bands 12, 13, 14, 17, 29, 71 emissions shall not exceed the
maximum levels specified in Table 6.6.3.3-3.
Table 6.6.3.3-3: Additional operating band unwanted emission limits for E-UTRA
(bands 12, 13, 14, 17, 29 and 71)
* * *
Channel bandwidth Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f
Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum
requirement Measurement bandwidth (Note 8) All 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 100 kHz 0.015 MHz
≤ f_offset \< 0.085 MHz -13 dBm 30 kHz All 100 kHz ≤ ∆f \< ∆f~max~ 150 kHz ≤
f_offset \< f_offset~max~ -13 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
##### 6.6.4.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements {#additional-
spurious-emissions-requirements .H6}
##### 6.6.4.3.1 Minimum Requirement {#minimum-requirement .H6}
Table 6.6.4.3.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands
* * *
System type for E-UTRA to co-exist with Frequency range for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note E-UTRA Band 71 [617 - 652
MHz]{.underline} -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS
operating in band 71 [663 -- 698 MHz]{.underline} -49 dBm 1 MHz This
requirement does not apply to E-UTRA BS operating in band 71, since it is
already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 6.6.4.2
* * *
Table 6.6.4.3.1-1A: Home BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with
Home BS operating in other frequency bands
* * *
Type of coexistence BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note E-UTRA Band 71 [663 -- 698 MHz]{.underline}
-71 dBm 100 kHz This requirement does not apply to Home BS operating in band
71, since it is already covered by the requirement in sub-clause 6.6.4.2.
* * *
##### 6.6.4.4 Co-location with other base stations {#co-location-with-other-
base-stations .H6}
##### 6.6.4.4.1 Minimum Requirement {#minimum-requirement-1 .H6}
Table 6.6.4.4.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note [WA E-UTRA Band]{.underline} 71 [663 - 698
MHz]{.underline} [-96 dBm]{.underline} [100 kHz]{.underline} []{.underline}
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note [LA E-UTRA Band]{.underline} 71 [663 - 698
MHz]{.underline} [-88 dBm]{.underline} [100 kHz]{.underline} []{.underline}
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-3: BS Spurious emissions limits for Medium range BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note [MR E-UTRA Band]{.underline} 71 [663 - 698
MHz]{.underline} [-91 dBm]{.underline} [100 kHz]{.underline}
* * *
##### 7.6.1 General blocking requirement {#general-blocking-requirement .H6}
##### 7.6.1.1 Minimum requirement {#minimum-requirement-2 .H6}
Table 7.6.1.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20, | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | 71 | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -11) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -11) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20, | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | 71 | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7 | 7.6. | | | -11) | | +20) | | 6dB* | .6.1. | 1.1-2 | | | | | | | | 1-2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | | | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | | | -11) | | 6dB* | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | (F | to | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1b: Blocking performance requirement for Home BS for E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20, | ( | to | (F | -27 | P~REF | See | See | | 71 | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +1 | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -11) | | +20) | | 4dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +1 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -11) | | 4dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | wer/h | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 20, | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | 71 | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -11) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -11) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
##### 7.6.2 Co-location with other base stations {#co-location-with-other-
base-stations-1 .H6}
##### 7.6.2.1 Minimum requirement {#minimum-requirement-3 .H6}
Table 7.6.2.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA and NB-IoT Wide
Area BS when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal WA E-UTRA Band 71 617 -- 652 +16** P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal LA E-UTRA Band 71 617 -- 652 -6 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Medium Range BS
when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal MR E-UTRA Band 71 617 -- 652 +8 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
_End of the extract of TS 36.104_
# 8 Study of MSR specific issues
There are no specific MSR issues for the new 600 MHz band.
# 9 Channel numbering for E-UTRA, MSR
The E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Numbers (EARFCNs) allocated for
600MHz FDD band in the USA are outlined in Table 9-1.
Table 9-1: E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-UL~ Range of
N~UL~ 71 617 68586 68586-68935 663 133122 133122-133471
* * *
# 10 Required changes to E-UTRA and MSR specifications
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for the new 600 MHz band are
summarised in Table 10-1.
Table 10-1: 3GPP specifications with required changes
+--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | Affected existing | | | | | specifications | | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | Spec No. | Subject of the CR | Comments | CR (Tdoc) | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.101 | E-UTRA; UE Radio | Core part | R4-1708808 | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.104 | E-UTRA; Base | Core part | R4-1707612 | | | Station (BS) radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.113 | E-UTRA; BS and | Core part | R4-1707613 | | | repeater EMC | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.124 | E-UTRA; EMC | Core part | R4-1707614 | | | requirements for | | | | | mobile terminals | | | | | and ancillary | | | | | equipment | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.133 | E-UTRA; | Core part | R4-1707789 | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of RRM | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 37.104 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Core part | R4-1707790 | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 37.113 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Core part | R4-1707616 | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | Electromagnetic | | | | | Compatibility | | | | | (EMC) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.104 | Base Station (BS) | Core part | R4-1707611 | | | radio transmission | | | | | and reception | | | | | (FDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.461 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R3-173243 | | | interface: Layer 1 | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.466 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R3-173244 | | | interface: | | | | | Application part | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.101 | User Equipment | Core part | R4-1707088 | | | (UE) radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception (FDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.133 | UTRAN: | Perf part | R4-1707787 | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of radio | | | | | resource | | | | | management (FDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 37.141 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Perf part | R4-1707911 | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.141 | E-UTRA; Base | Perf part | R4-1707615 | | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.141 | Base Station (BS) | Perf part | R4-1707788 | | | conformance | | | | | testing (FDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.123 | UTRAN: | Perf part | R4-1707786 | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of radio | | | | | resource | | | | | management (TDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+
#