# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is a technical report for the work item of Extended-Band
12 new E-UTRA Band, including in the first part, as stated in the WID [2], the
outcome of the study phase looking at the co-existence impacts of the removal
of the 1MHz guard between E block and A block (728-729 MHz).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-172111: \"New WI: Extended-Band12 new E-UTRA Band\".
[3] https://www.fcc.gov/wireless/bureau-divisions/mobility-
division/lower-700-mhz-service.
[4] Expanding the Economic and Innovation Opportunities of Spectrum Through
Incentive Auctions, GN Docket No. 12-268, Report and Order, FCC 14-50.
[5] Part 27 - Miscellaneous Wireless Communications Services, Electronic Code
of Federal Regulations.
NOTE: Available at: https://www.fcc.gov/wireless/bureau-
divisions/technologies-systems-and-innovation-division/rules-regulations-
title-47.
[6] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[7] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[8] Part 74 -- Experimental Radio, Auxiliary, Special Broadcast and other
program distributional services, Electronic Code of Federal Regualtions.
> NOTE: Available at: https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-
> bin/textidx?SID=83b0a923c2ae7f506a91d2e5f31339d3&mc=true&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title47/47cfr74_main_02.tpl3
> Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
BW Bandwidth
BWChannel Channel bandwidth (for E-UTRA)
BWConfig Transmission bandwidth configuration (for E-UTRA), expressed in MHz,
where BWConfig = NRB x 180 kHz in the uplink and BWConfig = 15 kHz \+ NRB x
180 kHz in the downlink.
∆f Separation between the channel edge frequency and the nominal -3dB point of
the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
∆f~max~ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
F~C~ Carrier centre frequency
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
F~UL_low~ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
F~UL_high~ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
f_offset Separation between the channel edge frequency and the centre of the
measuring filter
F~OOB~ The boundary between the E-UTRA out of band emission and spurious
emission domains.
f_offset~max~ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the requirement
N~DL~ Downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-DL~ Offset used for calculating downlink EARFCN
N~Offs-UL~ Offset used for calculating uplink EARFCN
N~UL~ Uplink EARFCN
P~REFSENS~ Reference Sensitivity power level
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in units of resource
blocks
L~CRB~ Transmission bandwidth which represents the length of a contiguous
resource block allocation expressed in units of resources blocks
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
ATSC Advanced Television Systems Committee
BS Base Station
CA Carrier Aggregation
CH Channel
CW Continuous Wave
DL Downlink
EARFCN E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
eCFR electronic Code of Federal Regulation
eMBMS Evolved Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Services
ERP Effective Radiated Power
E-UTRA Evolved UTRA
FCC Federal Communications Commission
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
HAAT Height Above Average Terrain
LA Local Area
LTE Long Term Evolution
MBW Measurement Bandwidth
MR Medium Range
MSR Multi-Standard Radio
> NB-IoT Narrowband -- Internet of Things
NS Network Signaling
QPSK Quadrature Phase Shift keying
RB Resource Block
REFSENS Reference Sensitivity
RF Radio Frequency
RX Receiver
SDL Supplementary DL
SEM Spectrum Emission Mask
TDD Time Division Duplex
TX Transmitter
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
WA Wide Area
WID Work Item Description
WMTS Wireless Medical Telemetry Services
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
The WID on Extended-Band12 new E-UTRA Band [2] proposes a new band to be
developed for LTE that takes advantage of an extra 1 MHz of spectrum that was
not included in Band 12\'s definition. LTE Band 12 spectrum came previously
from television (\"TV\") Channels 52-54 and 57-59, which comprises 36 MHz from
698 to 716 and 728 to 746 MHz [1]. In 2002, the FCC reallocated the 698-746
MHz spectrum band (Lower 700 MHz Band as in Figure 4.1-1) that had been
allocated to television Channels 52-59 for new services, including mobile
service [3]. However, E block operations remained the same and was not
reallocated.
The WID [2] proposes a new band be developed for LTE that includes 1 MHz of
spectrum that was previously defined as guard band to address Channel 51 and E
Block interference concerns.
{width="5.477777777777778in" height="3.0in"}
Figure 4.1-1: FCC Lower 700 MHz Band plan
At the time when LTE Band 12 was defined by the 3GPP in 2008, it was defined
with the UL as 698-716 MHz and the DL 728-746 MHz. Later in 2010, it was
decided that the 1 MHz at the lower end of A-block, 698-699 MHz, would be
excluded from Band 12 uplink band, and left as guard band because the spectrum
below 698 MHz was used by TV stations in channel 51 and lower. The 1 MHz at
the upper end of A-block, 728-729 MHz, would be excluded from Band 12 downlink
band, and left as guard band due to adjacent E block operations.
Since Band 12 is an FDD band, the 1 MHz, 728-729 MHz, was also excluded from
the downlink band. Band 12 frequency range and the 1 MHz guard bands on the
uplink and the downlink in relation to TV CH 51 and E block are shown in
Figure 4.1-2.
{width="6.6930555555555555in" height="1.9368055555555554in"}
Figure 4.1-2: LTE Band 12 frequency range and the 1 MHz guard bands
Excluding the 1 MHz at the lower end of A-block from Band 12 was justified at
the time because the 1 MHz was intended as guard bands to mitigate potential
mutual interference between LTE in Band 12 and TV operation in channel 51 and
below. The 1 MHz guard band was also done because the UE RX got a quite strong
blocker due to the E block operations.
Following the 3GPP 2010 decision to specify a 1 MHz guard band, the
stakeholders for Band 29 (D/E blocks) agreed to specify DL only operation, a
reduction of the E block transmitter power from 50 kW ERP to 1000 W/MHz ERP
for non-rural deployment and 2000 W/MHz ERP for rural deployment. At the same
time, the FCC also preserved 50 kW deployment possibilities for D/E block
licenses in 27.50(c)(12) of eCFR.
Also, because A-block is 6 MHz wide, excluding 1 MHz still leaves A-block
licensees 5 MHz to use for a 5 MHz LTE component carrier. Plus, the excluded 1
MHz cannot be used by LTE or any other 3GPP technologies effectively anyway.
However, these justifications are no longer valid today.
First, TV stations in channel 51 and below will be gone. The FCC completed
Broadcast Incentive Auction [4] in April 2017. The auction has repurposed 84
MHz TV broadcast spectrum. Those incumbent TV stations that had foregone their
spectrum right of use during the auction will cease operation; those had not
will be \"repacked\" to down below CH37 within a 39-month transition period.
The FCC has designated a 3 MHz guard band, 614-617 MHz, to mitigate potential
mutual interference between new services and WMTS service in CH37. The FCC has
also designated an 11 MHz duplex gap, which is 652-663 MHz. The rest 70 MHz of
paired spectrum, 617 to 652 and 663 to 698 MHz, is currently being
standardized by 3GPP as a FDD band for LTE, designated as E-UTRA Band 71 [6]
and [7]. Refer to Figure 4.1-3.
{width="6.6in" height="1.2090277777777778in"}
Figure 4.1-3: Broadcast Incentive Auction repurposed 84 MHz spectrum
With the proposed new band it is now possible to allocate additional NB-IOT
standalone carriers in the 1 MHz guard band.
For the afore-mentioned reasons, it is proposed to study the impact of
removing the guard-band between A and E blocks and use the results to
standardize an entirely new FDD E-UTRA operating band based on the 36 MHz
paired spectrum consists of E-UTRA Band 12 and the 1 MHz \"unused\" guard
bands on the uplink and the downlink immediately below Band 12. To be
specific, the uplink band for this new band is 18 MHz, 698-716 MHz; the
downlink band is 18 MHz, 728-746 MHz; the duplex gap is 12 MHz, 716-728 MHz.
Refer to Figure 4.1-2.
## 4.2 Objectives
The work item on Extended-Band12 new E-UTRA Band [2] consists of two parts.
Part 1 would be a study phase to look at the co-existence impacts of the
removal of the 1 MHz guard between E block and A block (728-729 MHz).
Following aspects would be considered:
\- Impact of interference on E Block performance from increased carriers in
the A block in various deployment scenarios. Compare the performance impact
with and without the 1 MHz guard band.
\- Impact of interference from E block to A block receivers.
**\- Address potential BS and UE coexistence issues.**
If needed the objectives of the WID would need to be revised based in the
outcome of Part 1 study phase.
Part 2 would be the reminder of the Work Item [2]. Those objectives dependent
upon the study phase cannot begin until the completion of Part 1\. The
following are the Part 2 core objectives:
\- Standardize a new FDD E-UTRA operating band based on the 36 MHz paired
spectrum consists of E-UTRA Band 12 and the 1 MHz \"unused\" guard bands on
the uplink and the downlink immediately below Band 12. To be specific, the
uplink band for this new band is 18 MHz, 698-716 MHz; the downlink band is 18
MHz, 728-746 MHz; the duplex gap is 12 MHz, 716-728 MHz. Refer to Figure
4.1-2.
\- Support for 5 and 10 MHz bandwidths.
\- Specify band numbering and RF characteristics of the new band.
\- Address potential BS and UE coexistence issues taking into account the
outcome of the Part 1 study phase.
\- Ensure the new band supports NB-IoT UE and category M1 and M2 UE.
\- Update the related 3GPP E-UTRA technical specifications to include support
for the new band.
\- Specify requirements for the new band such that B12 can also be supported,
on a fully interoperable basis.
\- Future requirements for Carrier Aggregation combinations with the new band
shall guarantee all combinations with B12 can also be supported. Carrier
Aggregation is not part the WI [2].
The Study Phase of the Work Item [2] will begin in RAN4 #84bis. No Part 2 work
may begin before RAN4 #85. The WID will not be considered complete until Part
1 and Part 2 are finished.
# Part 1
**Part 1 would be a study phase to look at the co-existence impacts of the
removal of the 1 MHz guard between E block and A block (728-729 MHz).**
# 5 Coexistence impacts of the removal of the 1 MHz guard between E block and
A block (728-729 MHz)
## 5.1 Deployment scenarios
The out-of-band spurious emissions from the adjacent channel represent an
increase in interference power into the E block receiver. Without a 1 MHz
guard band, the adjacent out of bands spurious emissions or interferer is
expected to be higher into the E block.
The following deployment scenarios are used to study the impact of the
increased out-of-band emissions in the adjacent E block channel with and
without the current 1 MHz guard band (728-729 MHz).
{width="6.2659722222222225in" height="1.0in"}
Figure 5.1-1: Deployment scenarios
The three scenarios being are:
\- Scenario 1 is the current B12 deployment scenario and is proposed to be the
reference case i.e. with 1 MHz guard band.
\- Scenario 2 is a possible B12 extended deployment scenario where 4 NB-IoT
carriers are deployed adjacent to B block.
\- Scenario 3 is a possible B12 extended deployment scenario where up to 4 NB-
IoT carriers are deployed adjacent to E block.
According to TS 36.104, the maximum number of NB-IoT carriers that can be
placed within 1MHz is 4 because the F~OFFSET~ from the centre of outermost
carriers is 200 kHz.
The E block can be occupied by a supplementary DL (SDL) or broadcast services
(eMBMS/ATSC). The impact on E block performance due to increased emissions
from A block shall be evaluated with and without 1 MHz guard band as emissions
difference in dB over both the first 1 MHz (727-728 MHz) and the whole 6 MHz
(722-728 MHz) of E block. Companies are encouraged to further evaluate the
impact of emissions difference to other parameters such as coverage and
throughput.
## 5.2 Simulation results
Two sets of simulations have been performed to evaluate the impact on E block
performance due to increased emissions from A block with and without 1 MHz
guard band as emissions difference in dB over both the first 1 MHz (727-728
MHz) and the whole 6 MHz (722-728 MHz) of E block.
The first set of simulations was run for the three scenarios in Figure 5.1-1
considering an urban macro downlink deployment where the inter-site distance
is 750 m for both victim and aggressor, the output power of each E-UTRA
carrier is 43 dBm, the output power of 43 dBm is shared among the NB-IoT
carriers, the E-UTRA BS ACLR1 and ACLR2 are 45 dBc, the NB-IoT BS ACLR1 is 40
dBc and ACLR2 is 50 dBc, and, the E-UTRA UE ACS1 is 33 dBc and ACS2 is 34.3
dBc.
The second set of simulations was run only for the third scenario in Figure
5.1-1, for an urban macro downlink deployment using different inter-side
distances between victim and aggressor, and with the simulation assumptions
reported in Table 5.2-1 and Table 5.2-2.
Table 5.2-1: Assumptions for the 2nd simulation set
* * *
Parameter Aggressor Aggressor Victim Morphology Urban Urban Urban RAT 5 MHz
LTE NB-IoT 5MHz LTE Frequency Band [MHz] 700 700 700 Propagation model
Okumura-Hata Okumura-Hata Okumura-Hata Environment Outdoor Outdoor Outdoor TX
Antenna Gain [dB] 17 17 17 TX Feeder Loss [dB] 1 1 1 Site Height [m] 30 30 30
UE Height [m] 1,5 1,5 1,5 Downtilt [deg] 8 8 6,3 Slow Fading Margin [dB] 6,4
6,4 6,4 Cell radius [m] 500 500 1333 Inter-site Distance [m] 750 750 2000
* * *
Table 5.2-2: NB-IoT carrier TX Power assumptions for the 2nd simulation set
* * *
Case Details Maximum LTE TX power [dBm] Maximum TX power per one NB-IoT
Carrier [dBm] B12 deployment **5MHz LTE within 729-734 MHz** **43** **N/A**
**Case1** **B12 deployment+4 NB-IoT Carriers **** 43**** 29**** Case2**** B12
deployment+4 NB-IoT Carriers ** **43** **32** **Case3** **B12 deployment+4 NB-
IoT Carriers **** 43**** 35**** Case4**** B12 deployment+4 NB-IoT Carriers **
**43** **37** **Case5** **B12 deployment+4 NB-IoT Carriers **** 43**** 43**
* * *
Results of the first set of simulations, reported in Figure 5.2-1, Figure
5.2-2 and Figure 5.2-3, have shown that the downlink SINR of the victim UE are
comparable in the 3 scenarios until the very low end where the SINR in
Scenarios 2 and 3 are decreased (\< 0.5 dB at 5 %-tile).
{width="3.1180555555555554in"
height="2.3368055555555554in"}{width="3.1645833333333333in"
height="2.3777777777777778in"}
Figure 5.2-1: DL SINR of victim UE in Scenario 1 -- 1^st^ simulation set
{width="3.1416666666666666in"
height="2.3541666666666665in"}{width="3.1416666666666666in"
height="2.3541666666666665in"}
Figure 5.2-2: DL SINR of victim UE in Scenario 2 -- 1^st^ simulation set
{width="3.1104166666666666in" height="2.325in"}{width="3.1645833333333333in"
height="2.3833333333333333in"}
Figure 5.2-3: DL SINR of victim UE in Scenario 3 with 4 NB-IoT carriers \--
1^st^ simulation set
The second set of simulation results, reported in Table 5.2-3, have shown that
the cell edge SINR (5% percentile) degrades and respective outage
(corresponding to 4dB SINR) increases as the power for each NB-IoT carrier
increases.
Table 5.2-3: DL SINR of victim UE in Scenario 3 with 4 NB-IoT carriers \--
2^nd^ simulation set
* * *
Case Average SINR [dB] Cell edge SINR [dB] SINR\<-4dB [%] B12 deployment 5,9
-1,8 0,8 Case1 5,8 -1,9 0,9 Case2 5,7 -2,1 1,1 Case3 5,5 -2,4 1,7 Case4 5,3
-2,8 2,4 Case5 4 -5,2 8,1
* * *
**On the basis of results of coexistence studies, it was concluded to limit
the maximum power of the NB-IoT deployed in the lowest 1 MHz of the band 12
extended. Details are provided in clause 5.3.**
## 5.3 Maximum BS power of NB-IoT deployed in the lowest 1 MHz
**When NB-IoT is deployed in the lowest 1 MHz paired spectrum, specifically
698-699 MHz uplink and 728-729 MHz downlink, the maximum BS power is 43 dBm
shared among the NB-IoT carriers. (e.g. the maximum BS power per NB-IoT
carrier is 43 dBm for a single carrier deployment and 37 dBm for a four
carrier deployment).**
# Part 2
**Part 2 would be the reminder of the present document.**
# 6 Frequency band arrangements and regulatory background
## 6.0 Operating band and channel bandwidth
Band number 85 was specified for the new FDD E-UTRA operating band consisting
of 36 MHz paired spectrum (UL: 698-716 MHz; DL:728-746) resulting from the
extension of E-UTRA Band 12 by the 1 MHz unused guard bands on the uplink and
the downlink immediately below.
The band plan and supported channel bandwidths for Band 85 are shown in Table
6.0-1 and Table 6.0-2 respectively.
Table 6.0-1: E-UTRA operating band
* * *
E‑UTRA Operating Band Uplink (UL) operating band\ Downlink (DL) operating
band\ Duplex Mode  
BS receive\ BS transmit\  
UE transmit UE receive
                          F~UL\_low~ -- F~UL\_high~     F~DL\_low~ -- F~DL\_high~
85 698 MHz -- 716 MHz 728 MHz -- 746 MHz FDD
* * *
Table 6.0-2: E-UTRA channel bandwidth
* * *
E-UTRA band / Channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 85 **Yes^1^** **Yes^1^**  
NOTE 1: **^1^** refers to the bandwidth for which a relaxation of the
specified UE receiver sensitivity requirement (subclause 7.3) is allowed.
* * *
Tx-Rx frequency separation is shown in Table 6.0-3.
Table 6.0-3: Default UE TX-RX frequency separation
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band TX -- RX\ carrier centre frequency\ separation
85 30 MHz
* * *
## 6.1 Adjacent 3GPP bands
The Region 2 3GPP bands nearby to band 85, to be considered when addressing
coexistence aspects, are Band 71, 12, 17, 13 and 14, as shown in figure 6.1-1.
{width="4.46875in" height="2.2604166666666665in"}
Figure 6.1-1: 3GPP Bands nearby to Band 85
## 6.2 Nearby non-3GPP Services
After FCC repurposed TV broadcast spectrum from 614 to 698 MHz in 2017, mobile
services have primary allocation in US from 614 to 758 MHz. Below 698 MHz
unlicensed wireless microphones and white space devices are allowed to operate
in 600 MHz service band where licensees have not commenced operations; their
operations are regulated by Part 15 of Title 47 of eCFR, which limits power,
and specifies frequency and distance separations to protect authorized
services. Above 698 MHz low power TV stations and TV translator, authorized
under 47 eCFR part 74, subparts E, F, and G [8], may continue to operate
indefinitely on a secondary basis.
As done for 3GPP bands nearby to Band 85, possible impacts of secondary
services will be considered not relevant to be taken into account on
specification of Band 85 RF requirements.
## 6.3 FCC regulation requirement
The FCC rules, relevant to RAN4, governing the Lower 700 MHz Band (698-746
MHz) are generally found in the 47 CFR Part 27 [5]. They are summarized as
follows:
1) Power Limits
"_Fixed and base stations operating in non-rural areas must not exceed an
effective radiated power (ERP) of 1000 watts (for emission bandwidths less
than 1 MHz) or 1000 watts/MHz (for emission bandwidths greater than 1 MHz) and
an antenna height of 305 meter height above average terrain (HAAT). Fixed and
base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer
persons per square mile must not exceed 2000 watts or 2000 watts/MHz ERP and
an antenna height of 305 meter HAAT. Antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT
are permitted if power levels are reduced below the maximum limits."_
Portable stations (hand-held devices) in the 698-746 MHz band are limited to 3
watts (34.8 dBm) ERP.
2) Emission Limits
_"The power of any emission outside a licensee´s frequency band/bands of
operations shall be attenuated below the transmitter power P, measured in
watts, by at least 43+10log10(P) dB, considering a resolution bandwidth of 100
kHz or greater, except within 0-100 kHz immediately outside and adjacent a
licensee´s frequency block where it is required to be 30 kHz."_ That
corresponds to a single absolute emission power spectral density limit of -13
dBm (Emission limit = PdBW-43-PdB= -43dBW = -13dBm) over the specified
resolution bandwidth for all transmitters (including base stations and
portable devices) regardless of actual ERP or frequency offset.
# 7 List of band specific issues for Extended Band 12 frequency band
The list of band-specific issues for Band 85 are provided below:
\- General issues:
\- Carrier frequency and EARFCN
\- FCC out-of-band emissions limits
\- Co-existence with other 3GPP bands in Region 2
\- E-UTRA specific issues:
\- UE:
\- Maximum Output Power
\- Spectrum Emission Mask
\- Network signalling and A-MPR
\- Spurious Emissions
\- Reference sensitivity
\- Blocking
\- BS:
\- Maximum output power for NB-IoT standalone operation
\- Unwanted emissions
\- Blocking
# 8 E-UTRA specific issues
## 8.1 UE aspect issues
### 8.1.1 UE transmitter characteristics
#### 8.1.1.0 Introduction
In this clause extended band 12 specific transmitter requirements are
addressed, all other transmitter requirements are band agnostic.
#### 8.1.1.1 UE maximum output power
Due to almost identical band arrangement with band 12 extended band 12 maximum
output power class requirement is defined to be same as band 12.
Table 8.1.1.1-1: UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | band | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 12 | | | | | 23 | ±2^2^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | | | | | 23 | ±2^2^ | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Void | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | ^2^ | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | efers | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | | (F | | | | | | | | | | igure | | | | | | | | | | 5 | | | | | | | | | | .6-1) | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~UL\ | | | | | | | | | | _low~ | | | | | | | | | | + 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | | | | | | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | | -- 4 | | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | F~ | | | | | | | | | | UL_h | | | | | | | | | | igh~, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | laxed | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | red | | | | | | | | | | ucing | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | lower | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | | by | | | | | | | | | | 1.5 | | | | | | | | | | dB | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Similarly for UE categories M1, M2, NB1 and NB2 the extended band 12
requirements for maximum output power are same as for band 12 for these
categories.
#### 8.1.1.2 UE maximum output power with additional requirements
Additional SEM defined for band 12 applies also for extended band 12 hence
NS_06 is also applicable to extended band 12 with an exception that only
channel bandwidths of 5 and 10 MHz are specified for this band. No A-MPR is
necessary.
Table 8.1.1.2-1: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR)
* * *
Network Signalling value Requirements (subclause) E-UTRA Band Channel
bandwidth (MHz) Resources Blocks (_N_ ~RB~) A-MPR (dB) NS_06 6.6.2.2.3 12, 13,
14, 17 1.4, 3, 5, 10 Table 5.6-1 [6] N/A 85 5, 10 Table 5.6-1 [6] N/A
* * *
Similarly, for UE categories M1, M2, NB1 and NB2 the extended band 12
requirements for additional maximum output power reduction are same as for
band 12 for these categories.
#### 8.1.1.3 Spurious emission band UE co-existence
Extended band 12 will be used in same geographical regions as band 12 thus
same UE to UE co-existence requirements apply. Extended band 12 is also added
as protected band for those bands and CA configurations that protect band 12.
Table 8.1.1.3-1: Requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+---+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | Band | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+---+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | NOTE | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+---+-------+ | 85 | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | | | | Band | | | high~ | | | | | | 2, 5, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 25, | | | | | | | | | 26, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 41, | | | | | | | | | 48, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 71, | | | | | | | | | 74 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 2 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | (see | | | Band | | | high~ | | | Table | | | 4, | | | | | | 6.6. | | | 10, | | | | | | 3.2-1 | | | 66, | | | | | | of | | | 70 | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [6]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+---+-------+ | | E | F~DL\ | - | F | -50 | 1 | 15 | | | -UTRA | _low~ | | ~DL_ | | | (see | | | Band | | | high~ | | | Table | | | 12, | | | | | | 6.6. | | | 85 | | | | | | 3.2-1 | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | [6]) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+---+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: As | | | | | | | | | e | | | | | | | | | xcept | | | | | | | | | ions, | | | | | | | | | me | | | | | | | | | asure | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | level | | | | | | | | | up to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | perm | | | | | | | | | itted | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | each | | | | | | | | | ass | | | | | | | | | igned | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | used | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | spu | | | | | | | | | rious | | | | | | | | | emiss | | | | | | | | | ions. | | | | | | | | | Due | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | spre | | | | | | | | | ading | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | first | | | | | | | | | 1 MHz | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | mmedi | | | | | | | | | ately | | | | | | | | | ou | | | | | | | | | tside | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | on | | | | | | | | | both | | | | | | | | | sides | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emis | | | | | | | | | sion. | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | sults | | | | | | | | | in an | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | | erval | | | | | | | | | ce | | | | | | | | | ntred | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | (2MHz | | | | | | | | | + N x | | | | | | | | | L | | | | | | | | | ~CRB~ | | | | | | | | | x | | | | | | | | | 180 | | | | | | | | | kHz), | | | | | | | | | where | | | | | | | | | N is | | | | | | | | | 2, 3, | | | | | | | | | 4, | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | ^nd^, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | ^rd^, | | | | | | | | | 4^th^ | | | | | | | | | [or | | | | | | | | | 5^ | | | | | | | | | th^] | | | | | | | | | har | | | | | | | | | monic | | | | | | | | | res | | | | | | | | | pecti | | | | | | | | | vely. | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | | lowed | | | | | | | | | if | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | (MBW) | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | tally | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | part | | | | | | | | | ially | | | | | | | | | ove | | | | | | | | | rlaps | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ov | | | | | | | | | erall | | | | | | | | | exce | | | | | | | | | ption | | | | | | | | | inte | | | | | | | | | rval. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 15: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | anges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~OOB~ | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | [6] | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6.3 | | | | | | | | | .1A-1 | | | | | | | | | [6] | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+---+-------+
### 8.1.2 UE receiver characteristics
#### 8.1.2.0 Introduction
In this clause extended band 12 specific receiver requirements are addressed,
all other receiver requirements are band agnostic.
#### 8.1.2.1 Reference sensitivity power level
Due to almost identical band arrangement with band 12 extended band reference
sensitivity requirement is defined to be same as band 12.
Table 8.1.2.1-1: Reference sensitivity QPSK P~REFSENS~
* * *
Channel bandwidth
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz\ 3 MHz\ 5 MHz\ 10 MHz\ 15 MHz\ 20 MHz\ Duplex Mode (dBm)
(dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm) (dBm)
12 -101.7 -98.7 -97 -94 FDD
85 -97 -94 FDD
* * *
Table 8.1.2.1-2: Uplink configuration for reference sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / N~RB~ / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode 12 6 15 20^1^
20^1^ FDD 85 20^1^ 20^1^ FDD NOTE: ^1^ refers to the UL resource blocks shall
be located as close as possible to the downlink operating band but confined
within the transmission bandwidth configuration for the channel bandwidth
(Table 5.6-1 []).
* * *
Table 8.1.2.1-3: Network signalling value for reference sensitivity
* * *
E-UTRA Band Network Signalling value 12 NS_06 85 NS_06
* * *
Similarly for UE categories M1, M2, NB1 and NB2 the extended band 12
requirements for reference sensitivity are same as for band 12 for these
categories.
#### 8.1.2.2 In-band blocking and Out-of-band blocking
Same in-band blocking and out-of-band blocking requirements apply for extended
band 12 as for band 12.
## 8.2 BS aspect issues
The following BS specific changes, reported for the relevant section 6 and 7
of TS 36.104 [7], are expected due to introduction of Band 85:
6.2 Base station output power
In addition for Band 85 NB-IoT standalone operation, the BS rated output power
limit of 43 dBm applies over the NB-IoT carriers in the range 728-729 MHz of
the DL operating band. The BS output power limit of 43 dBm shall be considered
as shared among all NB-IoT carriers in the 728-729 MHz frequency range or as
the maximum value per NB-IoT carrier in the case where only one NB-IoT carrier
is deployed in 728-729 MHz frequency range.
6.6.3.1 Minimum requirements for Wide Area BS (Category A)
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 26, 27, 28,
29, 31, 44, 68, 71, 72, 73, 85 emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels
specified in Tables 6.6.3.1‑1 to 6.6.3.1-3.
6.6.3.2.1 Category B requirements (Option 1)
For E-UTRA BS operating in Bands 5, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 20, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31,
44, 68, 67, 71, 72, 73, 85 emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels
specified in Tables 6.6.3.2.1-1 to 6.6.3.2.1-3:
6.6.3.3 Additional requirements
In certain regions the following requirement may apply. For E-UTRA BS
operating in Bands 12, 13, 14, 17, 29, 71, 85 emissions shall not exceed the
maximum levels specified in Table 6.6.3.3-3.
Table 6.6.3.3-3: Additional operating band unwanted emission limits for E-UTRA
(bands 12, 13, 14, 17, 29, 71 and 85)
* * *
Channel bandwidth Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f
Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum
requirement Measurement bandwidth (Note 8) All 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 100 kHz 0.015 MHz
≤ f_offset \< 0.085 MHz -13 dBm 30 kHz All 100 kHz ≤ ∆f \< ∆f~max~ 150 kHz ≤
f_offset \< f_offset~max~ -13 dBm 100 kHz
* * *
6.6.4.3 Additional spurious emissions requirements
6.6.4.3.1 Minimum Requirement
Table 6.6.4.3.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence
with systems operating in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | System type | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | for E-UTRA | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | to co-exist | c | | | | | with | o-existence | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 729 - 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | Band XII or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 12 | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12 | | | | | | or 85. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 699 - 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12 | | | | | | or 85, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | For E‑UTRA | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 29, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | 1 MHz below | | | | | | the Band 29 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band (Note | | | | | | 6). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 717 -- 728 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 29 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 29 | | | | | | or 85. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 728 - 746 | -52 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | 85 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12, | | | | | | 29 or 85. | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 698 - 716 | -49 dBm | 1 MHz | This | | | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | E-UTRA BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 85, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | For E‑UTRA | | | | | | BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 29, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | 1 MHz below | | | | | | the Band 29 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band (Note | | | | | | 6). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 6: For E-UTRA Band 29 BS, specific solutions may be required to fulfil
the spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence with UTRA Band
XII or E-UTRA Band 12 UL operating band, E-UTRA Band 17 UL operating band or
E-UTRA Band 85 UL operating band.
Table 6.6.4.3.1-1A: Home BS Spurious emissions limits for co-existence with
Home BS operating in other frequency bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Type of | Frequency | Maximum | Measurement | Note | | coexistence | range for | Level | Bandwidth | | | BS | co-location | | | | | | requirement | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | UTRA FDD | 699 - 716 | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | Band XII or | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | E-UTRA Band | | | | apply to | | 12 | | | | Home BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 12 | | | | | | or 85, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | For Home BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 29, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | 1 MHz below | | | | | | the Band 29 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band (Note | | | | | | 5) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA Band | 698 - 716 | -71 dBm | 100 kHz | This | | 85 | MHz | | | requirement | | | | | | does not | | | | | | apply to | | | | | | Home BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in band 85, | | | | | | since it is | | | | | | already | | | | | | covered by | | | | | | the | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | in | | | | | | sub-clause | | | | | | 6.6.4.2. | | | | | | For Home BS | | | | | | operating | | | | | | in Band 29, | | | | | | it applies | | | | | | 1 MHz below | | | | | | the Band 29 | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | operating | | | | | | band (Note | | | | | | 5). | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
NOTE 5: For E-UTRA Band 29 BS, specific solutions may be required to fulfil
the spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence with UTRA Band
XII or E-UTRA Band 12 UL operating band, E-UTRA Band 17 UL operating band or
E-UTRA Band 85 UL operating band.
6.6.4.4 Co-location with other base stations
6.6.4.4.1 Minimum Requirement
Table 6.6.4.4.1-1: BS Spurious emissions limits for Wide Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note WA E-UTRA Band 85 698 - 716 MHz -96 dBm 100
kHz []{.underline}
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-2: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note LA E-UTRA Band 85 698 - 716 MHz [-88
dBm]{.underline} [100 kHz]{.underline} []{.underline}
* * *
Table 6.6.4.4.1-3: BS Spurious emissions limits for Medium range BS co-located
with another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note MR E-UTRA Band 85 698 - 716 MHz [-91
dBm]{.underline} [100 kHz]{.underline}
* * *
7.6.1 General blocking requirement
7.6.1.1 Minimum requirement
Table 7.6.1.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7 | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | .6.1. | 1.1-2 | | | | | | | | 1-2 | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1b: Blocking performance requirement for Home BS for E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | anted | | | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | | | ignal | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -27 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +1 | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 4dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +1 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 4dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-1c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS for
E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | lo | | | | | | | | | wer/h | | | | | | | | | igher | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for NB-IoT
standalone operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | 1.1-4 | 1.1-4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -1 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | 5** | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-3a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for NB-
IoT standalone operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | 1.1-4 | 1.1-4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -1 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | 5** | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-3b: Blocking performance requirement for Home BS for NB-IoT
standalone operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -27 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +1 | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 4dB* | 1.1-4 | 1.1-4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -1 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | 5** | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +1 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 4dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-3c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS for NB-
IoT standalone operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | 1.1-4 | 1.1-4 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -1 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | 5** | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-5: Blocking performance requirement for Wide Area BS for E-UTRA
with NB-IoT in-band/guard band operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -43 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | 1.1-6 | 1.1-6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15\ | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | *** | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-5a: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for
E-UTRA with NB-IoT in-band/guard band operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | 1.1-6 | 1.1-6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15\ | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | *** | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-5b: Blocking performance requirement for Home BS for E-UTRA with
NB-IoT in-band/guard band operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -27 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | +1 | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 4dB* | 1.1-6 | 1.1-6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15\ | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | *** | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | +1 | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 4dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Table 7.6.1.1-5c: Blocking performance requirement for Medium Range BS for
E-UTRA with NB-IoT in-band/guard band operation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 85 | ( | to | (F | -38 | P~REF | See | See | | | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | | -20) | | +12) | | 6dB* | 1.1-6 | 1.1-6 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15\ | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | *** | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +12) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
7.6.2 Co-location with other base stations
7.6.2.1 Minimum requirement
Table 7.6.2.1-1: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA and NB-IoT Wide
Area BS when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal WA E-UTRA Band 85 728 - 746 +16** P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-2: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal LA E-UTRA Band 85 728 - 746 -6 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
Table 7.6.2.1-3: Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Medium Range BS
when co-located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal MR E-UTRA Band 85 728 - 746 +8 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
# 9 MSR specific issues
There are no specific MSR issues for the Band 85.
# 10 Channel numbering for E-UTRA, MSR
The E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Numbers (EARFCNs) allocated for
Band 85 are outlined in Table 10-1.
Table 10-1: E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ [MHz] N~Offs-UL~ Range of
N~UL~ 85 728 70366 70366 - 70545 698 134002 134002 - 134181
* * *
# 11 Required changes to E-UTRA and MSR specifications
Table 11-1: 3GPP specifications with required changes
+--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | Affected existing | | | | | specifications | | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | Spec No. | Subject of the CR | Comments | CR (Tdoc) | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.101 | E-UTRA; UE Radio | Core part | R4-1803177 | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.104 | E-UTRA; Base | Core part | R4-1802297 | | | Station (BS) radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.113 | E-UTRA; BS and | Core part | R4-1802298 | | | repeater EMC | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.124 | E-UTRA; EMC | Core part | R4-1802299 | | | requirements for | | | | | mobile terminals | | | | | and ancillary | | | | | equipment | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.133 | E-UTRA; | Core part | R4-1802300 | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of RRM | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 37.104 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Core part | R4-1802003 | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 37.113 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Core part | R4-1802004 | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | Electromagnetic | | | | | Compatibility | | | | | (EMC) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.104 | Base Station (BS) | Core part | R4-1802001 | | | radio transmission | | | | | and reception | | | | | (FDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.461 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R3-180914 | | | interface: Layer 1 | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.466 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | R3-180915 | | | interface: | | | | | Application part | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.101 | User Equipment | Core part | R4-1802294 | | | (UE) radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception (FDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.133 | UTRAN: | Perf part | R4-1802296 | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of radio | | | | | resource | | | | | management (FDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 37.141 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Perf part | R4-1802005 | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 36.141 | E-UTRA; Base | Perf part | R4-1802301 | | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance | | | | | testing | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.141 | Base Station (BS) | Perf part | R4-1802002 | | | conformance | | | | | testing (FDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+ | 25.123 | UTRAN: | Perf part | R4-1802295 | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of radio | | | | | resource | | | | | management (TDD) | | | +--------------------+--------------------+-----------+------------+
#