# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report for LTE Advanced power class 2
TDD UE. The purpose of this TR is to study the radio requirements for LTE
Advanced power class 2 TDD UE as part of the Rel-15 work item in order to add
power Class 2 UE to the bands in table 1-1.
Table 1-1: Bands for power class 2 UE in Release 15
* * *
Band Power class 38 2 40 2 42 2
* * *
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[4] RP-160092, "Study on New Band 41 UE power class supporting +26 dBm",
Sprint
[5] R4-1610826, "Draft CR for HPUE for operating bands other than Band 41\",
NTT DOCOMO, INC
> [6] R4-113912, "FDD-TDD co-existence AH 29/06/2011 evening minutes," Nokia
>
> [7] RP-171492, "New WID: LTE Advanced high power TDD UE (power class 2)",
> Huawei, HiSilicon.
[8] 3GPP TS 36.331: \" Requirements for support of radio resource management
\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.101: \" User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(FDD) \".
[10] RP-1713310, "A-MPR requirement for Band 38 power class 2 UE towards Band
7 UE Rx", Huawei, HiSilicon.
[11] RP-1713966, "AMPR for coexistence between Band 7 UE Rx and Band 38 power
class 2 UE", QUALCOMM Inc.
[12] R4-146834, \"WF on B42 and B43 UE co-existence \", TeliaSonera, Deutsche
Telekom, Telefonica, Vodafone
[13] R4-150223, \"Additional analysis for single carrier Band 42/Band43
A-MPR\", Qualcomm
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
F~DL_low~ The lowest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
F~DL_high~ The highest frequency of the downlink _operating band_
L~CRB~ Transmission bandwidth which represents the length of a contiguous
resource block allocation expressed in units of resources blocks
N~RB~ Transmission bandwidth configuration, expressed in resource blocks
P~PowerClass~ P~PowerClass~ is the nominal UE power (i.e., no tolerance).
RB~start~ Indicates the lowest RB index of transmitted resource blocks.
RB~end~ Indicates the highest RB index of transmitted resource blocks.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
In 3GPP, the study of high power UE (HPUE) operation, i.e. power class 2, for
TDD Band 41 has been completed under a SI [4], motivated by significant
benefits in cell coverage and cell edge user throughput that are needed for
and can be achieved for TDD networks.
Meanwhile, many operators and vendors have realized the significant benefit
for increasing the UE transmits power. Now the HPUE for many other bands,
e.g., Band 38, Band 40 and Band 42, is gradually requested by operators.
Especially, specifying a 26dBm UE for Band 38 may help to build grow the LTE
TDD ecosystem in Europe, and we anticipate that it will also improve economies
of scale for B41 High Power UE RF components with the premise that the same RF
front-end can be shared between the two bands. Thus, it can be anticipated
that the number of WIs will be quite large and tracing the history of the
requirements study and specification will be challenging because allocating a
TR for each WI would occupy too many resources. Many issues related to HPUE
are common between different bands. Following the similar approach adopted for
CA in RAN4, this Work item is introducing a new basket WI to capture the HPUE
requests proposed by companies in Rel-15.
## 4.2 Objective
The objectives of the core part are as follows:
1) The requirements only cover single carrier UL operation for HPUE. Inter-
band CA is out of the scope of these requirements.
2) Define the specific requirements for each band for HPUE.
\- These include but are not limited to associated regulatory requirements on
transmit power levels, unwanted emissions, radiation requirements, etc.
3) The mechanism that UE is able to transmit at a higher power than the
default power class of Power Class 3 only when authorised by the network is to
be specified (The mechanism in [5] should apply).
4) The specifications shall also consider the use of efficient power amplifier
approaches such as envelope tracking for the HPUE.
5) RF component reuse and sharing between power class 3 and power class 2 and
for bands of similar frequency ranges shall be considered.
For band 38, the additional objectives and time plan are as follows:
1) At least for the first two RAN4 meetings, the focus shall be on analysis of
coexistence between Band 7 UE Rx and Band 38 UE operating 26dBm maximum output
power, and identification of any restrictions to 26dBm operation.
2) Once the above analysis is completed, detailed RF core specifications can
start to be considered.
# 5 Coexistence studies with other system
## 5.1 General
The ACLR requirements include E-UTRA, UTRA ACLR1 and UTRA ACLR2. UTRA/E-UTRA
ACLR are important aspects of LTE UEs that provides certain degree of
interference protection to systems deployed in the adjacent spectrum, and in
the same geographical area.
Usually these requirements shall be derived based on the coexistence
simulation quite similar to the simulations captured in 36.942 that is
describing the whole procedure to define the ACLR requirements for LTE power
class 3 UE. By observing this procedure, it can be found that
\- ACLR is defined based on adjacent channel coexistence study.
\- The scenarios including frequency in the coexistence study are robust
rather than variations of frequencies or deployment scenarios to define the
ACLR for LTE.
## 5.2 E-UTRA ACLR for power class 2 UE
E-UTRA ACLR has been defined to provide protections to another E-UTRA system
deployed in the adjacent spectrum. The whole coexistence simulation for power
class 2 UE in Band 41 could be found in the TR 36.886. Especially, the
deployment scenarios are as shown in the table 2.1-1.
Table 5.2-1: Deployment scenarios and parameters
* * *
Environment ISD (KM) ISD (miles) Urban .75 .47 Suburban 2.8 1.74 Rural 6 3.73
Rural 8 5
* * *
Actually, the study for power class 2 UE for Band 41 is very sufficient as the
simulation covers nearly all the scenarios for macro station deployment.
Further, the different cell sizes were assumed for victim and aggressor
system. Specifically, the aggressor system with HPUE utilized has bigger cell
size than the victim system with normal UE utilized.
Even if the simulation for power class 2 UE in other bands is intended to
rerun, then the scenarios are predicted in the range of the above 4 scenarios.
Considering the LTE power class 3 UE coexistence simulation is frequency
robust which is in representative of 2GHz for the ACLR requirement derivation.
Based on the above analysis, the E-UTRA ACLR for power class 2 UE should be
31dB with band agnostic.
# 6 Bands for power class 2 UE
## 6.1 Band 38
### 6.1.1 UE maximum output power
The new power class to be introduced for Band 38 is power class 2 which is
defined as the following table. The following UE Power Classes define the
maximum output power for any transmission bandwidth within the channel
bandwidth for non CA configuration unless otherwise stated. The period of
measurement shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).
Table 6.1.1-1: UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | band | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 38 | | | 26 | ±2 | 23 | ±2 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | P~ | | | | | | | | | | Power | | | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | | | | | | _Def | | | | | | | | | | ault~ | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nless | | | | | | | | | | othe | | | | | | | | | | rwise | | | | | | | | | | st | | | | | | | | | | ated. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
For a power class 2 capable UE operating on Band 41, when an IE _P-max_ as
defined in TS 36.331 [8] of 23 dBm or lower is indicated in the cell or if the
uplink/downlink configuration is 0 or 6, the requirements for power class 2
are not applicable, and the corresponding requirements for a power class 3 UE
shall apply.For each supported frequency band other than Band 41, the UE
shall:
\- if the UE supports a different power class than the default UE power class
for the band and the supported power class enables the higher maximum output
power than that of the default power class:
\- if the band is a TDD band whose frame configuration is 0 or 6; or
\- if the IE _P-Max_ as defined in TS 36.331 [8] is not provided; or
\- if the IE _P-Ma_ x as defined in TS 36.331 [8] is provided and set to the
maximum output power of the default power class or lower;
\- apply all requirements for the default power class to the supported power
class and set the configured transmitted power as specified in sub-clause
6.2.5 in TS 36.101 [2];
\- else (i.e the IE _P-Max_ as defined in TS 36.331 [8] is provided and set to
the higher value than the maximum output power of the default power class):
\- apply all requirements for the supported power class and set the configured
transmitted power class as specified in sub-clause 6.2.5 in TS 36.101 [2];
### 6.1.2 Coexistence with other bands and system
There is no A-MPR and NS values for Band 38 power class 3 UE. The requirements
for band 38 emission are for the coexistence with other bands especially for
Band 7. Below is the corresponding table from Table 6.6.3.2-1in 36.101[2]
which shows the emission requirements for Band 38\. Note that the requirements
for other bands except Band 38 are omitted in the table.
Table 6.1.2-1: Requirements
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | E | Spu | | | | | | | | -UTRA | rious | | | | | | | | Band | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Prot | Freq | Ma | MBW | NOTE | | | | | ected | uency | ximum | (MHz) | | | | | | band | range | Level | | | | | | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | 38 | E | FDL | - | FDL\ | -50 | 1 | | | | -UTRA | _low | | _high | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | 1, 2, | | | | | | | | | 3, 4, | | | | | | | | | 5, 8, | | | | | | | | | 10, | | | | | | | | | 12, | | | | | | | | | 13, | | | | | | | | | 14, | | | | | | | | | 17, | | | | | | | | | 20, | | | | | | | | | 22, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 28, | | | | | | | | | 29, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 31, | | | | | | | | | 32, | | | | | | | | | 33, | | | | | | | | | 34, | | | | | | | | | 40, | | | | | | | | | 42, | | | | | | | | | 43, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 67, | | | | | | | | | 68 | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2620 | - | 2645 | -15.5 | 5 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22, | | | range | | | | | | 26 | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | | Freq | 2645 | - | 2690 | -40 | 1 | 15, | | | uency | | | | | | 22 | | | range | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 15: | | | | | | | | | These | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | quire | | | | | | | | | ments | | | | | | | | | also | | | | | | | | | apply | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | anges | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | ~OOB~ | | | | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6. | | | | | | | | | 3.1-1 | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | 6.6.3 | | | | | | | | | .1A-1 | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idth. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 22: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | any | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | bandw | | | | | | | | | idths | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2570 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2615 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | foll | | | | | | | | | owing | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | stric | | | | | | | | | tion: | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 15 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 605.5 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 607.5 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | of 20 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | entre | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | w | | | | | | | | | ithin | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2597 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2605 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | appli | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | only | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | tr | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | less | | | | | | | | | than | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | equal | | | | | | | | | to 54 | | | | | | | | | RB.\ | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | car | | | | | | | | | riers | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | verla | | | | | | | | | pping | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | range | | | | | | | | | 2615 | | | | | | | | | - | | | | | | | | | 2620 | | | | | | | | | MHz | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | equir | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | ap | | | | | | | | | plies | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | utput | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | confi | | | | | | | | | gured | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | +19 | | | | | | | | | dBm | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | IE | | | | | | | | | _P- | | | | | | | | | Max_. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 26: | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | these | | | | | | | | | adj | | | | | | | | | acent | | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | | ands, | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | emi | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | limit | | | | | | | | | could | | | | | | | | | imply | | | | | | | | | risk | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | | rmful | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | terfe | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | UE(s) | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | prot | | | | | | | | | ected | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ating | | | | | | | | | band. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+---+-------+
Based on the above table, we can find that the requirements for Band 38
emission include two parts, one part is to specify the frequency region where
RB allocation is restricted to be less than or equal to 54 RB, another is to
specify the restricted block where the max output power is limited as 19dBm in
the IE P-Max which is quite like a 'guard band' to some extent.
{width="4.180555555555555in" height="1.5520833333333333in"}
Figure 6.1.2-1 Requirements for Band 38 power class 3
**_[For the power restricted block (2615-2620MHz) in Band 38]{.underline}_**
It has already been specified in the endorse CR [5] for high power UE that
_2 > else (i.e the IE P-Max is provided and set to the higher value than the
maximum output power of the default power class):_
_3 > apply all requirements for the supported power class and set the
configured transmitted power class as specified in sub-clause 6.2.5;_
Which reflects the common undering in the group that is when the high power UE
operating in the lower power class mode, it should meet the corresponding
requirments for that power mode. Thus for the power class 2 UE operating in
the channel overlapped with the power restricted block as shown in the figure
1, if the same _IE P-Max_ for power class 3 UE is indicated as the 19dBm, it
should meet the same emission level limit for Band 7 DL. From another expect,
if the 19dBm _IE P-Max_ is indicated in the carrier, both the power class 2
and 3 UE shall response to this signal and act with the same behaviour.
So for the power class 2 UE in Band 38, the power class 3 requirement for
carriers with channel bandwidth overlapping the frequency range 2615 \- 2620
MHz can be reused.
**_[For the other spectrum (2570-2615MHz) in Band 38]{.underline}_**
During the early discussion for the coexistence between Band 7 and Band 38
[6], the options to specify the requirements have been proposed as follows
1\. Adopt NS-Signaling method for bands 7 and 38
2\. Adopt Harmonized Standard limits to 36.101[2]
Due to the existing terminals for Band7 at that time, the option 1 was not
adopted at last. While for optional 2, there are also several ways to achieve
the limits. Considering to mostly keep the UE hardware platforms unchanged and
the scheduling method was finally approved to restrict the resource allocation
to 54RB in a frequency range for 15MHz and 20MHz channel bandwidths. However,
it is obvious that this way is in the cost of sacrifice the max peak rate. At
this moment, given the power class 2 UE will be a new design and no terminals
is already in the network, it isjustified to adopt the option1 that is to
assign NS value for Band38 for carrier channel bandwidth confined within 2570
MHz and 2615 MHz. The additional spurious emission could be found in the table
6.1.2-2.
Table 6.1.2-2: Additional Spurious emission requirements
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+------+ | Frequency band | Channel bandwidth | Measurement | NOTE | | | / Spectrum | bandwidth | | | (MHz) | emission limit | | | | | (dBm) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+------+ | | 5, 10, 15, 20 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+------+ | 2620-2645 | -15.5 | 5MHz | 1 | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+------+ | 2645-2690 | -40 | 1MHz | 1 | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+------+ | Note 1: The | | | | | E-UTRA carrier | | | | | with channel | | | | | bandwidth is | | | | | confined within | | | | | 2570 MHz and 2615 | | | | | MHz | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+------+
Thus, for the power class 2 UE in Band 38, new NS value shall be assigned for
carriers with channel bandwidth confined within 2570 MHz and 2615 MHz by
considering the eimission limit in table 6.1.2-2.
### 6.1.3 MPR/A-MPR
#### 6.1.3.1 Simulation results from Company 1 [10]
The measurement PA model for power class 2 is adopted. PA calibration point is
set to be 1dB power back off to meet E-URTA ACLR requirement by considering
QPSK modulation and full RB allocation in 20MHz channel bandwidth. Simulations
to study the A-MPR needed is conducted considering the following assumptions
\- PA with E-UTRA ACLR = 31dB
\- LO leakage, IQ image rejection = -25dBc
\- CIM3 = -60dBc
Figure 6.1.3.1-1 shows the output emission levels for different channel
bandwidths with the required spurious emission limit by consideration 1RB and
full RB allocations
{width="3.2in" height="3.147222222222222in"} {width="3.2in"
height="3.147222222222222in"}
Figure 6.1.3.1-1 Output emission levels for 20MHz CBW from power class 2 UE
From the figure 6.1.3.1-1, it can be seen that A-MPR requirement should be
specified since part of the emission level such as near end with 5MHz MBW is
higher than the spurious emission limit. Especially for 1RB edge allocation,
the strong IMD3 products have reached the -15.5dBm/5MHz spurious emission
requirement. Further the carrier centre frequency applied for A-MPR
requirement will be in the range of one channel bandwidth. Considering the
5MHz guard band, the range will be of 2590-2605 MHz, 2597.5-2607.5 MHz and
2605-2610MHz for 20MHz, 15MHz and 10MHz channel bandwidths respectively.
The specific A-MPR+MPR requirements are computed traversing the L~CRB~ and
RB~end~. Figure 6.1.3.1-2 to 6.1.3.1-5 show the simulation result for
bandwidth settings of 5MHz, 10MHz, 15MHz and 20MHz.
{width="3.863888888888889in" height="3.5416666666666665in"}
Figure 6.1.3.1-2 A-MPR+MPR for 5MHz bandwidth located at 2610-2615MHz
{width="3.877083333333333in" height="3.545138888888889in"}
Figure 6.1.3.1-3 A-MPR+MPR for 10MHz bandwidth located at 2605-2615MHz
{width="3.8666666666666667in" height="3.5430555555555556in"}
Figure 6.1.3.1-4 A-MPR+MPR for 15MHz bandwidth located at 2600-2615MHz
{width="3.928472222222222in" height="3.5416666666666665in"}
Figure 6.1.3.1-5 A-MPR+MPR for 20MHz bandwidth located at 2595-2615MHz
Based on the simulation results and analysis above for PA output level, the
final A-MPR requirements can be summarized as shown in table 6.1.3.1-1.
Table 6.1.3.1-1: A-MPR requirements for Band 38 for Power Class 2 UE
* * *
Channel bandwidth [MHz] Parameters  
10 Fc [MHz] ≥2605 \ 0  
RB~start~ + L~CRB~ [RBs] N/A NA N/A  
A-MPR [dB] ≤ 1 ≤ 1 0  
15 Fc [MHz] ≥2597.5 \ 0  
RB~start~ + L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥ 63 N/A NA N/A  
A-MPR [dB] ≤ 1 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 0  
20 Fc [MHz] ≥2590 \ 0 RB~start~ + L~CRB~ [RBs] N/A ≥ 76 N/A NA N/A A-MPR [dB] ≤ 3 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 0
* * *
#### 6.1.3.2 Simulation results from Company 2 [11]
For contiguous allocations, the simulations are shown as follows based on
using the following simulations assumptions:
\- QPSK 20M 100RB EUTRA ACLR = -31dBc for PA calibration point.
\- Modulator IQ -- image = 25dBc
\- Modulator carrier leakage = 25dBc
\- Counter IM3 = -60dBc
{width="6.050694444444445in" height="2.875in"}
{width="6.107638888888889in" height="2.9055555555555554in"}
Figure 6.1.3.2-1 Example Spectrum Plots
{width="3.1381944444444443in" height="2.3625in"}
{width="3.1555555555555554in" height="2.3625in"} {width="3.161111111111111in"
height="2.3625in"}
Figure 6.1.3.2-2 RB maps (A-MPR+MPR) using RBstart
{width="3.15in" height="2.3625in"}
{width="3.161111111111111in" height="2.3625in"} {width="3.126388888888889in"
height="2.3625in"}
Figure 6.1.3.2-3 RB maps (A-MPR) using RBend
We can summarize the AMPR requirements in the Table 6.1.3.2-1. The total back-
off would be AMPR+MPR, where the MPR is from table 6.2.3-1 in 36.101 [2].
Table 6.1.3.2-1: Contiguous Allocation A-MPR for NS_TBD for Power Class 2
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Channel | RB~end~ | Fc [MHz] | L~CRB~ | A-MPR | | Bandwidth | | | [RBs] | [dB] | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | 45 -- 49 | 2600 \45 | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 15 | 60 -- 74 | 2592.5 \60 | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | 75 -- 99 | 2590 \45 | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | RB~end~ | | | | | | indicates | | | | | | the highest | | | | | | RB index of | | | | | | transmitted | | | | | | resource | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | L~CRB~ is | | | | | | the length | | | | | | of a | | | | | | contiguous | | | | | | resource | | | | | | block | | | | | | allocation | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: For | | | | | | int | | | | | | ra-subframe | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | which | | | | | | intersects | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | notes 1 and | | | | | | 2 apply on | | | | | | a per slot | | | | | | basis | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: For | | | | | | int | | | | | | ra-subframe | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | hopping | | | | | | which | | | | | | intersects | | | | | | regions, | | | | | | the larger | | | | | | A-MPR value | | | | | | may be | | | | | | applied for | | | | | | both slots | | | | | | in the | | | | | | subframe | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
#### 6.1.3.3 A-MPR requirements for Band 38 for Power Class 2 UE
By comparing the A-MPR tables from two companies above carefully, it can be
found that the A-MPR requirements are almost same, although with the different
specifying styles. The only difference is the A-MPR values for the 20MHz
channel bandwidth case. So the averaging was made to derive the final A-MPR
requirements. The consensus A-MPR requirements are shown in the following
table 6.1.3.3-1.
Table 6.1.3.3.-1: A-MPR requirements for Band 38 for Power Class 2 UE
* * *
Channel bandwidth [MHz] Parameters  
10 Fc [MHz] ≥2605 \ 0  
RB~start~ + L~CRB~ [RBs] N/A NA N/A  
A-MPR [dB] ≤ 1 ≤ 1 0  
15 Fc [MHz] ≥2597.5 \ 0
RB~start~ + L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥ 63 N/A NA N/A A-MPR [dB] ≤ 1 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 0 20 Fc [MHz]
≥2590 \ 0
RB~start~ + L~CRB~ [RBs] ≥ 76 N/A NA N/A A-MPR [dB] ≤ 2 ≤ 1 ≤ 1 0 Note:
Applicable for power class 2 UE in E-UTRA carrier with channel bandwidth is
confined within 2570 MHz and 2615 MHz
* * *
### 6.1.4 ACLR
#### 6.1.4.1 E-URTA ACLR
The E-UTRA ACLR requirement for power class 2 UE is 31dB with band agnostic as
discussed in section 5.2. The additional E-UTRA~ACLR~ requirement for power
class 2 UE is specified in table 6.1.4-1.
Table 6.1.4-1: Additional E-UTRA~ACLR~ requirements for Power Class 2
+----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | | Channel | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | E-UTR | | | | | | | | A~ACLR1~ | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | Mea | | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | E-UTR | N/A | N/A | 31 dB | 31 dB | 31 dB | 31 dB | | A~ACLR1~ | | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | 4.5 MHz | 9.0 MHz | 13.5 MHz | 18 MHz | | channel | | | | | | | | Mea | | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | Adjacent | N/A | N/A | +5 | +10 | +15 | +20 | | channel | | | | | | | | centre | | | / | / | / | / | | f | | | | | | | | requency | | | -5 | -10 | -15 | -20 | | offset | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+
#### 6.1.4.2 URTA ACLR
It can be found in 25.101 [9] that Band 38 is not defined for UTRA system.
Thus UTRA~ACLR~ is not applicable to the power class 2 UE operating in Band
38.
## 6.2 Band 40
### 6.2.1 UE maximum output power
The new power class to be introduced for Band 40 is power class 2 which is
defined as the following table. The following UE Power Classes define the
maximum output power for any transmission bandwidth within the channel
bandwidth for non CA configuration unless otherwise stated. The period of
measurement shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).
Table 6.2.1-1: UE Power Class
* * *
EUTRA band Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 3
(dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) 40 26 ±2 23 ±2  
NOTE 1: P~PowerClass~ is the maximum UE power specified without taking into
account the tolerance
* * *
The default power class P~PowerClass_Default~ for an operating band is Power
Class 3 unless otherwise stated.
For a power class 2 capable UE operating on Band 41, when an IE _P-max_ as
defined in TS 36.331 [8] of 23 dBm or lower is indicated in the cell or if the
uplink/downlink configuration is 0 or 6, the requirements for power class 2
are not applicable, and the corresponding requirements for a power class 3 UE
shall apply.
For each supported frequency band other than Band 41, the UE shall:
\- if the UE supports a different power class than the default UE power class
for the band and the supported power class enables the higher maximum output
power than that of the default power class:
\- if the band is a TDD band whose frame configuration is 0 or 6; or
\- if the IE _P-Max_ as defined in TS 36.331 [8] is not provided; or
\- if the IE _P-Ma_ x as defined in TS 36.331 [8] is provided and set to the
maximum output power of the default power class or lower;
\- meet all requirements for the default power class to the supported power
class and set the configured transmitted power as specified in sub-clause
6.2.5 in TS 36.101 [2];
\- else (i.e the IE _P-Max_ as defined in TS 36.331 [8] is provided and set to
the higher value than the maximum output power of the default power class):
\- meet all requirements for the supported power class and set the configured
transmitted power class as specified in sub-clause 6.2.5 in TS 36.101 [2];
### 6.2.2 Coexistence with other bands and system
Below is the corresponding table from Table 6.6.3.2-1in 36.101[2] which shows
the emission requirements for Band 40 for coexistence with other bands. Note
that the requirements for other bands except Band 40 are omitted in the table.
Table 6.2.2-1: Requirements
* * *
E-UTRA Band Spurious emission  
Protected band Frequency range (MHz) Maximum Level (dBm) MBW (MHz) NOTE  
40 E-UTRA Band 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 20, 22, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33, 34, 38, 39, 41,
42, 43, 44, 45, 50, 51, 65, 67, 68, 69, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76 F~DL_low~ -
F~DL_high~ -50 1
* * *
Based on the above table, we can find that unlike Band 38 there is no
additional stringent requirement for Band 40 to protect other bands. It is
supposed that power class 2 UE in Band 40 should have the capability to meet
the coexistence requirement which is same for power class 3 UE.
### 6.2.3 MPR/A-MPR
There are no A-MPR and NS values for power class 3 UE in Band 40, and this
shall also apply to the power class 2 UE in Band 40.
The MPR requirement for LTE UE with band agnostic applies to all the power
class 1, 2, and 3 UE.
### 6.2.4 ACLR
#### 6.2.4.1 E-URTA ACLR
The E-UTRA ACLR requirement for power class 2 UE is 31dB with band agnostic as
discussed in section 5.2. The additional E-UTRA~ACLR~ requirement for power
class 2 UE is specified in table 6.2.4-1.
Table 6.2.4-1: Additional E-UTRA~ACLR~ requirements for Power Class 2
+----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | | Channel | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | E-UTR | | | | | | | | A~ACLR1~ | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | Mea | | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | E-UTR | N/A | N/A | 31 dB | 31 dB | 31 dB | 31 dB | | A~ACLR1~ | | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | 4.5 MHz | 9.0 MHz | 13.5 MHz | 18 MHz | | channel | | | | | | | | Mea | | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | Adjacent | N/A | N/A | +5 | +10 | +15 | +20 | | channel | | | | | | | | centre | | | / | / | / | / | | f | | | | | | | | requency | | | -5 | -10 | -15 | -20 | | offset | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+
#### 6.2.4.2 URTA ACLR
It can be found in 25.101 [9] that Band 40 is not defined for UTRA system.
Thus UTRA~ACLR~ is not applicable to the power class 2 UE operating in Band
40.
## 6.3 Band 42
### 6.3.1 UE maximum output power
The new power class to be introduced for Band 42 is power class 2 which is
defined as the following table. The following UE Power Classes define the
maximum output power for any transmission bandwidth within the channel
bandwidth for non CA configuration unless otherwise stated. The period of
measurement shall be at least one sub frame (1ms).
Table 6.3.1-1: UE Power Class
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | EUTRA | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | Class | Tole | | band | 1 | rance | 2 | rance | 3 | rance | 4 | rance | | | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | (dBm) | (dB) | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 42 | | | 26 | +2/-3 | 23 | +2/-3 | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | P~P | | | | | | | | | | owerC | | | | | | | | | | lass~ | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | ma | | | | | | | | | | ximum | | | | | | | | | | UE | | | | | | | | | | power | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | wi | | | | | | | | | | thout | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | aking | | | | | | | | | | into | | | | | | | | | | ac | | | | | | | | | | count | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | tole | | | | | | | | | | rance | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Power | | | | | | | | | | class | | | | | | | | | | 2 UE | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | 42 is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | tar | | | | | | | | | | geted | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | ne | | | | | | | | | | twork | | | | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | | | | unsy | | | | | | | | | | nchro | | | | | | | | | | nized | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | 43 if | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | 43 is | | | | | | | | | | dep | | | | | | | | | | loyed | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | same | | | | | | | | | | re | | | | | | | | | | gion. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
The default power class P~PowerClass_Default~ for an operating band is Power
Class 3 unless otherwise stated.
For a power class 2 capable UE operating on Band 41, when an IE _P-max_ as
defined in TS 36.331 [8] of 23 dBm or lower is indicated in the cell or if the
uplink/downlink configuration is 0 or 6, the requirements for power class 2
are not applicable, and the corresponding requirements for a power class 3 UE
shall apply.
For each supported frequency band other than Band 41, the UE shall:
\- if the UE supports a different power class than the default UE power class
for the band and the supported power class enables the higher maximum output
power than that of the default power class:
\- if the band is a TDD band whose frame configuration is 0 or 6; or
\- if the IE _P-Max_ as defined in TS 36.331 [8] is not provided; or
\- if the IE _P-Ma_ x as defined in TS 36.331 [8] is provided and set to the
maximum output power of the default power class or lower;
\- meet all requirements for the default power class to the supported power
class and set the configured transmitted power as specified in sub-clause
6.2.5 in TS 36.101 [2];
\- else (i.e the IE _P-Max_ as defined in TS 36.331 [8] is provided and set to
the higher value than the maximum output power of the default power class):
\- meet all requirements for the supported power class and set the configured
transmitted power class as specified in sub-clause 6.2.5 in TS 36.101 [2];
### 6.3.2 Coexistence with other bands and system
Below is the corresponding table from Table 6.6.3.2-1in 36.101[2] which shows
the emission requirements for Band 42 for coexistence with other bands. Note
that the requirements for other bands except Band 42 are omitted in the table.
Table 6.3.2-1: Requirements
* * *
E-UTRA Band Spurious emission  
Protected band Frequency range (MHz) Maximum Level (dBm) MBW (MHz) NOTE  
42 E-UTRA Band 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28,
31, 32, 33, 34, 38, 40, 41, 44, 45, 50, 51, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 72, 73, 74,
75, 76 F~DL_low~ - F~DL_high~ -50 1  
Frequency range 1884.5 - 1915.7 -41 0.3 8 NOTE 8: Applicable when co-existence
with PHS system operating in 1884.5 -1915.7MHz.
* * *
Based on the above table, we can find that unlike Band 38 there is no
additional stringent requirement for Band 42 to protect other bands. For
protection to the frequency range from 1884.5-1915.7MHz, which is in large gap
with the Band 42 uplink and is covered by the noise floor, it is supposed that
power class 2 UE in Band 42 should have the capability to meet the coexistence
requirement which is same for power class 3 UE.
### 6.3.3 MPR/A-MPR
There are two NS values NS_22 and NS_23 assigned for power class 3 UE in Band
42 for the co-existence request with Band 43.
**_[NS_22]{.underline}_**
The co-existence requirements were agreed in the WF on B42 and B43 co-
existence [12]. The following case is needed to be considered with
NS_22/A-MPR:
\- -23dBm/5MHz at 5MHz offset from the aggressor over a 20 MHz region
\- -40dBm/MHz at 25 MHz offset from the aggressor to the end of the band
{width="5.996527777777778in" height="1.386111111111111in"}
Figure 6.3.3-1: Spurious emission requirement for Band 42 to coexist with Band
43
This additional requirement was then summarized in the following table 6.3.3-1
as shown in table 6.6.3.3.16-1in 36.101[2] for NS_22
Table 6.3.3-1: Additional requirement
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Frequency band | Channel bandwidth / | MBW | | | Spectrum emission limit | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | | 5, 10, 15, 20 MHz | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | 3400 ≤ f ≤ 3800 | -23 (NOTE 1, NOTE 3) | 5 MHz | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | | -40 (NOTE 2) | 1 MHz | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE 1: This requirement | | | | applies within an offset | | | | between 5 MHz and 25 MHz | | | | from the lower and from the | | | | upper edge of the channel | | | | bandwidth, whenever these | | | | frequencies overlap with | | | | the specified frequency | | | | band. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This requirement | | | | applies from 3400 MHz to 25 | | | | MHz below the lower E-UTRA | | | | channel edge and from 25 | | | | MHz above the upper E-UTRA | | | | channel edge to 3800 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: This emission limit | | | | might imply risk of harmful | | | | interference to UE(s) | | | | operating in the protected | | | | operating band | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
**_[NS_23]{.underline}_**
Although according to the requirement for NS_22, A-MPR values can be
specified, however further offset is needed to in order to fulfill the
spurious emission levels/range of -23 dBm/5MHz and -40 dBm/MHz as given in
NS_22 without A-MPR (NS_01). This is also necessary to be introduced into
36.101. Thus, a new network signaling of NS_23 was introduced to define the
offset from the channel edge which can be explained in the following figure.
{width="5.004861111111111in" height="1.5527777777777778in"}
Figure 6.3.3-2: Offset request from the channel edge for no A-MPR for Band 42
to coexist with Band 43 [13]
This additional requirement was then summarized in the following table 6.3.3-2
as shown in table 6.6.3.3.17-1in 36.101 [2] for NS_23
Table 6.3.3-2: Additional requirement
+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | Frequency band | Channel bandwidth / | MBW | | | Spectrum emission limit | | | (MHz) | (dBm) | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | | 5, 10, 15, 20 MHz | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | 3400 ≤ f ≤ 3800 | -23 (NOTE 1, NOTE 4) | 5 MHz | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | | -40 (NOTE 2) | 1 MHz | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+ | NOTE 1: This requirement | | | | applies within an offset | | | | between 5 MHz + | | | | F~offset_NS_23~ and 25 | | | | MHz + F~offset_NS_23~ | | | | from the lower and from the | | | | upper edges of the channel | | | | bandwidth, whenever these | | | | frequencies overlap with | | | | the specified frequency | | | | band. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: This requirement | | | | applies from 3400 MHz to 25 | | | | MHz + F~offset_NS_23~ | | | | below the lower E-UTRA | | | | channel edge and from 25 | | | | MHz + F~offset_NS_23~ | | | | above the upper E-UTRA | | | | channel edge to 3800 MHz. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: F~offset_NS_23~ | | | | is: | | | | | | | | 0 MHz for 5 MHz channel BW, | | | | | | | | 5 MHz for 10 MHz channel | | | | BW, | | | | | | | | 9 MHz for 15 MHz channel BW | | | | and | | | | | | | | 12 MHz for 20 MHz channel | | | | BW. | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: This emission limit | | | | might imply risk of harmful | | | | interference to UE(s) | | | | operating in the protected | | | | operating band | | | +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+-------+
For the power class 2 UE in Band 42, no request was claimed from operators
that they were intending to deploy the unsynchronized system with Band 43 by
now. Assuming synchronized deployment with Band 43, there is no need to assign
NS values for power class 2 UE in Band 42. In this case, the A-MPR
requirements in Table 6.2.4-1 in 36.101 [2] can be modified to be as table
6.3.3-3 in order to cover the requirement for the power class 2 UE in Band 42.
Note that the requirements for other bands except Band 42 are omitted in the
table.
Table 6.3.3-3: Additional Maximum Power Reduction (A-MPR)
* * *
Network Signalling value Requirements (subclause) E-UTRA Band Channel
bandwidth (MHz) Resources Blocks (_N_ ~RB~) A-MPR (dB) NS_22 6.6.3.3.16 42
(NOTE 8), 43 5, 10, 15, 20 Table 6.2.4-17  
NS_23 6.6.3.3.17 42 (NOTE 8), 43 5, 10, 15, 20 N/A  
NOTE 8: Not applicable for power class 2 UE in Band 42
* * *
### 6.3.4 ACLR
#### 6.3.4.1 E-URTA ACLR
The E-UTRA ACLR requirement for power class 2 UE is 31dB with band agnostic as
discussed in section 5.2. The additional E-UTRA~ACLR~ requirement for power
class 2 UE is specified in table 6.3.4-1.
Table 6.3.4-1: Additional E-UTRA~ACLR~ requirements for Power Class 2
+----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | | Channel | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | E-UTR | | | | | | | | A~ACLR1~ | | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | | Mea | | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | | 1.4 | 3.0 | 5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | | | | | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | MHz | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | E-UTR | N/A | N/A | 31 dB | 31 dB | 31 dB | 31 dB | | A~ACLR1~ | | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | E-UTRA | N/A | N/A | 4.5 MHz | 9.0 MHz | 13.5 MHz | 18 MHz | | channel | | | | | | | | Mea | | | | | | | | surement | | | | | | | | b | | | | | | | | andwidth | | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+ | Adjacent | N/A | N/A | +5 | +10 | +15 | +20 | | channel | | | | | | | | centre | | | / | / | / | / | | f | | | | | | | | requency | | | -5 | -10 | -15 | -20 | | offset | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | | +----------+----------+-----+---------+---------+----------+--------+
#### 6.3.4.2 URTA ACLR
It can be found in 25.101 [9] that Band 42 spectrum is parially overlapped
with the Band XXII for UTRA, however no request from operators claims that
they were intending or have deployed this Band XXII for UTRA by now. Assuming
that no new UTRA system for Band XXII will be deployed in the future, it is
justified to define no UTRA ACLR1 and UTRA ACLR2 requirements for power class
2 UE in Band 42.
# 7 Other specification impacts (if applicable)
No issues identified
#