# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
With the wider usage of mobile applications like cloud services, social
networking and point to point video/file sharing, uplink traffic load is
becoming much heavier, and LTE uplink throughput improvement tends to be an
essential and practical requirement for operators.
LTE uplink is interference limited in typical networks, and co-channel
interference has substantial impact on uplink cell average and cell edge
throughput. Base station (BS) MMSE-IRC receiver can bring in significant SINR
gain over MMSE receiver by suppressing the inter-cell interference, in both
homogeneous and heterogeneous networks, as concluded in TR 36.884 [2]. The
RAN4 demodulation performance requirements for BS MMSE-IRC receiver are
completed at RAN #72 meeting in June 2016 [3] [4].
Further evolution of BS receiver, such as interference cancellation (IC)
receiver, can be considered to mitigate the intra-cell inter-user
interference. In the intra-cell inter-user interference scenario where
multiple users are co-scheduled on the same resource elements, BS IC receiver
is expected to achieve noticeable throughput gain for cell centre and cell
edge users.
Note that the utilization of BS IC receiver is transparent to the users, and
the performance gain of BS IC receiver can also be enjoyed by legacy users.
To study the performance benefits of BS IC receiver, a new study item \"Study
on interference cancellation receiver for LTE BS\" was approved at RAN #73
[5], and the current document summarizes the study done under this study item.
# 1 Scope
The study item should fulfil the following objectives:
\- Identify the target deployment scenarios and the co-channel intra-cell
interference conditions. The following scenario is to be considered:
\- Intra-cell inter-user interference scenario where multiple users are co-
scheduled on the same resource elements.
\- Identify the reference receiver structures for PUSCH
\- Receiver structures based on interference cancellation is considered as a
starting point, and practical and realizable implementation should be taken
into account.
\- Agree on the interference models, interference levels and simulation
parameters for link level evaluations
\- Evaluate the link-level gain for PUSCH over baseline receiver
\- Evaluate the link-level gain over baseline Rel-8 MMSE receiver for intra-
cell inter-user interference scenarios.
\- The prioritization of number of Rx antennas will be discussed and decided
in study phase.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TR 36.884: \"Performance requirements of MMSE-IRC receiver for LTE
BS\".
[3] 3GPP TSG RAN RP-150206: \"Revised WID: Performance requirements of MMSE-
IRC receiver for LTE BS\".
[4] 3GPP TSG RAN RP-160767: \"Status report for WI: Performance requirements
of MMSE-IRC receiver for LTE BS\".
[5] 3GPP TSG RAN RP-161485: \"New SI: Study on interference cancellation
receiver for LTE BS\".
> [6] 3GPP TSG RAN4 R4-1704557: \"Updated summary of BS IC simulation results
> without time and frequency offset\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TSG RAN4 R4-1704558: \"Updated summary of BS IC simulation results
> with time and frequency offset\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
Void
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
> BS Base Station
CW-IC Code Word Level Interference Cancellation
DIP Dominant Interferer Proportion
DM-RS Demodulation Reference Signal
FO Frequency offset
> IC Interference Cancellation
MCS Modulation and Coding Scheme
MMSE-IRC Minimum Mean Square Error - Interference Rejection Combining
PRB Physical Resource Block
> PUSCH Physical Uplink Shared Channel
RB Resource Block
RNTI Radio Network Temporary Identity
> RV Redundancy Version
>
> SINR Signal to Interference and Noise Ratio
>
> SNR Signal to Noise Ratio
TO Time Offset
TTI Transmission Time Interval
UE User Equipment
# 4 Scenarios and targeted/interference channels
## 4.1 Deployment scenarios
To estimate the link gain that intra-cell inter-user interference cancellation
(IC) receiver of LTE/LTE-A BS can provide, the following two scenarios are
considered for evaluation. The two scenarios as shown in Figure 4.1‑1 are
similar to those in [2] for BS MMSE-IRC receiver.
> **\- Scenario 1:** Homogeneous deployment with macro cell only
>
> **\- Scenario 2:** Heterogeneous deployment with co-channel low power node
> (LPN) within the macro cell coverage
{width="5.175in" height="2.1798611111111112in"}
(a) BS IC Scenario 1: Homogeneous network (b) BS IC Scenario 2: Heterogeneous
network\ Figure 4.1-1: LTE BS IC Scenarios
For the target cell in the above deployment scenarios, assume that _K_ UEs are
co-scheduled on the same time and frequency resource, as illustrated in Figure
4.1-2. BS IC receiver can be utilized to cancel the co-channel intra-cell
interference among the _K_ UEs.
Figure 4.1-2: Illustration of _K_ intra-cell co-scheduled UEs
## 4.2 Targeted and interference channels
On the evaluation of BS IC receiver for PUSCH, it was agreed that:
\- The evaluation focuses on PUSCH to PUSCH collision.
\- For both target PUSCH and interference PUSCH, 1Tx UE scenario is
prioritized and 2Tx UE scenario is not covered.
# 5 Receiver structure
In the present document, the baseline and reference receiver structures for
PUSCH are assumed as follows:
\- MMSE-IRC receiver is used as the baseline receiver.
\- Code word level IC (CW-IC) receiver is used for intra-cell inter-user
interference mitigation in the reference receiver.
\- At the target BS, full knowledge of the intra-cell inter-user interference
parameters is available, including interfering PUSCH allocation, MCS level,
HARQ redundancy version, RNTI, DM-RS configuration, etc.
\- IC iteration may or may not be performed.
\- In multi-cell scenario, for both baseline and reference receivers,
implement inter-cell interference and noise whitening, i.e., inter-cell
interference suppression with MMSE-IRC with the following assumptions as
defined in TR 36.884 [2]:
\- DM-RS symbols are used to estimate the inter-cell interference covariance
matrix.
\- The estimation of interference covariance matrix is performed at per PRB
and per TTI basis.
# 6 Link performance characterization
## 6.1 Parameters for link level evaluation
### 6.1.1 Inter-cell interference modeling
As stated in clause 4.1 and clause 5, multi-cell scenario with homogeneous and
co-channel heterogeneous deployments are considered for the evaluation, and
inter-cell interference suppression with MMSE-IRC is implemented for both
baseline and reference receivers. Thus explicit inter-cell interference is to
be modelled in the link level evaluation.
The inter-cell interference model for the link level evaluation is given as
below:
\- Reuse DIP based interference statistical measurement defined in TR 36.884
[2], with some additional clarifications:
\- Intra-cell inter-user interference is not included in the DIP definition,
and the DIP ratio is the ratio of the power of a given dominant inter-cell
interferer over the total power of all inter-cell interferers along with the
white noise.
\- The DIP ratio is exactly same for the multiple intra-cell UEs.
\- Model 1 inter-cell interferer (i.e., the strongest interferer), which is
time-synchronous with the desired signal.
\- To make trade-off between the coverage and workload of the evaluation,
introduce two sets of inter-cell interference profiles:
\- Set 1: High interference level in co-channel heterogeneous scenario
\- Take the DIP1 value at 85%-tile of the unconditional DIP1 distribution in
heterogeneous scenario
\- Based on the average of interested companies' results in Table 6.3.2.2-1 or
Table 6.4-2 of TR 36.884 [2], DIP1 = -0.43 dB
\- Set 2: Low interference level in homogeneous scenario
\- Take the DIP1 value at 15%-tile of the unconditional DIP1 distribution in
homogeneous scenario
\- Based on the average of interested companies' results in Table 6.3.1.2-1 of
TR 36.884 [2], DIP1 = -5.45 dB
### 6.1.2 Link level evaluation parameters
The common parameters for link level evaluation are given in Table 6.1.2-1.
The evaluation cases with specific parameters are given in Table 6.1.2-2 and
Table 6.1.2-3. The performance with both baseline receiver and reference
receiver are provided for comparison purpose.
Below are some explanations on the evaluation parameters:
\- _BS Rx antenna number:_ the evaluation focuses on 2 Rx and 4 Rx BS. 8 Rx BS
is not covered in the evaluation due to two reasons: on one hand, 8 Rx IC gain
is relatively limited for up to 4 co-scheduled intra-cell UEs; on the other
hand, a large number of channel faders are needed for potential 8 Rx IC test.
\- _Number of co-scheduled intra-cell UEs:_ 2 and 4 co-scheduled intra-cell
UEs are modeled for 2 Rx and 4 Rx BS respectively. 4 intra-cell UEs are
modeled for 4 Rx BS due to two reasons: on one hand, IC gain for 2 intra-cell
UEs is not as meaningful as for 4 intra-cell UEs; on the other hand, if the BS
can properly implement the channel estimation and IC for 4 intra-cell UEs, it
can also do that for less than 4 intra-cell UEs in practical.
\- _SNR distribution for the co-scheduled intra-cell UEs:_ as known, the PUSCH
transmission power is a function of the coupling loss, and the uplink received
SNR difference for any two intra-cell UEs is observed as relatively small.
Thus, considering the intra-cell UEs' SNR distribution, two cases are
evaluated, including: a) equal average SNR, where the short-term variation
remains, and b) unequal average SNR with a maximal 3dB SNR difference among
UEs.
\- _Spatial correlation level for the intra-cell UEs:_ low correlation among
the intra-cell UEs is modeled, i.e., independent fast fading for the intra-
cell UEs.
\- _DMRS configuration:_ the same base sequence and different phase
rotations/cyclic shifts are assigned for co-scheduled intra-cell UEs, and
different base sequences are assigned for UEs associated with different cells.
\- _Performance output:_ Interested companies are invited to provide the
throughput versus SINR curves for each individual intra-cell UE for the
baseline and reference receivers. The SINR at 85% maximum throughput is taken
as the performance measurement point.
\- Note that SINR represents one intra-cell UE's signal to inter-cell
interference and noise ratio, i.e., the signal power is the power of one
intra-cell UE, and intra-cell inter-user interference is not included in the
interference part when calculating SINR.
Table 6.1.2-1: Common parameters of link level evaluation
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Parameters | Values | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Channel bandwidth | 10 MHz | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | PRB allocation | Full PRB allocation, | | | | i.e., 50 PRBs, for | | | | all the intra-cell | | | | and inter-cell UEs | | | | involved in the | | | | evaluation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Cyclic prefix | Normal | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Inter-cell | Number of explicitly | 1 | | interference | modelled interferers | | | modelling | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Interference | 16 QAM | | | modulation | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | DIP | Set 1: High | | | | interference level | | | | in co-channel | | | | heterogeneous | | | | scenario, DIP1= | | | | -0.43 dB | | | | | | | | Set 2: Low | | | | interference level | | | | in homogeneous | | | | scenario, DIP1 = | | | | -5.45 dB | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | UE Tx antenna number | 1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | BS Rx antenna number | 2, 4 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Number of | 2 intra-cell UEs for | | | co-scheduled | 2 Rx BS | | | intra-cell UEs | | | | | 4 intra-cell UEs for | | | | 4 Rx BS | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SNR distribution for | Case 1: Equal | | | the co-scheduled | average SNR | | | intra-cell UEs | (short-term | | | | variation remains) | | | | | | | | Case 2: Unequal | | | | average SNR | | | | | | | | - For 2 intra-cell | | | | UEs: the SNR of | | | | UE1 is 3 dB | | | | lower than that | | | | of UE2. | | | | | | | | - For 4 intra-cell | | | | UEs: the SNR of | | | | UE1 and UE3 is | | | | the same, the | | | | SNR of UE2 and | | | | UE4 is the same, | | | | the SNR of UE1 & | | | | UE3 is 3 dB | | | | lower than that | | | | of UE2 & UE4. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Propagation | (EPA5 low, ETU5 | | | condition | low), (EVA70 low, | | | (intra-cell UEs, | ETU70 low) | | | inter-cell UEs) | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | AWGN power level for | -83.5 dBm / 9MHz | | | 10MHz channel | | | | bandwidth | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Time offset and | Intra-cell UEs | Case 1: Zero time | | frequency offset | | and frequency offset | | | | | | | | Case 2: Non-zero | | | | time and frequency | | | | offset | | | | | | | | > Time offset: | | | | | | | | - 2 intra-cell | | | | > UEs: [-1, 1] | | | | > us for [UE1, | | | | > UE2] | | | | | | | | - 4 intra-cell | | | | > UEs: [-1, | | | | > -0.5, 0.5, 1] | | | | > us for [UE1, | | | | > UE2, UE3, | | | | > UE4] | | | | | | | | > Frequency offset: | | | | | | | | - 2 intra-cell | | | | > UEs: [-200, | | | | > 200] Hz for | | | | > [UE1, UE2] | | | | | | | | - 4 intra-cell | | | | > UEs: [-200, | | | | > -100, 100, | | | | > 200] Hz for | | | | > [UE1, UE2, | | | | > UE3, UE4] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Inter-cell UEs | Zero time and | | | | frequency offset | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | DM-RS sequence for | - The cell id for | | | the intra-cell and | the intra-cell | | | inter-cell UEs | UEs is 0, and | | | | the cell id for | | | | inter-cell | | | | interfering UE | | | | is 1. | | | | | | | | - Group hopping | | | | and sequence | | | | hopping are | | | | disabled, and | | | | {width="0 | | | | .2361111111111111in" | | | | | | | | height="0.25in"}= | | | | 0 for all the | | | | simulated | | | | PUSCHs. | | | | | | | | - {width="0. | | | | 41458333333333336in" | | | | height="0. | | | | 2604166666666667in"} | | | | = [0, 6] for 2 | | | | intra-cell UEs, | | | | {width="0. | | | | 41458333333333336in" | | | | height="0. | | | | 2604166666666667in"} | | | | = [0, 3, 6, 9] | | | | for 4 intra-cell | | | | UEs; and | | | | {width="0 | | | | .4861111111111111in" | | | | height="0.2743 | | | | 055555555556in"}= 0. | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Frequency hopping, | Disabled | | | TTI bundling | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Maximal number of | 4 | | | HARQ transmissions | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | HARQ RV sequence | 0, 2, 3, 1 | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Table 6.1.2-2: Cases for equal average SNR
* * *
Case No. Rx antenna No. of UEs Propagation condition (intra-cell UEs, inter-
cell UEs) MCS level (intra-cell UEs) Inter-cell interference scenario E1-a1 2
Rx 2 UEs (EPA5 low, ETU5 low) MCS 10 DIP1= -0.43 dB E1-a2 MCS 15  
E1-b1 (EVA70 low, ETU70 low) MCS 15 DIP1 = -5.45 dB E1-b2 MCS 10  
E1-c (EPA5 low, ETU5 low) MCS 21 DIP1= -0.43 dB E2-a1 4 Rx 4 UEs (EPA5 low,
ETU5 low) MCS 10 DIP1= -0.43 dB E2-a2 MCS 15  
E2-b1 (EVA70 low, ETU70 low) MCS 15 DIP1 = -5.45 dB E2-b2 MCS 10
* * *
Table 6.1.2-3: Cases for unequal average SNR
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | Case No. | Rx | No. of | Pro | MCS | In | | | antenna | UEs | pagation | level | ter-cell | | | | | c | (in | inte | | | | | ondition | tra-cell | rference | | | | | (in | UEs) | scenario | | | | | tra-cell | | | | | | | UEs, | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | ter-cell | | | | | | | UEs) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U1-a1 | 2 Rx | 2 UEs | (EPA5 | MCS 10 | DIP1= | | | | | low, | | -0.43 dB | | | | | ETU5 | | | | | | | low) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U1-a2 | | | | MCS 15 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U1-b1 | | | (EVA70 | MCS 15 | DIP1 = | | | | | low, | | -5.45 dB | | | | | ETU70 | | | | | | | low) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U1-b2 | | | | MCS 10 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U1-c | | | (EPA5 | MCS 21 | DIP1= | | | | | low, | | -0.43 dB | | | | | ETU5 | | | | | | | low) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U1-d | | | (EPA5 | MCS 10 | DIP1= | | | | | low, | for UE1 | -0.43 dB | | | | | ETU5 | | | | | | | low) | MCS 15 | | | | | | | for UE2 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U1-e | | | (EPA5 | MCS 15 | DIP1= | | | | | low, | for UE1 | -0.43 dB | | | | | ETU5 | | | | | | | low) | MCS 10 | | | | | | | for UE2 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U2-a1 | 4 Rx | 4 UEs | (EPA5 | MCS 10 | DIP1= | | | | | low, | | -0.43 dB | | | | | ETU5 | | | | | | | low) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U2-a2 | | | | MCS 15 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U2-b1 | | | (EVA70 | MCS 15 | DIP1 = | | | | | low, | | -5.45 dB | | | | | ETU70 | | | | | | | low) | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U2-b2 | | | | MCS 10 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U2-c | | | (EPA5 | MCS 10 | DIP1= | | | | | low, | for UE1, | -0.43 dB | | | | | ETU5 | 3 | | | | | | low) | | | | | | | | MCS 15 | | | | | | | for UE2, | | | | | | | 4 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | U2-d | | | (EPA5 | MCS 15 | DIP1= | | | | | low, | for UE1, | -0.43 dB | | | | | ETU5 | 3 | | | | | | low) | | | | | | | | MCS 10 | | | | | | | for UE2, | | | | | | | 4 | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 6.2 Link level simulation results
### 6.2.1 Link level simulation results without time and frequency offset
The document R4-1704557 [6] captures the link level simulation results without
time and frequency offset from companies.
Table 6.2.1-1 to Table 6.2.1-4 compare the simulation results between baseline
receiver and IC receiver for equal average SNR with 2Rx, equal average SNR
with 4Rx, unequal average SNR with 2Rx, and unequal average SNR with 4Rx
respectively. Table 6.2.1-5 summarizes averaged IC gain over baseline
receiver.
Table 6.2.1-1: Summary of simulation results for equal average SNR, 2Rx,
required SINR at 85% TP
* * *
Case Num UE id China Telecom ZTE  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) E1-a1 UE1 4.92 1.59 3.33 5.73 1.67 4.06 UE2
4.78 1.66 3.12 5.45 1.77 3.68 E1-a2 UE1 11.19 8.30 2.89 11.72 8.05 3.67 UE2
11.44 8.32 3.12 11.79 8.10 3.69 E1-b1 UE1 12.77 10.96 1.81 13.09 11.43 1.66
UE2 12.87 10.94 1.93 13.41 11.40 2.01 E1-b2 UE1 6.71 4.90 1.81 7.02 5.01 2.01
UE2 6.77 4.89 1.88 6.97 5.03 1.94 E1-c UE1 18.09 14.69 3.40 18.02 14.73 3.29
UE2 17.83 14.71 3.12 18.15 15.02 3.13 Case Num UE id Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent
Shanghai Bell Huawei  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) E1-a1 UE1 5.48 2.49 2.98 3.4 1.2 2.2 UE2 5.77
2.55 3.21 3.6 1.3 2.3 E1-a2 UE1 11.73 9.15 2.58 9.8 8.1 1.7 UE2 11.96 9.13
2.83 10.2 8.1 2.1 E1-b1 UE1 12.46 11.03 1.44 11.6 10.14 1.46 UE2 12.56 11.04
1.52 11.6 10.0 1.6 E1-b2 UE1 6.60 5.16 1.44 5.9 4.76 1.14 UE2 6.71 5.20 1.51
5.91 4.71 1.20 E1-c UE1 18.84 16.09 2.75 16.20 14.46 1.74 UE2 18.94 16.07 2.87
16.50 14.30 2.20
* * *
Table 6.2.1-2: Summary of simulation results for equal average SNR, 4Rx,
required SINR at 85% TP
* * *
Case Num UE id China Telecom ZTE  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) E2-a1 UE1 -0.10 -3.67 3.57 -0.91 -4.31 3.40
UE2 0.44 -3.71 4.15 -0.43 -4.34 3.91 UE3 0.25 -3.72 3.97 -0.25 -4.34 4.09 UE4
0.01 -3.66 3.67 -0.83 -4.30 3.47 E2-a2 UE1 9.25 3.71 5.54 9.63 4.02 5.61 UE2
8.79 3.71 5.08 9.44 3.96 5.48 UE3 9.08 3.75 5.33 9.45 3.95 5.50 UE4 9.08 3.74
5.34 9.44 3.96 5.48 E2-b1 UE1 11.55 8.57 2.98 12.06 9.00 3.06 UE2 11.58 8.56
3.02 11.99 9.00 2.99 UE3 11.62 8.56 3.06 12.18 8.98 3.20 UE4 11.59 8.56 3.03
12.00 8.99 3.01 E2-b2 UE1 4.66 2.29 2.37 4.73 2.02 2.71 UE2 4.73 2.29 2.44
4.66 2.06 2.60 UE3 4.75 2.28 2.47 4.69 2.04 2.65 UE4 4.74 2.26 2.48 4.68 2.04
2.64 Case Num UE id Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell Huawei  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) E2-a1 UE1 1.66 -3.07 4.73 -1.00 -3.93 2.93 UE2
2.64 -2.92 5.56 -0.72 -3.79 3.07 UE3 1.31 -3.16 4.47 -0.07 -3.61 3.54 UE4 1.48
-3.14 4.61 -0.69 -3.93 3.24 E2-a2 UE1 11.57 5.06 6.51 7.15 3.75 3.40 UE2 12.02
5.15 6.87 7.00 3.84 3.16 UE3 11.17 5.03 6.14 7.70 4.00 3.70 UE4 11.04 5.02
6.02 7.00 3.59 3.41 E2-b1 UE1 11.46 8.65 2.80 10.00 7.82 2.18 UE2 11.47 8.69
2.78 9.84 7.75 2.09 UE3 11.49 8.66 2.82 9.82 7.75 2.07 UE4 11.41 8.62 2.79
9.90 7.51 2.39 E2-b2 UE1 4.55 2.02 2.53 3.45 1.79 1.66 UE2 4.57 2.06 2.51 3.31
1.63 1.68 UE3 4.60 2.09 2.50 3.34 1.69 1.65 UE4 4.49 1.99 2.50 3.38 1.50 1.88
* * *
Table 6.2.1-3: Summary of simulation results for unequal average SNR, 2Rx,
required SINR at 85% TP
* * *
Case Num UE id China Telecom ZTE  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) U1-a1 UE1 5.59 0.25 5.34 6.60 0.15 6.45 UE2
0.31 -1.19 1.5 1.85 -1.35 3.20 U1-a2 UE1 12.01 6.80 5.21 12.25 6.15 6.10 UE2
7.52 6.17 1.35 7.70 5.10 2.60 U1-b1 UE1 13.38 9.32 4.06 14.01 10.01 4.00 UE2
9.06 8.53 0.53 9.76 9.00 0.76 U1-b2 UE1 7.46 3.95 3.51 8.00 3.95 4.05 UE2 2.87
2.25 0.62 3.34 2.98 0.36 U1-c UE1 18.39 13.34 5.05 18.78 12.95 5.83 UE2 14.17
12.91 1.26 14.61 12.24 2.37 U1-d UE1 5.56 3.13 2.43 6.61 4.05 2.56 UE2 7.34
3.46 3.88 8.01 3.99 4.02 U1-e UE1 12.30 4.14 8.16 12.20 4.60 7.60 UE2 0.21
-0.57 0.78 0.92 0.85 0.07 Case Num UE id Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell
Huawei  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) U1-a1 UE1 6.75 1.53 5.22 4.77 0.77 4.0 UE2
1.07 0.08 0.99 -0.3 -2.00 1.70 U1-a2 UE1 12.63 7.66 4.98 10.54 6.51 4.03 UE2
7.78 7.01 0.76 6.24 5.50 0.74 U1-b1 UE1 13.26 9.50 3.76 12.28 8.62 3.66 UE2
8.60 8.67 -0.07 7.85 7.70 0.15 U1-b2 UE1 7.41 4.31 3.1 6.75 3.70 3.05 UE2 2.73
2.49 0.24 2.02 1.60 0.42 U1-c UE1 19.31 14.46 4.85 16.70 12.74 3.96 UE2 15.26
14.03 1.23 13.00 12.00 1.00 U1-d UE1 6.75 4.07 2.68 4.80 3.35 1.45 UE2 7.77
4.40 3.36 6.10 3.66 2.44 U1-e UE1 12.63 5.32 7.30 10.54 4.50 6.04 UE2 1.08
1.18 -0.10 -0.42 -0.80 0.38
* * *
Table 6.2.1-4: Summary of simulation results for unequal average SNR, 4Rx,
required SINR at 85% TP
* * *
Case Num UE id China Telecom ZTE  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) U2-a1 UE1 2.15 -4.54 6.69 0.50 -4.87 5.37 UE2
-4.89 -6.92 2.03 -4.00 -6.68 2.68 UE3 2.16 -4.57 6.73 0.50 -4.87 5.37 UE4
-4.92 -6.86 1.94 -4.00 -6.66 2.66 U2-a2 UE1 10.25 2.29 7.96 8.40 0.35 8.05 UE2
4.43 0.71 3.72 2.95 -0.69 3.64 UE3 10.18 2.34 7.84 8.35 0.32 8.03 UE4 3.98
0.63 3.35 2.40 -0.73 3.13 U2-b1 UE1 12.40 6.97 5.43 13.10 7.30 5.80 UE2 7.45
5.14 2.31 8.20 5.94 2.26 UE3 12.54 6.97 5.57 13.10 7.30 5.80 UE4 7.44 5.15
2.29 8.20 5.97 2.23 U2-b2 UE1 5.79 1.45 4.34 6.43 2.07 4.36 UE2 0.59 -1.12
1.71 1.20 -0.45 1.65 UE3 5.83 1.46 4.37 6.48 2.09 4.39 UE4 0.57 -1.13 1.70
1.21 -0.44 1.65 U2-c UE1 2.14 -2.16 4.30 2.24 -2.15 4.39 UE2 4.33 -1.42 5.75
4.42 -0.63 5.05 UE3 2.07 -2.14 4.21 2.24 -2.15 4.39 UE4 4.29 -1.35 5.64 4.41
-0.63 5.04 U2-d UE1 10.28 -0.44 10.72 10.45 -0.37 10.82 UE2 -4.54 -6.95 2.41
-4.00 -6.78 2.78 UE3 10.23 -0.50 10.73 10.35 -0.37 10.72 UE4 -4.53 -6.88 2.35
-4.00 -6.78 2.78 Case Num UE id Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell Huawei  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) U2-a1 UE1 4.53 -3.92 8.45 0.59 -4.83 5.42 UE2
-3.76 -6.10 2.33 -4.60 -6.60 2.00 UE3 4.08 -3.96 8.04 1.70 -4.60 6.30 UE4
-4.48 -6.34 1.87 -4.60 -6.66 2.06 U2-a2 UE1 12.87 3.71 9.16 8.28 1.96 6.32 UE2
6.83 1.93 4.90 2.11 0.85 1.26 UE3 12.49 3.62 8.87 8.87 2.27 6.60 UE4 5.60 1.76
3.84 2.28 0.55 1.73 U2-b1 UE1 12.65 7.16 5.49 11.00 6.40 4.60 UE2 7.05 5.26
1.79 5.70 5.00 0.70 UE3 12.69 7.18 5.51 11.0 6.40 4.60 UE4 6.96 5.26 1.70 5.7
4.8 0.90 U2-b2 UE1 5.71 1.44 4.27 4.52 1.26 3.26 UE2 0.11 -1.02 1.13 0.10
-1.15 1.25 UE3 5.73 1.46 4.27 4.40 1.22 3.18 UE4 0.02 -1.04 1.06 -0.10 -1.10
1.00 U2-c UE1 4.52 -1.21 5.73 0.6 -1.80 2.40 UE2 6.82 -0.50 7.32 1.8 -0.90
2.70 UE3 4.09 -1.26 5.35 1.8 -1.40 3.20 UE4 5.63 -0.65 6.27 2.0 -1.50 3.50
U2-d UE1 12.86 0.72 12.14 10.00 0.04 9.96 UE2 -3.75 -6.09 2.35 -5.80 -6.30
0.50 UE3 12.49 0.65 11.84 9.80 0.36 9.44 UE4 -4.48 -6.37 1.90 -5.70 -6.30 0.60
* * *
Table 6.2.1-5: Companies' averaged performance gain of IC over baseline
receiver, required SINR at 85% TP
* * *
                Case Num   Average SINR gain (dB)                
                           UE1                      UE2   UE3    UE4
Equal SNR E1-a1 3.1 3.1 E1-a2 2.7 2.9 E1-b1 1.6 1.8 E1-b2 1.6 1.6 E1-c 2.8 2.8
E2-a1 3.7 4.2 4.0 3.7 E2-a2 5.3 5.1 5.2 5.1 E2-b1 2.8 2.7 2.8 2.8 E2-b2 2.3
2.3 2.3 2.4 Unequal SNR U1-a1 5.3 1.8 U1-a2 5.1 1.4 U1-b1 3.9 0.3 U1-b2 3.4
0.4 U1-c 4.9 1.5 U1-d 2.3 3.4 U1-e 7.3 0.3 U2-a1 6.5 2.3 6.6 2.1 U2-a2 7.9 3.4
7.8 3.0 U2-b1 5.3 1.8 5.4 1.8 U2-b2 4.1 1.4 4.1 1.4 U2-c 4.2 5.2 4.3 5.1 U2-d
10.9 2.0 10.7 1.9
* * *
### 6.2.2 Link level simulation results with time and frequency offset
The document R4-1704558 [7] captures the link level simulation results with
time and frequency offset from companies.
Table 6.2.2-1 to Table 6.2.2-4 compare the simulation results between baseline
receiver and IC receiver for equal average SNR with 2Rx, equal average SNR
with 4Rx, unequal average SNR with 2Rx, and unequal average SNR with 4Rx
respectively. Table 6.2.2-5 summarizes averaged IC gain over baseline
receiver.
In addition, one company provided simulation results on performance comparison
between the following two cases. Simulations were conducted for Case E2-a1 and
E2-b1 with equal average SNR. The results are shown in Table 6.2.2-6, and the
observation is that there is 1-2dB loss when TO/FO is not handled.
\- TO/FO modelled but not handled in receiver algorithm
\- TO/FO modelled and handled in receiver algorithm
Table 6.2.2-1: Summary of simulation results for equal average SNR, 2Rx,
required SINR at 85% TP
* * *
Case Num UE id China Telecom Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) E1-a1 UE1 4.66 1.64 3.02 5.58 2.68 2.90 UE2
4.76 1.61 3.15 5.75 2.87 2.89 E1-a2 UE1 11.77 8.62 3.15 11.72 9.27 2.45 UE2
11.57 8.60 2.97 11.83 9.39 2.44 E1-b1 UE1 13.06 11.25 1.81 12.39 11.06 1.33
UE2 13.05 11.22 1.82 12.41 11.08 1.33 E1-b2 UE1 6.83 4.92 1.91 6.66 5.25 1.40
UE2 6.76 4.96 1.80 6.71 5.25 1.46 E1-c UE1 17.90 15.28 2.63 18.64 16.08 2.56
UE2 18.40 15.32 3.08 18.57 16.19 2.39 Case Num UE id ZTE Huawei  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) E1-a1 UE1 5.21 2.34 2.87 3.60 1.30 2.30 UE2
5.67 2.12 3.55 3.80 1.50 2.30 E1-a2 UE1 12.24 9.13 3.11 9.90 8.10 1.80 UE2
11.94 9.38 2.56 10.40 8.10 2.30 E1-b1 UE1 13.75 11.90 1.84 11.60 10.17 1.43
UE2 13.77 11.93 1.84 11.60 10.10 1.50 E1-b2 UE1 7.60 5.83 1.77 6.00 4.80 1.20
UE2 7.71 5.74 1.98 6.00 4.73 1.27 E1-c UE1 19.03 15.91 3.12 16.30 14.50 1.80
UE2 19.06 15.99 3.07 16.60 14.40 2.20
* * *
Table 6.2.2-2: Summary of simulation results for equal average SNR, 4Rx,
required SINR at 85% TP
* * *
Case Num UE id China Telecom Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) E2-a1 UE1 0.29 -3.66 3.95 1.58 -2.77 4.36 UE2
0.46 -3.79 4.25 2.37 -2.66 5.03 UE3 0.38 -3.75 4.13 1.07 -2.94 4.01 UE4 0.11
-3.82 3.93 1.25 -2.91 4.16 E2-a2 UE1 9.08 3.71 5.36 10.53 5.29 5.24 UE2 9.10
3.74 5.36 10.67 5.40 5.27 UE3 8.88 3.76 5.12 9.76 5.32 4.45 UE4 9.25 3.75 5.50
9.76 5.26 4.50 E2-b1 UE1 11.79 8.68 3.11 11.10 8.51 2.59 UE2 11.72 8.68 3.04
11.02 8.51 2.50 UE3 11.68 8.67 3.01 11.02 8.55 2.46 UE4 11.81 8.68 3.13 10.96
8.51 2.45 E2-b2 UE1 4.66 2.27 2.39 4.43 2.06 2.37 UE2 4.71 2.30 2.40 4.40 2.10
2.30 UE3 4.68 2.30 2.38 4.40 2.06 2.34 UE4 4.75 2.32 2.43 4.33 2.01 2.33 Case
Num UE id ZTE Huawei  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) E2-a1 UE1 1.17 -2.76 3.93 -1.00 -3.90 2.9 UE2
1.35 -2.94 4.29 -0.70 -3.75 3.05 UE3 1.10 -3.01 4.11 -0.04 -3.58 3.54 UE4 0.93
-3.08 4.01 -1.00 -3.90 2.9 E2-a2 UE1 9.94 4.53 5.41 6.90 3.81 3.09 UE2 9.78
4.50 5.28 7.00 3.83 3.17 UE3 9.69 4.48 5.21 7.80 4.10 3.7 UE4 10.09 4.49 5.60
7.00 3.70 3.3 E2-b1 UE1 12.70 9.54 3.15 10.10 7.90 2.2 UE2 12.63 9.38 3.25
9.85 7.00 2.85 UE3 12.47 9.51 2.96 9.84 7.82 2.02 UE4 12.51 9.43 3.08 9.92
7.10 2.82 E2-b2 UE1 5.36 3.15 2.21 3.47 1.77 1.7 UE2 5.57 3.01 2.56 3.32 1.67
1.65 UE3 5.57 3.09 2.49 3.37 1.72 1.65 UE4 5.57 3.19 2.38 3.40 1.60 1.8
* * *
**Table 6.2.2-3: Summary of simulation results for unequal average SNR, 2Rx,
required SINR at 85** % TP
* * *
Case Num UE id China Telecom Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) U1-a1 UE1 5.69 0.36 5.33 6.77 1.67 5.10 UE2
-0.02 -0.98 0.96 1.07 0.24 0.84 U1-a2 UE1 12.42 7.23 5.19 12.53 7.80 4.73 UE2
7.28 6.33 0.95 7.71 7.10 0.61 U1-b1 UE1 13.70 9.69 4.00 13.13 9.56 3.57 UE2
9.25 8.70 0.55 8.57 8.66 -0.09 U1-b2 UE1 7.54 4.04 3.50 7.42 4.46 2.97 UE2
2.91 2.21 0.70 2.74 2.48 0.27 U1-c UE1 18.55 14.38 4.16 19.06 14.71 4.35 UE2
14.37 13.20 1.17 14.98 14.00 0.99 U1-d UE1 6.14 3.39 2.75 6.78 4.20 2.58 UE2
7.41 3.87 3.54 7.71 4.75 2.96 U1-e UE1 12.04 4.66 7.38 12.56 5.67 6.88 UE2
0.49 0.02 0.47 1.07 1.15 -0.09 Case Num UE id ZTE Huawei  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) U1-a1 UE1 6.40 0.98 5.42 4.80 0.76 4.04 UE2
1.15 -0.40 1.55 -0.20 -1.90 1.70 U1-a2 UE1 13.03 7.50 5.53 10.60 6.54 4.06 UE2
8.47 6.81 1.66 6.30 5.60 0.7 U1-b1 UE1 14.33 10.16 4.18 12.35 8.70 3.65 UE2
9.97 9.40 0.57 7.90 7.70 0.2 U1-b2 UE1 8.19 4.85 3.34 6.80 3.70 3.1 UE2 3.76
2.87 0.89 2.20 1.50 0.7 U1-c UE1 19.35 14.31 5.04 16.80 12.74 4.06 UE2 14.99
13.80 1.19 13.10 12.00 1.1 U1-d UE1 6.51 4.13 2.37 4.80 3.40 1.4 UE2 8.34 4.57
1.77 6.20 3.70 2.5 U1-e UE1 13.2 4.96 8.24 10.54 4.60 5.94 UE2 1.0 0.38 0.61
-0.40 -0.60 0.2
* * *
Table 6.2.2-4: Summary of simulation results for unequal average SNR, 4Rx,
required SINR at 85% TP
* * *
Case Num UE id China Telecom Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent Shanghai Bell  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) U2-a1 UE1 2.49 -4.57 7.06 4.02 -3.33 7.35 UE2
-4.91 -6.80 1.89 -3.65 -5.98 2.33 UE3 2.03 -4.61 6.64 3.50 -3.63 7.13 UE4
-4.74 -6.91 2.16 -4.47 -6.25 1.78 U2-a2 UE1 10.45 2.48 7.97 11.51 4.06 7.45
UE2 4.45 0.44 4.02 5.86 2.00 3.86 UE3 10.47 2.45 8.02 10.90 3.87 7.03 UE4 4.26
0.51 3.76 4.84 1.84 3.00 U2-b1 UE1 12.76 7.25 5.51 12.11 7.17 4.94 UE2 7.50
5.29 2.22 6.59 5.14 1.45 UE3 12.74 7.22 5.51 11.98 7.11 4.87 UE4 7.62 5.27
2.35 6.53 5.14 1.39 U2-b2 UE1 5.80 1.49 4.32 5.50 1.49 4.01 UE2 0.57 -1.10
1.68 0.00 -1.03 1.03 UE3 5.72 1.52 4.20 5.48 1.45 4.03 UE4 0.56 -1.09 1.65
-0.05 -1.09 1.04 U2-c UE1 1.83 -2.07 3.90 4.03 -0.95 4.98 UE2 4.39 -1.40 5.79
5.84 -0.28 6.12 UE3 2.23 -2.19 4.41 3.51 -1.00 4.52 UE4 4.58 -1.48 6.06 4.85
-0.40 5.25 U2-d UE1 10.51 -0.16 10.68 11.51 1.53 9.98 UE2 -4.67 -7.02 2.35
-3.65 -6.01 2.36 UE3 10.03 -0.41 10.44 10.90 1.07 9.83 UE4 -4.75 -6.95 2.20
-4.45 -6.30 1.85 Case Num UE id ZTE Huawei  
Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) Baseline receiver (dB)
IC receiver (dB) SINR gain (dB) U2-a1 UE1 3.14 -3.93 7.07 0.60 -4.80 5.40 UE2
-4.15 -6.10 1.96 -4.50 -6.60 2.1 UE3 2.83 -3.84 6.68 1.80 -4.60 6.4 UE4 -4.06
-6.20 2.15 -4.50 -6.50 2.0 U2-a2 UE1 11.14 3.13 8.01 8.30 2.00 6.3 UE2 5.28
1.15 4.13 2.20 0.92 1.28 UE3 11.14 3.18 7.97 8.90 2.40 6.5 UE4 4.89 1.22 3.67
2.28 0.70 1.58 U2-b1 UE1 13.49 7.99 5.50 11.20 6.50 4.7 UE2 8.22 6.15 2.07
5.70 5.20 0.50 UE3 13.57 8.09 5.49 11.10 6.40 4.7 UE4 8.47 6.13 2.34 5.80 5.00
0.8 U2-b2 UE1 6.66 2.39 4.27 4.60 1.28 3.32 UE2 1.47 -0.20 1.67 0.20 -1.10
1.30 UE3 6.51 2.32 4.19 4.40 1.30 3.10 UE4 1.28 -0.21 1.49 -0.10 -1.10 1.0
U2-c UE1 2.70 -1.31 4.02 0.60 -1.70 2.30 UE2 5.20 -0.52 5.72 1.90 -1.00 2.90
UE3 2.86 -1.42 4.28 1.90 -1.40 3.3 UE4 5.26 -0.65 5.91 2.00 -1.60 3.6 U2-d UE1
11.05 0.62 10.42 10.00 0.05 9.95 UE2 -4.10 -6.30 2.20 -5.8 -6.30 0.5 UE3 10.73
0.30 10.44 9.60 0.35 9.25 UE4 -3.98 -6.14 2.16 -5.7 -6.30 0.6
* * *
Table 6.2.2-5: Companies' averaged performance gain of IC over baseline
receiver, required SINR at 85 % TP
* * *
                Case Num   Average SINR gain (dB)                
                           UE1                      UE2   UE3    UE4
Equal SNR E1-a1 2.8 3.0 E1-a2 2.6 2.6 E1-b1 1.6 1.6 E1-b2 1.6 1.6 E1-c 2.5 2.7
E2-a1 3.8 4.2 3.9 3.8 E2-a2 4.8 4.8 4.6 4.7 E2-b1 2.8 2.9 2.6 2.9 E2-b2 2.2
2.2 2.2 2.2 Unequal SNR U1-a1 5.0 1.3 U1-a2 4.9 1.0 U1-b1 3.9 0.3 U1-b2 3.2
0.6 U1-c 4.4 1.1 U1-d 2.3 3.2 U1-e 7.1 0.3 U2-a1 6.7 2.1 6.7 2.0 U2-a2 7.4 3.3
7.4 3.0 U2-b1 5.2 1.6 5.1 1.7 U2-b2 4.0 1.4 3.9 1.3 U2-c 3.8 5.1 4.1 5.2 U2-d
10.3 1.9 10.0 1.7
* * *
Table 6.2.2-6: Performance comparison for baseline and reference receiver with
and without TO/FO handling, required SINR at 85 % TP (Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent
Shanghai Bell)
* * *
Case Num Baseline receiver (dB) IC receiver (dB)  
TO/FO handled TO/FO not handled Loss due to not handling TO/FO TO/FO handled
TO/FO not handled Loss due to not handling TO/FO E2-a1 1.57 2.83 1.26 -2.82
-1.58 1.24 E2-b1 11.03 12.08 1.05 8.52 10.48 1.96
* * *
## 6.3 Summary of link level evaluation
According to the above simulation results without time and frequency offset,
the link performance gain of IC receiver over baseline receiver can be
summarized as follows:
• For 2Rx equal SNR scenario:
\- The average IC gain for cases with EPA5 serving channel and high
interference level is 2.7 \~ 3.1 dB from per UE perspective (case E1-a1,
E1-a2, E1-c).
\- The average IC gain for cases with EVA70 serving channel and low
interference level is 1.6 \~ 1.8 dB from per UE perspective (case E1-b1,
E1-b2).
\- There is no obvious difference in terms of IC gain between UE1 and UE2.
• For 4Rx equal SNR scenario:
\- The average IC gain for cases with EPA5 serving channel and high
interference level is 3.7 \~ 5.3dB from per UE perspective (case E2-a1,
E2-a2).
\- The average IC gain for cases with EVA70 serving channel and low
interference level is 2.3 \~ 2.8dB from per UE perspective (case E2-b1,
E2-b2).
\- There is no obvious difference in terms of IC gain among the 4 UEs.
• For 2Rx unequal SNR scenario (the SNR of UE1 is 3 dB lower than that of
UE2):
\- If all UEs use the same MCS
o The average IC gain for cases with EPA5 serving channel and high
interference level is 4.9 \~ 5.3 dB and 1.4 \~ 1.8 dB for UE1 and UE2
respectively (case U1-a1, U1-a2, U1-c).
o The average IC gain for cases with EVA70 serving channel and low
interference level is 3.4 \~ 3.9 dB and 0.3 \~ 0.4 dB for UE1 and UE2
respectively (case U1-b1, U1-b2).
\- If UEs with different SNR use different MCS
o When MCS 10 is used for UE1 and MCS 15 is used for UE2, with EPA5 serving
channel and high interference level, the average IC gain is 2.3 and 3.4 dB for
UE1 and UE2 respectively (case U1-d).
o When MCS 15 is used for UE1 and MCS 10 is used for UE2, with EPA5 serving
channel and high interference level, the average IC gain is 7.3 and 0.3 dB for
UE1 and UE2 respectively (case U1-e).
• For 4Rx unequal SNR scenario (the SNR of UE1/3 is 3 dB lower than that of
UE2/4):
\- If all UEs use the same MCS
o The average IC gain for cases with EPA5 serving channel and high
interference level is 6.5 \~ 7.9 dB and 2.1 \~ 3.4 dB for UE1/3 and UE2/4
respectively (case U2-a1, U2-a2).
o The average IC gain for cases with EVA70 serving channel and low
interference level is 4.1 \~ 5.4 dB and 1.4 \~ 1.8 dB for UE1/3 and UE2/4
respectively (case U2-b1, U2-b2).
\- If UEs with different SNR use different MCS
o When MCS 10 is used for UE1/3 and MCS 15 is used for UE2/4, with EPA5
serving channel and high interference level, the average IC gain is 4.2 \~ 4.3
and 5.1 \~ 5.2 dB for UE1/3 and UE2/4 respectively (case U2-c).
o When MCS 15 is used for UE1/3 and MCS 10 is used for UE2/4, with EPA5
serving channel and high interference level, the average IC gain is 10.7 \~
10.9 dB and 1.9 \~ 2.0 dB for UE1/3 and UE2/4 respectively (case U2-d).
According to the above simulation results with time and frequency offset,
• The performance difference compared to the cases without TO/FO (in section
6.2.1) is minor.
• The observed IC gain is very similar to that from the cases without TO/FO
(in section 6.2.1).
# 7 Conclusions
This technical report has documented the RAN4 study on interference
cancellation receiver for LTE BS. The major work includes the determination of
typical network scenarios and serving/interfering channels, definition of
reference receiver structures, and link-level performance evaluations.
Homogeneous and heterogeneous network scenarios are introduced with
considerations of interference among data channels (PUSCH).
For the reference receiver, CW-IC receiver is used for intra-cell inter-user
interference mitigation. In multi-cell scenario, for both baseline and
reference receivers, inter-cell interference suppression with MMSE-IRC is
used.
Link-level simulations are performed to evaluate the performance gain of
reference receiver over baseline receiver. 22 simulation cases with different
Rx antenna numbers, propagation conditions, MCS levels and inter-cell
interference levels are evaluated. The simulation results without time and
frequency offset can be summarized as follows:
• For 2Rx equal SNR scenario:
\- The average IC gain for cases with EPA5 serving channel and high
interference level is 2.7 \~ 3.1 dB from per UE perspective (case E1-a1,
E1-a2, E1-c).
\- The average IC gain for cases with EVA70 serving channel and low
interference level is 1.6 \~ 1.8 dB from per UE perspective (case E1-b1,
E1-b2).
\- There is no obvious difference in terms of IC gain between UE1 and UE2.
• For 4Rx equal SNR scenario:
\- The average IC gain for cases with EPA5 serving channel and high
interference level is 3.7 \~ 5.3dB from per UE perspective (case E2-a1,
E2-a2).
\- The average IC gain for cases with EVA70 serving channel and low
interference level is 2.3 \~ 2.8dB from per UE perspective (case E2-b1,
E2-b2).
\- There is no obvious difference in terms of IC gain among the 4 UEs.
• For 2Rx unequal SNR scenario (the SNR of UE1 is 3 dB lower than that of
UE2):
\- If all UEs use the same MCS
o The average IC gain for cases with EPA5 serving channel and high
interference level is 4.9 \~ 5.3 dB and 1.4 \~ 1.8 dB for UE1 and UE2
respectively (case U1-a1, U1-a2, U1-c).
o The average IC gain for cases with EVA70 serving channel and low
interference level is 3.4 \~ 3.9 dB and 0.3 \~ 0.4 dB for UE1 and UE2
respectively (case U1-b1, U1-b2).
\- If UEs with different SNR use different MCS
o When MCS 10 is used for UE1 and MCS 15 is used for UE2, with EPA5 serving
channel and high interference level, the average IC gain is 2.3 and 3.4 dB for
UE1 and UE2 respectively (case U1-d).
o When MCS 15 is used for UE1 and MCS 10 is used for UE2, with EPA5 serving
channel and high interference level, the average IC gain is 7.3 and 0.3 dB for
UE1 and UE2 respectively (case U1-e).
• For 4Rx unequal SNR scenario (the SNR of UE1/3 is 3 dB lower than that of
UE2/4):
\- If all UEs use the same MCS
o The average IC gain for cases with EPA5 serving channel and high
interference level is 6.5 \~ 7.9 dB and 2.1 \~ 3.4 dB for UE1/3 and UE2/4
respectively (case U2-a1, U2-a2).
o The average IC gain for cases with EVA70 serving channel and low
interference level is 4.1 \~ 5.4 dB and 1.4\~ 1.8 dB for UE1/3 and UE2/4
respectively (case U2-b1, U2-b2).
\- If UEs with different SNR use different MCS
o When MCS 10 is used for UE1/3 and MCS 15 is used for UE2/4, with EPA5
serving channel and high interference level, the average IC gain is 4.2 \~ 4.3
and 5.1 \~ 5.2 dB for UE1/3 and UE2/4 respectively (case U2-c).
o When MCS 15 is used for UE1/3 and MCS 10 is used for UE2/4, with EPA5
serving channel and high interference level, the average IC gain is 10.7 \~
10.9 dB and 1.9 \~ 2.0 dB for UE1/3 and UE2/4 respectively (case U2-d).
The simulation results with time and frequency offset can be summarized as
follows:
• The performance difference compared to the cases without time and frequency
offset is minor.
• The observed IC gain is very similar to that from the cases without time and
frequency offset.
Considering the above performance evaluation results as well as the test
coverage / workload, for the performance requirements in the follow-up work
item, it is recommended to:
• Model time offset and frequency offset
• Use the following test metric:
\- SINR at 80% of maximum sum throughput of all the intra-cell UEs
• Introduce the following test cases:
Table 7-1: Recommended test cases for the follow-up work item
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Case | SNR | Rx | No. of | Prop | MCS | Int | | No. | distr | antenna | UEs | agation | level | er-cell | | | ibution | | | co | (int | inter | | | | | | ndition | ra-cell | ference | | | | | | (int | UEs) | s | | | | | | ra-cell | | cenario | | | | | | UEs, | | | | | | | | int | | | | | | | | er-cell | | | | | | | | UEs) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E1-c | equal | 2 Rx | 2 UEs | (EPA5 | MCS 21 | DIP1 = | | ^(No | average | | | low, | | -0.43 | | te\ 1)^ | SNR | | | ETU5 | | dB | | | | | | low) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | E2-b1 | | 4 Rx | 4 UEs | (EVA70 | MCS 15 | DIP1 = | | | | | | low, | | -5.45 | | | | | | ETU70 | | dB | | | | | | low) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | U1-b1 | unequal | 2 Rx | 2 UEs | (EVA70 | MCS 15 | DIP1 = | | | average | | | low, | | -5.45 | | | SNR | | | ETU70 | | dB | | | | | | low) | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | U2-c | | 4 Rx | 4 UEs | (EPA5 | MCS 10 | DIP1= | | | | | | low, | for | -0.43 | | | | | | ETU5 | UE1, 3 | dB | | | | | | low) | | | | | | | | | MCS 15 | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | UE2, 4 | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | case | | | | | | | | E1-c | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | 15MHz | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | 20MHz | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ban | | | | | | | | dwidth, | | | | | | | | 50 | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | esource | | | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | middle | | | | | | | | of the | | | | | | | | channel | | | | | | | | ba | | | | | | | | ndwidth | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | al | | | | | | | | located | | | | | | | | in the | | | | | | | | test. | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
#