# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report on TR on V2X new ban combinations
for LTE.
The purpose of the present document is to study the extension of the band
combinations for V2X service to grow the LTE V2X ecosystem. Specially, analyze
the harmonics/IMDs problems on the own Rx frequency bands for daul
transmission. (e.g. transmission of Band 47 on PC5 operation and transmission
of licensed band on Uu operation).
Also RAN4 study on increasing of the number of multi-carrier for LTE-based V2X
service. It can support **concurrent operation of LTE CA band combinations on
Uu interface and Band 47 on PC5 interface. Operator propose new band
combinations up to 3CCs during the work item.** In future study, the number of
multiple carrier can be increased up to 5CCs.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-170752: \" New WID on V2X new band combinations for LTE \".
[3] 3GPP TR 36.786 V1.0.0: \" V2X Services based on LTE sidelink; User
Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
(Void)
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
D2D Device to Device
D2DSS D2D Synchronization Signal
PD2DSCH Physical D2D Synchronization Channel
PD2DSS Primary D2D Synchronization Signal
ProSe Proximity based Services
PS Public Safety
PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast CHannel
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control CHannel
PSDCH Physical Sidelink Discovery CHannel
PSS Primary Synchronization Signal
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
PSSS Primary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
SD2DSS Secondary D2D Synchronization Signal
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
SSSS Secondary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
V2V Vehicle to Vehicle
V2X Vehicle to Anything
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
**3GPP is now completing the Release 14 work on LTE V2X including RAN4 minimum
requirements and frequency bands for V2X operation. The current specification
considers an initial set of frequency bands for Uu and PC5 interface that we
requested as part of Release 14 work.**
**However, in order to continue to grow the LTE V2X ecosystem, it will be
necessary to extend the frequency bands support by the V2X UE on Uu with
concurrent operation of Band 47 on PC5 in Release 15 and later, and in
addition to include RF requirements for:**
\- LTE Carrier Aggregation on Uu concurrently with PC5 operation
## 4.2 Objective
**The objective of this work item is to specify RAN4 RF requirements for the
following:**
\- Concurrent operation of additional LTE Uu frequency bands and PC5 operation
on Band 47
\- Highest priority, and target for [RAN#76]{.underline} completion, shall be
given to the following combination:
* * *
V2X MCC Band V2X Band Channel bandwidths Interface V2X_20_47 20 5, 10, 15, 20
Uu 47 10, 20 PC5
* * *
\- Other LTE Uu frequency bands are not precluded. For the target completion
date, RAN4 should guaranteed the minimum two RAN4 WG meeting from the starting
for new band combinations.
* * *
V2X inter-band concurrent combination V2X Band Channel bandwidths [MHz]
Interface V2X_34_47 34 5, 10, 15 Uu 47 10, 20 PC5 V2X_5_47 5 5, 10 Uu 47 10,
20 PC5 V2X_28_47 28 3, 5, 10, 15, 20 Uu 47 10, 20 PC5 V2X_71_47 71 5, 10, 15,
20 Uu 47 10, 20 PC5
* * *
\- Concurrent operation of LTE Uu Carrier Aggregation and PC5 operation on
Band 47. Proposed combinations to be proposed during the work item inline with
the CA basket WID approach.
\- Based on agreed work plan (R4-1703287), the total number of carriers of LTE
Uu CA and PC5 operation is restricted up to 3CCs in this WI.
\- E.g. CA_XA-YA (Uu) + 47A (PC5) or XA (Uu) + 47B (PC5)
Newly proposed combinations may be included to this work item at every RAN
plenary, but shall have been proposed at the RAN4 meeting prior to the
corresponding RAN plenary where they are agreed.
Once a band combination is completed, it shall be included in the 3GPP
specifications immediately, and Release independence of that combination shall
be supported from release 14 (same approach as for LTE frequency bands and CA
combinations today).
# 5 Additional UE RF: General part
## 5.1 UE RF requirements
For LTE-based V2X service in Rel-14, RAN4 considered example RF architecture
as shown in Figure 5.1-1.
Figure 5.1-1: Example RF architecture of inter-band con-current operation
without harmonic problems
In rel-14, RAN4 only added V2X band combination without harmonics/IMDs problem
to own V2X received frequency bands based on the agreed WF in rel-14 as below
Agreed WF: For introducing new license bands for V2X operation, RAN4 agreed
the follow phased approach
\- Due to time limitation to complete at March 2017 in rel-14, the phased
approach proposed to add new licensed bands as below
\- 1st phase, Add new licensed bands w/o harmonics/IMD problems into Band 47.
\- So Band 3/7/8/39/41 are added for the new inter-band con-current V2X
operation in V2X WI.
\- 2nd phase, RAN4 study how to solve the harmonics/IMDs problems of multi-
carrier V2X band **combination.**
Hence, RAN4 need to study how to solve the harmonics/IMD problem into the own
receiving frequency bands for inter-band con-current V2X operation.
Table 5.1-1 shows the harmonics and IMDs problem by legacy LTE UL transmission
or dual transmission with licensed band and unlicensed band.
Table 5.1-1: Harmonics /IMDs impacts on own Rx bands
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Licensed | B47 Range | Comments | | | | Band | (MHz) | for | | | | | | ha | | | | | | rmonics/IMD | | | | | | problems | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 5855 -- | | | | | | 5925 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA band | UL Range | Harm. Order | Harmonic | | | | (MHz) | | Range (MHz) | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B3 | 1710 -- | 3x | 5130 -- | No | | | 1785 | | 5355 | Har | | | | | | monics/IMDs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B7 | 2500 - 2570 | 2x | 5000 - 5140 | No | | | | | | Har | | | | | | monics/IMDs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B8 | 880 -915 | 6x | 5280 -- | No | | | | | 5490 | Har | | | | | | monics/IMDs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B39 | 1880 - 1920 | 3x | 5640 -- | No | | | | | 5760 | Har | | | | | | monics/IMDs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B41 | 2496 - 2690 | 2x | 4992 -- | No | | | | | 5380 | Har | | | | | | monics/IMDs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B1 | 1920 - 1980 | 3x | 5760 -- | 1) | | | | | 5940 | Harmonic | | | | | | into B47 | | | | | | | | | | | | 2) 5^th^ | | | | | | IMD into | | | | | | B47 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B5 | 824 - 849 | 7x | 5768 -- | 1) | | | | | 5943 | Harmonic | | | | | | into B47, | | | | | | No IMD | | | | | | problems | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B19 | 830 - 845 | 7x | 5810 -- | 1) | | | | | 5915 | Harmonic | | | | | | into B47 | | | | | | | | | | | | No IMD | | | | | | problems | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B20 | 832 - 862 | 7x | 5824 -- | 1) | | | | | 6034 | Harmonic | | | | | | into B47, | | | | | | No IMD | | | | | | problems | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B21 | 1448 - 1463 | 4x | 5792 -- | 1) | | | | | 5852 | Side-lobe | | | | | | into B47 | | | | | | | | | | | | 2) 4^th^ | | | | | | IMD into | | | | | | B21 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B26 | 814 - 849 | 7x | 5698 -- | 1) | | | | | 5943 | Harmonic | | | | | | into B47 | | | | | | | | | | | | No IMD | | | | | | problems | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B28 | 703 - 748 | 8x | 5624 -- | 1) | | | | | 5984 | Harmonic | | | | | | into B47 | | | | | | | | | | | | No IMD | | | | | | problems | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B31 | 452.5 -- | 13x | 5882.5 -- | 1) | | | 457.5 | | 5947.5 | Harmonic | | | | | | into B47 | | | | | | but 13^th^ | | | | | | harmonic | | | | | | impact can | | | | | | ignore. | | | | | | | | | | | | No IMD | | | | | | problems | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B34 | 2010 - 2025 | 3x | 6030 - 6075 | No | | | | | | Har | | | | | | monics/IMDs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B65 | 1920 - 2010 | 3x | 5760 -- | 1) | | | | | 6030 | Harmonic | | | | | | into B47 | | | | | | | | | | | | 2) 5^th^ | | | | | | IMD into | | | | | | B47 and B65 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | B71 | 663 - 698 | 8x | 5304 - 5584 | No | | | | | | Har | | | | | | monics/IMDs | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | The other | - | Xx | - | No Harmonic | | Licensed | | | | impact. But | | bands | | | | need to IMD | | | | | | analysis | | | | | | into Band | | | | | | 47 and own | | | | | | licensed | | | | | | operating | | | | | | bands | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Based on the analysis Table 5.1-1, we summary the coexistence problem to own
V2X Rx bands as below
\- Issue 1: Harmonics problem into Band 47
\- Issue 2: IMD problem into Band 47  Not occurred issues
\- Issue 3: IMD problem into licensed band (Band 21, Band 65)
However, the issue 2 is not occurred for inter-band con-current V2X UE
including Band 47. Since Band 47 could not receive signal during Band 47
sidelink transmission as shown in Figure 5.1-2. Therefore, we can summary two
major problems for inter-band con-current V2X operation to define new V2X band
combinations.
Figure 5.1-2: 3 problems for inter-band con-current V2X operation
### 5.1.1 Candidate solution for self-interference issues
#### 5.1.1.1 Solution1: Harmonics problem on Band 47
The 7^th^ harmonics of Band 20 is would interfere the reception of the Band
47. To analyse the self- desense level, we consider two option as below
\- Option1: Separate Ant. Architecture w/ HTF
\- Option2: Separate Ant. Architecture w/o HTF
The example RF architecture for option1 on V2X_20A-47A UE is shown in Figure
5.1.1.1-1.
{width="4.5in" height="3.7270833333333333in"}
Figure 5.1.1.1-1: Example RF architecture for V2X_20A-47A con-current
operation with harmonic trap filter
The Table 5.1.1.1-1 is the required MSD level for V2X_20A-47A is derived as
below.
Table 5.1.1.1-1: Estimated MSD level at Band 47 (V2X_20A-47A)
* * *
Thermal W/ HTF W/O HTF  
H7 level (dBm) MSD (dB) H7 level (dBm) MSD (dB) Main Path -101 -101.0 3.08
-93.8 8.06 Diversity Path -101 -100.6 3.27 -93.7 8.12 After MRC **0.16**
**5.08**
* * *
From the estimated MSD level at Band 47 by 7^th^ harmonics from Band 20 is
about 0dB when we consider the harmonics trap filter to mitigate the harmonics
products.
Hence we propose as below to solve the harmonics problems into Band 47
\- **Proposal:** For V2X band combination with harmonics problems, RAN4 should
consider the harmonics trap filter to mitigate the harmonic products into Band
47 and protect the safety message.
However, low-order harmonic will be more interfered the reception of the Band
47 such as V2X_1A-47A UE or V2X_47A-65A UE.
The Table 5.1.1.1-2 shows the estimated MSD level for V2X_1A-47A UE as below.
Table 5.1.1.1-2: Estimated MSD level at Band 47 (V2X_1A-47A) in current
satatus
* * *
Thermal W/ HTF W/O HTF  
H3 level (dBm) MSD (dB) H3 level (dBm) MSD (dB) Main Path -101 -81.9 19.2
-74.9 26.2 Diversity Path -101 -81.9 19.2 -74.9 26.2 After MRC **16.2**
**23.2**
* * *
To derive the MSD level, the dominant factor in the RF component parameters
for V2X_1A-47A UE are B1 PA attenuation level to protect Band 47 and PCB
isolation level (PA to B47 LNA).
If PA vendor consider Band 47 as LTE protection band, the B1 PA attenuation
level will be improved, and also the UE vendor should be improved the PCB
isolation level by considering state-of-art technology. Then the required MSD
level can be achieved as 0dB for V2X_1A-47A UE as below Table 5.1.1.1-3.
Table 5.1.1.1-3: Estimated MSD level at Band 47(V2X_1A-47A) in state-of-art
technology
* * *
Thermal W/ HTF W/O HTF  
H3 level (dBm) MSD (dB) H3 level (dBm) MSD (dB) Main Path -101 -100.8 3.18
-90.5 10.98 Diversity Path -101 -100.4 3.37 -90.5 11.01 After MRC **0.26**
**7.98**
* * *
So RAN4 recommend when V2X band combination has low-order harmonic problem, UE
vendor could consider state-of-art technology to increase the Band 1 PA
attenuation level at the frequency range of Band 47. Also need to get the
tight PCB isolation by implementation. Then RAN4 define 0dB MSD in Band 47 for
V2X inter-band concurrent operation UE with low-order harmonic problem.
However, this approach is quite difficult to apply all phone type UE in
current state-of-art technology status. So the alternative solution is that
0dB MSD would be guaranteed when V2X UE transmit the V2X message within
1920\~1950MHz frequency range since 3^rd^ harmonic products do not fall into
the own Band 47 band. However, V2X UE send a message in 1950\~1975MHz, then
the received signal in Band 47 would be desensitized by generated 3^rd^
harmonic products. So RAN4 should define A-MPR requirements to protect V2X
safety messages in Band 47.
Hence we propose as below to solve the harmonics problems into Band 47.
\- **Proposal:** If the MSD level is not guarantee 0dB for V2X band
combination even if use harmonic trap filter, RAN4 shall define two minimum
requirement. One is to guarantee 0dB MSD in a certain TX frequency band since
the generated harmonics products will not impacted to receive the V2X safety
message in Band 47. The other is defining of the A-MPR requirements to protect
the safety message in the harmonic range.
#### 5.1.1.2 Solution2: IMD problem on licensed Bands
The IMD problem into the own receiving Band XX can be raised by dual
transmission from the V2X_21A-47A UE and V2X_47A-65A UE in Table 5.1-1.
The problems on the own licensed Band is quite similar to inter-band CA
combination. So this IMD problem can be easily solved by following dual uplink
CA band combination.
In dual uplink CA, RAN4 define MSD requirements to allow sensitivity
degradation in own receiving frequency band.
Hence, we propose as below to solve the IMD problems into licensed Rx Band.
**\- Proposal:** For V2X band combination with IMD problems by dual
transmission, RAN4 define MSD level to allow sensitivity degradation in own
receiving frequency band.
### 5.1.2 Summary of coexistence study
Table 5.1.2-1 summarizes the V2X band combinations with self-interference
problems.
Table 5.1.2-1: Summary of Self-interference analysis for V2X band combination
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V2X | **Dual |** Ha | * | **inte |** MSD**| | con | trans | rmonic** | _intermo | rference | | | -current | mission\ | | dulation | due to | | | confi | Configu | ** | to own | small | | | guration | ration_ _| relation | band\ | f | | | | | to own | without | requency | | | | | band_ _| uplink_ _| sepa | | | | | | | ration_ * | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V2X | V2X | 7^th^ | - | - | - 0.0 | | _5A-47A | _5A-47A | order | | | dB MSD | | | | harmonic | | | w/ HTF. | | | | into | | | | | | | Band 47 | | | Only | | | | | | | allow | | | | | | | Tib,Rib | | | | | | | by HTF | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V2X\ | V2X\ | 7^th^ | - | - | - 0.0 | | _20A-47A | _20A-47A | order | | | dB MSD | | | | harmonic | | | w/ HTF . | | | | into | | | | | | | Band 47 | | | Only | | | | | | | allow | | | | | | | Tib,Rib | | | | | | | by HTF | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V2X\ | V2X\ | 8^th^ | - | - | - 0.0 | | _28A-47A | _20A-47A | order | | | dB MSD | | | | harmonic | | | w/ HTF | | | | into | | | | | | | Band 47 | | | Only | | | | | | | allow | | | | | | | Tib,Rib | | | | | | | by HTF | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V2X\ | V2X\ | - | - | - | - No | | _34A-47A | _34A-47A | | | | harm | | | | | | | onic/IMD | | | | | | | issues | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V2X\ | V2X\ | - | - | - | - No | | _71A-47A | _71A-47A | | | | harm | | | | | | | onic/IMD | | | | | | | issues | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
## 5.2 RRM requirements
_Editor Note: It will be added in future [FFS]_
# 6 Con-current V2X operation with 2CCs : Specific Band Combinations Part
## 6.1 V2X_20A-47A
### 6.1.1 Operating bands for V2X comminication
Table 6.1.1-1: Inter-band con-current V2X operating bands for V2X_20A-47A
* * *
V2X con-current configuration E-UTRA OperatingBand Interface Uplink (UL) band
Downlink (DL) band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit^1^ BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
V2X_20-47 20 Uu 832 MHz -- 862 MHz 791 MHz -- 821 MHz FDD 47 PC5 5855 MHz --
5925 MHz 5855 MHz -- 5925 MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.1.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for V2X_20A-47A
Table 6.1.2-1: V2X inter-band con-current configurations and bandwidth
combination sets for V2X_20A-47A
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
V2X inter-band Configuration | E-UTRA operating Band | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
V2X_20A-47A | 20 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | [40] | 0  
| 47 |  |  |  | Yes |  | [Yes] |  |   
### 6.1.3 Coexistence studies
For own reception desensitization by dual transmission on V2X_20A-47A, RAN4
study up to 8^th^ order harmonics and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order
intermodulation products were calculated and presented in Table 6.1.3-1 and
6.1.3-2.
Table 6.1.3-1: Harmonics analysis for V2X_20A-47A
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 832 862 5855
5925 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1664 1724 11710 11850 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 2496 2586 17565 17775 4^th^ harmonics frequency limits
4*fx_low 4*fx_high 4* fy_low 4* fy_high 4t^h^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz)
3328 3448 23420 23700 5^th^ harmonics frequency limits 5*fx_low 5*fx_high 5*
fy_low 5* fy_high 5^th^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 4160 4310 29275 29625
6^th^ harmonics frequency limits 6*fx_low 6*fx_high 6* fy_low 6* fy_high 6^th^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 4992 5172 35130 35550 7^th^ harmonics
frequency limits 7*fx_low 7*fx_high 7* fy_low 7* fy_high 7^th^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 5824 6034 40985 41475 8^th^ harmonics frequency limits
8*fx_low 8*fx_high 8* fy_low 8* fy_high 8^th^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz)
6656 6896 46840 47400
* * *
Table 6.1.3-2: IMD analysis for V2X_20A-47A
* * *
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high** UL frequency
(MHz) 832 862 5855 5925 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2*
fy_low 2* fy_high 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1664 1724 11710 11850
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 2496 2586 17565 17775 Two tone 2^nd^ order
IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low + fx_low\|
\|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4993 5093 6687 6787 Two-tone
3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- fy_low\|
\|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
4261 4131 10848 11018 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\|
\|2*fx_high + fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 7519 7649 12542 12712 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products
\|3*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- fx_high\|
\|3*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3429 3269 16703 16943 Two-
tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low + fy_low\| \|3*fx_high + fy_high\|
\|3*fy_low + fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 8351
8511 18397 18637 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 2*fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high -- 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_low + 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 2*fy_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 10186 9986 13374 13574 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD
products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low --
4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 22868 22558
2407 2597 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high +
4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 24252 24562 9183 9373 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low --
3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high --
3*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 16111 15841 9124 9354 Two-tone 5^th^
order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\|
\|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
19229 19499 14206 14436
* * *
When V2X inter-band con-current operating UE is operating with other systems
such as WiFi, Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation
products can have impact on these systems. Table 6.1.3-3 lists if up to 3^rd^
order harmonics and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving
bands.
Table 6.1.3-3: Harmonic and IMDs analysis of V2X_20A-47A UE for ISM and GNSS
bands
+----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | Victim Systems | Frequency range [MHz] | Impact | Regions | Comments | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | (Beidou) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | ISM band | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US/Europe | IMD5 | | | | | | | | | | (2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | IMD5 | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | ISM band | 5150 | - | 5925 | No | US | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | No | Europe | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | No | Asia | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+------+
Based on the harmonics/IMD analysis tables, the 7^th^ harmonics product will
be impact to the own reception of V2X_20A-47A UE. This impact will be studied
to slove the self-interference problems.
The impact on ISM band at 2.4GHz was already covered in 2DL/2UL CA WI in
rel-12 which was solved by in-device coexistence solution such as TDM or FDM
operation between dual uplink in licensed band and reception in unlicensed
band.
### 6.1.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For V2X inter-band con-current operation for V2X_20-47, same requirements on
values for ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ can apply for CA UE with LAA band 47 in rel-13.
RAN4 consider the following additional ILs for V2X_20A-47A UE.
Table 6.1.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band V2X concurrent Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] V2X_20-47 20
0.2
* * *
Table 6.1.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band V2X concurrent Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] V2X_20-47 20
0.2
* * *
### 6.1.5 REFSENS requirements
The 7^th^ harmonics of Band 20 is would interfere the reception of the Band
47. To analyse the self- desense level, RAN4 consider two option as below
\- Option1: Separate Ant. Architecture w/ HTF
\- Option2: Separate Ant. Architecture w/o HTF
The table 6.1.5-1 is the common parameters for MSD analysis for V2X_20A-47A.
Table 6.1.5-1: V2X_20A-47A UE RF FE component isolation parameters
* * *
Parameter Option1 : W/ HTF Option2: W/O HTF  
Primary Diversity Primary Diversity  
Value H7 level Value H7 level Value H7 level Value H7 level B20 Tx in PA
output 28 28 28 28 B20 PA H7 attenuation 69.8 -41.8 69.8 -41.8 69.8 -41.8 69.8
-41.8 B20 duplexer H7 attenuation 15 -56.8 15 -56.8 15 -56.8 15 -56.8 Harmonic
filter 20 -76.8 20 -76.8 0 -56.8 0 -56.8 LB switch H7 -120 -76.8 -120 -76.8
-120 -56.8 -120 -56.8 Diplexer attenuation 25 -101.8 25 -101.8 25 -81.8 25
-81.8 Antenna isolation 10 -111.8 10 -111.8 10 -91.8 10 -91.8 Diplexer
pathloss 0.7 -112.5 0.7 -112.5 0.7 -92.5 0.7 -92.5 UHB switch attenuation 0.7
-113.2 0.7 -113.2 0.7 -93.2 0.7 -93.2 UHB switch H7 -130 -113.1 -110 -108.3
-130 -93.2 -110 -93.1 B47 Rx filter attenuation 1.5 -114.6 1.5 -109.8 1.5
-94.7 1.5 -94.6 B47 Rx filter H7 -110 -108.7 -110 -106.9 -110 -94.5 -110 -94.4
B20 PA to B47 LNA isolation 60 -101.8 60 -101.8 60 -101.8 60 -101.8 Composite
**-101.0** **-100.6** **-93.8** **-93.7**
* * *
From the Table 6.1.5-1, MSD level is derived as below.
Table 6.1.5.2: Estimated MSD level at B47
* * *
Thermal W/ HTF W/O HTF  
H7 level (dBm) MSD (dB) H7 level (dBm) MSD (dB) Main Path -101 -101.0 3.08
-93.8 8.06 Diversity Path -101 -100.6 3.27 -93.7 8.12 After MRC **0.16**
**5.08**
* * *
Based on the MSD analysis, RAN4 recommend shall consider the harmonic trap
filter to protect Band 47 for vehicle safety message.
Table 6.1.5-3: Proposed MSD values for V2X_20A-47A
+-------------------------+------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | V2X con-current | LGE | Company 2 | Company 3 | Avg. | | configuration | | | | | | | | | | MSD [dB] | +-------------------------+------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | V2X_20A-47A | 0.16 | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------+------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | | | | | | +-------------------------+------+-----------+-----------+------------+ | Note 1: For the V2X | | | | | | con-current | | | | | | configuration UE with | | | | | | harmonic problem into | | | | | | Band 47, harmonic trap | | | | | | filter should be | | | | | | considered to protect | | | | | | the V2X safety message | | | | | | in Band 47 | | | | | +-------------------------+------+-----------+-----------+------------+
## 6.2 V2X_34A-47A
### 6.2.1 Operating bands
Table 6.2.1-1: Inter-band con-current V2X operating bands for V2X_34A-47A
* * *
V2X con-current configuration E-UTRA OperatingBand Interface Uplink (UL) band
Downlink (DL) band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit^1^ BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
V2X_34-47 34 Uu 2010MHz -- 2025 MHz 2010 MHz -- 2025 MHz TDD 47 PC5 5855 MHz
-- 5925 MHz 5855 MHz -- 5925 MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.2.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for V2X_34A-47A
Table 6.2.2-1: V2X inter-band con-current configurations and bandwidth
combination sets for V2X_34A-47A
V2X multicarrier operation configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
V2X inter-band Configuration | E-UTRA operating Band | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
V2X_34A-47A | 34 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes |  | [35] | 0  
| 47 |  |  |  | Yes |  | [Yes] |  |   
### 6.2.3 Coexistence studies
The analysis of harmonics for band 34 and band 47 are listed in table 6.2.3-1
below. As the harmonics of band 47 distribute in the frequency range higher
than 5.9GHz, only the harmonics of band 34 are listed. It can be observed that
no harmonics of band 34 will fall into band 47 as well as other IMT bands,
which means there is no harmonic issue caused by this band combination.
Table 6.2.3-1: Harmonic analysis for B34 and B47
* * *
Operating Band Band 34 Band 47  
UL frequency (MHz) fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high 2010 2025 5855 5925 2^nd^
harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high No effect  
4020 - 4050  
3^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high No effect  
6030 - 6075
* * *
The IMD analysis of band 34 and band 47 are listed in table 6.2.3-2 below.
According to the analysis, the 3rd order IMD products will fall into the UL
band of band 2, and the 5th order IMD products will fall into the DL band of
band 23. However, it should be noted that band 2 and band 23 are not intended
for use in the same geographical area as Band 34\. Hence, there is no IMD
issue caused by the combination of band 34 and band 47.
Table 6.2.3-2: IMD analysis for B34 and B47
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **Operating |** Band 34**|** Band 47**| | | | Band** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | **UL | fx_low | fx_high | fy_low | fy_high | | frequency | | | | | | (MHz)** | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 2010 | 2025 | 5855 | 5925 | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 2nd order | \|fy_low | \|fy_high | \|fy_low + | \|fy_high | | IMD | -- | -- | fx_low\| | + | | products | fx_high\| | fx_low\| | | fx_high\| | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 3830-3915 | 7865-7950 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 3rd order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | -- | -- | -- | -- | | products | fy_high\| | fy_low\| | fx_high\| | fx_low\| | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 1805-1905 | 9685-9840 | | | | | (band 2 UL) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 3rd order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | + fy_low\| | + | + fx_low\| | + | | products | | fy_high\| | | fx_high\| | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 9875-9975 | 13720-13875 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \| | \| | | 4th order | |3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | 3*fy_low- | 3*fy_high | | IMD | - | -- | fx_high\| | -fx_low\| | | products | -fy_high\| | fy_low\| | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | > 105-220 | 15540-15765 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | | | | 4th order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | | | | IMD | --2* | --2* | | | | products | fy_high\| | fy_low\| | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 7660-7830 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 4th order | |3*fx_low | 3*fx_high | |3*fy_low | 3*fy_high | | IMD | +fy_low\| | +fy_high\| | +fx_low\| | +fx_high\| | | products | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 11885-12000 | 19575-19800 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | | | | 4th order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | | | | IMD | +2* | +2* | | | | products | fy_low\| | fy_high\| | | | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 15730-15900 | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \|fx_low | \|fx_high | \|fy_low | \|fy_high | | 5th order | -- | -- | -- | -- | | IMD | 4\ | 4 | 4\ | 4 | | products | _fy_high\| | *fy_low\| |_ fx_high\| | *fx_low\| | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 21395-21690 | 2115-2245 | | | | | | (band 23 | | | | | | DL) | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 5th order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | - | - | - | -3 | | products | 3\ | 3 | 3\ | *fx_low\| | | frequency | _fy_high\| | *fy_low\| |_ fx_high\| | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 13515-13755 | 5635-5820 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \|fx_low + | \|fx_high | \|fy_low + | \|fy_high | | 5th order | 4 | + | 4 | + | | IMD | *fy_low\| | 4\ | *fx_low\| | 4\ | | products | | _fy_high\| | |_ fx_high\| | | frequency | | | | | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 25430 - | 13895 - | | | | | 25725 | 14025 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Two-tone | \ | \| | \ | \| | | 5th order | |2*fx_low | 2*fx_high | |2*fy_low | 2*fy_high | | IMD | + | + | + | + | | products | 3 | 3\ | 3 | 3\ | | frequency | *fy_low\| | _fy_high\| | *fx_low\| |_ fx_high\| | | limits | | | | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | 21585 - | 17740 - | | | | | 21825 | 17925 | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 6.2.3-3 below shows the harmonics and IMD analysis when band 34 and band
47 operating with other systems such as WiFi, Bluetooth and GNSS system, the
harmonics and IMD products will have no impact on these systems.
Table 6.2.3-3: B34+ B47 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | Victim Systems | Frequency range [MHz] | Impact | Regions | Comments | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | (Beidou) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | ISM band | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | No | US/Europe | | | | | | | | | | | (2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | No | Asia | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | ISM band | 5150 | - | 5925 | No | US | | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | No | Europe | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | No | Asia | | +----------------+-------------------------+--------+---------+----------+-----------+---+
### 6.2.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For V2X inter-band multicarrier operation V2X_34A_47A, the ∆T~IB,c~ and
∆R~IB,c~ values are shown in table 6.2.4-1 and in table 6.2.4-2:
Table 6.2.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
V2X inter-band multicarrier configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB]
V2X_34A-47A 34 0 47 0
* * *
Table 6.2.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
V2X inter-band multicarrier configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB]
V2X_34A-47A 34 0 47 0
* * *
## 6.3 V2X_5A-47A
### 6.3.1 Operating bands for V2X comminication
Table 6.3.1-1: Inter-band con-current V2X operating bands for V2X_5A-47A
* * *
V2X con-current configuration E-UTRA OperatingBand Interface Uplink (UL) band
Downlink (DL) band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit^1^ BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
V2X_5-47 5 Uu 824 MHz -- 849 MHz 869 MHz -- 894 MHz FDD 47 PC5 5855 MHz --
5925 MHz 5855 MHz -- 5925 MHz HD
* * *
### 6.3.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band for V2X_5A-47A
Table 6.3.2-1: V2X inter-band con-current configurations and bandwidth
combination sets for V2X_5A-47A
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
V2X inter-band Configuration | E-UTRA operating Band | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
V2X_5A-47A | 5 |  |  | Yes | Yes |  |  | 30 | 0  
| 47 |  |  |  | Yes |  | Yes |  |   
### 6.3.3 Coexistence studies
For own reception desensitization by dual transmission on V2X_5A-47A, RAN4
study up to 8^th^ order harmonics and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order
intermodulation products were calculated and presented in Table 6.3.3-1 and
6.3.3-2.
Table 6.3.3-1: Harmonics analysis for V2X_5A-47A
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 824 849 5855
5925 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2* fy_low 2* fy_high
2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1648 1698 11710 11850 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 2472 2547 17565 17775 4^th^ harmonics frequency limits
4*fx_low 4*fx_high 4* fy_low 4* fy_high 4t^h^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz)
3296 3396 23420 23700 5^th^ harmonics frequency limits 5*fx_low 5*fx_high 5*
fy_low 5* fy_high 5^th^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 4120 4245 29275 29625
6^th^ harmonics frequency limits 6*fx_low 6*fx_high 6* fy_low 6* fy_high 6^th^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 4944 5094 35130 35550 7^th^ harmonics
frequency limits 7*fx_low 7*fx_high 7* fy_low 7* fy_high 7^th^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 5768 5943 40985 41475 8^th^ harmonics frequency limits
8*fx_low 8*fx_high 8* fy_low 8* fy_high 8^th^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz)
6592 6792 46840 47400
* * *
Table 6.3.3-2: IMD analysis for V2X_5A-47A
* * *
UE UL carriers fx_low fx_high fy_low fy_high UL frequency (MHz) 824 849 5855
5925 Two tone 2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high --
fx_low\| \|fy_low + fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
5006 5101 6679 6774 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 4277 4157 10861 11026 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products
\|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\|
\|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 7503 7623 12534 12699 Two-
tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- fy_low\|
\|3*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
3453 3308 16716 16951 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low + fy_low\|
\|3*fx_high + fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 8327 8472 18389 18624 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products
\|2*fx_low -- 2*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_low + 2*fy_low\|
\|2*fx_high + 2*fy_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 10202 10012 10062 10152
Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high --
4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 22876 22571 2459 2629 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low
+ 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high +
4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 24244 24549 9151 9321 Two-tone 5^th^
order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 3*fy_low\|
\|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 3*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
16127 15867 9163 9378 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high +
3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 19213 19473 14182 14397
* * *
When V2X inter-band con-current operating UE is operating with other systems
such as WiFi, Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation
products can have impact on these systems. Table 6.3.3-3 lists if up to 8^th^
order harmonics and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving
bands.
Table 6.3.3-3: Harmonic and IMDs analysis of V2X_5A-47A UE for ISM and GNSS
bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | Yes | US | IMD5, | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | ( | | | | | | ha | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | from B5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | Yes | Asia | IMD5, | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 3^rd^ | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | from B5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | 7^th^ | | band | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | rmonics | | (5GHz) | | | | | | from B5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | No | Europe | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | 7^th^ | | | | | | | | ha | | | | | | | | rmonics | | | | | | | | from B5 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Based on the harmonics/IMD analysis tables, the 7^th^ harmonics product will
be impact to the own reception of V2X_5A-47A UE. This impact will be studied
to slove the self-interference problems.
The impact on ISM band at 2.4GHz and 5GHz were already covered in 2DL/2UL CA
WI in rel-12 which was solved by in-device coexistence solution such as TDM or
FDM operation between dual uplink in licensed band and reception in unlicensed
band.
### 6.3.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For V2X inter-band con-current operation for V2X_5-47, RAN4 agreed to use the
harmonic trap filter to mitigate the harmonic interference level in Band 47.
So the additional IL will be increased as below Table 6.3.4-1 and 6.3.4-2.
Table 6.3.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] V2X_5-47 5 0.2
* * *
Table 6.3.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] V2X_5-47 5 0.2
* * *
### 6.3.5 REFSENS requirements
The 7^th^ harmonics of Band 5 is would interfere the reception of the Band 47.
To analyse the self- desense level, RAN4 consider two option as below
\- Option1: Separate Ant. Architecture w/ HTF
\- Option2: Separate Ant. Architecture w/o HTF
The Table 6.3.5-1 is the common parameters for MSD analysis for V2X_5A-47A.
Table 6.3.5-1: V2X_5A-47A UE RF FE component isolation parameters
* * *
Parameter Option1 : W/ HTF Option2: W/O HTF  
Primary Diversity Primary Diversity  
Value H7 level Value H7 level Value H7 level Value H7 level B5 Tx in PA output
28 28 28 28 B5 PA H7 attenuation 69 -41 68 -41 69 -41 69 -41 B5 duplexer H7
attenuation 15 -56 15 -56 15 -56 15 -56 Harmonic filter 20 -76 20 -76 0 -56 0
-56 LB switch H7 -120 -76 -120 -76 -120 -56 -120 -56 Diplexer attenuation 25
-101 25 -101 25 -81 25 -81 Antenna isolation 10 -111 10 -111 10 -91 10 -91
Diplexer pathloss 0.7 -111.7 0.7 -111.7 0.7 -91.7 0.7 -91.7 UHB switch
attenuation 0.7 -112.4 0.7 -112.4 0.7 -92.4 0.7 -92.4 UHB switch H7 -130
-112.3 -110 -108.0 -130 -92.4 -110 -92.3 B47 Rx filter attenuation 1.5 -113.8
1.5 -109.5 1.5 -93.9 1.5 -93.8 B47 Rx filter H7 -110 -108.5 -110 -106.7 -110
-93.8 -110 -93.7 B20 PA to B47 LNA isolation 60 -101.0 60 -101.0 60 -101.0 60
-101.0 Composite **-100.3** **-100.0** **-93.0** **-93.0**
* * *
From the Table 6.3.5-1, MSD level is derived as below.
Table 6.3.5-2: Estimated MSD level at B47
* * *
Thermal W/ HTF W/O HTF  
H7 level (dBm) MSD (dB) H7 level (dBm) MSD (dB) Main Path -101 -100.3 3.44
-93.0 8.69 Diversity Path -101 -100.0 3.61 -93.0 8.75 After MRC **0.51**
**5.71**
* * *
Based on the MSD analysis, RAN4 recommend shall consider the harmonic trap
filter to protect Band 47 for vehicle safety message.
Table 6.3.5-3: Proposed MSD values for V2X_5A-47A
+------------------------------------------------+------+------------+ | V2X con-current configuration | LGE | Avg. | | | | | | | | MSD [dB] | +------------------------------------------------+------+------------+ | V2X_5A-47A | 0.51 | 0.5 | +------------------------------------------------+------+------------+ | Note 1: For the V2X con-current configuration | | | | UE with harmonic problem into Band 47, | | | | harmonic trap filter should be considered to | | | | protect the V2X safety message in Band 47 | | | +------------------------------------------------+------+------------+
## 6.4 V2X_28A-47A
### 6.4.1 Operating bands for V2X comminication
Table 6.4.1-1: Inter-band con-current V2X operating bands for V2X_28A-47A
* * *
V2X con-current configuration E-UTRA OperatingBand Interface Uplink (UL) band
Downlink (DL) band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit^1^ BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
V2X_28-47 28 Uu 703 MHz -- 748 MHz 758 MHz -- 803 MHz FDD 47 PC5 5855 MHz --
5925 MHz 5855 MHz -- 5925 MHz HD
* * *
### 6.4.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band
Table 6.4.2-1: V2X inter-band con-current configurations and bandwidth
combination sets for V2X_28A-47A
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
V2X inter-band Configuration | E-UTRA operating Band | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
V2X_28A-47A | 28 |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 0  
| 47 |  |  |  | Yes |  | Yes |  |   
### 6.4.3 Coexistence studies
For own reception desensitization by dual transmission on V2X_28A-47A, RAN4
study up to 8^th^ order harmonics and 2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order
intermodulation products were calculated and presented in Table 6.4.3-1 and
6.4.3-2.
Table 6.4.3-1: Harmonics analysis for V2X_28A-47A
* * *
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high** UL frequency
(MHz) 703 748 5855 5925 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2*
fy_low 2* fy_high 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1406 1496 11710 11850
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 2109 2244 17565 17775 4^th^ harmonics
frequency limits 4*fx_low 4*fx_high 4* fy_low 4* fy_high 4t^h^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 2812 2992 23420 23700 5^th^ harmonics frequency limits
5*fx_low 5*fx_high 5* fy_low 5* fy_high 5^th^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz)
3515 3740 29275 29625 6^th^ harmonics frequency limits 6*fx_low 6*fx_high 6*
fy_low 6* fy_high 6^th^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 4218 4488 35130 35550
7^th^ harmonics frequency limits 7*fx_low 7*fx_high 7* fy_low 7* fy_high 7^th^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 4921 5236 40985 41475 8^th^ harmonics
frequency limits 8*fx_low 8*fx_high 8* fy_low 8* fy_high 8^th^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 5624 5984 46840 47400
* * *
Table 6.1.3-2: IMD analysis for V2X_28A-47A
* * *
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high** UL frequency
(MHz) 703 748 5855 5925 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2*
fy_low 2* fy_high 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1406 1496 11710 11850
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 2109 2244 17565 17775 Two tone 2^nd^ order
IMD products \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low + fx_low\|
\|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 5107 5222 6558 6673 Two-tone
3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- fy_low\|
\|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
4359 4519 10962 11147 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\|
\|2*fx_high + fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 7261 7421 12413 12598 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products
\|3*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- fx_high\|
\|3*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 3816 3611 16817 17072 Two-
tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low + fy_low\| \|3*fx_high + fy_high\|
\|3*fy_low + fx_low\| \|3*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 7964
8169 18268 18523 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 2*fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high -- 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_low + 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 2*fy_high\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 10214 10444 13116 13346 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD
products \|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low --
4*fx_high\| \|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 22672 22997
3113 2863 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high +
4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits
(MHz) 24123 24448 8667 8917 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low --
3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high --
3*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 16069 16369 9466 9741 Two-tone 5^th^
order IMD products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\|
\|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz)
18971 19271 13819 14094
* * *
When V2X inter-band con-current operating UE is operating with other systems
such as WiFi, Bluetooth and GNSS system, the harmonics and intermodulation
products can have impact on these systems. Table 6.4.3-3 lists if up to 3^rd^
order harmonics and IMD up to 5^th^ order falls into one of these receiving
bands.
Table 6.4.3-3: Harmonic and IMDs analysis of V2X_28A-47A UE for ISM and GNSS
bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | No | US | | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | No | Asia | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | YES | US | HD8, | | band | | | | | | IMD2 | | | | | | | | | | (5GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | YES | Europe | IMD2 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | YES | | HD8 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | YES | Asia | HD8, | | | | | | | | IMD2 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Based on the harmonics/IMD analysis tables, the 8^th^ harmonics product will
impact to the own reception of V2X_28A-47A UE. This impact will be studied to
solve the self-interference problems.
The impact on ISM band at 5GHz was already covered in 2DL/2UL CA WI in rel-12
which was solved by in-device coexistence solution such as TDM or FDM
operation between dual uplink in licensed band and reception in unlicensed
band.
### 6.4.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For V2X inter-band con-current operation for V2X_28-47, RAN4 agreed to use the
harmonic trap filter to mitigate the harmonic interference level in Band 47.
So the additional IL will be increased as below Table 6.4.4-1 and 6.4.4-2.
Table 6.4.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] V2X_28-47 28 0.2
* * *
Table 6.4.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] V2X_28-47 28 0.2
* * *
### 6.4.5 REFSENS requirements
The 8^th^ harmonics of Band 28 is would interfere the reception of the Band
47. To analyse the self- desense level, we consider two option as below
\- Option1: Separate Ant. Architecture w/ HTF
\- Option2: Separate Ant. Architecture w/o HTF
Table 6.4.5-1 is the common isolation assumption for the V2X_28A-47A UE FE
components.
Table 6.4.5-1: V2X_28A-47A UE RF FE component isolation parameters
* * *
                                Attenuation Value
B28 Tx in PA output 28 B28 PA H8 attenuation 70.2 B28 duplexer H8 attenuation
15 Harmonic filter 20 or 0 (w/ or w/o) LB switch H8 120 Diplexer attenuation
25 Antenna isolation 10 Diplexer pathloss 0.7 UHB switch attenuation 0.7 UHB
switch H8 130/110 (primary/secondary) B47 Rx filter attenuation 1.5 B47 Rx
filter H8 110/110 (primary/secondary) B28 PA to B47 LNA isolation 60
* * *
The Table 6.4.5-2 is the common parameters for MSD analysis for V2X_28A-47A.
Table 6.4.5-2: V2X_28A-47A UE RF FE component isolation parameters
* * *
Parameter Option1 : W/ HTF Option2: W/O HTF  
Primary Diversity Primary Diversity  
Value H8 level Value H8 level Value H8 level Value H8 level B28 Tx in PA
output 28 28 28 28 B28 PA H8 attenuation 70 -42 70 -42 70 -42 70 -42 B28
duplexer H8 attenuation 15 -57 15 -57 15 -57 15 -57 Harmonic filter 20 -77 20
-77 0 -57 0 -57 LB switch H8 -120 -77 -120 -77 -120 -57.0 -120 -57.0 Diplexer
attenuation 25 -102.0 25 -102.0 25 -82 25 -82 Antenna isolation 10 -112.0 10
-112.0 10 -92 10 -92 Diplexer pathloss 0.7 -112.7 0.7 -112.7 0.7 -92.7 0.7
-92.7 UHB switch attenuation 0.7 -113.4 0.7 -113.4 0.7 -93.4 0.7 -93.4 UHB
switch H8 -130 -113.3 -110 -108.4 -130 -93.4 -110 -93.3 B48 Rx filter
attenuation 1.5 -114.8 1.5 -109.9 1.5 -94.9 1.5 -94.8 B48 Rx filter H8 -110
-108.8 -110 -106.9 -110 -94.8 -110 -94.7 B28 PA to B48 LNA isolation 60 -102.0
60 -101.9 60 -102.0 60 -101.9 Composite **-101.2** **-100.8** **-94.0**
**-93.9**
* * *
From the Table 6.4.5-2, MSD level for V2X_28A-47A is derived as below.
Table 6.4.5-3: Estimated MSD level at Band 47
* * *
Thermal W/ HTF W/O HTF  
H8 level (dBm) MSD (dB) H8 level (dBm) MSD (dB) Main Path -101 -101.2 2.98
-93.8 7.86 Diversity Path -101 -100.8 3.17 -93.7 7.93 After MRC **0.06**
**4.88**
* * *
Based on the MSD analysis, RAN4 recommend shall consider the harmonic trap
filter to protect Band 47 for vehicle safety message.
**Table 6.4.5-4: Proposed MSD values for V2X_28A-47A**
+------------------------------------------------+------+------------+ | V2X con-current configuration | LGE | Avg. | | | | | | | | MSD [dB] | +------------------------------------------------+------+------------+ | V2X_28A-47A | 0.06 | 0.0 | +------------------------------------------------+------+------------+ | Note 1: For the V2X con-current configuration | | | | UE with harmonic problem into Band 47, | | | | harmonic trap filter should be considered to | | | | protect the V2X safety message in Band 47 | | | +------------------------------------------------+------+------------+
## 6.5 V2X_71A-47A
### 6.5.1 Operating bands for V2X comminication
Table 6.5.1-1: Inter-band con-current V2X operating bands for V2X_71A-47A
* * *
V2X con-current configuration E-UTRA OperatingBand Interface Uplink (UL) band
Downlink (DL) band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit^1^ BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
V2X_71-47 71 Uu 663MHz -- 698 MHz 617 MHz -- 652 MHz FDD 47 PC5 5855 MHz --
5925 MHz 5855 MHz -- 5925 MHz TDD
* * *
### 6.5.2 Channel bandwidths per operating band
Table 6.5.2-1: V2X inter-band con-current configurations and bandwidth
combination sets for V2X_71A-47A
V2X multicarrier operation configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
V2X inter-band Configuration | E-UTRA operating Band | 1.4 MHz | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 MHz | 15 MHz | 20 MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
V2X_71A-47A | 71 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 0  
| 47 |  |  |  | Yes |  | Yes |  |   
### 6.5.3 Coexistence studies
The analysis of harmonics for band 71 and band 47 are listed in table 6.5.3-1
below. It can be observed that no harmonics of band 71 will fall into band 47,
which means there is no harmonic issue caused by this band combination.
Table 6.5.3-1: Harmonic analysis for B71 and B47
* * *
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high** UL frequency
(MHz) 663 698 5855 5925 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high 2*
fy_low 2* fy_high 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1326 1396 11710 11850
3^rd^ harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3^rd^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 1989 2094 17565 17775 4^th^ harmonics
frequency limits 4*fx_low 4*fx_high 4* fy_low 4* fy_high 4t^h^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 2652 2792 23420 23700 5^th^ harmonics frequency limits
5*fx_low 5*fx_high 5* fy_low 5* fy_high 5^th^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz)
3315 3490 29275 29625 6^th^ harmonics frequency limits 6*fx_low 6*fx_high 6*
fy_low 6* fy_high 6^th^ harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3978 4188 35130 35550
7^th^ harmonics frequency limits 7*fx_low 7*fx_high 7* fy_low 7* fy_high 7^th^
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 4641 4886 40985 41475 8^th^ harmonics
frequency limits 8*fx_low 8*fx_high 8* fy_low 8* fy_high 8^th^ harmonics
frequency limits (MHz) 5304 5584 46840 47400
* * *
The IMD analysis of band 71 and band 47 are listed in table 6.5.3-2 below.
According to the analysis, there is no IMD product falling into one of
receiving band of band 71 and band 47.
Table 6.5.3-2: IMD analysis for B71 and B47
* * *
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high** UL frequency
(MHz) 663 698 5855 5925 Two tone 2^nd^ order IMD products \|fy_low --
fx_high\| \|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low + fx_low\| \|fy_high + fx_high\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 5157 5262 6518 6623 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products
\|2*fx_low -- fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\|
\|2*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 4459 4599 11012 11187 Two-
tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low + fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + fy_high\|
\|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 7181
7321 12373 12548 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|3*fx_low -- fy_high\|
\|3*fx_high -- fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|3*fy_high -- fx_low\| IMD
frequency limits (MHz) 3761 3936 16867 17112 Two-tone 4^th^ order IMD products
\|3*fx_low + fy_low\| \|3*fx_high + fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + fx_low\|
\|3*fy_high + fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 7844 8019 18228 18473 Two-
tone 4^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 2*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high --
2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_low + 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 2*fy_high\| IMD frequency
limits (MHz) 10314 10524 13036 13246 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products
\|fx_low -- 4*fy_high\| \|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\|
\|fy_high -- 4*fx_low\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 22722 23037 3063 3273 Two-
tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|fx_low + 4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\|
\|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high + 4*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 24083
24398 8507 8717 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low -- 3*fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high -- 3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high -- 3*fx_low\|
IMD frequency limits (MHz) 16169 16449 9616 9861 Two-tone 5^th^ order IMD
products \|2*fx_low + 3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low +
3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + 3*fx_high\| IMD frequency limits (MHz) 18891 19171
13699 13944
* * *
When V2X_71A-47A operates with other systems such as WiFi, Bluetooth and GNSS
system, the harmonics and intermodulation products can have impact on these
systems. Table 6.5.3-3 lists up to 8^rd^ order harmonics and IMD up to 5^th^
order falls into one of these receiving bands.
Table 6.5.3-3: B71+ B47 harmonic and IMD for ISM and GNSS bands
+---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Victim | Fr | Impact | Regions | C | | | | Systems | equency | | | omments | | | | | range | | | | | | | | [MHz] | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | COMPASS | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | Beidou) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Galileo | 1559 | - | 1591 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GLONASS | 1591 | - | 1610 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | GPS | 1563 | - | 1587 | No | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 2400 | - | 2483.5 | No | US | | | band | | | | | /Europe | | | | | | | | | | | ( | | | | | | | | 2.4GHz) | | | | | | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 2400 | - | 2494 | No | Asia | | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | ISM | 5150 | - | 5925 | Yes | US | 2^nd^ | | band | | | | | | IMD, | | | | | | | | 8^th^ | | (5GHz) | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | of B71 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5350 | Yes | Europe | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | IMD, | | | | | | | | 8^th^ | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | of B71 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5470 | - | 5725 | Yes | | 8^th^ | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | of B71 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | | 5150 | - | 5825 | Yes | Asia | 2^nd^ | | | | | | | | IMD, | | | | | | | | 8^th^ | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | armonic | | | | | | | | of B71 | +---------+---------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
### 6.5.4 ∆T~IB~ and ∆R~IB~ values
For V2X inter-band con-current operation for V2X_71-47, there was no
harmonic/IMD problem by own transmission. Therefore, there was no need to
define the additional ILs for V2X_71A-47A UE.
Table 6.5.4-1: ΔT~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔT~IB,c~ [dB] V2X_71-47 71 0.0
* * *
Table 6.5.4-2: ΔR~IB,c~
* * *
Inter-band CA Configuration E-UTRA Band ΔR~IB,c~ [dB] V2X_71-47 71 0.0
* * *
### 6.5.5 REFSENs requirements
There is no MSD requirement.
# 7 Con-current V2X operation with 3CCs : Specific Band Combinations Part
_Editor Note: It will be added in future [FFS]_
# 8 Other specification impacts (if applicable)
_Editor Note: If it is applicable, then it can be added in future [FFS]_
#