# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document is the Technical Report on V2X phase 2 for LTE.
The purpose of the present document is to study the radio requirements on V2X
phase 2 based on LTE sidelink as part of the Rel-15 work item. The normative
requirements resulting from the present document will be addressed in the
applicable release 15 Technical Specifications (TS).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] RP-170798: \" New WID on 3GPP V2X Phase 2\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Symbols
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ProSe Proximity based Services
PSBCH Physical Sidelink Broadcast CHannel
PSCCH Physical Sidelink Control CHannel
PSDCH Physical Sidelink Discovery CHannel
PSS Primary Synchronization Signal
PSSCH Physical Sidelink Shared CHannel
PSSS Primary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
SSS Secondary Synchronization Signal
SSSS Secondary Sidelink Synchronization Signal
V2V Vehicle to Vehicle
V2X Vehicle to Anything
# 4 Background
## 4.1 Justification
To expand the LTE platform to the automotive industry, the initial standard on
support of V2V services was completed in Sep 2016. Further enhancements that
focusing on additional V2X operation scenarios leveraging the cellular
infrastructure, also for inclusion in Release 14, was completed in March 2017.
Currently, SA1 is working on enhancement of 3GPP support for V2X services in
FS_eV2X. SA1 had identified 25 use cases for advanced V2X services and they
are categorized into four use case groups: vehicles platooning, extended
sensors, advanced driving and remote driving. The detailed description of each
use case group is provided as below. The consolidated requirements for each
use case group are captured in TR 22.886. Based on the input from FS_eV2X as
well as potential inputs from RAN, SA1 will generate a set of normative
requirements for Release 15.
**1) Vehicles Platoonning** enables the vehicles to dynamically form a platoon
travelling together. All the vehicles in the platoon obtain information from
the leading vehicle to manage this platoon. These information allow the
vehicles to drive closer than normal in a coordinated manner, going to the
same direction and travelling together.
**2) Extended Sensors** enables the exchange of raw or processed data gathered
through local sensors or live video images among vehicles, road site units,
devices of pedestrian and V2X application servers. The vehicles can increase
the perception of their environemnt beyond of what their own sensors can
detect and have a more broad and holistic view of the local situation. High
data rate is one of the key characteristics.
**3) Advanced Driving** enables semi-automated or full-automated driving. Each
vehicle and/or RSU shares its own perception data obtained from its local
sensors with vehicles in proximity and that allows vehicles to synchronize and
coordinate their trajectories or manoeuvres. Each vehicle shares its driving
intention with vehicles in proximity too.
**4) Remote Driving** enables a remote driver or a V2X application to operate
a remote vehicle for those passengers who cannot drive by themselves or remote
vehicles located in dangerous environments. For a case where variation is
limited and routes are predictable, such as public transportation, driving
based on cloud computing can be used. High reliability and low latency are the
main requirements.
In Release 15, it is expected to enhance the Cellular-based V2X services (V2V,
V2I/N, and V2P) to support advanced V2X services as identified in TR 22.886 in
a holistic and complementary manner to Release 14 V2X, which will involve both
Uu interface and PC5 interface.
## 4.2 Objective
The motivation of this work item is to specify 3GPP V2X Phase 2 to support
advanced V2X services as identified in SA1 TR 22.886. The specified
technologies should be backward compatible with Release 14 V2X for the
delivery of safety messages (i.e. CAM/DENM messages).
The detailed objectives of this work item are as follows:
1) Specify solutions for the following PC5 functionalities, which can co-exist
in the same resource pools as Rel-14 functionality and use the same scheduling
assignment format (which can be decoded by Rel-14 UEs), without causing
significant degradation to Rel-14 PC5 operation compared to that of Rel-14
UEs: [RAN1, RAN2, RAN4]
\- Carrier aggregation (up to 8 PC5 carriers);
Inter- and intra-band multi-carrier was finished in Rel-14 as below, multiple
carriers and carrier aggregation may have difference in resource allocation.
Need to wait RAN1 study.
\- 64QAM;
\- Reduce the maximum time between packet arrival at Layer 1 and resource
selected for transmission;
\- Radio resource pool sharing between UEs using mode 3 and UEs using mode 4;
2) Study the feasibility and gain of PC5 operation with Transmit Diversity,
assuming this PC5 functionality would co-exist in the same resource pools as
Rel-14 functionality and use the same scheduling assignment format (which can
be decoded by Rel-14 UEs), without causing significant degradation to Rel-14
PC5 operation compared to that of Rel-14 UEs, and specify this PC5
functionality if justified. [RAN1, RAN2, RAN4]
3) Study the feasibility and gain of PC5 operation with Short TTI, assuming
this PC5 functionality would co-exist in the same resource pools as Rel-14
functionality with and without using the same scheduling assignment format,
and provide RAN1 observations and recommendations to RAN by RAN#77. [RAN1,
RAN2]
\- A following decision for normative work is up to consensus at RAN.
4) Specify necessary RF requirements for the specified PC5 functionalities in
Band 47, where not covered by the Rel-15 work item "V2X new band combinations
for LTE". [RAN4]
5) Specify necessary RRM core requirements. [RAN4]
In this work item, no new numerology, waveform, and channel coding will be
considered.
Based on the feedback from SA2 on LS "Support of Unicast and Groupcast
transmission over PC5 for eV2X", the scope of this work item may be further
updated.
# 5 V2X scenarios in Rel-15
## 5.1 V2X operating scenarios
RAN4 focus on V2X operating scenarios as below in V2X phase 2 WI due to
interested operator service scenarios.
\- 1^st^ priority V2X operating scenarios
\- Intra-band multi-carrier operation in Band 47 (PC5) with 23dBm output
power: 20MHz+10MHz
\- For combinations of intra-band multi-carrier operation in Band 47 (PC5) as
above and inter-band con-current operation in a licensed band (Uu)
\- 2^nd^ priority V2X operating scenarios
\- Intra-band multi-carrier operation in Band 47 (PC5) with 23dBm output
power: 10MHz+10MHz+10MHz
\- For combinations of intra-band multi-carrier operation in Band 47 (PC5) as
above and inter-band con-current operation in a licensed band (Uu)
\- 3^rd^ priority V2X operating scenarios
\- Intra-band multi-carrier operation in Band 47 (PC5) with 26dBm output
power: 10MHz+10MHz
\- For combinations of intra-band multi-carrier operation in Band 47 (PC5) as
above and inter-band con-current operation in a licensed band (Uu)
\- Intra-band multi-carrier operation in Band 47 (PC5) with 26dBm output
power: 20MHz+10MHz, 10MHz+10MHz+10MHz
For combinations of intra-band multi-carrier operation in Band 47 (PC5) as
above and inter-band con-current operation in a licensed band (Uu)
## 5.2 Operating bands and channel arrangement
### 5.2.1 Channel bandwidth for V2X Communication
#### 5.2.1.1 Channel bandwidth for intra-band contiguous operation
V2X Bandwidth Class is specified in Table 5.6G.1-3 for V2X intra-band
contiguous multi-carrier operation in TS 36.101. For new scenarios in Rel-15,
new V2X bandwidth class needs to be introduced.
For 20MHz+10MHz, bandwidth class C in CA can be reused for V2X with 2
contiguous CCs. But for 10MHz+10MHz+10MHz, no bandwidth class in CA is
applicable. Bandwidth class C~1~ can be introduced for this scenario with 3CCs
supporting 20MHz\~40MHz aggregated bandwidth. Then the Table 5.6G.1-3 can be
updated as below:
Table 5.2.1.1-1 V2X bandwidth classes and corresponding nominal guard bands
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | V2X Bandwidth | Aggregated | Number of | Nominal Guard | | Class | Transmission | contiguous CC | Band BW~GB~ | | | Bandwidth | | | | | Configuration | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | A | N~RB,agg~ ≤ | 1 | a~1~ | | | 100 | | BW~Channel(1)~ | | | | | - 0.5∆f~1~ | | | | | (NOTE 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | B | 25 \ 7.5 -- 15.0A ; 0.2\
> 3.0 ; 0.3\ 12.0 -- 30.0A ; 0.1\
> 3.0 ; 0.3\ 4400 | | | | | | | MHz. | | | | | | +----------+----------+-------+----------+----------+----------+
### 8.2.5 Spurious response
The method of spurious response for intra-band contiguous CA bandwidth class C
can be used for V2X intra-band contiguous multi-carrier and CA operation
bandwidth class C/ C~1~.
Table 8.2.5-1: Spurious response parameters for intra-band contiguous multi-
carrier for V2X
* * *
Rx Parameter Units CA Bandwidth Class  
B C/ C~1~ D E F Pw in Transmission Bandwidth Configuration, per CC dBm REFSENS
+ CA Bandwidth Class specific value below  
9 9
* * *
Table 8.2.5-2 Spurious response for intra-band contiguous multi-carrier for
V2X
+---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | Parameter | Unit | Level | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | P~Interferer~ | dBm | -44 | | | | | | (CW) | | | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+ | F~Interferer~ | MHz | Spurious response frequencies | +---------------+------+-------------------------------+
### 8.2.6 Intermodulation characteristics
The method of intermodulation for intra-band contiguous CA bandwidth class C
can be used for V2X intra-band contiguous multi-carrier and CA operation
bandwidth class C/ C~1~, only the power for each CC is changed to align with
V2X operation.
Table 8.2.6-1 Wide band intermodulation for intra-band contiguous multi-
carrier for V2X
+---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | Rx parameter | Units | CA Bandwidth | | | | | | | | Class | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | | | B | C/ C~1~ | D | E | F | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | P~w~ in | dBm | REFSENS + CA | | | | | | Transmission | | Bandwidth | | | | | | Bandwidth | | Class | | | | | | C | | specific | | | | | | onfiguration, | | value below | | | | | | per CC | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | | | 9 | 12 | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | nterferer\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (CW) | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | nterferer\ 2~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Modulated) | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | BW~I | MHz | 10 | 10 | | | | | nterferer\ 2~ | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | F~I | MHz | - | - | | | | | nterferer\ 1~ | | -F~offset~-15 | -F~offset~-15 | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Offset) | | / | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | + | + | | | | | | | F~offset~+15 | F~offset~+15 | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+ | F~I | MHz | **2*F~Int | | | | | | nterferer\ 2~ | | erferer\ 1~** | | | | | | | | | | | | | | (Offset) | | | | | | | +---------------+-------+---------------+---------------+---+---+---+
### 8.2.7 RX spurious emissions
The spurious emission requirement for intra-band contiguous multi-carrier and
CA operation for V2X can reuse single carrier requirement and no change for
additional V2X bandwidth class.
### 8.2.8 Receiver image
The receiver image requirement for intra-band contiguous multi-carrier and CA
operation bandwidth class B can be reused for V2X bandwidth class C/ C~1~.
Table 8.2.8-1 Receiver image rejection
* * *
                             V2X Bandwidth Class
Rx parameter Units A B C/ C~1~ D E F Receiver image rejection dB 30 30
* * *
## 8.3 Inter-band scenario
### 8.3.1 General RX requirements
When UE is configured for E-UTRA V2X reception con-current with E-UTRA uplink
and downlink for inter-band E-UTRA V2X / E-UTRA bands specified in Table
5.5G-2 with one or multiple contiguous carriers in V2X sidelink, the
requirement is defined with an sidelink configuration in accordance with Table
2 when the uplink is active in a band supporting contiguous component carriers
and in accordance with Table 1 when an sidelink is active in a band supporting
one carrier per band. All sidelink and downlink carriers shall be active
throughout the tests and the requirements for the sidelink and downlink shall
be met with all uplink carriers active in each band capable of UL operation.
Table 8.3.1-1: Sidelink configuration for reference sensitivity of E-UTRA V2X
Bands (PC5)
* * *
E-UTRA Band / Channel bandwidth / N~RB~ / Duplex mode  
E-UTRA V2X Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz Duplex Mode 47 50 98
HD
* * *
Table 8.3.1-2: Sidelink configuration for REFSENS of E-UTRA V2X Bands for
intra-band multi-carrier operation
* * *
**V2X configuration** 50RB+50RB 100RB+50RB **Duplex Mode**  
PCC SCC PCC SCC  
V2X_47B 50 50 N/A N/A HD V2X_47C N/A N/A 98 50 HD
* * *
#