# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the work performed in defining usage of
LAA/eLAA (i.e. LTE Frame Structure 3) in the same 3550-3700 MHz CBRS band as
already defined for TDD in Band 48. This work only includes applicability for
CBSD's with a maximum conducted transmit power of 24 dBm and a maximum EIRP of
30 dBm in 10 MHz. Channel bandwidths to be supported are: 10MHz and 20MHz.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 36.104: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Base Station (BS) radio transmission and reception\".
[3] RP- 170804, "New WI: LAA/eLAA for the CBRS 3.5GHz band in the United
States", AT&T, RAN#75, March 2017.
[4] Part96-Citizen Broadband Radio Service, electronic Code of Federal
Regulations, https://ecfr.io/Title-47/pt47.5.96;
[5] 3GPP TS 36.101: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception\".
[6] 3GPP TS 36.213: \"Physical layer procedures\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
_BW_ Bandwidth
_BWChannel_ Channel bandwidth (for E-UTRA)
_BWConfig_ Transmission bandwidth configuration (for E-UTRA), expressed in
MHz, where BWConfig = NRB x 180 kHz in the uplink and BWConfig = 15 kHz + NRB
x 180 kHz in the downlink.
_∆f_ Separation between the channel edge frequency and the nominal -3dB point
of the measuring filter closest to the carrier frequency
_∆f~max~_ The largest value of ∆f used for defining the requirement
_F~C~_ Carrier centre frequency
_F~DL_low~_ The lowest frequency of the downlink operating band
_F~DL_high~_ The highest frequency of the downlink operating band
_F~UL_low~_ The lowest frequency of the uplink operating band
_F~UL_high~_ The highest frequency of the uplink operating band
_f_offset_ Separation between the channel edge frequency and the centre of the
measuring filter
_f_offset~max~_ The maximum value of f_offset used for defining the
requirement
_N~DL~_ Downlink EARFCN
_N~Offs-DL~_ Offset used for calculating downlink EARFCN
_N~Offs-UL~_ Offset used for calculating uplink EARFCN
_N~UL~_ Uplink EARFCN
_P~REFSENS~_ Reference Sensitivity power level
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply.\ An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
_ACLR_ Adjacent Channel Leakage Ratio
_ACS_ Adjacent Channel Selectivity
_BS_ Base Station
_CA_ Carrier Aggregation
_CBRS_ Citizens Broadband Radio Service
_CBSD_ Citizens Broadband Radio Service Devices
_CIM_ Counter-InterModulation
_CW_ Continuous Wave
_DL_ Downlink
_EARFCN_ E-UTRA Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number
_eCFR_ electronic Code of Federal Regulation
_eLAA_ enhanced LAA
_EIRP_ Effective Isotropic Radiated Power
_ERP_ Effective Radiated Power
_E-UTRA_ Evolved UTRA
_FCC_ Federal Communications Commission
_FDD_ Frequency Division Duplex
_FRC_ Fixed Reference Channel
_IBE_ In Band Emission
_IMD_ Intermodulation Distorsion
_LAA_ License Assisted Access
_LBT_ Listen Before Talk
_LTE_ Long Term Evolution
_LO_ Local Oscillator
_MSR_ Multi-Standard Radio
_NF_ Noise Figure
_PA_ Power Amplifier
_PDSCH_ Physical Downlink Shared Channel
_PUSCH_ Physical Upling Shared Channel
_RB_ Resource Block
_REFSENS_ Reference Sensitivity
_RF_ Radio Frequency
_RIV_ Resource Indication Value
_RX_ Receiver
_SEM_ Spectrum Emission Mask
_TDD_ Time Division Duplex
_TX_ Transmitter
_UE_ User Equipment
_UL_ Uplink
_UTRA_ UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
# 4 Background
On April 21^st^ 2015, the FCC released a Report and Order (R&O) and Second
Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Second FNPRM) to establish new rules
for commercial use of the 3550-3700 MHz band. This framework creates a
contiguous 150 MHz block at 3550-3700 MHz (3.5 GHz) for mobile broadband that
FCC calls "Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS)" and regulated under Part
96 of FCC's Rules. Furthermore, on May 2^nd^ 2016, a second R&O and Order on
Reconsideration was released by FCC to finalize the rules.
As it is envisioned that LTE will be the major technology used for this
spectrum, it is proposed to align this spectrum with a 3GPP band plan.
Standardization of a new stand-alone LTE TDD band has been dealt with by a
previous Work Item, which has resulted in the definition of Band 48. Moreover,
Band 46 for 5 GHz frequencies has been defined supporting both LAA and eLAA in
the 3GPP specifications.
## 4.1 Task description
The present work item aims to define usage of LAA/eLAA (i.e. LTE Frame
Structure 3) in the same 3550-3700 MHz CBRS band as already defined for TDD in
Band 48. This work item only includes applicability for CBSD's with a maximum
conducted transmit power of 24 dBm and a maximum EIRP of 30 dBm in 10 MHz. To
focus the work, it is anticipated that this work item will be completed in two
phases. The first phase will include definition of requirements for LAA
operation in the band. Upon completion of the first phase, the second phase
will additionally include definition of requirements for eLAA operation in the
band.
#### 4.1.1 Objective of the work item
1\. Specify LTE access with Frame Structure 3 for the 3550-3700 MHz band to
operate in USA
a. In the first phase of the work item with target completion June 2017
(RAN#76), specifications will be defined for downlink (LAA) access in the 3550
-- 3700 MHz band when aggregated with an anchor carrier in a licensed band.
b. In the second phase of the work item, specifications will be defined for
uplink and downlink (eLAA) access in the 3550 -- 3700 MHz band when aggregated
with an anchor carrier in a licensed band.
2\. Define Core requirements for the band. Within this work item,
applicability is limited to CBSD's with a maximum conducted transmit power of
24 dBm and a maximum EIRP of 30 dBm in 10 MHz.
a. Channel bandwidths to be supported are: 10MHz and 20MHz
3\. Determine whether the same band number as for LTE-TDD, or a new band
number, is necessary.
4\. Specify core requirements for the support of E-UTRA Carrier Aggregation
(2DL/2UL) between Band 2 and the 3550-3700MHz band supporting Frame Structure
3
## 4.2 Relevance with LAA/eLAA band 46 and TDD band 48
Band 49 BSs and UEs operate in the same frequency range as Band 48 but is
adopting the same interlaced transmissions as Band 46.
Channel access procedure for band 49 shall be similar to band 46. This is
applicable for both UL and DL.
With reference to UE requirements:
\- ON/OFF mask and transmission templates specified for FS3 operations in Band
46 shall be reused for FS3 operations in the CBRS band
\- A dedicated NS value and associated A-MPR table has to be specified for
interlaced transmissions of FS3
\- In-band emissions requirements shall be specified as done for Band 46, in
band emission mask for Band 49 10 MHz channel needs to be defined
\- Band 49 ACS requirements should be verified similarly to Band 46 for Band
49, but without the relaxation allowed for 20 MHz in Band 46 to be on par with
Band 48 requirements.
\- In-band blocking in Band 49 shall be defined for an unwanted interfering
signal falling into the UE receive band or into the first 60 MHz below or
above the UE receive band, similarly as Band 46.
\- Out-of-band blocking for inter-band carrier aggregation with band 49 shall
be specified as for Band 46
\- Wideband-intermodulation requirements for band combinations with Band 49
shall be specified similarly as Band 46 but with wideband interferer bandwidth
equal to the wanted signal bandwidth
With reference to BS requirements:
\- ACLR, ACS and blocking shall be the same as band 48
\- Same fixed reference channels (FRCs) for reference sensitivity, dynamic
range and in-channel selectivity as Band 46 shall be reused
## 4.3 Regulatory Framework
Part 96 of electronic Code of Federal Regulations (eCFR) [4] specified the
following emissions limits for BSs and UEs in 3550-3700 MHz:
\- The conducted power of any emission outside the fundamental emission
(whether in or outside of the authorized band) shall not exceed−13 dBm/MHz
within 0-10 MHz outside the edge of the assigned channel or of the combined
contiguous assigned channels.
\- The conducted power of any emission shall not exceed −25 dBm/MHz at
frequencies greater than 10 MHz from the assigned channel or combined
contiguous channels' edges down to 3530 MHz and up to 3720 MHz; and −40
dBm/MHz below 3530 MHz or above 3720 MHz.
{width="6.691666666666666in" height="2.428472222222222in"}
Figure 4.3-1: Emission Limits (dBm/MHz)
A resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz or greater, except in the 1 MHz bands
immediately outside and adjacent to the assigned channel, where it may be no
less than 1% of the fundamental emission bandwidth (defined as the bandwidth
outside which all emissions are attenuated at least 26 dB below the
transmitter power) shall be employed.
# 5 Band and Channel Arrangements
The E-UTRA operating band designated for LAA/eLAA operations in 3.5 GHz in US
is defined in Table 5.1-1.
Table 5.1-1 E-UTRA operating bands
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | E | U | Dow | D | | | | | | ‑UTRA | plink | nlink | uplex | | | | | | Oper | (UL) | (DL) | Mode | | | | | | ating | oper | oper | | | | | | | Band | ating | ating | | | | | | | | band\ | band\ | | | | | | | | BS | BS | | | | | | | | rec | tran | | | | | | | | eive\ | smit\ | | | | | | | | UE | UE | | | | | | | | tra | re | | | | | | | | nsmit | ceive | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | | F~UL\ | F~DL\ | | | | | | | | _low~ | _low~ | | | | | | | | -- | -- | | | | | | | | F | F | | | | | | | | ~UL_ | ~DL_ | | | | | | | | high~ | high~ | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | 49 | 3550 | -- | 3700 | 3550 | -- | 3700 | TDD | | | MHz | | MHz | MHz | | MHz | ^1,2^ | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | This | | | | | | | | | band | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | restr | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | li | | | | | | | | | cense | | | | | | | | | d-ass | | | | | | | | | isted | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | using | | | | | | | | | Frame | | | | | | | | | Stru | | | | | | | | | cture | | | | | | | | | Type | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | 2: In | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | ve | | | | | | | | | rsion | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | ifica | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | restr | | | | | | | | | icted | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | E | | | | | | | | | -UTRA | | | | | | | | | DL | | | | | | | | | oper | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | when | | | | | | | | | ca | | | | | | | | | rrier | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | ggreg | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | | | onfig | | | | | | | | | ured. | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+----+-------+-------+
## 5.1 CA operating band definition
CA_2A-49A is defined to operate in the entire frequency range of Band 2 and
band 49, as defined in Table 5.2-1.
Table 5.2-1: Inter-band CA operating band definitions in Band 2 and band 49
* * *
E-UTRA CA Band E-UTRA Band Uplink (UL) operating band Downlink (DL) operating
band Duplex Mode  
BS receive / UE transmit BS transmit / UE receive  
F~UL_low~ -- F~UL_high~ F~DL_low~ -- F~DL_high~  
CA_2-49 2 1850 MHz -- 1910 MHz 1930 MHz -- 1990 MHz FDD 49 3550 MHz -- 3700
MHz 3550 MHz -- 3700 MHz TDD
* * *
## 5.2 Channel bandwidth per operating band
The requirements in this specification apply to the combination of channel
bandwidths and operating bands shown in Table 5.3-1. The transmission
bandwidth configuration in Table 5.3-1 shall be supported for each of the
specified channel bandwidths. The same (symmetrical) channel bandwidth is
specified for both the TX and RX path.
Table 5.2-1: E-UTRA channel bandwidth
* * *
E-UTRA band / Channel bandwidth  
E-UTRA Band 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz 20 MHz 49 Yes Yes
* * *
## 5.3 CA channel bandwidth
Table 5.3-1: E-UTRA CA configurations and bandwidth combination sets defined
for inter-band CA (two bands)
E-UTRA CA configuration / Bandwidth combination set |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
E-UTRA CA Configuration | Uplink CA configurations | E-UTRA Bands | 1.4  
MHz | 3  
MHz | 5  
MHz | 10  
MHz | 15  
MHz | 20  
MHz | Maximum aggregated bandwidth [MHz] | Bandwidth combination set  
CA_2A-49A | - | 2 |  |  | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | 40 | 0  
|  | 49 |  |  |  | Yes |  | Yes |  |   
## 5.4 Channel raster
The carrier frequency in the uplink and downlink is designated by the E-UTRA
Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number (EARFCN) in the range 0 - 262143\. The
relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the downlink is
given by the following equation, where F~DL_low~ and N~Offs-DL~ are given in
table 5.5-1 [5] and N~DL~ is the downlink EARFCN.
F~DL~ = F~DL_low~ + 0.1(N~DL~ -- N~Offs-DL~)
The relation between EARFCN and the carrier frequency in MHz for the uplink is
given by the following equation where F~UL_low~ and N~Offs-UL~ are given in
table 5.5-1 and N~UL~ is the uplink EARFCN.
FUL = FUL_low + 0.1(NUL -- NOffs-UL)
Table 5.4-1: E-UTRA channel numbers
* * *
E-UTRA Operating Band Downlink Uplink  
F~DL_low~ **[MHz]** N~Offs-DL~ Range of N~DL~ F~UL_low~ **[MHz]** N~Offs-UL~
Range of N~UL~ 49 3550 56740 56740 -- 58239 3550 56740 56740 -- 58239
* * *
# 6\. E-UTRA RF requirements for UE
E-UTRA RF requirements for UE operating in Band 49 are reported in following
sub-sections.
## 6.1 UE Transmitter Characteristics
UE RF transmitter requirements for Band 49 are summarized below.
### 6.1.1 Transmit power
The maximum output power for CA_2-49 is specified in accordace with other
inter-band configurations with a TDD band (with no additional relaxation at
the band edges) as shown in Table 6.1.1-1
Table 6.1.1-1: UE Power Class for uplink inter-band CA (two bands)
* * *
E-UTRA CA Configuration Class 1 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 2 (dBm) Tolerance
(dB) Class 3 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) Class 4 (dBm) Tolerance (dB) CA_2A-49A 23
+2/-3
* * *
The allowed MPR for transmission on an Scell in Band 46 or Band 49 within a
component carrier of a nominal channel bandwidth of 10 MHz or 20 MHz is in
accordance with 6.2.3-1 of TS 36.101 [6] for _RIV_ = '11111' (10 MHz) and _L_
= 10 (20 MHz) with _L_ defined in Clause 8.1.4 of TS 36.213 [6]. For all other
possible values of the _RIV_ defined in Clause 8.1.4 of TS 36.213 [6] the
allowed MPR is 2.5 dB for QPSK modulation, 3 dB for 16QAM modulation and 4 dB
for 64QAM modulation (256QAM is FFS), as confirmed from simulation results in
section 6.1.1.1.
A new NS-value "NS_43" need to be defined for Band 49 and the associated
A-MPR, derived from simulation results in section 6.1.1.1, for operation with
Frame Structure type 3 can be specified as in Table 6.1.1-2
Table 6.1.1-2: A-MPR for "NS_43"
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Parameters | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Channel bandwidth | Carrier centre | Uplink resource | A-MPR | | | frequency (F~C~) | allocation | | | (MHz) | | | (dB) | | | (MHz) | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | 20 | 3580 ≤ F~C~ ≤ | L = 10 (RIV = 19) | [1] | | | 3670 | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | | | Any other RIV | [2] | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | | 3560 ≤ F~C~ \ 10 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -25 | Image | | | | | | frequencies | | | | | | when carrier | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequency \ 10 dBm | frequency | | | | | and carrier | (NOTES 4, 5) | | | | | center | | | | | | frequency \ 10 dBm | | | | | | and carrier | | | | | | center | | | | | | frequency ≥ | | | | | | 1 GHz | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -25 | 0 dBm ≤ | | | | | | Output power | | | | | | ≤10 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -20 | -30 dBm ≤ | | | | | | Output power | | | | | | ≤ 0 dBm | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | -10 | -40 dBm ≤ | | | | | | Output power | | | | | | \ K | | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | P | dBm | -44 + | -30 + | -15 + | | ~interferer~ | | ∆R~IB,c~ | ∆R~IB,c~ | ∆R~IB,c~ | | | | | | | | | | | | (NOTE 5) | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+ | F | MHz | -60 \ 4400 MHz | | | | | | except for | | | | | | band | | | | | | combinations | | | | | | with Band 42 | | | | | | or Band 43 | | | | | | for which | | | | | | P | | | | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | | | for Range 3 | | | | | | is modified | | | | | | to -20 dBm | | | | | | for | | | | | | F | | | | | | ~Interferer~ | | | | | | > 2800 MHz. | | | | | +--------------+------+--------------+--------------+--------------+
### 6.2.4 Wideband intermodulation
Wideband-intermodulation requirements for band combinations with Band 49,
which are defined for wideband interferer bandwidth equal to the wanted signal
bandwidth, are specified in Table 6.2.4-1.
Table 6.2.4-1: Wide band intermodulation
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | E | Rx | Units | Ch | | | | | | | -UTRA | Para | | annel | | | | | | | band | meter | | band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | | | 1.4 | 3 MHz | 5 MHz | 10 | 15 | 20 | | | | | MHz | | | MHz | MHz | MHz | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | * | Power | dBm | | | | 6 | | 6 | | _49_ _| in | | | | | | | | | | Tr | | | | | | | | | | ansmi | | | | | | | | | | ssion | | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | | Con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |__P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 1~__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |__( | | | | | | | | | | CW)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |__P~I | dBm | -46 | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 2~__| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |__(Mo | | | | | | | | | | dulat | | | | | | | | | | ed)__| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | * | MHz | | | | 10 | | 20 | | |_ BW~I | | | | | | | | | | nterf | | | | | | | | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 2~**| | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | |** F~I | MHz | | | | -BW | | -BW/2 | | | nterf | | | | | /2-15 | | -- 30 | | | erer\ | | | | | | | | | | 1~**| | | | | / | | / | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | +BW | | +BW/2 | | | (Offs | | | | | /2+15 | | + 30 | | | et)** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | **F~I | MHz | 2*F | | | | | | | | nterf | | ~Inte | | | | | | | | erer\ | | rfere | | | | | | | | 2~** | | r\ 1~ | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | ** | | | | | | | | | | (Offs | | | | | | | | | | et)** | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | ransm | | | | | | | | | | itter | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | be | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | | | | 4dB | | | | | | | | | | below | | | | | | | | | | PCM | | | | | | | | | | AX_L | | | | | | | | | | at | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | mi | | | | | | | | | | nimum | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | plink | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | figur | | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Table | | | | | | | | | | 7. | | | | | | | | | | 3.1-2 | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | PCM | | | | | | | | | | AX_L | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | subc | | | | | | | | | | lause | | | | | | | | | | 6.2.5 | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | | F | | | | | | | | | | DD/TD | | | | | | | | | | D/FS3 | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | A.5 | | | | | | | | | | .1.1/ | | | | | | | | | | A.5.2 | | | | | | | | | | .1/A. | | | | | | | | | | 5.4.1 | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 3: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | modu | | | | | | | | | | lated | | | | | | | | | | inter | | | | | | | | | | ferer | | | | | | | | | | con | | | | | | | | | | sists | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | Refe | | | | | | | | | | rence | | | | | | | | | | m | | | | | | | | | | easur | | | | | | | | | | ement | | | | | | | | | | ch | | | | | | | | | | annel | | | | | | | | | | spec | | | | | | | | | | ified | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | A.3.2 | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | [5] | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | one | | | | | | | | | | sided | | | | | | | | | | dy | | | | | | | | | | namic | | | | | | | | | | OCNG | | | | | | | | | | Pa | | | | | | | | | | ttern | | | | | | | | | | OP.1 | | | | | | | | | | FD | | | | | | | | | | D/TDD | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | desc | | | | | | | | | | ribed | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | Annex | | | | | | | | | | A.5.1 | | | | | | | | | | .1/A. | | | | | | | | | | 5.2.1 | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [5]. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
### 6.2.5 RX spurious emission
The power of any narrow band CW spurious emission shall not exceed the maximum
level specified in Table 6.2.5-1
Table 6.2.5-1: General receiver spurious emission requirements
+------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | Frequency band | Measurement | Maximum level | NOTE | | | | | | | | bandwidth | | | +------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | 30MHz ≤ f \< 1GHz | 100 kHz | -57 dBm | | +------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | 1GHz ≤ f ≤ 12.75 GHz | 1 MHz | -47 dBm | | +------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | 12.75 GHz ≤ f ≤ 5^th^ | 1 MHz | -47 dBm | 1 | | harmonic of the upper | | | | | frequency edge of the DL | | | | | operating band in GHz | | | | +------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | 12.75 GHz -- 26GHz | 1 MHz | -47dBm | 3 | +------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+ | NOTE 1: Applies only for | | | | | Band 22, Band 42, Band 43, | | | | | Band 48 and Band 49 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Unused PDCCH | | | | | resources are padded with | | | | | resource element groups with | | | | | power level given by | | | | | PDCCH_RA/RB as defined in | | | | | Annex C.3.1 in [5]. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applies for Band 47 | | | | +------------------------------+-------------+---------------+------+
# 7 E-UTRA RF requirements for BS
The following BS specific changes to TS 36.104 [2] are expected due to
introduction of the new 3.5GHz LAA/eLAA band in the USA.
## 7.1 BS Transmitter Characteristics
BS RF transmitter requirements for Band 49 are summarized below.
### 7.1.1 Base station output power
For Band 49 operation in US, the BS EIRP power limit established by FCC for
Category A CBSDs (Citizens Broadband Radio Service Devices) applies.
Assessment of the EIRP level is described in Annex H of TS 36.104.
### 7.1.2 Unwanted and Spurious emissions
The following requirement may apply to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 48 and Band
49 in certain regions. Unwanted emissions shall not exceed the maximum levels
specified in Table 7.1.2-1.
Table 7.1.2-1: Additional operating band unwanted emission limits for Band 48
and Band 49
* * *
Channel bandwidth Frequency offset of measurement filter ‑3dB point, ∆f
Frequency offset of measurement filter centre frequency, f_offset Minimum
requirement Measurement bandwidth (Note 8) All 0 MHz ≤ ∆f \< 10 MHz 0.5 MHz ≤
f_offset \< 9.5 MHz -13 dBm 1 MHz
* * *
The requirements of either Table 7.1.2-2 (Category A spurious emission limits)
or Table 7.1.2-3 (Category B spurious emission limits) shall apply.
7.1.2-2: BS Spurious emission limits, Category A
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9kHz ‑ 150kHz | -13 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 150kHz ‑ 30MHz | | 10 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 30MHz ‑ 1GHz | | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1GHz ‑ 12.75 | | 1 MHz | Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz ‑ | | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 3 | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | in GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz - 26 | | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 4 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329 , s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329, s4.1. | | | | | Upper | | | | | frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329, s2.5 | | | | | table 1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Bands 22, | | | | | 42, 43, 48 and | | | | | 49. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Band 46. | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
7.1.2-3: BS Spurious emissions limits, Category B
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum Level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 9 kHz ↔ 150 | -36 dBm | 1 kHz | Note 1 | | kHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 150 kHz ↔ 30 | -36 dBm | 10 kHz | Note 1 | | MHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 30 MHz ↔ 1 GHz | -36 dBm | 100 kHz | Note 1 | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 1 GHz ↔ 12.75 | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz ↔ | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 3 | | 5^th^ harmonic | | | | | of the upper | | | | | frequency edge | | | | | of the DL | | | | | operating band | | | | | in GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 12.75 GHz ↔ 26 | -30 dBm | 1 MHz | Note 2, Note 4 | | GHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329, s4.1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | Bandwidth as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329, s4.1. | | | | | Upper | | | | | frequency as | | | | | in ITU-R | | | | | SM.329, s2.5 | | | | | table 1 | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Bands 22, | | | | | 42, 43,48 and | | | | | 49. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4: | | | | | Applies only | | | | | for Band 46. | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
7.1.2-4 for a BS where requirements for co existence with the system listed in
the first column apply
7.1.2-4: BS Spurious emissions limits for E-UTRA BS for co-existence with
systems operating in other frequency bands
* * *
System type for E-UTRA to co-exist with Frequency range for co-existence
requirement Maximum Level Measurement Bandwidth Note UTRA FDD Band XXII or
E-UTRA Band 22 3510 -- 3590 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This requirement does not apply
to E-UTRA BS operating in band 22, 42, 48 or 49. E-UTRA Band 42 3400 - 3600
MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 22,
42, 43, 48 or 49. E-UTRA Band 43 3600 - 3800 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This is not
applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42, 43, 48 or 49. E-UTRA Band 48
3550 - 3700 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in
Band 22, 42, 43, 48 or 49. E-UTRA Band 49 3550 - 3700 MHz -52 dBm 1 MHz This
is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 22, 42, 43, 48 or 49.
* * *
The following requirement may apply to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 48 and Band
49 in certain regions. The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the
limit specified in Table 7.1.2-5.
Table 7.1.2-5: Additional E-UTRA BS Spurious emissions limits for Band 48 and
Band 49
+----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | Frequency | Maximum Level | Measurement | Note | | range | | Bandwidth | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3530MHz -- | -25dBm | 1 MHz | Applicable | | 3720MHz | | | 10MHz from the | | | | | assigned | | | | | channel edge | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3100MHz -- | -40dBm | 1 MHz | | | 3530MHz | | | | | | | | | | 3720MHz -- | | | | | 4200MHz | | | | +----------------+---------------+----------------+----------------+
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the limits of Table
7.1.2-6 for a Local Area BS, where requirements for co-location with a BS type
listed in the first column apply.
Table 7.1.2-6: BS Spurious emissions limits for Local Area BS co-located with
another BS
* * *
Type of co-located BS Frequency range for co-location requirement Maximum
Level Measurement Bandwidth Note LA E-UTRA Band 42 3400 -- 3600 MHz -88 dBm
100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 22, 42, 43, 48
or 49 LA E-UTRA Band 43 3600 -- 3800 MHz -88 dBm 100 kHz This is not
applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42, 43, 48 or 49 LA E-UTRA Band 48
3550 -- 3700 MHz -88 dBm 100 kHz This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating
in Band 42, 43, 48 or 49 LA E-UTRA Band 49 3550 -- 3700 MHz -88 dBm 100 kHz
This is not applicable to E-UTRA BS operating in Band 42, 43, 48 or 49
* * *
### 7.1.3 Adjacent channel leakage ratio
Legacy ACLR requirements apply for Band 49.
## 7.2 BS Receiver Characteristics
Considering that Band 49 adopts the same interlaced transmissions as Band 46,
the same fixed reference channels (FRCs) for reference sensitivity, dynamic
range and in-channel selectivity as Band 46 should be reused for Band 49.
Legacy requirements should be instead reused for ACS, blocking, receiver
spurious emission and intermodulation since, differently from Band 46, legacy
interfering signal applies for eLAA operations in 3.5 GHz band.
### 7.2.1 Reference sensitivity, dynamic range and in-channel selectivity
Band 49 reference sensitivity levels and applicable reference measurement
channel for Local Area BS are specified in Table 7.2.1-1.
Table 7.2.1-1: E-UTRA Local Area BS reference sensitivity levels
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Reference | | | measurement channel | sensitivity power | | channel bandwidth | | level, PREFSENS | | [MHz] | | | | | | [dBm] | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 10 | FRC A1-3 in Annex | -93.5 | | | A.1 [2] (Note 1) | | | | | -96.2 | | | FRC A1-8 in Annex | | | | A.1 [2] (Note 2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 20 | FRC A1-3 in Annex | -93.5 | | | A.1 [2] (Note 1) | | | | | -96.2 | | | FRC A1-9 in Annex | | | | A.1 [2] (Note 2) | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Note 1: P~REFSENS~ | | | | is the power level | | | | of a single instance | | | | of the reference | | | | measurement channel. | | | | This requirement | | | | shall be met for | | | | each consecutive | | | | application of a | | | | single instance of | | | | FRC A1-3 mapped to | | | | disjoint frequency | | | | ranges with a width | | | | of 25 resource | | | | blocks each. This | | | | reference | | | | measurement channel | | | | is not applied for | | | | Band 46 and Band 49. | | | | | | | | Note 2: P~REFSENS~ | | | | is the power level | | | | of a single instance | | | | of the reference | | | | measurement channel. | | | | This requirement | | | | shall be met for | | | | each single | | | | interlace of FRC | | | | A1-8 and A1-9. This | | | | reference | | | | measurement channel | | | | is only applied for | | | | Band 46 and Band 49. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
Band 49 dynamic range and applicable reference measurement channel for Local
Area BS are specified in Table 7.2.1-2.
Table 7.2.1-2: Local Area BS dynamic range for E-UTRA carrier
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Wanted | Interfering | Type of | | | measurement | signal mean | signal mean | interfering | | channel | channel | power | power | signal | | bandwidth | | [dBm] | [dBm] / | | | [MHz] | | | BW~Config~ | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | FRC A2-3 in | -62.2 | -71.5 | AWGN | | | Annex A.2 | | | | | | [2] (Note | -65.3 | | | | | 1) | | | | | | | | | | | | FRC A2-4 in | | | | | | Annex A.2 | | | | | | [2] (Note | | | | | | 2) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | FRC A2-3 in | -62.2 | -68.4 | AWGN | | | Annex A.2 | | | | | | [2] (Note | -65.3 | | | | | 1) | | | | | | | | | | | | FRC A2-5 in | | | | | | Annex A.2 | | | | | | [2] (Note | | | | | | 2) | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: The | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal mean | | | | | | power is | | | | | | the power | | | | | | level of a | | | | | | single | | | | | | instance of | | | | | | the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met for | | | | | | each | | | | | | consecutive | | | | | | application | | | | | | of a single | | | | | | instance of | | | | | | FRC A2-3 | | | | | | mapped to | | | | | | disjoint | | | | | | frequency | | | | | | ranges with | | | | | | a width of | | | | | | 25 resource | | | | | | blocks | | | | | | each. This | | | | | | reference | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | not applied | | | | | | for Band 46 | | | | | | and Band | | | | | | 49. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: The | | | | | | wanted | | | | | | signal mean | | | | | | power is | | | | | | the power | | | | | | level of a | | | | | | single | | | | | | instance of | | | | | | the | | | | | | reference | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel. | | | | | | This | | | | | | requirement | | | | | | shall be | | | | | | met for | | | | | | each single | | | | | | interlace | | | | | | of FRC A2-4 | | | | | | and A2-5. | | | | | | This | | | | | | reference | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel is | | | | | | only | | | | | | applied for | | | | | | Band 46 and | | | | | | Band 49. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Band 49 in-channel selectivity and applicable reference measurement channel
and interfering signal for Local Area BS are specified in Table 7.2.1-3.
Table 7.2.1-3 Local Area BS in-channel selectivity for E-UTRA
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | E-UTRA | Reference | Wanted | Interfering | Type of | | | measurement | signal mean | signal mean | interfering | | channel | channel | power | power | signal | | bandwidth | | [dBm] | [dBm] | | | (MHz) | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 10 | A1-3 in | -90.5 | -69 | 10 MHz | | | Annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | [2] (Note | -93.2 | -71.8 | signal, 25 | | | 3) | | | RBs (Note | | | | | | 3) | | | A1-8 in | | | | | | Annex A.1 | | | 10 MHz | | | [2] (Note | | | E-UTRA | | | 2) | | | interlace | | | | | | signal, 10 | | | | | | RBs (Note | | | | | | 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | 20 | A1-3 in | -90.5 | -69 | 20 MHz | | | Annex A.1 | | | E-UTRA | | | [2] (Note | -93.2 | -71.8 | signal, 25 | | | 1) A1-9 in | | | RBs (Note | | | Annex A.1 | | | 1) | | | [2] (Note | | | | | | 2) | | | 20 MHz | | | | | | E-UTRA | | | | | | interlace | | | | | | signal, 10 | | | | | | RBs (Note | | | | | | 2) | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | Note 1: | | | | | | Wanted and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | placed | | | | | | adjacently | | | | | | around | | | | | | F~c~, this | | | | | | reference | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | not applied | | | | | | for Band 46 | | | | | | and Band | | | | | | 49. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 2: | | | | | | Wanted and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal | | | | | | interlaces | | | | | | are | | | | | | mirrored | | | | | | around | | | | | | F~c~, this | | | | | | reference | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | only | | | | | | applied for | | | | | | Band 46 and | | | | | | Band 49. | | | | | | | | | | | | Note 3: | | | | | | This | | | | | | reference | | | | | | measurement | | | | | | channel and | | | | | | interfering | | | | | | signal are | | | | | | not applied | | | | | | for Band 46 | | | | | | and Band | | | | | | 49. | | | | | +-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
### 7.2.2 Blocking
Blocking performance requirement for Band 49 Local Area BS are specified in
Table 7.2.2-1.
Table 7.2.2-1: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS for E-UTRA
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | Oper | C | I | W | I | Type | | | | ating | entre | nterf | anted | nterf | of | | | | Band | Freq | ering | S | ering | I | | | | | uency | S | ignal | s | nterf | | | | | of | ignal | mean | ignal | ering | | | | | I | mean | power | c | S | | | | | nterf | power | [ | entre | ignal | | | | | ering | [ | dBm] | freq | | | | | | S | dBm] | | uency | | | | | | ignal | | | mi | | | | | | [ | | | nimum | | | | | | MHz] | | | freq | | | | | | | | | uency | | | | | | | | | o | | | | | | | | | ffset | | | | | | | | | from | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | l | | | | | | | | | ower/ | | | | | | | | | upper | | | | | | | | | Base | | | | | | | | | St | | | | | | | | | ation | | | | | | | | | RF | | | | | | | | | Band | | | | | | | | | width | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | edge | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | nside | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | sub- | | | | | | | | | block | | | | | | | | | gap | | | | | | | | | [ | | | | | | | | | MHz] | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | 1-7, | ( | to | (F | -35 | P~REF | See | See | | 9-11, | F~UL\ | | ~UL_ | | SENS~ | table | table | | 1 | _low~ | | high~ | | + | 7.6. | 7.6. | | 3-14, | -20) | | +20) | | 6dB* | 1.1-2 | 1.1-2 | | 1 | | | | | | [2] | [2] | | 8,19, | | | | | | | | | 2 | | | | | | | | | 1-23, | | | | | | | | | 24, | | | | | | | | | 27, | | | | | | | | | 30, | | | | | | | | | 3 | | | | | | | | | 3-45, | | | | | | | | | 4 | | | | | | | | | 8-50, | | | | | | | | | 51, | | | | | | | | | 65, | | | | | | | | | 66, | | | | | | | | | 68, | | | | | | | | | 70 | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+ | | 1 | to | ( | -15 | P~REF |  | CW | | | | | F~UL\ | | SENS~ | | ca | | | (F | to | _low~ | | + | | rrier | | | ~UL_ | | -20) | | 6dB* | | | | | high~ | | | | | | | | | +20) | | 12750 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+
Blocking performance requirement for E-UTRA Band 49 Local Area BSs when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands are specified in Table 7.2.2-3.
Table 7.2.2-3: Blocking performance requirement for Local Area BS when co-
located with BS in other frequency bands.
* * *
Co-located BS type Centre Frequency of Interfering Signal (MHz) Interfering
Signal mean power (dBm) Wanted Signal mean power (dBm) Type of Interfering
Signal LA E-UTRA Band 49 3550-3700 -6 P~REFSENS~ + 6dB* CW carrier
* * *
### 7.2.3 Receiver spurious emissions
The power of any spurious emission shall not exceed the levels in Table
7.2.3-1:
Table 7.2.3-1: General spurious emission minimum requirement
* * *
Frequency range Maximum level Measurement Bandwidth Note 30MHz ‑ 1 GHz -57 dBm
100 kHz  
1 GHz -- 12.75 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz  
12.75 GHz ‑ 5^th^ harmonic of the upper frequency edge of the UL operating
band in GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz Applies only for Bands 22, 42, 43, 48 and 49. 12.75
GHz ‑ 26 GHz -47 dBm 1 MHz Applies only for Band 46 NOTE: The frequency range
between 2.5 * BW~Channel~ below the first carrier frequency and 2.5 *
BW~Channel~ above the last carrier frequency transmitted by the BS, where
BW~Channel~ is the channel bandwidth according to Table 5.6‑1 in [2], may be
excluded from the requirement. However, frequencies that are more than 10 MHz
below the lowest frequency of any of the BS supported downlink operating band
or more than 10 MHz above the highest frequency of any of the BS supported
downlink operating band shall not be excluded from the requirement. For BS
capable of multiband operation, the exclusion applies for all supported
operating bands. For BS capable of multi-band operation where multiple bands
are mapped on separate antenna connectors, the single-band requirements apply
and the excluded frequency range is only applicable for the operating band
supported on each antenna connector.
* * *
# 8 Co-existence studies for 1 UL/2 DL
Table 8-1 lists Band 2 +Band 49 2UL DC 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ order harmonics and
2^nd^, 3^rd^, 4^th^ and 5^th^ order IMD for the UE-to-UE coexistence analysis.
Table 8-1: Band 2 and Band 49 UL harmonics and IMD products
* * *
**UE UL carriers** **fx_low** **fx_high** **fy_low** **fy_high** UL frequency
(MHz) 1850 1910 3550 3700 2^nd^ harmonics frequency limits 2*fx_low 2*fx_high
2* fy_low 2* fy_high 2nd harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 3700 3820 7100 7400
3rd harmonics frequency limits 3*fx_low 3*fx_high 3* fy_low 3* fy_high 3rd
harmonics frequency limits (MHz) 5550 5730 10650 11100 2nd order IMD products
\|fy_high -- fx_low\| \|fy_low -- fx_high\| \|fy_low + fx_low\| \|fy_high +
fx_high\| 1850 1640 5400 5610 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|fy_high --
2*fx_low\| \|fy_low -- 2*fx_high\| \|2*fy_low -- fx_high\| \|2*fy_high --
fx_low\| 0 270 5190 5550 Two-tone 3^rd^ order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + fx_low\| \|2*fy_high + fx_high\|
7250 7520 8950 9310 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|2*fx_low --2* fy_high\|
\|2*fx_high -- 2*fy_low\| \|2*fx_low +2* fy_low\| \|2*fx_high +2* fy_high\|
3700 3280 10800 11220 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low --1*
fy_high\| \|3*fx_high -- 1*fy_low\| \|3*fy_low -- 1*fx_high\| \|3*fy_high --
1*fx_low\| 1850 2180 8740 9250 Two-tone 4th order IMD products \|3*fx_low +1*
fy_low\| \|3*fx_high +1* fy_high\| \|3*fy_low + 1*fx_low\| \|3*fy_high +
1*fx_high\| 9100 9430 12500 13010 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low --
4*fy_high\| \|fx_high -- 4*fy_low\| \|fy_low -- 4*fx_high\| \|fy_high --
4*fx_low\| 12950 12290 4090 3700 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|fx_low +
4*fy_low\| \|fx_high + 4*fy_high\| \|fy_low + 4*fx_low\| \|fy_high +
4*fx_high\| 16050 16710 10950 11340 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low
-- 3*fy_high\| \|2*fx_high -- 3*fy_low\| \|2*fy_low -- 3*fx_high\| \|2*fy_high
-- 3*fx_low\| 7400 6830 1370 1850 Two-tone 5th order IMD products \|2*fx_low +
3*fy_low\| \|2*fx_high + 3*fy_high\| \|2*fy_low + 3*fx_low\| \|2*fy_high +
3*fx_high\| 14350 14920 12650 13130
* * *
Based on Table 8-1 it can be seen that 4^th^ order IMD may fall into own Rx
frequencies of band 2.
Based on Table 8-1 it can also be seen that 4^th^ order IMD may fall into band
49, but this can be ignored since Tx and Rx will not happen simultaneous.
# 9 DL and UL access procedures
For downlink operation in Band 46 and Band 49, a channel access procedure for
PDSCH transmission as described in TS 36.213 [6], Clause 15.1.1 is specified.
For uplink operation in Band 46 and Band 49 a channel access procedure for
PUSCH transmission as described in TS 36.213 [6], Clause 15.2.1 is specified.
Channel access related parameters for PDSCH and PUSCH are listed in Table 9.1.
Table 9.1: Channel access parameters
+------------------------------------------+--------------+--------+ | Parameter | Unit | Value | +------------------------------------------+--------------+--------+ | LBT measurement bandwidth | MHz | 10, 20 | +------------------------------------------+--------------+--------+ | Energy detection threshold | dBm/20MHz | -72 | | | | | | | dBm/10MHz | -75 | +------------------------------------------+--------------+--------+ | Maximum channel occupancy time for PDSCH | ms | 8 | +------------------------------------------+--------------+--------+ | Detection timing for PUSCH | microseconds | 25 | +------------------------------------------+--------------+--------+
# 10 Summary of the changes in specification
The required changes to the 3GPP specifications for Band 49 are summarised in
Table 10-1.
Table 10-1: 3GPP specifications with required changes
+---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | Affected existing | | | | | specifications | | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | Spec No. | Subject of the CR | Comments | CR (Tdoc) | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 36.101 | E-UTRA; UE Radio | Core part | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 36.104 | E-UTRA; Base | Core part | | | | Station (BS) radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 36.113 | E-UTRA; BS and | Core part | | | | repeater EMC | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 36.124 | E-UTRA; EMC | Core part | | | | requirements for | | | | | mobile terminals | | | | | and ancillary | | | | | equipment | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 36.133 | E-UTRA; | Core part | | | | Requirements for | | | | | support of RRM | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 37.104 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Core part | | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) radio | | | | | transmission and | | | | | reception | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 37.113 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Core part | | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | Electromagnetic | | | | | Compatibility (EMC) | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 25.104 | Base Station (BS) | Core part | | | | radio transmission | | | | | and reception (FDD) | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 25.461 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | | | | interface: Layer 1 | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 25.466 | UTRAN Iuant | Core part | | | | interface: | | | | | Application part | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 25.133 | UTRAN: Requirements | Perf part | | | | for support of | | | | | radio resource | | | | | management (FDD) | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 37.141 | E-UTRA, UTRA and | Perf part | | | | GSM/EDGE; | | | | | Multi-Standard | | | | | Radio (MSR) Base | | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance testing | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 36.141 | E-UTRA; Base | Perf part | | | | Station (BS) | | | | | conformance testing | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 25.141 | Base Station (BS) | Perf part | | | | conformance testing | | | | | (FDD) | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+ | 25.123 | UTRAN: Requirements | Perf part | | | | for support of | | | | | radio resource | | | | | management (TDD) | | | +---------------------+---------------------+-----------+-----------+
#