# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
Voice was the major service and 3GPP defined voice specific cross-layer
optimizations for 3G and 4G. Web based streaming video and Apps are expected
to take majority of 4G/5G bandwidth, and are key source to further increase
the ARPU for operators. MPEG and 3GPP SA4 have been considering cross-layer
optimizations by RAN and App mutual aware, e.g. network assisted DASH, video-
aware scheduling. It is worthwhile and right time to study whether deep cross-
layer optimizations for Web based streaming video and Apps can deliver the
desired benefits. It is also worthwhile to take into account the related work
in other SDOs/Working groups, e.g. ETSI MEC work on mobile video delivery
optimization and local content caching. It is also beneficial to study and
analyse the potential impact to architecture, protocol, and signalling to
support RAN based local cached delivery, local breakout; and support RAN
optimizations based on context awareness.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides descriptions and possible solutions of use cases
for the Context Aware Service Delivery in RAN for LTE, and also provides
analysis of these solutions. Considerations with regards to requested
functionality in scope of other 3GPP groups, if any, may be captured in this
document as well.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC3135, Performance Enhancing Proxies Intended to Mitigate Link-
Related Degradations
[3] X. Xu, Y. Jiang, T. Flach, E. Katz-Bassett, D. Choffnes, and R. Govindan,
"Investigating performance enhancing proxies in cellular networks," in AIMS:
6th Workshop on Active Internet Measurements, Mar. 2014.
[4] M. Necker, M. Scharf, and A. Weber, "Performance of TCP and HTTP Proxies
in UMTS Networks," in Wireless Conference 2005 - Next Generation Wireless and
Mobile Communications and Services (European Wireless), 11th European, April
2005, pp. 1--7.
[5] M. Meyer, J. Sachs, and M. Holzke, "Performance evaluation of a TCP proxy
in WCDMA networks," Wireless Communications, IEEE, vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 70--79,
Oct 2003.
[6] F. Ren, X. Huang, F. Liu, and C. Lin, "Improving TCP Throughput over HSDPA
Networks," Wireless Communications, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 7, no. 6, pp.
1993--1998, June 2008.
[7] V. Farkas, B. Héder, and S. Nováczki, "A Split Connection TCP Proxy in LTE
Networks," in Information and Communication Technologies. Springer Berlin
Heidelberg, 2012, vol. 7479, pp. 263--274.
[8] S4-170238, Revised Work Item on "Server and Network Assisted DASH (SAND)
for 3GPP Multimedia Services"
[9] 3GPP TR 26.957: "Study on Server And Network-assisted Dynamic Adaptive
Streaming over HTTP (DASH) (SAND) for 3GPP multimedia services"
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
# 4 Definitions and problems description
## 4.1 Issue 1: Backhaul long latency
The issue may arise in cases where the distance between the RAN and the node
hosting the application content is long or the number of routers on this route
is high. In these cases long transportation latency may be experienced.
Consequently certain kinds of service may be impacted significantly due to the
long latency. For example, backhaul delay increases the TCP RTT, therefore if
TCP is configured in a way that it cannot cope with such delays, TCP
throughput can be affected.
## 4.2 Issue 2: TCP E2E delay with throughput decreasing
The behavior of TCP assumes that network congestion is the primary cause for
packet loss and high delay. In cellular networks the bandwidth available for
each UE can vary by an order of magnitude on a TTI basis due to changes in the
underlying radio channel conditions. Such changes can be caused by the
movement of devices or interference, as well as changes in system load due to
bursty traffic sources or when other UEs enter and leave the network. TCP has
difficulties adapting to these rapidly varying conditions.
If the E2E delay increases, the TCP RTT increases and the TCP throughput may
decrease, which may impact the user experience.
## 4.3 Issue 3: Video transmission issue cases
The Operator video is a video service under the LTE operator's control. It is
usually transmitted over a dedicated EPS bearer or using a dedicated QCI.
However, there might be cases where an operator decides not to apply any
dedicated QoS to a video service. These video services are named "Over-The-
Top" (OTT) video and are video services that LTE operators have no control on.
Such service traffic is usually treated in the same way as normal internet
traffic, e.g. transmitted via default bearer, which may lead to poor QoE.
Nevertheless, the QoS framework allows assignment of dedicated QCI for video.
Dedicated bearer and QCI is helpful in lessening the video issues. Below are
some of the issues that may occur when operators decide to neither use
dedicated bearers nor dedicated QCI for OTT video services.
**Case 1: Empty buffer issue**
The user is watching a streaming video. When the UE requests for some not yet
buffered video segments e.g. by dragging a play scroll bar or when playout
buffer is exhausted due to link throughput fluctuation and if the scheduling
priority of the video content is not set accordingly, the video playing would
probably stall depends on some condition, e.g. eNB's load and UE's QoS
profile.
**Case 2: Inaccurate throughput prediction for DASH issue**
DASH client requests video quality based on downlink throughput prediction.
Throughput prediction is based on implementation specific mechanisms. The
accuracy of the prediction is dependent from the specific implementation.
However, one factor that may affect the prediction is that the DASH client may
base the prediction on previous downloads. The DASH client may not have an
insight to whether the network conditions have changed, thus the current
available throughput may be difficult to predict. Conservative requesting low
data rate video segment leads to low video quality and aggressive requesting
high data rate video segment leads to more video stalling.
**Case 3: Long video delay issue**
In HTTP based streaming, client first buffers some content, i.e. initial
buffering, before playout in order to absorb the throughput and delay
fluctuation. Assuming that scheduling priority is not appropriately set, a
large buffer may cause long delay, thus lead to bad user experience.
## 4.4 Issue 4: UL Video transmission critical data discard
In conversational video (real-time streaming) the problem of PDCP discard of
critical data in UL may occur. Critical data include I-frames of an H.264
video sequence and RTCP feedbacks for lost RTP packets. Both types of data are
carried on the same bearer (dedicated, GBR, or non-GBR) and may be
encapsulated in the same PDCP SDUs. Hence if the video bearer queue is highly
loaded (e.g. in case of UL congestion), both types of data may be discarded
due to expiry of the PDCP discard timer. Currently in AS, there are no means
to prioritize I-frame data and RTCP feedback packets over P-frame data because
they are carried on the same bearer. If these critical data are lost because
of internal PDCP Discard on the sender device, the video stream may stop on
the receiver side until these critical data are successfully retransmitted or
until a new I-frame is transmitted to allow resynchonizing the video codecs
and restore the video prediction chain. If forward error correction
information is added to the H.264 payload the video may not be subject to
interruptions and it may result in lower video bitrate.
NOTE1: This issue case does not require any specific video codec awareness
impact in RAN3.
# 5 Solutions
## 5.1 General Principles
Impacts to the following LTE/EPC functions and principles of operation should
preferably be avoided in order to ensure that the study can proceed within the
RAN domain. Proposed solutions shall not be excluded solely on this basis, but
sufficient benefits must be demonstrated in order to justify such impacts.
\- Security: current LTE security mechanism shall not be jeopardized, e.g.
User identity and device confidentiality, etc (TS 36.300, TS 33.401, TS
23.401).- Policy control: The Policy and Charging Enforcement Function shall
remain in the PGW (TS 36.300, TS 23.203, TS 23.401).
\- Charging: it shall remain unchanged that the SGW/PGW is responsible for
interfacing with the charging system, and CDR generation (TS 36.300, TS
23.401).
\- QoS: it shall follow current QoS control mechanism (TS 36.300, TS 23.203,
TS 23.401).
\- Mobility anchor: SGW is the local Mobility Anchor point for inter-eNodeB
handover (TS 36.300, TS 23.401).
\- UE IP address allocation: The UE's IP address is assigned by PGW (or L-GW
for local breakout) during the default bearer activation, or after default
bearer activation. The UE IP address allocation mechanism shall not be
changed. (TS 36.300, TS 23.401)
\- Lawful Interception: The lawful interception mechanism shall not be changed
(TS 36.300, TS 23.401).
## 5.2 Solutions for issue 1
### 5.2.1 Solution 1: UE assisted local cache solution
**Local cache is a solution to solve the long backhaul latency issue.**
**An example of how local caching could be achieved is described as follows.**
**Step 1: UE initiates a content request, including indicator, e.g., based on
service information list**
**Step 2: Network needs to check whether the UE is legal for the selective
acceleration (cache) request from core network.**
**During handover procedure, the eligibility check result may be transferred
to the target eNB to avoid second eligibility check. Meanwhile, the indicator
in step 1 can also be transferred to the target eNB to assist the selective
acceleration.**
**Step 3: If the UE is legal for the selective acceleration (cache) request,
Network uses local path otherwise uses traditional path**
**It needs to be noted that the exchange of information to RAN regarding the
eligibility of UEs for local cache services may be achieved in different
alternative ways, e.g. at UE context setup. This solution can be applied to
all the potential deployment options regardless of where the cache is
deployed. The possible local caching solutions are listed as below:**
Figure 5.2.1-1 cache server collocated in the eNB
Note: This solution may not require any changes to the standard, and can be
considered as the eNB's implementation issue.
Figure 5.2.1-2 cache server after P-GW
Note: This solution may not require any changes to the standard, and can be
considered as operator's deployment option.
Figure 5.2.1-3 cache server in the middle of S1-U
Figure 5.2.1-4 cache server off the S1-U path
### 5.2.2 Conclusion for Issue 1
The local caching can be used to address the issue on backhaul long latency.
The local caching is feasible, if CN functionalities and principles when
applied to local caching as defined in section 5.1 are respected. How to make
it should be considered in the normative work with respect existing
architecture.
## 5.3 Solutions for issue 2
### 5.3.1 TCP Performance Enhancing Proxy (TCP PEP)
TCP PEP [2] has been widely discussed in IETF Performance Implications of Link
Characteristics WG (PILC). A PEP is used to improve the performance of the
Internet protocols on network paths where native performance suffers due to
characteristics of a link or subnetwork on the path. Distinct standards track
recommendations for the performance mitigation of TCP over links with high
error rates, links with low bandwidth, and so on, have been developed or are
in development by the Performance Implications of Link Characteristics WG
(PILC). The TCP PEP is a transport layer PEP implementations. The most common
PEP variant is the split connection TCP Proxy, which intercepts the TCP
handshake (connection establishment) between the User Equipment (UE) and the
server, becomes the TCP endpoint towards the UE and establishes a TCP
connection with the server on behalf of the UE. After the connection setup,
the TCP Proxy operates the separate server side (upstream) and UE side
(downstream) connections asynchronously. The TCP Proxy has been investigated
in Wideband Code Division Multiple Access systems as well as in LTE
[3][4][5][6][7].
There are two further options depend on where the TCP PEP is located.
\- Option 1a: TCP PEP is deployed after P-GW/L-GW
Figure 5.3.1-1 example for TCP PEP after P-GW
This option is transparent to the UE. It does not require changes to standard.
It can also use the Commercial-Off-The-Shelf TCP PEP product.
\- Option 1b: TCP PEP is collocated with the eNB
Figure 5.3.1-2 -- example for TCP PEP collocated with the eNB
This option is transparent to the UE. This option can be considered as eNB's
implementation, and not require changes to the standard.
### 5.3.2 Network based Radio-Aware TCP
Achievable data rate (ADR) could be used to improve the accuracy of TCP
congestion control. In this solution, eNB provides the ADR to server via CN.
Figure 5.3.2-1: Network assisted radio-aware TCP solution
1\. Upon decision to perform TCP optimisation, the CN will request eNB to
report ADR, for this UE. In this step, the CN may also configure the reporting
criteria and other related information. During handover procedure, CN may
configure the target eNB to report optimization parameters by CN request or
source eNB directly transfers related ADR report configuration to target eNB.
2\. According to the ADR assistance info report configuration, eNB reports the
required ADR assistance info to CN. This can be reported periodically or event
triggered by CN configuration (e.g. ADR drops below a certain threshold).
3\. CN sends ADR assistance info to TCP server; then TCP server set/update its
congestion window accordingly.
Eligibility check similar to that provided for solution 1 of issue 1 may be
applied, in case TCP optimization is only applied to some kind of user
subscription, e.g. VIP users.
**Potential impact:**
1\. CN sends ADR assistance information report configuration to eNB;
2\. ADR report configuration transferred to the target eNB;
3\. eNB sends required ADR assistance information to CN;
4\. Eligibility check related impacts as already presented in solution 1 for
issue 1.
### 5.3.3 UE Based Radio-Aware TCP Solution
In this solution, UE provides assistance information e.g. ADR to the server.
The assistance information is derived by UE with assistance from eNB.
### 5.3.4 eNB generates TCP ACK on behalf of the UE
In this option, the eNB monitors the DL TCP packet. After the eNB receives the
RLC ACK from the UE, the eNB generates the TCP ACK. To avoid the UE and eNB
generates TCP ACK for a same TCP packet, the UE can request the eNB to
activate/deactivate this function. This option mainly reduces the period for
the UE to send the TCP ACK.
Figure 5.3.4-1: example for eNB generate TCP ACK on behalf of the UE
### 5.3.5 Conclusion for Issue 2
There is no consensus on whether TCP PEP is enough for LTE, or possibility if
the TCP behavior needs to be changed.
## 5.4 Solutions for issue 3
RAN needs to check whether the UE is legal for the DASH optimisation from core
network.
### 5.4.1 Solutions for case 1
#### 5.4.1.1 Solution 1: UE request a higher QoS profile
Video transmission issues resulting from empty buffer can be mitigated by
supplying UE's higher QoS profile. If the operator decides to send video
content over a non-GBR bearer initially, it may be useful to initiate bearer
modification procedure, by supplying GBR bearer or higher priority non-GBR
bearer, to serve the UE with higher QoS profile for OTT service. Even for non-
GBR bearer, current TS23.203 defines various QCIs, e.g. QCI 8 for "premium
bearer" and QCI 9 for "default bearer".
Table 5.4.1.1-1: Standardized QCI characteristics
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | QCI | Resource | Priority | Packet | Packet | Example | | | Type | Level | Delay | Error | Services | | | | | Budget | Loss | | | | | | | | | | | | | ( | Rate | | | | | | NOTE 13) | (NOTE 2) | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 8\ | | 8 | 300 ms\ | 10^-6^ | Video | | (NOTE 5) | | | (NOTE 1) | | ( | | | | | | | Buffered | | | | | | | Str | | | | | | | eaming)\ | | | | | | | T | | | | | | | CP-based | | | | | | | (e.g., | | | | | | | www, | | | | | | | e-mail, | | | | | | | chat, | | | | | | | ftp, p2p | | | | | | | file | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | 9\ | | 9 | | | sharing, | | (NOTE 6) | | | | | pro | | | | | | | gressive | | | | | | | video, | | | | | | | etc.) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 5: | | | | | | | This QCI | | | | | | | could be | | | | | | | used for | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | [d | | | | | | | edicated | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "premium | | | | | | | bearer\" | | | | | | | (e.g. | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | sociated | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | premium | | | | | | | conte | | | | | | | nt)]{.un | | | | | | | derline} | | | | | | | for any | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | / | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | group. | | | | | | | Also in | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | case, | | | | | | | the SDF | | | | | | | aggr | | | | | | | egate\'s | | | | | | | uplink / | | | | | | | downlink | | | | | | | packet | | | | | | | filters | | | | | | | are | | | | | | | known at | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | point in | | | | | | | time | | | | | | | when the | | | | | | | SDF | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | ggregate | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | aut | | | | | | | horized. | | | | | | | Altern | | | | | | | atively, | | | | | | | this QCI | | | | | | | could be | | | | | | | used for | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | default | | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | UE/PDN | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | "premium | | | | | | | subscr | | | | | | | ibers\". | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 6: | | | | | | | This QCI | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | ypically | | | | | | | used for | | | | | | | [the | | | | | | | default | | | | | | | bearer | | | | | | | of a | | | | | | | UE/PDN | | | | | | | for non | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | ivileged | | | | | | | s | | | | | | | ubscribe | | | | | | | rs]{.und | | | | | | | erline}. | | | | | | | Note | | | | | | | that | | | | | | | AMBR can | | | | | | | be used | | | | | | | as a | | | | | | | \"tool\" | | | | | | | to | | | | | | | provide | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | differe | | | | | | | ntiation | | | | | | | between | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | bscriber | | | | | | | groups | | | | | | | c | | | | | | | onnected | | | | | | | to the | | | | | | | same PDN | | | | | | | with the | | | | | | | same QCI | | | | | | | on the | | | | | | | default | | | | | | | bearer. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
#### 5.4.1.2 Solution 2: Video Context Aware Solution
For video on demand, the application packets request will be triggered
intermittently which depends on the buffer status for progressive download
mode. Currently, the eNB does not know the UE's playout status, e.g. buffer
status. This may lead to unnecessary stalling. To solve the problem, the
context aware service delivery solution is depicted in the figure 5.4.1.2-1
below:
Figure 5.4.1.2-1 video context reporting procedure
Step1: The UE reports the video context information to the eNB.
This can be reported periodically or triggered by the configured event which
depends on UE configuration. For example, the UE can report the context before
or when requesting the next video segment. The video context information may
include following parameters:
**● Playout status:** to indicate whether it is an initial request or a
request during playout.
**● Playout buffer status:** refers to level of the buffer in milliseconds to
evaluate the stalling probability of the playout.
Step2: eNB decides when and how to schedule the requested video segment when
it comes.
It is up to the eNB's implementation on how to use these parameters to adjust
the scheduling, and the duration to adjust its scheduling.
The eNB scheduler may also consider the QoS parameters, cell load, receiving
quality of the UE into account to make the final scheduling decision.
### 5.4.2 Solutions for case 2
#### 5.4.2.1 Solution 1: PCC-based Solution
This solution is based on the current specification of the 3GPP system. In
current 3GPP system, PCC-level signalling can already accomplish the
communication of network QoS information to the client device (user equipment
or UE) and therefore the DASH client can locally (within the UE) obtain the
QoS information via internal APIs. The DASH server act as Application, which
have knowledge of the application Function, type and of the MPD.
Following figure depicts an example PCC architecture delivering end-to-end QoS
support for DASH services with the capability to interpret the media
presentation description (MPD) in order to gain information on the
application-layer parameters for DASH content. In the current PCC
architecture, the application function (AF) interacts with the applications
requiring dynamic policy and charging control. Hence, in order to provide QoS
for DASH services, the AF can extract DASH content information from the MPD,
map it into the appropriate attribute-value pairs (AVPs), and provide the AVPs
to the policy and charging rules function (PCRF) over the Rx reference point.
TS 26.247 Annex I describes such mapping. The PCRF combines the DASH-related
AVPs received over the Rx reference point and the input received from the Gx
and Gxa/Gxc reference points with user-specific policies data from the
subscriber profile repository (SPR) to form session-level policy decisions and
provides those to the PCEF and BBERF. In other words, the PCRF takes the
subscriber information into account when setting QoS. Access-specific QoS
parameters are then communicated to the UE from PCEF/BBERF. In particular,
TS23.401 describes how the UE acquires QoS information during dedicated bearer
activation and bearer modification with bearer QoS update. It is also noted in
TS23.401 that \"The UE may provide EPS Bearer QoS parameters to the
application handling the traffic flow. The application usage of the EPS Bearer
QoS is implementation dependent.\"
Figure 5.4.2.1-1: An example policy and charging control (PCC) architecture to
deliver QoS for DASH services
#### 5.4.2.2 Solution 2: Solution of DASH optimisation
In this solution, the RAN provides Predicted bandwidth to the client. The
Predicted bandwidth for a specific UE is the throughput estimated to be
available at the radio downlink interface in a period of time.
The whole procedure can be found in figure 5.4.2.2-1 below:
Figure 5.4.2.2-1: RAN Assistance Rate Selection
At first, the Client receives the MPD file of requested video from the Server
side, which may include more than one rate for a segment.
And then, the Client may report the video context information to the eNB. The
video context information includes the bandwidth range of the target segment
and optionally with playout buffer status which will help RAN to give UE the
predicted bandwidth more accurate. Details of these aspects were not addressed
during the study
Finally, the RAN sends the predicted bandwidth to the Client. With the
predicted bandwidth, the Client can select the rate of target segment
suitably.
#### 5.4.2.3 Solution 3: Solution of DASH optimisation via local breakout
In this solution network assistance information is provided in the form of a
recommended media (audio/video) rate. This information is generated by the
eNB, which is the node holding the information needed to recommend a media
streaming bitrate.
In this solution the DANE is part of the eNB and therefore it has immediate
access to the network assistance information derived from RAN resource
monitoring.
The DANE is able to communicate the network assistance information via
existing DASH signalling mechanisms, i.e. via HTTP signalling.
Impact due to initial setup of signalling connection between DANE and DASH
Client were not addressed during the study.
The use of a local breakout bearer reduces over the air signalling between the
RAN and the UE (hosting the DASH client) and it allows ready consumption of
the network assistance information at the DASH client for an optimised QoE.
In order to receive the IP address of the DANE the UE could be configured with
a URL pointing at the DANE. The UE could make a DNS lookup for the configured
URL and receive an IP address that corresponds to the DANE.
The media content (i.e. video segments) is sent from the DASH server to the
DASH Client upon opportune request of a particular bitrate from the DASH
Client to the DASH Server. The request is based on the recommended media rate
provided by the DANE to the DASH Client. Examples of the messages that could
be exchanged between DANE and DASH Client for the purpose of network
assistance information request and response can be found in section 6.4 of
TR26.957.
_Whether and how buffer level and video start information may be used by the
DANEwas not addressed during the study._
The solution is described in Figure 5.4.2.3-1:
{width="6.302083333333333in" height="4.083333333333333in"}
Figure 5.4.2.3-1: Solution for recommended rate information provisioning via
DANE at RAN and Local Breakout UP bearers
### 5.4.3 Solutions for case 3
#### 5.4.3.1 Solution 1
According to the issue description, the Empty buffer issue is caused by link
throughput fluctuation. In case the OTT video uses GBR bearer, this may be
very rare. It only happens when OTT video uses non-GBR bearer. SA4 already
analysed this issue in TR23.976. The conclusion is
\---
> 6.12.4 Conclusions and Gap Analysis
>
> ...
\- such operation can be supported by the supplying a GBR bearer at a bitrate
that enables real-time delivery of [at least a minimum set (typically audio
and video) of lower quality Representations]{.underline}.
\- if the operator decides to send DASH content over a non-GBR bearer
initially, it may be useful to initiate QoS update procedure with GBR QoS
parameter once the network gets more loaded.
**\---**
In addition, due to the nature of non-GBR bearer, using non-GBR bearer cannot
guarantee the UE can play the video in a continuous way. Temporarily
prioritize the video packets can only partially address the issue. The UE may
frequently have empty buffer if the guaranteed bitrate is below the required
bitrate for the lower quality representations.
Thus, to ensure a continuous play of video, GBR bearer should be used. The GBR
bearer should have a bitrate larger than the minimum data rate required by the
lower quality representations. If the operator decides to send video content
over a non-GBR bearer initially, it may be useful to initiate bearer
modification procedure, by supplying GBR bearer or higher priority non-GBR
bearer, to serve the UE with higher QoS profile for OTT service.
### 5.4.4 Conclusion for Issue 3
For case 1, the solutions described in section 5.4.1.1 and 5.4.1.2 are
feasible. For case 3, the solutions described in section 5.4.3.1 and 5.4.1.2
are feasible. For case 2, SA4 is defining solutions for the same video issue
in work item "Server and Network Assisted DASH (SAND) for 3GPP Multimedia
Services" [8] based on study in 3GPP TR 26.957 [9]. As this work develops
further in SA4, there may be a need to address associated aspects in RAN3
scope if required (e.g. triggered by LS, new WI/building blocks, or
otherwise).
It is also concluded that it may be beneficial for the UE to provide its
buffer status to the RAN and it is up to RAN implementation on how to use such
information for resource management optimisation. RAN2 should evaluate the
benefits of this solution.
## 5.5 Solutions for issue 4
### 5.5.1 Solution 1: Dynamic adaptation of LTE radio resource allocation
during the call
The UE sends a notification about the presence of a critical data on uplink
bearer's queue. The E-UTRAN accepts or declines to adapt its scheduling
algorithm upon each notification based on its own mechanisms, and policy.
### 5.5.2 Solution 2: Static acceptance or rejection of adaptation of LTE
radio resource allocation for the call
At multimedia call establishment, the E-UTRAN can inform IMS multimedia
gateway or other entities in the Core network about its capability of
receiving and handling accordingly, a notification from UE indicating critical
multimedia data is pending to be sent on UE bearer's queue. The IMS multimedia
gateway or other entities in the Core network may then decide to send an
indication to the E-UTRAN to accept or reject the notification from UE. This
will be based on its own policy (e.g. depending on user subscription, network
load, etc.) and applied to all notifications received from UE.
Note: The problem of how to validate the UE's notification to protect the
network against malicious UEs that request for prioritized resource allocation
from the E-UTRAN was identified and not addressed during the study.
###### ## Annex A (informative): Video playout buffer aware scheduling
In current video transmission, video is either always not prioritized or
always prioritized. Here is a simulation analysis for the performance of
conditional prioritization for video i.e. buffer-aware scheduling:
\- The scheduling for the UE is prioritized only when its video playout buffer
level is low;
\- When the UE's buffer level is high, the eNB may deprioritize the schedule
to this UE.
Figure A-1 is the simulation result for the video capacity and stall
probability under PF scheduling algorithm and playout buffer-aware scheduling.
{width="4.622222222222222in" height="2.6729166666666666in"}
Figure A-1: Video Stall Probability Comparison
PF (Proportional Fair) is used as baseline. In PF, the scheduling priority is:
P=R/T, where:
\- R: the estimated data rate, if the UE is scheduled;
\- T: the average data rate of this UE.
In playout aware scheduling, the scheduling priority is: P=R/max(B-I, 0.001),
where:
\- B: time to buffer empty at UE side, i.e. buffer level
\- I: Initial playout buffer level, 1 sec is assumed in the simulation.
The simulation assumptions are:
\- 10MHz system bandwidth
\- All UEs have the same geometry 8.7dB,
\- All the video segments have same size, and the data rate is 417kbps,
\- eNB knows buffer level in real time.
The result shows that at 1% stalling probability level, PF can support 20 UEs,
while playout buffer aware scheduling can support 25 UEs, i.e. 25% capacity
gain, which may be the lower bound of the gain.
#