# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the procedures and the SBc Application Part
(SBc-AP) messages used on the SBc-AP interface between the Mobility Management
Entity (MME) and the Cell Broadcast Centre (CBC).
The present document supports the following functions.
\- Warning Message Transmission function in the EPS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] IETF RFC 2460 (December 1998): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[3] IETF RFC 791 (September 1981): \"Internet Protocol\".
[4] IETF RFC 4960 (September 2007): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[5] Void
[6] Void
[7] 3GPP TS 36.413: \"Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network
(E-UTRAN); S1 Application Protocol (S1AP)\"
[8] ITU-T Recommendation X.680 (07/2002): \"Information Technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Specification of basic notation\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation X.681 (07/2002): \"Information Technology - Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1): Information object specification\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation X.691 (07/2002): \"Information Technology - ASN.1
encoding rules - Specification of Packed Encoding Rules (PER)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[12] Void
[13] 3GPP TS 22.268: \"Public Warning System (PWS) requirements\".
[14] 3GPP TS 23.041: \"Technical realization of Cell Broadcast Service
(CBS)\".
[15] Void
[16] 3GPP TS 23.007: \"Restoration procedures\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
**Elementary Procedure:** SBc-AP consists of Elementary Procedures (EPs). An
Elementary Procedure is a unit of interaction between MME and CBC. These
Elementary Procedures are defined separately and are intended to be used to
build up complete sequences in a flexible manner. If the independence between
some EPs is restricted, it is described under the relevant EP description.
Unless otherwise stated by the restrictions, the EPs may be invoked
independently of each other as stand alone procedures, which can be active in
parallel. Examples on using several SBc-APs together with each other and EPs
from other interfaces can be found in reference [FFS].
An EP consists of an initiating message and possibly a response message. Two
kinds of EPs are used:
\- **Class 1:** Elementary Procedures with response (success and/or failure).
\- **Class 2:** Elementary Procedures without response.
For Class 1 EPs, the types of responses can be as follows:
Successful:
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the elementary procedure
successfully completed with the receipt of the response.
Unsuccessful:
\- A signalling message explicitly indicates that the EP failed.
\- On time supervision expiry (i.e. absence of expected response).
Successful and Unsuccessful:
\- One signalling message reports both successful and unsuccessful outcome for
the different included requests. The response message used is the one defined
for successful outcome.
Class 2 EPs are considered always successful.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\
Editor's note: To be completed or section removed.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present
document takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if
any, in 3GPP TR 21.905 [1].
CMAS Commercial Mobile Alert System
CBC Cell Broadcast Center
CBS Cell Broadcast Service
EPC Evolved Packet Core
EPS Evolved Packet System
ETWS Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System
MME Mobility Management Entity
PWS Public Warning System
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
# 4 SBc description
## 4.1 Transport
### 4.1.1 General
This subclause specifies the standards for signalling transport to be used
across SBc-AP interface. SBc-AP interface is a logical interface between the
MME and the CBC. All the SBc-AP messages described in the present document
require an SCTP association between the MME and the CBC.
### 4.1.2 Network layer
The MME and the CBC shall support IPv6 (see IETF RFC 2460 [2]) and/or IPv4
(see IETF RFC 791 [3]).
The IP layer of SBc-AP only supports point-to-point transmission for
delivering SBc-AP messages.
### 4.1.3 Transport layer
SCTP (see IETF RFC 4960 [4]) shall be supported as the transport layer of SBc-
AP messages.
Semi-permanent SCTP associations shall be established between MME and CBC,
i.e. the SCTP associations shall remain up under normal circumstances.
Local multi-homing should be supported. Remote multi-homing shall be
supported.
Multiple local SCTP endpoints may be supported. Multiple remote SCTP endpoints
shall be supported. When multiple local or remote SCTP endpoints are
configured, several simultaneous SCTP associations shall be supported between
MME and CBC.
Checksum calculation for SCTP shall be supported as specified in RFC 4960 [4].
The CBC shall establish the SCTP association.
The registered port number for SBc-AP is 29168.
The registered payload protocol identifier for SBc-AP is 24.
### 4.1.4 Services expected from signalling transport
The signalling connection shall provide in-sequence delivery of SBc-AP
messages. SBc-AP shall be notified if the signalling connection breaks.
### 4.2. SBc-AP functions
### 4.2.1 Function of SBc-AP
SBc-AP has the following function:
\- Warning Message Transmission function:\ This functionality provides the
means to start, overwrite and stop the broadcasting of warning message in
support of the Public Warning System (PWS) messages as defined in 3GPP TS
22.268 [13] which include Commercial Mobile Warning System (CMAS) and
Earthquake and Tsunami (ETWS) messages.
### 4.3 SBc-AP procedure
### 4.3.1 General
This sub-clause describes the parameters and detailed behaviors of different
procedures.
#### 4.3.2 List of SBc-AP elementary procedure
Table 4.3.2-1 lists the SBc-AP Elementary Procedures defined as class 1
procedures.
Table 4.3.2-1: SBc-AP class 1 elementary procedures
* * *
Elementary Procedure Initiating Message Successful Outcome Unsuccessful
Outcome Response message Response message Write-Replace Warning procedure
WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE  
Stop Warning Procedure STOP WARNING REQUEST STOP WARNING RESPONSE
* * *
Table 4.3.2-2 lists the SBc-AP Elementary Procedures defined as class 2
procedures.
Table 4.3.2-2: SBc-AP class 2 elementary procedures
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Elementary Procedure | Initiating Message | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Error Indication | ERROR INDICATION | | | | | procedure | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Write Replace Warning Indication | WRITE REPLACE WARNING INDICATION | | procedure | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | Stop Warning Indication | STOP WARNING INDICATION | | procedure | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | PWS Restart Indication | PWS RESTART INDICATION | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
#### 4.3.3 Write Replace Warning Procedure
##### 4.3.3.1 General
The purpose of Write-Replace Warning procedure is to start, overwrite the
broadcasting of warning message, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.041 [14].
##### 4.3.3.2 Successful Operation
Figure 4.3.3.2-1: Write-Replace Warning procedure. Successful operation.
The CBC initiates the procedure by sending a WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST
message to the MME.
Upon reception of WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message, the MME shall forward
the message towards the eNBs which belong to the tracking area indicated in
_List of TAIs_ IE, if this list is present.
If a _Global_ _eNB ID_ IE is present in the WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST
message, the MME shall forward the message only towards the eNB identified by
the _Global eNB ID_ if this IE is supported by the MME. If the _Global_ _eNB
ID_ IE is not supported by the MME, the MME shall forward the WRITE-REPLACE
WARNING REQUEST message using the _List of TAIs_ IE, if this list is present,
otherwise the MME shall send the message towards all connected (H)eNBs. An MME
and a CBC which support the PWS Restoration procedures as specified in 3GPP TS
23.007 [16] subclause 15A.1 shall support the _Global eNB ID_ IE _._
If neither the _List of TAIs_ IE, nor the _Global eNB ID_ IE (if this is
supported) are present in WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message, the MME shall
forward the message towards all connected eNBs.
The MME shall return a WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE to the CBC immediately
after the reception of the WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message without
waiting responses from eNBs.
The MME shall set the cause IE to 'Message accepted' in the WRITE-REPLACE
WARNING RESPONSE message.
##### 4.3.3.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 4.3.3.3-1: Write-Replace Warning procedure. Unsuccessful operation.
The CBC initiates the procedure by sending a WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST
message to the MME.
If MME cannot process the received WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message, the
MME shall return a WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE message towards the CBC and
the MME shall not forward the message towards the eNBs belonged to the
tracking area as indicated in _List of TAIs_ IE.
The MME shall indicate a reason of failure in the cause IE.
NOTE: An Unsuccessful Operation is reported as a Successful Outcome in the
Response message. See subclause 3.1.
### 4.3.3A Stop Warning Procedure
#### 4.3.3A.1 General
The purpose of Stop Warning Procedure is to stop the broadcasting of warning
message.
#### 4.3.3A.2 Successful Operation
Figure 4.3.3A.2-1: Stop Warning Procedure, Successful Operation.
The CBC initiates the Stop Warning Procedure by sending a STOP WARNING REQUEST
message to the MME.
Upon reception of STOP WARNING REQUEST message, the MME shall forward the
message towards the eNBs belonged to the tracking area as indicated in _List
of TAIs_ IE.
If none of _List of TAIs_ IE is present in STOP WARNING REQUEST message, the
MME shall forward the message towards all connected eNBs.
The MME shall return a STOP WARNING RESPONSE to the CBC immediately after the
reception of the STOP WARNING REQUEST message without waiting responses from
eNBs.
The MME shall set the cause IE to 'Message accepted' in the STOP WARNING
RESPONSE message.
#### 4.3.3A.3 Unsuccessful Operation
Figure 4.3.3A.3-1: Stop Warning procedure, Unsuccessful operation.
The CBC initiates the Stop Warning Procedure by sending a STOP WARNING REQUEST
message to the MME.
If MME cannot process the received STOP WARNING REQUEST message, the MME shall
return a STOP WARNING RESPONSE message towards the CBC and the MME shall not
forward the message towards the eNBs belonged to the tracking area as
indicated in _List of TAIs_ IE.
The MME shall indicate a reason of failure in the cause IE.
NOTE: An Unsuccessful Operation is reported as a Successful Outcome in the
Response message. See subclause 3.1.
### 4.3.3B Error Indication
#### 4.3.3B.1 General
The Error Indication procedure is initiated by a node to report detected
errors in one incoming message, provided they cannot be reported by an
appropriate failure message.
#### 4.3.3B.2 Successful Operation
Figure 4.3.3B.2-1: Error Indication procedure, CBC originated. Successful
operation.
Figure 4.3.3B.2-2: Error Indication procedure, MME originated. Successful
operation.
When the conditions defined in subclause 4.5 are fulfilled, the Error
Indication procedure is initiated by an ERROR INDICATION message sent from the
receiving node.
The ERROR INDICATION message shall contain at least either the _Cause_ IE or
the _Criticality Diagnostics_ as indicated in subclause 4.5.
#### 4.3.3B.3 Abnormal Conditions
Not applicable.
### 4.3.3C Write Replace Warning Indication
#### 4.3.3C.1 General
If supported by the MME, the Write-Replace-Warning-Indication message(s) shall
be sent by the MME to report to the CBC the Broadcast Scheduled Area List if
the Send Write-Replace-Warning-Indication parameter was present in the
corresponding Write-Replace-Warning-Request. The Broadcast Scheduled Area List
shall contain the Broadcast Completed Area List the MME has received from the
eNodeB(s) [7].
#### 4.3.3C.2 Successful Operation
Figure 4.3.3C.2-1: Write Replace Warning Indication procedure, MME originated.
Successful operation.
The MME initiates the Write Replace Warning Indication procedure by sending a
WRITE REPLACE WARNING INDICATION message(s) to the CBC after it has previously
received a Broadcast Completed Area List from eNodeB(s) in a WRITE-REPLACE
WARNING MESSAGE [7]. The MME may aggregate Broadcast Completed Area Lists it
receives from the eNodeBs.
#### 4.3.3C.3 Abnormal Conditions
Not applicable.
### 4.3.3D Stop Warning Indication
#### 4.3.3D.1 General
If supported by the MME, the Stop Warning Indication message(s) shall be sent
by the MME to report to the CBC the Broadcast Cancelled Area List if the Send
Stop Warning Indication parameter was present in the corresponding Stop
Warning Request. The Broadcast Cancelled Area List shall contain the Broadcast
Cancelled Area List the MME has received from the eNodeB(s) [7].
#### 4.3.3D.2 Successful Operation
Figure 4.3.3D.2-1: Stop Warning Indication procedure, MME originated.
Successful operation.
The MME initiates the Stop Warning Indication procedure by sending a STOP
WARNING INDICATION message to the CBC after it has previously received a
Broadcast Cancelled Area List from an eNodeB. The MME may aggregate Broadcast
Cancelled Area Lists it receives from the eNodeBs.
#### 4.3.3D.3 Abnormal Conditions
Not applicable.
### 4.3.3E PWS Restart Indication
#### 4.3.3E.1 General
The PWS Restart Indication is sent by the MME to the CBC upon receipt of a PWS
Restart Indication from an (H)eNB, to indicate that the PWS service is
restarted in one or more or all cells served by an (H)eNB, i.e. the service
has become operational and no warning message data is available for these
cell(s). The CBC shall reload the cells if required.
#### 4.3.3E.2 Successful Operation
Figure 4.3.3E.2-1: PWS Restart Indication, Successful Operation.
The MME initiates the PWS Restart Indication procedure by sending a PWS
RESTART INDICATION message to the CBC upon receiving a PWS Restart Indication
message from an (H)eNB (see TS 36.413 [7]).
The MME shall copy the following parameters from the PWS Restart Indication
received from the (H)eNB into the corresponding parameters in the PWS-RESTART-
INDICATION towards the CBC:
\- Global eNB ID of the (H)eNB;
\- Reloaded E-CGI List into the Restarted-Cell-List;
\- Tracking Area ID List;
\- Emergency Area ID List (if received from the (H)eNB, i.e. if the restarted
cell(s) are configured with Emergency Area ID(s)).
Upon receipt of a PWS Restart Indication message, the CBC shall consider that
the PWS service is restarted in the reported cell(s), i.e. the service is
operational and no warning messages are being broadcast in these cell(s). The
CBC shall then reload the warning message data to the (H)eNB for these cells,
if any.
The CBC shall consider a PWS Restart Indication message received shortly after
a preceding one for the same cell identity as a duplicate restart indication
for that cell which it shall ignore.
NOTE: The CBC can receive the same PWS Restart Indication message via two MMEs
of the MME pool for redundancy reasons (see subclause 15A.1 of 3GPP TS 23.007
[16]).
The CBC shall reload the warning message data (with the same Message
Identifier and Serial Number) to the (H)eNB by initiating Write Replace
Warning procedure(s) as specified in subclause 4.3.3.2 with the following
additions:
\- the CBC should set the _Warning Area List_ IE in the Write-Replace Warning
Request message to the identities of the cell(s) received in the Restarted-
Cell-List which are relevant to the warning message data being reloaded;
\- the CBC shall copy the Global eNB ID into the Write-Replace Warning Request
message; and
\- the CBC may update the Number of Broadcast Requested, if necessary.
4.3.3E.3 Abnormal Conditions
Not applicable.
#### 4.3.4 Message functional definition and content
#### 4.3.4.1 Message contents
##### 4.3.4.1.1 Presence
All information elements in the message descriptions below are marked
mandatory, optional or conditional according to table 4.3.4.1.1-1.
Table 4.3.4.1.1-1: Meaning of abbreviations used in SBc-AP messages
* * *
Abbreviation Meaning M IEs marked as Mandatory (M) shall always be included in
the message. O IEs marked as Optional (O) may or may not be included in the
message. C IEs marked as Conditional (C) shall be included in a message only
if the condition is satisfied. Otherwise the IE shall not be included.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.1.2 Criticality
Each Information Element or Group of Information Elements may have criticality
information applied to it.\ Following cases are possible:
Table 4.3.4.1.2-1: Meaning of content within \"Criticality\" column
* * *
Abbreviation **Meaning** \-- No criticality information is applied explicitly.
YES Criticality information is applied. This is usable only for non-repeatable
IEs GLOBAL The IE and all its repetitions together have one common criticality
information. This is usable only for repeatable IEs. EACH Each repetition of
the IE has its own criticality information. It is not allowed to assign
different criticality values to the repetitions. This is usable only for
repeatable IEs.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.1.3 Range
The Range column indicates the allowed number of copies of repetitive IEs/IE
groups.
##### 4.3.4.1.4 Assigned Criticality
This column provides the actual criticality information as defined in
subclause 4.5.3.2, if applicable.
#### 4.3.4.2 Warning Message Transmission Messages
##### 4.3.4.2.1 WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST
This message is sent by the CBC to request start or overwrite of a warning
message broadcast.
Direction: CBC → MME
Table 4.3.4.2.1-1: WRITE-REPLACE WARNING REQUEST message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject **Serial Number** M [7] YES reject **List of
TAIs** O YES reject **> TAI List Item** 1 to \  
**> >TAI** M [7]  
**Warning Area List** O [7] YES ignore Repetition Period M [7] YES reject
Extended Repetition Period O [7] YES reject Number of Broadcast Requested M
[7] YES reject Warning Type O [7] YES ignore Warning Security Information O
[7] YES ignore Data Coding Scheme O [7] YES ignore Warning Message Contents O
[7] YES ignore OMC ID O 4.3.4.3.4 YES ignore Concurrent Warning Message
Indicator O [7] YES reject Send Write-Replace-Warning-Indication O 4.3.4.3.5
YES ignore Global eNB ID O [7] YES ignore
* * *
Table 4.3.4.2.1-2: RANGE explanation
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofTAI Maximum no. of TAI subject for warning
message broadcast. Value is 65535.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.2.2 WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE
This message is sent by the MME to acknowledge the CBC on the start or
overwrite request of a warning message.
Direction: MME → CBC
Table 4.3.4.2.2-1: WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject Serial Number M [7] YES reject Cause M 4.3.4.3.2
YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 4.3.4.3.3 YES ignore Unknown Tracking
Area List O 4.3.4.3.6 YES ignore
* * *
##### 4.3.4.2.3 STOP WARNING REQUEST
This message is sent by the CBC to stop a warning message broadcast.
Direction: CBC → MME
Table 4.3.4.2.3-1: STOP WARNING REQUEST message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject **Serial Number** M [7] YES reject **List of
TAIs** O YES reject **> TAI List Item** 1 to \  
**> >TAI** M [7]  
**Warning Area List** O [7] YES Ignore OMC ID O 4.3.4.3.4 YES ignore Send Stop
Warning Indication O 4.3.4.3.7 YES ignore Stop-All Indicator O 4.3.4.3.8 YES
reject
* * *
Table 4.3.4.2.1-2: RANGE explanation
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofTAI Maximum no. of TAI subject for warning
message broadcast. Value is 65535.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.2.4 STOP WARNING RESPONSE
This message is sent by the MME to acknowledge the CBC on the stop request of
a warning message.
Direction: MME → CBC
Table 4.3.4.2.2-1: STOP WARNING RESPONSE message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject Serial Number M [7] YES reject Cause M 4.3.4.3.2
YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 4.3.4.3.3 YES ignore Unknown Tracking
Area List O 4.3.4.3.6 YES ignore
* * *
##### 4.3.4.2.5 WRITE REPLACE WARNING INDICATION
This message is sent by the MME to report to the CBC the Broadcast Scheduled
Area List(s) the MME has received from the eNodeB(s) as Broadcast Completed
Area List in a WRITE-REPLACE WARNING RESPONSE [7]. Multiple responses from
eNodeBs may be combined in a Broadcast Scheduled Area List.
The _Broadcast Scheduled Area List_ IE is only included in the WRITE-REPLACE
WARNING INDICATION when the broadcast is successful in at least one cell
within the eNodeBs.
Direction: MME → CBC
Table 4.3.4.2.5-1: WRITE REPLACE WARNING INDICATION message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject Serial Number M [7] YES reject Broadcast
Scheduled Area List O [7] YES ignore
* * *
##### 4.3.4.2.6 STOP WARNING INDICATION
This message is sent by the MME to report to the CBC the Broadcast Cancelled
Area List the MME has received from the eNodeB in a KILL RESPONSE [7]. If the
MME has received a KILL RESPONSE without a _Broadcast Cancelled Area List_ IE,
then the eNodeB ID shall be included in the Broadcast Empty Area List instead.
Multiple responses from eNodeBs may be aggregated into a combined Broadcast
Cancelled Area List.
NOTE: The CBC is able to derive the list of cell IDs that are served by the
eNodeB, because the eNodeB ID is contained in the cell ID.The _Broadcast
Cancelled Area List_ IE is only included in the STOP WARNING INDICATION when
the broadcast is successfully stopped in at least one cell within the eNodeBs.
The Broadcast Empty Area _List_ IE shall be included in the STOP-WARNING-
INDICATION when the MME has received at least one KILL RESPONSE without
_Broadcast Cancelled Area List_ IE.
Direction: MME → CBC
Table 4.3.4.2.6-1: STOP WARNING INDICATION message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES reject **Message
Identifier** M [7] YES reject Serial Number M [7] YES reject Broadcast
Cancelled Area List O [7] YES reject Broadcast Empty Area List O 4.3.4.3.9 YES
ignore
* * *
##### 4.3.4.2.7 PWS RESTART INDICATION
This Indication is sent by the MME to report to the CBC the List of cells that
have become available for PWS and have no warning message data.
Direction: MME → CBC
Table 4.3.4.2.7-1: PWS RESTART INDICATION message contents
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | I | P | Range | IE type | Se | Crit | A | | E/Group | resence | | and | mantics | icality | ssigned | | Name | | | re | desc | | Crit | | | | | ference | ription | | icality | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Message | M | | 4. | | YES | reject | | Type | | | 3.4.3.1 | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | Resta | M | | [7] | | YES | reject | | rted-Ce | | | | | | | | ll-List | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | >Re | | 1 to | | | | | | started | | \ | | | | | | > Item | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | M | | [7] | | | | | >CellI | | | | | | | | dentity | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > * | M | | [7] | | YES | reject | | _Global | | | | | | | | > eNB | | | | | | | | > ID_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | M | | | | YES | reject | | __List | | | | | | | | > of | | | | | | | | > TAIs | | | | | | | | > for | | | | | | | | > Re | | | | | | | | start_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | 1 to | | | | | | __> TAI | | \ for | | maxnoof | | | | | | > | | TRestar | | | | | | Restart | | tTAIs> | | | | | | > List | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Item_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > __> | M | | [7] | | | | | >TAI_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | O | | | | YES | reject | | __List | | | | | | | | > of | | | | | | | | > EAIs | | | | | | | | > for | | | | | | | | > Re | | | | | | | | start_ _| | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | | 1 to | | | | | | __> EAI | | \ | | | | | | > for | |  | | fRestar | | | | | | Restart | | tEAIs> | | | | | | > List | | | | | | | | > | | | | | | | | Item_* | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ | > | M | | [7] | | | | | >>Em | | | | | | | | ergency | | | | | | | | > Area | | | | | | | | > ID | | | | | | | +---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
Table 4.3.4.2.7-2: RANGE explanation
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnoofRestartedCells Maximum no. of restarted cells.
Value is 256. maxnoofRestartTAIs Maximum no. of Tracking Area IDs configured
in the restarted cells. Value is 2048. maxnoofRestartEAIs Maximum no. of
Emergency Area ID configured in the restarted cells. Value is 256.
* * *
#### 4.3.4.2A Management Messages
#### 4.3.4.2A.1 ERROR INDICATION
This message is sent by both the MME and the CBC and is used to indicate that
some error has been detected in the node.
Direction : MME → CBC and CBC → MME
Table 4.3.4.2A.1-1: ERROR INDICATION message contents
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE type and reference Semantics description
Criticality Assigned Criticality Message Type M 4.3.4.3.1 YES ignore Cause O
4.3.4.3.2 YES ignore Criticality Diagnostics O 4.3.4.3.3 YES ignore
* * *
#### 4.3.4.3 Information element definition
##### 4.3.4.3.1 Message Type
The _Message Type_ IE uniquely identifies the message being sent. It is
mandatory for all messages
Table 4.3.4.3.1-1: Message Type information element
+----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | | | | reference | description | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | **Message | | | | Assumed max no | | Type** | | | | of messages is | | | | | | 256. | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Procedure | M | | (Write-Replace | | | > Code | | | Warning, Stop | | | | | | Warning, | | | | | | Write-Replace | | | | | | Warning | | | | | | Indication, | | | | | | Stop Warning | | | | | | Indication, | | | | | | PWS Restart | | | | | | Indication, | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | > >Type of | M | | CHOICE | | | > Message | | | (Initi | | | | | | ating Message, | | | | | | Succe | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | Unsucce | | | | | | ssful Outcome, | | | | | | ...) | | +----------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
##### 4.3.4.3.2 Cause
The purpose of the _Cause_ IE is to indicate the reason for a particular event
for the SBc-AP protocol.
Table 4.3.4.3.2-1: Cause information element
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description Cause
M INTEGER (Message accepted, Parameter not recognised, Parameter value
invalid, Valid message not identified, Tracking area not valid, Unrecognised
message, Missing mandatory element, MME capacity exceeded, MME memory
exceeded, Warning broadcast not supported, Warning broadcast not operational,
Message reference already used, Unspecified error, Transfer syntax error,
Semantic error, Message not compatible with receiver state, Abstract syntax
error reject, Abstract syntax error ignore and notify, Abstract syntax error
falsely constructed message, ...)
* * *
##### 4.3.4.3.3 Criticality Diagnostics
The _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE is sent by the MME when parts of a received
message have not been comprehended or were missing, or if the message
contained logical errors. When applicable, it contains information about which
IEs were not comprehended or were missing.
Table 4.3.4.3.3-1: Criticality Diagnostics information element
+-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | IE/Group | Presence | Range | IE type and | Semantics | | Name | | | reference | description | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Procedure | O | | INTEGER | Procedure | | > Code | | | (0..255) | Code is to | | | | | | be used if | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | Diagnostics | | | | | | is part of | | | | | | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure, | | | | | | and not | | | | | | within the | | | | | | response | | | | | | message of | | | | | | the same | | | | | | procedure | | | | | | that caused | | | | | | the error | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > | O | | ENUMERATED | The | | Triggering | | | (initiating | Triggering | | > Message | | | message, | Message is | | | | | successful | used only | | | | | outcome, | if the | | | | | u | Criticality | | | | | nsuccessful | Diagnostics | | | | | outcome, | is part of | | | | | outcome) | Error | | | | | | Indication | | | | | | procedure. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > Procedure | O | | ENUMERA | This | | > | | | TED(reject, | Procedure | | Criticality | | | ignore, | Criticality | | | | | notify) | is used for | | | | | | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | Triggering | | | | | | message | | | | | | ( | | | | | | Procedure). | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > ** | | 0 to | | | | Information | | \ Element | | errors> | | | | > | | | | | | Criticality | | | | | | > Di | | | | | | agnostics** | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE | M | | ENUMERA | The IE | | > | | | TED(reject, | Criticality | | Criticality | | | ignore, | is used for | | | | | notify) | reporting | | | | | | the | | | | | | criticality | | | | | | of the | | | | | | triggering | | | | | | IE. The | | | | | | value | | | | | | \'ignore\' | | | | | | shall not | | | | | | be used. | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >IE ID | M | | INTEGER | The IE ID | | | | | (0..65535) | of the not | | | | | | understood | | | | | | or missing | | | | | | IE | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | | | | | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+ | > >Type of | M | | ENU | | | > Error | | | MERATED(not | | | | | | understood, | | | | | | missing, | | | | | | ...) | | +-------------+----------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
Table 4.3.4.3.3-2: RANGE explanation
* * *
Range bound Explanation maxnooferrors Maximum no. of IE errors allowed to be
reported with a single message. The value for maxnooferrors is 256.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.3.4 OMC ID
The OMC ID IE indicates the identity of an Operation and Maintenance Centre to
which Trace records shall be sent.
Table 4.3.4.3.4-1: OMC ID information element
+---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | IE/Group Name | Presence | Range | IE Type and | Semantics | | | | | Reference | Description | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+ | OMC ID | O | | OCTET STRING | | | | | | (SIZE (1..20)) | | | | | | | | | | | | Octets are | | | | | | coded | | | | | | according to | | | | | | 3GPP TS 29.002 | | | | | | [11]. | | +---------------+----------+-------+----------------+----------------+
##### 4.3.4.3.5 Send Write-Replace-Warning-Indication
The Send Write-Replace-Warning-Indication IE indicates to the MME that the MME
shall send the WRITE-REPLACE WARNING INDICATION to the CBC for the warning
message.
Table 4.3.4.3.5-1: Send Write-Replace-Warning-Indication information element
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description Send
Write-Replace-Warning-Indication O ENUMERATED(true)
* * *
##### 4.3.4.3.6 Unknown Tracking Area List
The _Unknown Tracking Area List_ IE identifies the Tracking Areas that are
unknown to the MME and where the Request cannot be delivered.
This IE shall only be included if the Cause IE indicates _Message accepted_ ,
which means the MME will proceed with the request for Tracking Areas that are
known to the MME. The Cause IE indicating _Tracking area not valid_ is used
when all Tracking Areas in the Request are invalid.
Table 4.3.4.3.5-1: Failure List information element
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Unknown Tracking Area List O The Unknown Tracking Area List is of type _List
of TAIs_.
* * *
##### 4.3.4.3.7 Send Stop Warning Indication
The Send Stop Warning Indication IE indicates to the MME that the MME shall
send the STOP WARNING INDICATION to the CBC for the warning message.
Table 4.3.4.3.7-1: Send Stop-Warning-Indication information element
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description Send
Stop Warning Indication O ENUMERATED(true)
* * *
##### 4.3.4.3.8 Stop-All Indicator
The _Stop-All Indicator_ IE indicates that the _Message Identifier_ IE and the
_Serial Number_ IE do not refer to a specific message that needs to be
stopped, but that all messages in the area are referred to and to force the
cells in the area into their Warning Message Delivery initial state.
Table 4.3.4.3.8-1: Stop-All Indicator information element
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description Stop-
All Indicator O ENUMERATED(true)
* * *
##### 4.3.4.3.9 Broadcast Empty Area List
The _Broadcast Empty Area List_ IE contains the eNodeB IDs of the eNodeBs
which have responded with a KILL RESPONSE message which did not contain a
_Broadcast Cancelled Area List_ IE [7].
Table 4.3.4.3.9-1: Broadcast Empty Area List information element
* * *
IE/Group Name Presence Range IE Type and Reference Semantics Description
Broadcast Empty Area List O The Broadcast Empty Area List is a list of Global
eNB IDs [7]
* * *
## 4.4 Message and information element abstract syntax
### 4.4.1 General
SBC-AP ASN.1 definition conforms with [8] and [9].
The ASN.1 definition specifies the structure and content of SBC-AP messages.
SBC-AP messages can contain any IEs specified in the object set definitions
for that message without the order or number of occurrence being restricted by
ASN.1. However, for this version of the standard, a sending entity shall
construct a SBC-AP message according to the PDU definitions module and with
the following additional rules (Note that in the following IE means an IE in
the object set with an explicit id. If one IE needed to appear more than once
in one object set, then the different occurrences have different IE ids):
\- IEs shall be ordered (in an IE container) in the order they appear in
object set definitions.
\- Object set definitions specify how many times IEs may appear. An IE shall
appear exactly once if the presence field in an object has value
\"mandatory\". An IE may appear at most once if the presence field in an
object has value \"optional\" or \"conditional\". If in a tabular format there
is multiplicity specified for an IE (i.e. an IE list) then in the
corresponding ASN.1 definition the list definition is separated into two
parts. The first part defines an IE container list where the list elements
reside. The second part defines list elements. The IE container list appears
as an IE of its own. For this version of the standard an IE container list may
contain only one kind of list elements.
If a SBC-AP message that is not constructed as defined above is received, this
shall be considered as Abstract Syntax Error, and the message shall be handled
as defined for Abstract Syntax error in subclause 4.5.3.6.
### 4.4.2 Usage of protocol extension mechanism for non-standard use
The protocol extension mechanism for non-standard use may be used:
\- for special operator- (and/or vendor) specific features considered not to
be part of the basic functionality, i.e. the functionality required for a
complete and high-quality specification in order to guarantee multivendor
interoperability.
\- by vendors for research purposes, e.g. to implement and evaluate new
algorithms/features before such features are proposed for standardisation.
The extension mechanism shall not be used for basic functionality. Such
functionality shall be standardised.
### 4.4.3 Elementary procedure definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedure definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PDU-Descriptions {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-PDU-Descriptions
(0)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
ProcedureCode
FROM SBC-AP-CommonDataTypes
Write-Replace-Warning-Request,
Write-Replace-Warning-Response,
Stop-Warning-Request,
Stop-Warning-Response,
Error-Indication,
Write-Replace-Warning-Indication,
Stop-Warning-Indication,
PWS-Restart-Indication
FROM SBC-AP-PDU-Contents
id-Write-Replace-Warning,
id-Stop-Warning,
id-Error-Indication,
id-Write-Replace-Warning-Indication,
id-Stop-Warning-Indication,
id-PWS-Restart-Indication
FROM SBC-AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure Class
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= CLASS {
&InitiatingMessage ,
&SuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&UnsuccessfulOutcome OPTIONAL,
&procedureCode ProcedureCode UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore
}
WITH SYNTAX {
INITIATING MESSAGE &InitiatingMessage
[SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &SuccessfulOutcome]
[UNSUCCESSFUL OUTCOME &UnsuccessfulOutcome]
PROCEDURE CODE &procedureCode
[CRITICALITY &criticality]
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface PDU Definition
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PDU ::= CHOICE {
initiatingMessage InitiatingMessage,
successfulOutcome SuccessfulOutcome,
unsuccessfulOutcome UnsuccessfulOutcome,
...
}
InitiatingMessage ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&InitiatingMessage ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
SuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&SuccessfulOutcome ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
UnsuccessfulOutcome ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&procedureCode ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}),
criticality SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&criticality ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode}),
value SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE.&UnsuccessfulOutcome ({SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-
PROCEDURES}{\@procedureCode})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Interface Elementary Procedure List
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 \|
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 ,
...
}
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-1 SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
write-Replace-Warning \|
stop-Warning ,
...
}
SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURES-CLASS-2 SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
error-Indication \|
write-Replace-Warning-Indication \|
stop-Warning-Indication \|
pws-Restart-Indication,
...
}
write-Replace-Warning SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Write-Replace-Warning-Request
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Write-Replace-Warning-Response
PROCEDURE CODE id-Write-Replace-Warning
CRITICALITY reject
}
stop-Warning SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Stop-Warning-Request
SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME Stop-Warning-Response
PROCEDURE CODE id-Stop-Warning
CRITICALITY reject
}
error-Indication SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Error-Indication
PROCEDURE CODE id-Error-Indication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
write-Replace-Warning-Indication SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Write-Replace-Warning-Indication
PROCEDURE CODE id-Write-Replace-Warning-Indication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
stop-Warning-Indication SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE Stop-Warning-Indication
PROCEDURE CODE id-Stop-Warning-Indication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
pws-Restart-Indication SBC-AP-ELEMENTARY-PROCEDURE ::= {
INITIATING MESSAGE PWS-Restart-Indication
PROCEDURE CODE id-PWS-Restart-Indication
CRITICALITY ignore
}
END
### 4.4.4 PDU definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PDU definitions for SBC-AP.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PDU-Contents {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-PDU-Contents (1)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Cause,
Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator,
Criticality-Diagnostics,
Data-Coding-Scheme,
Message-Identifier,
Serial-Number,
List-of-TAIs,
Warning-Area-List,
Omc-Id,
Repetition-Period,
Extended-Repetition-Period,
Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested,
Warning-Type,
Warning-Security-Information,
Warning-Message-Content,
Send-Write-Replace-Warning-Indication,
Broadcast-Scheduled-Area-List,
Unknown-Tracking-Area-List,
Send-Stop-Warning-Indication,
Broadcast-Cancelled-Area-List,
Stop-All-Indicator,
Broadcast-Empty-Area-List,
Restarted-Cell-List,
Global-ENB-ID,
List-of-TAIs-Restart,
List-of-EAIs-Restart
FROM SBC-AP-IEs
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
ProtocolIE-Container{},
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION,
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES
FROM SBC-AP-Containers
id-Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator,
id-Criticality-Diagnostics,
id-Cause,
id-Data-Coding-Scheme,
id-List-of-TAIs,
id-Message-Identifier,
id-Serial-Number,
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested,
id-Omc-Id,
id-Radio-Resource-Loading-List,
id-Recovery-Indication,
id-Repetition-Period,
id-Extended-Repetition-Period,
id-Warning-Area-List,
id-Warning-Message-Content,
id-Warning-Security-Information,
id-Warning-Type,
id-Send-Write-Replace-Warning-Indication,
id-Broadcast-Scheduled-Area-List,
id-Unknown-Tracking-Area-List,
id-Send-Stop-Warning-Indication,
id-Broadcast-Cancelled-Area-List,
id-Stop-All-Indicator,
id-Broadcast-Empty-Area-List,
id-Global-ENB-ID,
id-Restarted-Cell-List,
id-List-of-TAIs-Restart,
id-List-of-EAIs-Restart
FROM SBC-AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Write-Replace-Warning-Request
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Write-Replace-Warning-Request ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Write-Replace-Warning-Request-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Write-Replace-Warning-
Request-Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Request-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-List-of-TAIs CRITICALITY reject TYPE List-of-TAIs PRESENCE optional }
\|
{ ID id-Warning-Area-List CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Area-List PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Repetition-Period CRITICALITY reject TYPE Repetition-Period PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Extended-Repetition-Period CRITICALITY reject TYPE Extended-
Repetition-Period PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested
CRITICALITY reject TYPE Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Warning-Type CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Type PRESENCE optional }
\|
{ ID id-Warning-Security-Information CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Security-
Information PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Data-Coding-Scheme CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Data-Coding-Scheme PRESENCE
optional } \|
{ ID id-Warning-Message-Content
CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Message-Content PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Omc-Id CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Omc-Id PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator CRITICALITY reject TYPE
Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Send-Write-Replace-Warning-Indication CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Send-
Write-Replace-Warning-Indication PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Global-ENB-ID CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Global-ENB-ID PRESENCE optional
},
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Request-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Write-Replace-Warning-Response
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Write-Replace-Warning-Response ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Write-Replace-Warning-Response-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Write-Replace-Warning-
Response-Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Response-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-
Diagnostics PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Unknown-Tracking-Area-List CRITICALITY ignore TYPE List-of-TAIs
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Response-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Stop-Warning-Request
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Stop-Warning-Request ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Stop-Warning-Request-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Stop-Warning-Request-
Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Stop-Warning-Request-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-List-of-TAIs CRITICALITY reject TYPE List-of-TAIs PRESENCE optional }
\|
{ ID id-Warning-Area-List CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Warning-Area-List PRESENCE
optional }\|
{ ID id-Omc-Id CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Omc-Id PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Send-Stop-Warning-Indication CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Send-Stop-
Warning-Indication PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Stop-All-Indicator CRITICALITY reject TYPE Stop-All-Indicator PRESENCE
optional},
...
}
Stop-Warning-Request-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Stop-Warning-Response
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Stop-Warning-Response ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Stop-Warning-Response-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Stop-Warning-Response-
Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Stop-Warning-Response-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-
Diagnostics PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Unknown-Tracking-Area-List CRITICALITY ignore TYPE List-of-TAIs
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Stop-Warning-Response-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Write-Replace-Warning-Indication
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Write-Replace-Warning-Indication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Write-Replace-Warning-Indication-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Write-Replace-Warning-
Indication-Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Indication-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-Broadcast-Scheduled-Area-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Broadcast-
Scheduled-Area-List PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Write-Replace-Warning-Indication-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Stop-Warning-Indication
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Stop-Warning-Indication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {Stop-Warning-Indication-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {Stop-Warning-Indication-
Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
Stop-Warning-Indication-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Message-Identifier CRITICALITY reject TYPE Message-Identifier PRESENCE
mandatory } \|
{ ID id-Serial-Number CRITICALITY reject TYPE Serial-Number PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-Broadcast-Cancelled-Area-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Broadcast-
Cancelled-Area-List PRESENCE optional }\|
{ ID id-Broadcast-Empty-Area-List CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Broadcast-Empty-
Area-List PRESENCE optional },
...
}
Stop-Warning-Indication-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- PWS-Restart-Indication
\--
\-- **************************************************************
PWS-Restart-Indication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container { {PWS-Restart-Indication-IEs} },
protocolExtensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {PWS-Restart-Indication-
Extensions} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
PWS-Restart-Indication-IEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Restarted-Cell-List CRITICALITY reject TYPE Restarted-Cell-List
PRESENCE mandatory }\|
{ ID id-Global-ENB-ID CRITICALITY reject TYPE Global-ENB-ID PRESENCE mandatory
} \|
{ ID id-List-of-TAIs-Restart CRITICALITY reject TYPE List-of-TAIs-Restart
PRESENCE mandatory } \|
{ ID id-List-of-EAIs-Restart CRITICALITY reject TYPE List-of-EAIs-Restart
PRESENCE optional },
...
}
PWS-Restart-Indication-Extensions SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- ERROR INDICATION ELEMENTARY PROCEDURE
\--
\-- **************************************************************
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Error Indication
\--
\-- **************************************************************
Error-Indication ::= SEQUENCE {
protocolIEs ProtocolIE-Container {{ErrorIndicationIEs}},
...
}
ErrorIndicationIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= {
{ ID id-Cause CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Cause PRESENCE optional } \|
{ ID id-Criticality-Diagnostics CRITICALITY ignore TYPE Criticality-
Diagnostics PRESENCE optional } ,
...
}
END
### 4.4.5 Information element definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Information Element Definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-IEs {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-IEs (2)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
IMPORTS
maxNrOfErrors,
maxNrOfTAIs,
maxnoofTAIforWarning,
maxnoofCellID,
maxnoofEmergencyAreaID,
id-TypeOfError,
maxnoofCellinEAI,
maxnoofCellinTAI,
maxnoofeNBIds,
maxnoofRestartTAIs,
maxnoofRestartEAIs,
maxnoofRestartedCells
FROM SBC-AP-Constants
Criticality,
ProcedureCode,
TriggeringMessage,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM SBC-AP-CommonDataTypes
ProtocolExtensionContainer{},
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION
FROM SBC-AP-Containers;
\-- A
\-- B
Broadcast-Scheduled-Area-List ::= SEQUENCE {
cellId-Broadcast-List CellId-Broadcast-List OPTIONAL,
tAI-Broadcast-List TAI-Broadcast-List OPTIONAL,
emergencyAreaID-Broadcast-List EmergencyAreaID-Broadcast-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Broadcast-Scheduled-Area-List-
ExtIEs}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Broadcast-Scheduled-Area-List-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Broadcast-Cancelled-Area-List ::= SEQUENCE {
cellID-Cancelled-List CellID-Cancelled-List OPTIONAL,
tAI-Cancelled-List TAI-Cancelled-List OPTIONAL,
emergencyAreaID-Cancelled-List EmergencyAreaID-Cancelled-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{Broadcast-Cancelled-Area-List-
ExtIEs}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
Broadcast-Cancelled-Area-List-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Broadcast-Empty-Area-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1.. maxnoofeNBIds)) OF Global-
ENB-ID
\-- C
CancelledCellinEAI ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellinEAI)) OF
CancelledCellinEAI-Item
CancelledCellinEAI-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
eCGI EUTRAN-CGI,
numberOfBroadcasts NumberOfBroadcasts,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CancelledCellinEAI-Item-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CancelledCellinEAI-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CancelledCellinTAI ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellinTAI)) OF
CancelledCellinTAI-Item
CancelledCellinTAI-Item ::= SEQUENCE{
eCGI EUTRAN-CGI,
numberOfBroadcasts NumberOfBroadcasts,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CancelledCellinTAI-Item-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CancelledCellinTAI-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Cause ::= INTEGER {
message-accepted (0),
parameter-not-recognised (1),
parameter-value-invalid (2),
valid-message-not-identified (3),
tracking-area-not-valid (4),
unrecognised-message (5),
missing-mandatory-element (6),
mME-capacity-exceeded (7),
mME-memory-exceeded (8),
warning-broadcast-not-supported (9),
warning-broadcast-not-operational (10),
message-reference-already-used (11),
unspecifed-error (12),
transfer-syntax-error (13),
semantic-error (14),
message-not-compatible-with-receiver-state (15),
abstract-syntax-error-reject (16),
abstract-syntax-error-ignore-and-notify (17),
abstract-syntax-error-falsely-constructed-message (18)
} (0..255)
CellId-Broadcast-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellID)) OF CellId-
Broadcast-List-Item
CellId-Broadcast-List-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
eCGI EUTRAN-CGI,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CellId-Broadcast-List-Item-ExtIEs}
} OPTIONAL,
...
}
CellId-Broadcast-List-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CellID-Cancelled-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellID)) OF CellID-
Cancelled-Item
CellID-Cancelled-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
eCGI EUTRAN-CGI,
numberOfBroadcasts NumberOfBroadcasts,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CellID-Cancelled-Item-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CellID-Cancelled-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CellIdentity ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (28))
Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator ::= ENUMERATED {true}
Criticality-Diagnostics ::= SEQUENCE {
procedureCode ProcedureCode OPTIONAL,
triggeringMessage TriggeringMessage OPTIONAL,
procedureCriticality Criticality OPTIONAL,
iE-CriticalityDiagnostics CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List OPTIONAL,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfErrors)) OF
SEQUENCE {
iECriticality Criticality,
iE-ID ProtocolIE-ID,
typeOfError TypeOfError,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer {{CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-Item-
ExtIEs}} OPTIONAL,
...
}
CriticalityDiagnostics-IE-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- D
Data-Coding-Scheme ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (8))
\-- E
ECGIList ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellID)) OF EUTRAN-CGI
Emergency-Area-ID-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofEmergencyAreaID)) OF
Emergency-Area-ID
Emergency-Area-ID ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))
EmergencyAreaID-Broadcast-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofEmergencyAreaID))
OF EmergencyAreaID-Broadcast-List-Item
EmergencyAreaID-Broadcast-List-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
emergencyAreaID Emergency-Area-ID,
scheduledCellinEAI ScheduledCellinEAI,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {EmergencyAreaID-Broadcast-List-
Item-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
EmergencyAreaID-Broadcast-List-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
EmergencyAreaID-Cancelled-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofEmergencyAreaID))
OF EmergencyAreaID-Cancelled-Item
EmergencyAreaID-Cancelled-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
emergencyAreaID Emergency-Area-ID,
cancelledCellinEAI CancelledCellinEAI,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {EmergencyAreaID-Cancelled-Item-
ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
EmergencyAreaID-Cancelled-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
EUTRAN-CGI ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMNidentity PLMNidentity,
cell-ID CellIdentity,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {EUTRAN-CGI-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
EUTRAN-CGI-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Extended-Repetition-Period ::= INTEGER (4096..131071)
ENB-ID ::= CHOICE {
macroENB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(20)),
homeENB-ID BIT STRING (SIZE(28)),
...
}
\-- F
\-- G
Global-ENB-ID ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMNidentity PLMNidentity,
eNB-ID ENB-ID,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {GlobalENB-ID-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL,
...
}
GlobalENB-ID-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
\-- H
\-- I
\-- J
\-- K
\-- L
List-of-TAIs ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxNrOfTAIs)) OF
SEQUENCE {
tai TAI
}
List-of-TAIs-Restart ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxnoofRestartTAIs)) OF
SEQUENCE {
tai TAI
}
List-of-EAIs-Restart ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofRestartEAIs)) OF Emergency-
Area-ID
\-- M
Message-Identifier ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (16))
\-- N
Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
\-- For Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested = 0 and Repetition-Period = 0, then eNB
action is no broadcast
\-- for ETWS Secondary and CMAS.
\--
\-- For Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested = 1 and Repetition-Period = 0, then eNB
action is broadcast
\-- only once for ETWS and CMAS.
\--
\-- For Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested = 0 and Repetition-Period > 0, then eNB
action is no broadcast
\-- for the ETWS Secondary, and broadcast until further notice for the CMAS.
\--
\-- For Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested > 0 and Repetition-Period > 0, then eNB
action is normal
\-- broadcast.
\-- All other combinations of Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested and Repetition-
Period are considered
\-- invalid.
NumberOfBroadcasts ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
\-- O
Omc-Id ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..20))
\-- P
PLMNidentity ::= TBCD-STRING
\-- Q
\-- R
Repetition-Period ::= INTEGER (0..4096)
\-- 1 to 4096: Each unit represents a repetition of one second to a maximum of
\-- once per 4096 seconds (\~1 hour).
\-- 0: no repetition
\-- A CBC compliant to this version or later of this specification shall not
send a repetition period
\-- greater than 4095.
\-- For backwards compatibility with a CBC compliant to an earlier version of
this specification the
\--- maximum value of the repetition period defined in ASN.1 remains at 4096.
\-- If the value of the _Repetition Period_ IE received in the WRITE-REPLACE
WARNING REQUEST message is
\-- set to 4096, the MME shall set the _Repetition Period IE_ to the maximum
value 4095 supported on
\-- the S1-MME interface as defined in [7] before forwarding to the selected
eNBs.
Restarted-Cell-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofRestartedCells)) OF EUTRAN-
CGI
\-- S
ScheduledCellinEAI ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellinEAI)) OF
ScheduledCellinEAI-Item
ScheduledCellinEAI-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
eCGI EUTRAN-CGI,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {ScheduledCellinEAI-Item-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
ScheduledCellinEAI-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
ScheduledCellinTAI ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofCellinTAI)) OF
ScheduledCellinTAI-Item
ScheduledCellinTAI-Item ::= SEQUENCE{
eCGI EUTRAN-CGI,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {ScheduledCellinTAI-Item-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
ScheduledCellinTAI-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
Send-Write-Replace-Warning-Indication ::= ENUMERATED {true}
Send-Stop-Warning-Indication ::= ENUMERATED {true}
Serial-Number ::= BIT STRING (SIZE (16))
Stop-All-Indicator ::= ENUMERATED {true}
\-- T
TAC ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))
TAI-Broadcast-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofTAIforWarning)) OF TAI-
Broadcast-List-Item
TAI-Broadcast-List-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
tAI TAI,
scheduledCellinTAI ScheduledCellinTAI,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {TAI-Broadcast-List-Item-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
TAI-Broadcast-List-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
TAI-Cancelled-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1..maxnoofTAIforWarning)) OF TAI-
Cancelled-List-Item
TAI-Cancelled-List-Item ::= SEQUENCE {
tAI TAI,
cancelledCellinTAI CancelledCellinTAI,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {TAI-Cancelled-List-Item-ExtIEs} }
OPTIONAL,
...
}
TAI-Cancelled-List-Item-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
TAI-List-for-Warning ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxnoofTAIforWarning)) OF TAI
TAI ::= SEQUENCE {
pLMNidentity PLMNidentity,
tAC TAC,
iE-Extensions ProtocolExtensionContainer { {TAI-ExtIEs} } OPTIONAL
}
TAI-ExtIEs SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= {
...
}
TBCD-STRING ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))
TypeOfError ::= ENUMERATED {
not-understood,
missing,
...
}
\-- U
Unknown-Tracking-Area-List ::= SEQUENCE (SIZE(1.. maxNrOfTAIs)) OF TAI
\-- V
\-- W
Warning-Area-List ::= CHOICE {
cell-ID-List ECGIList,
tracking-Area-List-for-Warning TAI-List-for-Warning,
emergency-Area-ID-List Emergency-Area-ID-List,
...
}
Warning-Message-Content ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..9600))
Warning-Security-Information ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (50))
Warning-Type ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))
\-- X
\-- Y
END
### 4.4.6 Common definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Common definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-CommonDataTypes {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-CommonDataTypes
(3)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
Criticality ::= ENUMERATED { reject, ignore, notify }
Presence ::= ENUMERATED { optional, conditional, mandatory }
ProcedureCode ::= INTEGER (0..255)
ProtocolExtensionID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
ProtocolIE-ID ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
TriggeringMessage ::= ENUMERATED {initiating-message, successful-outcome,
unsuccessful-outcome, outcome}
END
### 4.4.7 Constant definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Constant definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-Constants {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-Constants (4)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Elementary Procedures
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-Write-Replace-Warning INTEGER ::= 0
id-Stop-Warning INTEGER ::= 1
id-Error-Indication INTEGER ::= 2
id-Write-Replace-Warning-Indication INTEGER ::= 3
id-Stop-Warning-Indication INTEGER ::= 4
id-PWS-Restart-Indication INTEGER ::= 5
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
id-Broadcast-Message-Content INTEGER ::= 0
id-Cause INTEGER ::= 1
id-Criticality-Diagnostics INTEGER ::=2
id-Data-Coding-Scheme INTEGER ::= 3
id-Failure-List INTEGER ::= 4
id-Message-Identifier INTEGER ::= 5
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Completed-List INTEGER ::= 6
id-Number-of-Broadcasts-Requested INTEGER ::= 7
id-Radio-Resource-Loading-List INTEGER ::= 8
id-Recovery-Indication INTEGER ::= 9
id-Repetition-Period INTEGER ::= 10
id-Serial-Number INTEGER ::= 11
id-Service-Areas-List INTEGER ::= 12
id-TypeOfError INTEGER ::= 13
id-List-of-TAIs INTEGER ::= 14
id-Warning-Area-List INTEGER ::= 15
id-Warning-Message-Content INTEGER ::= 16
id-Warning-Security-Information INTEGER ::= 17
id-Warning-Type INTEGER ::= 18
id-Omc-Id INTEGER ::= 19
id-Concurrent-Warning-Message-Indicator INTEGER ::= 20
id-Extended-Repetition-Period INTEGER ::= 21
id-Unknown-Tracking-Area-List INTEGER ::= 22
id-Broadcast-Scheduled-Area-List INTEGER ::= 23
id-Send-Write-Replace-Warning-Indication INTEGER ::= 24
id-Broadcast-Cancelled-Area-List INTEGER ::= 25
id-Send-Stop-Warning-Indication INTEGER ::= 26
id-Stop-All-Indicator INTEGER ::= 27
id-Global-ENB-ID INTEGER ::= 28
id-Broadcast-Empty-Area-List INTEGER ::= 29
id-Restarted-Cell-List INTEGER ::= 30
id-List-of-TAIs-Restart INTEGER ::= 31
id-List-of-EAIs-Restart INTEGER ::= 32
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Extension constants
\--
\-- **************************************************************
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Lists
\--
\-- **************************************************************
maxNrOfErrors INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofCellID INTEGER ::= 65535
maxnoofCellinEAI INTEGER ::= 65535
maxnoofCellinTAI INTEGER ::= 65535
maxNrOfTAIs INTEGER ::= 65535
maxnoofEmergencyAreaID INTEGER ::= 65535
maxnoofTAIforWarning INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolExtensions INTEGER ::= 65535
maxProtocolIEs INTEGER ::= 65535
maxnoofeNBIds INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofRestartedCells INTEGER ::= 256
maxnoofRestartTAIs INTEGER ::= 2048
maxnoofRestartEAIs INTEGER ::= 256
END
### 4.4.8 Container Definitions
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container definitions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-Containers {
itu-t (0) identified-organization (4) etsi (0) mobileDomain (0)
eps-Access (21) modules (3) sbc-AP (3) version1 (1) sbc-AP-Containers (5)}
DEFINITIONS AUTOMATIC TAGS ::=
BEGIN
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- IE parameter types from other modules.
\--
\-- **************************************************************
IMPORTS
Criticality,
Presence,
ProtocolExtensionID,
ProtocolIE-ID
FROM SBC-AP-CommonDataTypes
maxProtocolExtensions,
maxProtocolIEs
FROM SBC-AP-Constants;
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolIE-ID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore,
&Value,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
TYPE &Value
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Class Definition for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION ::= CLASS {
&id ProtocolExtensionID UNIQUE,
&criticality Criticality DEFAULT ignore,
&Extension,
&presence Presence
}
WITH SYNTAX {
ID &id
CRITICALITY &criticality
EXTENSION &Extension
PRESENCE &presence
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol IEs
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-Container {SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (0..maxProtocolIEs)) OF
ProtocolIE-Field {{IEsSetParam}}
ProtocolIE-Field {SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::= SEQUENCE {
id SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&id ({IEsSetParam}),
criticality SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&criticality ({IEsSetParam}{\@id}),
value SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-IES.&Value ({IEsSetParam}{\@id})
}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container Lists for Protocol IE Containers
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolIE-ContainerList {INTEGER : lowerBound, INTEGER : upperBound, SBC-AP-
PROTOCOL-IES : IEsSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (lowerBound..upperBound)) OF
ProtocolIE-Container {{IEsSetParam}}
\-- **************************************************************
\--
\-- Container for Protocol Extensions
\--
\-- **************************************************************
ProtocolExtensionContainer {SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE (SIZE (1..maxProtocolExtensions)) OF
ProtocolExtensionField {{ExtensionSetParam}}
ProtocolExtensionField {SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION : ExtensionSetParam} ::=
SEQUENCE {
id SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&id ({ExtensionSetParam}),
criticality SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&criticality
({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id}),
extensionValue SBC-AP-PROTOCOL-EXTENSION.&Extension
({ExtensionSetParam}{\@id})
}
END
## 4.4.9 Message transfer syntax
SBC-AP shall use the ASN.1 Basic Packed Encoding Rules (BASIC-PER) Aligned
Variant as transfer syntax as specified in ref. [10].
## 4.5 Handling of unknown, unforeseen or erroneous protocol data
## 4.5.1 General
Protocol Error cases can be divided into three classes:
• Transfer Syntax Error;
• Abstract Syntax Error;
• Logical Error.
Protocol errors can occur in the following functions within a receiving node:
Figure 4.5.1-1: Protocol Errors in SBc-AP
The information stated in subclauses 4.5.2, 4.5.3 and 4.5.4, to be included in
the message used when reporting an error, is what at minimum shall be
included. Other optional information elements within the message may also be
included, if available. This is also valid for the case when the reporting is
done with a response message.
## 4.5.2 Transfer Syntax Error
A Transfer Syntax Error occurs when the receiver is not able to decode the
received physical message Transfer syntax errors are always detected in the
process of ASN.1 decoding. If a Transfer Syntax Error occurs, the receiver
should initiate Error Indication procedure with appropriate cause value for
the Transfer Syntax protocol error.
## 4.5.3 Abstract Syntax Error
### 4.5.3.1 General
An Abstract Syntax Error occurs when the receiving functional SBc-AP entity:
1\. receives IEs or IE groups that cannot be understood (unknown IE id);
2\. receives IEs for which the logical range is violated (e.g.: ASN.1
definition: 0 to 15, the logical range is 0 to 10 (values 11 to 15 are
undefined), and 12 will be received; this case will be handled as an abstract
syntax error using criticality information sent by the originator of the
message);
3\. does not receive IEs or IE groups but according to the specified presence
of the concerning object, the IEs or IE groups should have been present in the
received message;
> 4\. receives IEs or IE groups that are defined to be part of that message in
> wrong order or with too many occurrences of the same IE or IE group;
5\. receives IEs or IE groups but according to the conditional presence of the
concerning object and the specified condition, the IEs or IE groups should not
have been present in the received message.
Cases 1 and 2 (not comprehended IE/IE group) are handled based on received
Criticality information. Case 3 (missing IE/IE group) is handled based on
Criticality information and Presence information for the missing IE/IE group
specified in the version of the specification used by the receiver. Case 4
(IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences) and Case 5
(erroneously present conditional IEs or IE groups) result in rejecting the
procedure.
If an Abstract Syntax Error occurs, the receiver shall read the remaining
message and shall then for each detected Abstract Syntax Error act according
to the Criticality Information and Presence Information for the IE/IE group
due to which Abstract Syntax Error occurred in accordance with subclauses
4.5.3.4 and 4.5.3.5. The handling of cases 4 and 5 is specified in subclause
4.5.3.6.
### 4.5.3.2 Criticality information
In the SBc-AP messages there is criticality information set for individual IEs
and/or IE groups. This criticality information instructs the receiver how to
act when receiving an IE or an IE group that is not comprehended i.e. the
entire item (IE or IE group) which is not (fully or partially) comprehended
shall be treated in accordance with its own criticality information as
specified in subclause 4.5.3.4.
In addition, the criticality information is used in case of the missing IE/IE
group abstract syntax error (see subclause 4.5.3.5).
The receiving node shall take different actions depending on the value of the
Criticality Information. The three possible values of the Criticality
Information for an IE/IE group are:
\- Reject IE;
\- Ignore IE and Notify Sender;
\- Ignore IE.
The following rules restrict when a receiving entity may consider an IE, an IE
group or an EP not comprehended (not implemented), and when action based on
criticality information is applicable:
1\. IE or IE group: When one new or modified IE or IE group is implemented for
one EP from a standard version, then other new or modified IEs or IE groups
specified for that EP in that standard version shall be considered
comprehended by the receiving entity (some may still remain unsupported).
2\. EP: The comprehension of different EPs within a standard version or
between different standard versions is not mandated. Any EP that is not
supported may be considered not comprehended, even if another EP from that
standard version is comprehended, and action based on criticality shall be
applied.
### 4.5.3.3 Presence information
For many IEs/IE groups which are optional according to the ASN.1 transfer
syntax, SBc-AP specifies separately if the presence of these IEs/IE groups is
optional or mandatory with respect to MME/CBC application.
The presence field of the indicated classes supports three values:
1\. Optional;
2\. Conditional;
3\. Mandatory.
If an IE/IE group is not included in a received message and the presence of
the IE/IE group is mandatory or the presence is conditional and the condition
is true according to the version of the specification used by the receiver, an
abstract syntax error occurs due to a missing IE/IE group.
### 4.5.3.4 Not comprehended IE/IE group
#### 4.5.3.4.1 Procedure code
The receiving node shall treat the different types of received criticality
information of the _Procedure Code_ according to the following:
Reject IE:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Reject IE_
\" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall
reject the procedure using the Error Indication procedure.
Ignore IE and Notify Sender:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Ignore IE
and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the
receiving node shall ignore the procedure and initiate the Error Indication
procedure.
Ignore IE:
\- If a message is received with a _Procedure Code_ marked with \"_Ignore IE_
\" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall
ignore the procedure.
When using the Error Indication procedure to reject a procedure or to report
an ignored procedure it shall include the _Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering
Message_ IE, and the _Procedure Criticality_ IE in the _Criticality
Diagnostics_ IE.
#### 4.5.3.4.2 Type of Message
When the receiving node cannot decode the _Type of Message_ IE, the Error
Indication procedure shall be initiated with an appropriate cause value.
#### 4.5.3.4.3 IEs other than the Procedure Code and Type of Message
The receiving node shall treat the different types of received criticality
information of an IE/IE group other than the _Procedure Code_ IE and _Type of
Message_ IE according to the following:
**Reject IE:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does not
comprehend; none of the functional requests of the message shall be executed.
The receiving node shall reject the procedure and report the rejection of one
or more IEs/IE groups using the message normally used to report unsuccessful
outcome of the procedure. In case the information received in the initiating
message was insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to
be present in the message used to report the unsuccessful outcome of the
procedure, the receiving node shall instead terminate the procedure and
initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report unsuccessful outcome is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend, the
receiving node shall terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication
procedure.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs marked with
\"_Reject IE_ \" which the receiving node does no comprehend, the receiving
node shall consider the procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate
local error handling.
**Ignore IE and Notify Sender:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
Ies/IE groups marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the
receiving node does not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the
content of the not comprehended IEs/IE groups, continue with the procedure as
if the not comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the
reporting) using the understood IEs/IE groups, and report in the response
message of the procedure that one or more IEs/IE groups have been ignored. In
case the information received in the initiating message was insufficient to
determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present in the response
message, the receiving node shall instead terminate the procedure and initiate
the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report the outcome of the procedure is received containing one or more IEs/IE
groups marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node
does not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups, continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the reporting) using
the understood IEs/IE groups, and initiate the Error Indication procedure to
report that one or more IEs/IE groups have been ignored.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" which the receiving node does
not comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IE/IE groups, continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received (except for the reporting) using
the understood IEs/IE groups and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
**Ignore IE:**
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing one or more
IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Ignore IE_ \" which the receiving node does not
comprehend, the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups and continue with the procedure as if the not
comprehended IEs/IE groups were not received using only the understood IEs/IE
groups.
\- If a _response_ message is received containing one or more IEs/IE groups
marked with \"_Ignore_ _IE_ \" which the receiving node does not comprehend,
the receiving node shall ignore the content of the not comprehended IEs/IE
groups and continue with the procedure as if the not comprehended IEs/IE
groups were not received using the understood IEs/IE groups.
When reporting not comprehended IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" or
\"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using a response message defined for the
procedure, the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be
included in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
When reporting not comprehended IEs/IE groups marked with \"_Reject IE_ \" or
\"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using the Error Indication procedure, the
_Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering Message_ IE, _Procedure Criticality_ IE,
and the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be included in
the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
### 4.5.3.5 Missing IE or IE group
The receiving node shall treat the missing IE/IE group according to the
criticality information for the missing IE/IE group in the received message
specified in the version of the present document used by the receiver:
**Reject IE:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ \"; none of the
functional requests of the message shall be executed. The receiving node shall
reject the procedure and report the missing IEs/IE groups using the message
normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the procedure. In case the
information received in the initiating message was insufficient to determine a
value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to
report the unsuccessful outcome of the procedure, the receiving node shall
instead terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message
to report unsuccessful outcome is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ \", the receiving node shall terminate the
procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Reject IE_ , the receiving node shall consider the
procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate local error handling.
**Ignore IE and Notify Sender:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \",
the receiving node shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with
the procedure based on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and
report in the response message of the procedure that one or more IEs/IE groups
were missing. In case the information received in the initiating message was
insufficient to determine a value for all IEs that are required to be present
in the response message, the receiving node shall instead terminate the
procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message
to report the outcome of the procedure is missing one or more IEs/IE groups
with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \", the receiving
node shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure
based on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and initiate the Error
Indication procedure to report that one or more IEs/IE groups were missing.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \", the receiving node
shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure based
on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message and initiate the Error
Indication procedure to report that one or more IEs/IE groups were missing.
**Ignore IE:**
\- if a received message _initiating_ a procedure is missing one or more
IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Ignore IE_ \", the receiving node
shall ignore that those IEs are missing and continue with the procedure based
on the other IEs/IE groups present in the message.
\- if a received _response_ message is missing one or more IEs/IE groups with
specified criticality \"_Ignore_ _IE_ \", the receiving node shall ignore that
those IEs/IE groups are missing and continue with the procedure based on the
other IEs/IE groups present in the message.
When reporting missing IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_
\" or \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using a response message defined for
the procedure, the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be
included in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
When reporting missing IEs/IE groups with specified criticality \"_Reject IE_
\" or \"_Ignore IE and Notify Sender_ \" using the Error Indication procedure,
the _Procedure Code_ IE, the _Triggering Message_ IE, _Procedure Criticality_
IE, and the _Information Element Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall be included
in the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE for each reported IE/IE group.
### 4.5.3.6 IEs or IE groups received in wrong order or with too many
occurrences or erroneously present
If a message with IEs or IE groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences
is received or if IEs or IE groups with a conditional presence are present
when the condition is not met (i.e. erroneously present), the receiving node
shall behave according to the following:
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure is received containing IEs or IE
groups in wrong order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present,
none of the functional requests of the message shall be executed. The
receiving node shall reject the procedure and report the cause value
\"Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message)\" using the message
normally used to report unsuccessful outcome of the procedure. In case the
information received in the initiating message was insufficient to determine a
value for all IEs that are required to be present in the message used to
report the unsuccessful outcome of the procedure, the receiving node shall
instead terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure.
\- If a message _initiating_ a procedure that does not have a message to
report unsuccessful outcome is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present, the receiving node
shall terminate the procedure and initiate the Error Indication procedure, and
use cause value \"Abstract Syntax Error (Falsely Constructed Message)\".
\- If a _response_ message is received containing IEs or IE groups in wrong
order or with too many occurrences or erroneously present, the receiving node
shall consider the procedure as unsuccessfully terminated and initiate local
error handling.
When determining the correct order only the IEs specified in the specification
version used by the receiver shall be considered.
## 4.5.4 Logical Error
Logical error situations occur when a message is comprehended correctly, but
the information contained within the message is not valid (i.e. semantic
error), or describes a procedure which is not compatible with the state of the
receiver. In these conditions, the following behaviour shall be performed
(unless otherwise specified) as defined by the class of the elementary
procedure, irrespective of the criticality information of the IE\'s/IE groups
containing the erroneous values.
**Class 1:**
Where the logical error occurs in a request message of a class 1 procedure,
and the procedure has a message to report this unsuccessful outcome, this
message shall be sent with an appropriate cause value. Typical cause values
are:
\- Semantic Error;
\- Message not compatible with receiver state.
Where the logical error is contained in a request message of a class 1
procedure, and the procedure does not have a message to report this
unsuccessful outcome, the procedure shall be terminated and the Error
Indication procedure shall be initiated with an appropriate cause value. The
_Procedure Code_ IE and the _Triggering Message_ IE within the _Criticality
Diagnostics_ IE shall then be included in order to identify the message
containing the logical error.
Where the logical error exists in a response message of a class 1 procedure,
the procedure shall be considered as unsuccessfully terminated and local error
handling shall be initiated.
**Class 2:**
Where the logical error occurs in a message of a class 2 procedure, the
procedure shall be terminated and the Error Indication procedure shall be
initiated with an appropriate cause value. The _Procedure Code_ IE and the
_Triggering Message_ IE within the _Criticality Diagnostics_ IE shall then be
included in order to identify the message containing the logical error.
## 4.5.5 Exceptions
The error handling for all the cases described hereafter shall take precedence
over any other error handling described in the other subclauses of clause 4.5.
\- If any type of error (Transfer Syntax Error, Abstract Syntax Error or
Logical Error) is detected in the ERROR INDICATION message, it shall not
trigger the Error Indication procedure in the receiving Node but local error
handling.
\- In case a response message or Error Indication message needs to be
returned, but the information necessary to determine the receiver of that
message is missing, the procedure shall be considered as unsuccessfully
terminated and local error handling shall be initiated.
\- If an error that terminates a procedure occurs, the returned cause value
shall reflect the error that caused the termination of the procedure even if
one or more abstract syntax errors with criticality \"ignore and notify\" have
earlier occurred within the same procedure.
#