# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
Y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the stage 3 specification of the Rx reference
point for the present release. The functional requirements and the stage 2
specifications of the Rx reference point are contained in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2].
The Rx reference point lies between the Application Function and the Policy
and Charging Rule Function. The Rx interface which is based on RESTful HTTP
and XML is specified in 3GPP TS 29.201 [37].
Whenever it is possible the present document specifies the requirements for
the protocol by reference to specifications produced by the IETF within the
scope of Diameter. Where this is not possible, extensions to Diameter are
defined within the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication > and/or edition number or version number) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.203: \"Policy and Charging Control architecture\".
[3] void
[4] void
[5] 3GPP TS 29.209: \"Policy control over Gq interface\", latest Rel-6
version.
[6] void
[7] 3GPP TS 29.211: \"Rx Interface and Rx/Gx signalling flows\", latest Rel-6
version.
[8] 3GPP TS 29.212: \"Policy and Charging Control (PCC); Reference points\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.213: \"Policy and Charging Control signalling flows and QoS
parameter mapping\".
[10] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[11] IETF RFC 3556: \"**Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth Modifiers
for RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth\".**
[12] IETF RFC 4005: \"Diameter Network Access Server Application\".
[13] IETF RFC 4566 : \"SDP : Session Description Protocol\".
[14] IETF RFC 4006: \"Diameter Credit Control Application\".
[15] ETSI TS 183 017 v3.2.1: \"Telecommunications and Internet Converged
Services and Protocols for Advanced Networking (TISPAN); Resource and
Admission Control: DIAMETER protocol for session based policy set-up
information exchange between the Application Function (AF) and the Service
Policy Decision Function (SPDF); Protocol specification\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.228: \"IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); Stage 2\".
[17] 3GPP TS 24.229: \"IP Multimedia Call Control Protocol based on SIP and
SDP; Stage 3\".
[18] IETF RFC 3264: \"An Offer/Answer Model with the Session Description
Protocol (SDP)\".
[19] Void
[20] IETF RFC 3162: \"Radius and Ipv6\".
[21] IETF RFC 5031: \"A Uniform Resource Name (URN) for Emergency and Other
Well-Known Services\".
[22] Void
[23] 3GPP TS 32.240: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Charging architecture and principles\".
[24] 3GPP TS 32.299: \"Telecommunication management; Charging management;
Diameter charging applications\".
[25] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol;
Protocol details\"
[26] 3GPP TS 24.292: \"IP Multimedia (IM) Core Network (CN) subsystem
Centralized Services (ICS); Stage 3\".
[27] IETF RFC 3959 (December 2004): \"The Early Session Disposition Type for
the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)\".
[28] 3GPP TS 23.380: \"IMS Restoration Procedures\".
[29] 3GPP TS 23.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC); Technical realization and
information flows; Stage 2\".
[30] 3GPP TS 29.335: \"User Data Convergence (UDC); User Data Repository
Access Protocol over the Ud interface; Stage 3\".
[31] 3GPP TS 22.153: \"Multimedia Priority Service\".
[32] Void
[33] 3GPP TS 29.274: \"3GPP Evolved Packet System. Evolved GPRS Tunnelling
Protocol for EPS (GTPv2)\".
[34] 3GPP TS 29.061: \"Interworking between the Public Land Mobile Network
(PLMN) supporting packet based services and Packet Data Networks (PDN)\".
[35] IETF RFC 7683: \"Diameter Overload Indication Conveyance\".
[36] 3GPP TS 23.468: \"Group Services and System Aspects; Group Communication
System Enablers for LTE (GCSE LTE) \"
[37] 3GPP TS 29.201: \"Representational State Transfer (REST) reference point
between Application Function (AF) and Protocol Converter (PC)\"
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply:
**Application Function (AF):** element offering application(s) that use IP
bearer resources
NOTE: One example of an AF is the P-CSCF of the IM CN subsystem.
**AF Session:** application level session established by an application level
signalling protocol offered by the AF that requires a session set-up with
explicit session description before the use of the service.
NOTE: One example of an application session is an IMS session.
**Attribute-Value Pair (AVP):** See RFC 3588 [10], corresponds to an
Information Element in a Diameter message.
**Binding:** PCRF process of associating IP flows described in AF Service
Information with IP-CAN bearers.
**IP-CAN bearer:** IP transmission path of defined capacity, delay and bit
error rate, etc.\ See 3GPP TR 21.905 [1] for the definition of bearer.
**IP-CAN session:** association between a UE and an IP network (for GPRS,
APN).\ The association is identified by one UE Ipv4 address and/or one Ipv6
prefix together with a UE identity information, if available, and a PDN
represented by a PDN ID (e.g. an APN). An IP-CAN session incorporates one or
more IP-CAN bearers. Support for multiple IP-CAN bearers per IP-CAN session is
IP-CAN specific. An IP-CAN session exists as long as the related UE Ipv4
address and/or Ipv6 prefix are assigned and announced to the IP network.
**IP flow:** unidirectional flow of IP packets with the same source IP address
and port number and the same destination IP address and port number and the
same transport protocol\ Port numbers are only applicable if used by the
transport protocol.
**MPS session:** A session for which priority treatment is applied for
allocating and maintaining radio and network resources to support the
Multimedia Priority Service (MPS). MPS is defined in 3GPP TS 22.153 [31].
**Packet flow:** A specific user data flow carried through the PCEF. A packet
flow can be an IP flow.
**PCC rule:** set of information enabling the detection of a service data flow
and providing parameters for policy control and/or charging control
**RESTful HTTP:** is an architectural style consisting of a coordinated set of
architectural constraints applied to components, connectors, and data
elements, within a distributed hypermedia system applied to the development of
web services
**service information: set of information conveyed from the AF to the PCRF
over the Rx interface to** be used as a basis for PCC decisions **at the PCRF,
including information about the AF session (e.g. application identifier, type
of media, bandwidth, IP address and port number)**
**service data flow:** An aggregate set of packet flows.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purpose of the present document, the abbreviations given in 3GPP TR
21.905 [1] and the following apply:
ADC Application Detection and Control
AF Application Function
ASP Application Service Provider
AVP Attribute Value Pair
CRF Charging Rules Function
> GCS Group Communication Service
GCS AS Group Communication Service Application Server
IP-CAN IP Connectivity Access Network
MPS Multimedia Priority Service
PCC Policy and Charging Control
PCEF Policy and Charging Enforcement Function
PCRF Policy and Charging Rule Function
PDF Policy Decision Function
P-CSCF Proxy-Call Session Control Function
QoS Quality of Service
SDF Service Data Flow
SPR Subscriber Profile Repository
TDF Traffic Detection Function
UDC User Data Convergence
UE User Equipment
UDR User Data Repository
XML Extensible Markup Language
# 4 Rx reference point
## 4.1 Overview
The Rx reference point is used to exchange application level session
information between the Policy and Charging Rules Function (PCRF) and the
Application Function (AF). As defined in the stage 2 specifications (3GPP TS
23.203 [2]), this information is part of the input used by the PCRF for the
Policy and Charging Control (PCC) decisions. The PCRF exchanges the PCC rules
with the Policy and Charging Enforcement Function (PCEF) and QoS rules with
the Bearer Binding and Event Reporting Function (BBERF) as specified in 3GPP
TS 29.212 [8].
Signalling flows related to the both Rx and Gx interfaces are specified in
3GPP TS 29.213 [9].
Refer to Annex G of 3GPP TS 29.213 [9] for Diameter overload control
procedures over the Rx interface.
## 4.2 Rx reference model
The Rx reference point is defined between the PCRF and the AF. The
relationships between the different functional entities involved are depicted
in figure 4.1. and 4.2.
Figure 4.1: Rx reference point at the Policy and Charging Control (PCC)
architecture with SPR
NOTE 1: The PCEF may support Application Detection and Control feature.
With the UDC-based architecture, as defined in 3GPP TS 23.335 [29] and applied
in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2], the UDR replaces SPR and the Ud reference point
provides access to the subscription data in the UDR. The Ud interface as
defined in 3GPP TS 29.335 [30] is the interface between the PCRF and the
UDR.The relationships between the different functional elements are depicted
in figure 4.2. When UDC architecture is used, SPR and Sp, whenever mentioned
in this document, are replaced by UDR and Ud.
Figure 4.2: Rx reference point at the Policy and Charging Control (PCC)
architecture with UDR
NOTE 2: The details associated with the Sp reference point are not specified
in this Release. The SPR\'s relation to existing subscriber databases is not
specified in this Release.
NOTE 3: The UDC Application Informational Model related to the PCRF is not
specified in this Release.
NOTE 4: The PCEF may support Application Detection and Control feature.
NOTE 5: PCEF is located in the Gateway node implementing the IP access to the
PDN. Refer to Annexes of 3GPP TS 23.203 [2] for application to specific IP-CAN
types.
NOTE 6: Refer to Annexes A.5 and H.2 of 3GPP TS 23.203 [2] for application of
AN-Gateways.
## 4.3 Functional elements
### 4.3.1 AF
The AF is an element offering applications that require the Policy and
Charging Control of traffic plane resources (e.g. UM3GPP TS PS domain/GPRS
domain resources). One example of an application function is the P-CSCF. The
AF shall use the Rx reference point to provide session information to the
PCRF.
NOTE: The Afs may be deployed by the same operator offering the IP-CAN or may
be provided by external third party service provider.
### 4.3.2 PCRF
The PCRF (Policy Control and Charging Rules Function) is a functional element
that encompasses policy control decision and flow based charging control
functionalities. These 2 functionalities are the heritage of the release 6
logical entities PDF and CRF respectively. The PCRF provides network control
regarding the service data flow detection, gating, QoS and flow based charging
(except credit management) towards the PCEF. The PCRF receives session and
media related information from the AF and informs AF of traffic plane events.
The PCRF may check that the service information provided by the AF is
consistent with the operator defined policy rules before storing the service
information. The service information shall be used to derive the QoS for the
service. The PCRF may reject the request received from the AF and as a result
the PCRF shall indicate, in the response to the AF, the service information
that can be accepted by the PCRF.
The PCRF may use the subscription information as basis for the policy and
charging control decisions. The subscription information may apply for both
session based and non-session based services. _The subscription specific
information for each service may contain e.g. max QoS class and max bit rate._
If the AF requests it, the PCRF shall report IP-CAN session events (including
bearer events and events on AF signalling transport) to the AF via the Rx
reference point.
The PCRF PCC/QoS Rule decisions may be based on one or more of the following:
\- the session and media related information obtained from the AF via the Rx
reference point;
\- the bearer and subscriber related information obtained from the PCEF over
the Gx reference point;
\- the bearer and subscriber related information obtained from the BBERF over
the Gxx reference point;
\- subscriber and service related data the PCRF may be aware of by
configuration or through the Sp reference point;
\- pre-configured information in the PCRF.
NOTE: The details associated with the Sp reference point are not specified in
this Release. The SPR\'s relation to existing subscriber databases is not
specified in this Release.
The PCRF shall provision PCC/QoS Rules to the PCEF/BBERF via the Gx/Gxx
reference point.
## 4.4 PCC procedures over Rx reference point
### 4.4.1 Initial Provisioning of Session Information
When a new AF session is being established and media information for this AF
session is available at the AF and the related media require PCC supervision,
the AF shall open an Rx Diameter session with the PCRF for the AF session
using an AA-Request command, unless an Rx session has already been established
for the AF session (e.g. as per subclause 4.4.6.7). If an Rx Diameter session
already exists for the AF session, the AF uses the existing Rx Diameter
session. The AF shall provide the full IP address of the UE using either
Framed-IP-Address AVP or Framed-Ipv6-Prefix AVP, and the corresponding Service
Information within Media-Component-Description AVP(s). The AF shall not
include circuit-switched bearer related media in the service information sent
to the PCRF. The AF shall indicate to the PCRF as part of the Media-Component-
Description whether the media IP flow(s) should be enabled or disabled with
the Flow-Status AVP.
NOTE 1: The AF does not need to open an Rx Diameter session with the PCRF, if
the SDP payload is only proposing to use a circuit-switched bearer (i.e.
\"c=\" line set to \"PSTN\" and an \"m=\" line set to \"PSTN\", refer to 3GPP
TS 24.292 [26]).
NOTE 2: The Rx Diameter session used for an AF session is different from the
Rx Diameter session possibly used for the notifications of the status of the
AF signalling transmission path. A new Rx Diameter session is established for
each new AF session.
The AF may include the AF-Application-Identifier AVP into the AA-Request in
order to indicate the particular service that the AF session belongs to. This
AVP can be provided at both AF session level, and Media-Component-Description
level. When provided at both levels, the AF-Application Identifier provided
within the Media-Component-Description AVP will have precedence.
The AF may include the AF-Charging-Identifier AVP into the AA-Request for
charging correlation purposes. The AF may also include the Specific-Action AVP
to request notification for certain user plane events, e.g. bearer
termination.
The AF may include the Service-URN AVP in order to indicate that the new AF
session relates to emergency traffic. If the PCRF receives the Service-URN AVP
indicating an emergency session, the PCRF may apply special policies, for
instance prioritising service flows relating to the new AF session or allowing
these service flows free of charge.
The AF may include the MPS-Identifier AVP in order to indicate that the new AF
session relates to an MPS session. If the PCRF receives the MPS-Identifier AVP
indicating an MPS session, the PCRF may take specific actions on the
corresponding IP-CAN to ensure that the MPS session is prioritized as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]. For Multimedia Priority Sevice handling, see
Annex A.9.
When the AF is a GCS AS, it may include the GCS-Identifier AVP at command
level and Reservation-Priority AVP at command level or media component level
in order to indicate that the new AF session relates to a prioritized Group
Communication session. Based on this information, the PCRF may take specific
actions on the corresponding IP-CAN to ensure that the Group Communication
session is prioritized as specified in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8].
If the AF provides service information that has been fully negotiated (e.g.
based on the SDP answer), the AF may include the Service-Info-Status AVP set
to FINAL_SERVICE_INFORMATION. In this case the PCRF shall authorize the
session and provision the corresponding PCC/QoS rules to the PCEF/BBERF.
The AF may additionally provide preliminary service information not fully
negotiated yet (e.g. based on the SDP offer) at an earlier stage. To do so,
the AF shall include the Service-Info-Status AVP with the value set to
PRELIMINARY SERVICE INFORMATION. Upon receipt of such preliminary service
information, the PCRF shall perform an early authorization check of the
service information. For GPRS, the PCRF shall not provision PCC rules towards
the PCEF unsolicitedly. However, the PCRF may authorize a PCC/QoS rule request
received from the PCEF/BBERF as per 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]. Further, if the AF
requests the PCRF to report the access network information together with
preliminary service information, the PCRF shall immediately configure the PCEF
(or BBERF) to provide the access network information.
For sponsored data connectivity, the AF shall provide the application service
provider identity and the sponsor identity to the PCRF byincluding the
Application-Service-Provider-Identity AVP and the Sponsor-Identity AVP in the
Sponsored-Connectivity-Data AVP in the AA-Request.
NOTE 3: The relationship between the AF and Sponsor is out of scope of this
specification. A single AF can serve multiple ASPs and multiple sponsors, An
ASP can also be a sponsor.
To support the usage monitoring of sponsored data connectivity, the AF may
also include the Granted-Service-Unit AVP in the Sponsored-Connectivity-Data
AVP and the Specific-Action AVP set to the value USAGE_REPORT in the AA-
Request to request notification when the usage threshold has been reached.
NOTE 4: If the AF is in the user plane, the AF can handle the usage monitoring
and therefore it is not required to provide a usage threshold to the PCRF as
part of the sponsored data connectivity information.
If the UE is roaming with the visited access case and the AF is located in the
HPLMN or roaming with the home routed case and operator policies do not allow
accessing the sponsored data connectivity with this roaming case, the H-PCRF
shall reject the service request indicating
UNAUTHORIZED_SPONSORED_DATA_CONNECTIVITY to the AF.
If the UE is roaming with the visited access case and the AF is located in the
VPLMN, the V-PCRF shall reject the service request indicating
UNAUTHORIZED_SPONSORED_DATA_CONNECTIVITY to the AF.
If the UE is in the non-roaming case or roaming with the home routed case and
the operator policies allow accessing the sponsored data connectivity with
this roaming case, the following procedures apply:
\- If the PCEF does not support sponsored connectivity and the required
reporting level for that service indicates a sponsored connectivity level
according to 3GPP TS 29.212 [8], subclause 4.5.20, then the PCRF shall reject
the request indicating REQUESTED_SERVICE_NOT_AUTHORIZED.
\- If the PCEF supports sponsored data connectivity feature or the required
reporting level is different from sponsored connectivity level as described in
3GPP TS 29.212 [8], then the PCRF, based on operator policies, shall check
whether it is required to validate the sponsored connectivity data. If it is
required, it shall perform the authorizations based on sponsored data
connectivity profiles. If the authorization fails, the PCRF responds to the AF
with an AA-Answer including the Experimental-Result-Code AVP set to the value
UNAUTHORIZED_SPONSORED_DATA_CONNECTIVITY. The profile may include a list of
Application Service Providers and their applications per sponsor.
NOTE 5: If the AF is in the operator\'s network and is based on the
OSA/Parlay-X GW, the PCRF is not required to verify that a trust relationship
exists between the operator and the sponsors.
When the PCRF receives an initial AA-Request from the AF, the PCRF shall
perform session binding as described in 3GPP TS 29.213 [9]. To allow the PCRF
to identify the IP-CAN session for which this request applies, the AF shall
provide either the Framed-IP-Address or the Framed-Ipv6-Prefix containing the
full IP address applicable to an IP flow or IP flows towards the UE. In case
of private IP address being used, the AF may provide PDN information if
available in the Called-Station-Id AVP for session binding. The AF may provide
the domain identity in the IP-Domain-Id AVP for session binding.
NOTE 6: The IP-Domain-Id AVP is helpful in the following scenario: Within a
PLMN, there are several separate IP address domains, with PCEF(s) that
allocate Ipv4 IP addresses out of the same private address range to Ues. The
same IP address can thus be allocated to Ues served by PCEFs in different
address domains. If one PCRF controls several PCEFs in different IP address
domains, the UE IP address is thus not sufficient for the session binding. An
AF can serve Ues in different IP address domains, either by having direct IP
interfaces to those domains, or by having interconnections via NATs in the
user plane between PCEFs and the AF. If a NAT is used, the AF obtains the IP
address allocated to the UE via application level signalling and supplies it
for the session binding as Framed-IP-Address to the PCRF. The AF supplies an
IP-Domain-Id value denoting the IP address domain behind the NAT in addition.
The AF can derive the appropriate value from the source address (allocated by
the NAT) of incoming user plane packets.
NOTE 7: When the scenario described in NOTE 6 applies and the AF is a P-CSCF
it is assumed that the P-CSCF has direct IP interfaces to the different IP
address domains and that no NAT is located between P-GW and P-CSCF. How a non-
IMS AF obtains the UE private IP address to be provided to the PCRF is out of
scope of the present release; it is unspecified how to support applications
that use a protocol that does not retain the original UE\'s private IP
address.
If the PCRF fails in executing session binding, the PCRF responds to the AF
with an AA-Answer including the Experimental-Result-Code AVP set to the value
IP-CAN_SESSION_NOT_AVAILABLE. Further details on how the PCRF identifies
suitable IP-CAN sessions can be found in the binding mechanism described in
3GPP TS 29.213 [9].
If the request contains Media-Component-Description Attribute-Value Pair(s)
(AVP(s)) the PCRF shall store the received Service Information. The PCRF shall
process the received Service Information according to the operator policy and
may decide whether the request is accepted or not. The PCRF may take the
priority information within the Reservation-Priority AVP into account when
making this decision. If the service information provided in the AA-Request
command is rejected (e.g. the subscribed guaranteed bandwidth for a particular
user is exceeded), the PCRF shall indicate in the AA-Answer the cause for the
rejection with the Experimental-Result-Code AVP set to the value
REQUESTED_SERVICE_NOT_AUTHORIZED. The PCRF may additionally provide the
acceptable bandwidth within the Acceptable-Service-Info AVP.
To allow the PCRF and PCEF to perform PCC rule authorization and bearer
binding for the described service IP flows, the AF shall supply both source
and destination IP addresses and port numbers within the Flow-Description AVP,
if such information is available.
NOTE: In SDP source port information is usually not available.
The AF may specify the Reservation-Priority AVP at request level in the AA-
Request in order to assign a priority to the AF Session as well as specify the
Reservation-Priority AVP at the media-component-description AVP level to
assign a priority to the IP flow. The presence of the Reservation-Priority in
both levels does not constitute a conflict as they each represent different
types of priority. Specifically the Reservation-Priority at the AA-Request
level provides the relative priority for a session while the Reservation-
Priority at the media-component-description level provides the relative
priority for an IP flow within a session. If the Reservation-Priority AVP is
not specified the requested priority is DEFAULT (0).
The AF may request notifications of specific IP-CAN session events through the
usage of the Specific-Action AVP in the AA-Request command. The PCRF shall
make sure to inform the AF of the requested notifications in the event that
they take place.
The AF may include the Rx-Request-Type AVP set to INITIAL_REQUEST in the AAR.
The PCRF shall check whether the received Service Information requires PCC/QoS
Rules to be created and provisioned and/or authorized QoS to be provisioned.
Provisioning of PCC/QoS Rules and Authorized QoS to the PCEF/BBERF shall be
carried out as specified at 3GPP TS 29.212 [8].
The PCRF shall reply with an AA-Answer to the AF. The acknowledgement towards
the AF should take place before or in parallel with any required PCC Rule
provisioning towards the PCEF and shall include the **Access‑Network-Charging-
Identifier**(s) and may include the Access-Network-Charging-Address AVP, if
they are available. The AA-Answer message shall also include the IP-CAN-Type
AVP, if such information is available. In that case, the AA-Answer message
shall also include the RAT-Type AVP when applicable for the specific IP-CAN
Type (e.g. 3GPP IP-CAN Type). In addition, if IP flow mobility applies to
service data flows as specified in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8], such that a subset of
the flows within the AF session are affected, the PCRF shall also include IP-
CAN-type and RAT-type information (if applicable) to IP flow mobility related
flows, if such information is available. The IP flow mobility affected service
data flows are included within the Flows AVP at command level. If the PCRF
needs to terminate the Rx session before it has sent the AA Answer, the PCRF
shall send the AA Answer immediately and before the AS Request.
The behaviour when the AF does not receive the AA Answer, or when it arrives
after the internal timer waiting for it has expired, or when it arrives with
an indication different than DIAMETER_SUCCESS, are outside the scope of this
specification and based on operator policy.
If the PCRF fails in installing PCC/QoS rules based on the provided service
information due to resource allocation failure as specified in 3GPP TS 29.212
[8] and if requested by the AF, the PCRF shall send an RAR command to the AF
with the Specific-Action AVP set to the value
INDICATION_OF_FAILED_RESOURCES_ALLOCATION to report the resource allocation
failure. The AF shall send an RAA command to acknowledge the RAR command
### 4.4.2 Modification of Session Information
The AF may modify the session information at any time (e.g. due to an AF
session modification or internal AF trigger) by sending an AA-Request command
to the PCRF containing the Media-Component-Description AVP(s) with the updated
Service Information. The AF shall send an AA-Request command to the PCRF, only
after the previous AA-Request has been acknowledged.
If the AF provides service information that has been fully negotiated (e.g.
based on the SDP answer), the AF may include the Service-Info-Status AVP set
to FINAL_SERVICE_INFORMATION. In this case the PCRF shall authorize the
session and provision the corresponding PCC rules to the PCEF.
The AF may additionally provide preliminary service information not fully
negotiated yet (e.g. based on the SDP offer) at an earlier stage. To do so,
the AF shall include the Service-Info-Status AVP with the value set to
PRELIMINARY SERVICE INFORMATION. Upon receipt of such preliminary service
information, the PCRF shall perform an early authorization check of the
service information. For GPRS, the PCRF shall not provision PCC rules towards
the PCEF unsolicitedly. However, the PCRF may authorize a PCC/QoS rule request
received from the PCEF/BBERF as per 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]. Further, if the AF
requests the PCRF to report the access network information together with
preliminary service information, the PCRF shall immediately configure the PCEF
(or BBERF) to provide the access network information.
The AF may include the Rx-Request-Type AVP set to UPDATE_REQUEST in the AAR.
The AF may include the MPS-Identifier AVP in order to indicate that the
modified AF session relates to an MPS session. If the PCRF receives the MPS-
Identifier AVP, it may take specific actions on the corresponding IP-CAN to
ensure that the MPS session is prioritized as defined in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8].
For Multimedia Priority Sevice handling, see Annex A.9.
When the AF is a GCS AS, it may include the GCS-Identifier AVP at command
level and Reservation-Priority AVP at command level or media component level
in order to modify the priority of an AF session that relates to a prioritized
Group Communication session. Based on this information, the PCRF may take
specific actions on the corresponding IP-CAN to ensure that the Group
Communication session is prioritized as specified in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8].
For sponsored data connectivity, the AF shall provide the application service
provider identity and the sponsor identity to the PCRF by including
Application-Service-Provider-Identity AVP and the Sponsor-Identity AVP in the
Sponsored-Connectivity-Data AVP in the AA-Request.
To support the usage monitoring of sponsored data connectivity, the AF may
also include the Granted-Service-Unit AVP in the Sponsored-Connectivity-Data
AVP in the AA-Request.
NOTE: If the AF is in the user plane, the AF can handle the usage monitoring
and therefore it is not required to provide a usage threshold to the PCRF as
part of the sponsored data connectivity information.
The PCRF shall process the received Service Information according the operator
policy and may decide whether the request is accepted or not. If the updated
Service Information is not acceptable (e.g. subscribed guaranteed bandwidth
for a particular user is exceeded), the PCRF shall indicate in the AA-Answer
the cause for the rejection with the Experimental-Result-Code AVP set to the
value REQUESTED_SERVICE_NOT_AUTHORIZED. The PCRF may additionally provide the
acceptable bandwidth within the Acceptable-Service-Info AVP.
If accepted, the PCRF shall update the Service Information with the new
information received. Due to the updated Service Information, the PCRF may
need to create, modify or delete the related PCC rules and provide the updated
information towards the PCEF following the corresponding procedures specified
at 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]. The procedures to update the Authorized QoS for the
affected IP-CAN bearer are also specified at 3GPP TS 29.212 [8].
The PCRF shall reply with an AA-Answer to the AF. The acknowledgement towards
the AF should take place before or in parallel with any required PCC Rule
provisioning towards the PCEF and shall include the **Access‑Network-Charging-
Identifier**(s) and may include the Access-Network-Charging-Address AVP, if
they are available at this moment and have not been yet supplied earlier to
the AF. The AA-Answer message shall include the IP-CAN-Type AVP if such
information is available and has not yet been supplied earlier to the AF. In
that case, the AA-Answer message shall also include the RAT-Type AVP when
applicable for the specific IP-CAN Type (e.g. 3GPP IP-CAN Type). In addition,
if IP flow mobility applies to service data flows as specified in 3GPP TS
29.212 [8], such that a subset of the flows within the AF session are
affected, the PCRF shall also include IP-CAN-type and RAT-type information (if
applicable) to IP flow mobility related flows, if such information is
available and has not yet been supplied earlier to the AF. The IP flow
mobility affected service data flows are included within the Flows AVP at
command level. If the PCRF needs to terminate the Rx session before it has
sent the AA Answer, the PCRF shall send the AA Answer immediately and before
the AS Request. If the PCRF does not have an existing session for the Rx
session being modified (such as after a PCRF failure), the PCRF may reject the
request with an AA-Answer with the result code set to
DIAMETER_UNKNOWN_SESSION_ID.
If the PCRF modifies existing PCC/QoS rules based on the updated service
information and the modification fails due to resource allocation failure as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8] and if requested by the AF, the PCRF shall
send an RAR command to the AF with the Specific-Action AVP set to the value
INDICATION_OF_FAILED_RESOURCES_ALLOCATION to report the modification failure.
The AF shall send an RAA command to acknowledge the RAR command.
### 4.4.3 Gate Related Procedures
Depending on the application, in the Service Information provision, the AF may
instruct the PCRF when the IP flow(s) are to be enabled or disabled to pass
through the IP-CAN. The AF does this by sending the AA-Request message
containing the Media-Component- Description AVP(s) that contains the flow
status information (in the Flow-Status AVP) for the flows to be enabled or
disabled.
In response to this action the PCRF shall set the appropriate gate status for
the corresponding active PCC rule(s).
If a Media-Sub-Component AVP under a Media-Component-Description AVP contains
a Flow-Usage AVP with the value RTCP, then the corresponding RTCP IP Flows in
both directions shall be enabled even if the Flow-Status AVP under the Media-
Sub-Component AVP is set to ENABLED-UPLINK, ENABLED-DOWNLINK, ENABLED, or
DISABLED.
The PCRF shall reply with an AA-Answer and shall include the **Access‑Network-
Charging-Identifier**(s) available at this moment. The PCRF forwards the AF
decision to enable or disable the authorized IP flows.
The behaviour when the AF does not receive the AAA, or when it arrives after
the internal timer waiting for it has expired, or when it arrives with an
indication different than DIAMETER_SUCCESS, are outside the scope of this
specification and based on operator policy.
### 4.4.4 AF Session Termination
When an AF session is terminated, if the AF had received a successful AA-
Answer for the initial AA-Request, the AF shall send a Session-Termination-
Request command to the PCRF. Otherwise, the AF shall wait for the initial AA-
Answer to be received prior to sending the Session-Termination-Request command
to the PCRF.
When the PCRF receives a ST-Request from the AF, indicating an AF session
termination, it shall acknowledge that request by sending a ST-Answer to the
AF. Afterwards, it shall free the resources allocated for the corresponding
Service Data Flow(s). In order to do that, the PCRF shall initiate the request
for the removal of any related PCC/QoS rules from the PCEF/BBERF and for the
update of the Authorized QoS for the affected IP-CAN bearer following the
corresponding procedures specified at 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]. However, if the AF
requests the reporting of access network information within the ST-Request or
if the AF provided a threshold for the sponsored data connectivity, the PCRF
shall defer sending the ST-Answer.
If the AF session being terminated corresponds to an MPS session, the PCRF may
revoke the actions related to the prioritization of the MPS session in the
corresponding IP-CAN as defined in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]. For Multimedia Priority
Service handling, see Annex A.9.
If the AF session being terminated corresponds to the last Group Communication
session for the IP-CAN session, the PCRF may revoke the actions related to the
prioritization of the Group Communication session as specified in 3GPP TS
29.212 [8].
For sponsored data connectivity, and if a usage threshold was provided for the
sponsored data connection at initial provisioning of session information
(subclause 4.4.1) or modification of session information (subclause 4.4.2)
procedures, the PCRF shall provide the usage consumed to the AF. For such
purpose, the PCRF shall initiate the IP-CAN session modification procedure
according 3GPP TS 29.212 [8] in order to obtain the consumed usage. The PCRF
shall send then the ST-Answer to the AF including the Used-Service-Unit AVP
for reporting accumulated usage within the Sponsored-Connectivity-Data AVP.
If the AF requires access network information at this step, the AF shall
include the Required-Access-Info AVP within the ST-Request command, indicating
the required information. In this case, the PCRF shall initiate the IP-CAN
session modification procedure according to 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]. The PCRF shall
send then the ST-Answer to the AF including the required data within the 3GPP-
User-Location-Info AVP (if available), TWAN-Identifier AVP (if available),
User-Location-Info-Time AVP (if available), 3GPP-SGSN-MCC-MNC AVP (if location
info is not available) and/or 3GPP-MS-TimeZone AVP (if available).
If the RAN-NAS-Cause feature is supported, and the AF initiated the
termination of the AF session upon reception of the ST-Request command, the
PCRF shall initiate the IP-CAN session modification procedure according to
3GPP TS 29.212 [8].
If the RAN-NAS-Cause feature is supported, in all the AF session termination
cases, the PCRF shall send the ST-Answer to the AF including the access
network information within the 3GPP-User-Location-Info AVP (if available),
TWAN-Identifier (if available and Netloc-Trusted-WLAN feature is supported)
User-Location-Info-Time AVP (if available), 3GPP-SGSN-MCC-MNC AVP (if location
info is not available) and/or 3GPP-MS-TimeZone AVP (if available).
Additionally, if the PCRF received from the PCEF the RAN cause and/or NAS
cause, the PCRF shall provide the received cause(s) in the RAN-NAS-Release-
Cause AVP in the ST-Answer command.
### 4.4.5 Subscription to Notification of Signalling Path Status
An AF may subscribe to notifications of the status of the AF Signalling
transmission path. To do so, the AF shall open an Rx Diameter session with the
PCRF for the AF signalling using an AA-Request command. The AF shall provide
the UE\'s IP address (using either the Framed-IP-Address AVP or the Framed-
Ipv6-Prefix AVP) and the Specific-Action AVP requesting the subscription to
\"INDICATION_OF_LOSS_OF BEARER\" and/or \"INDICATION_OF_RELEASE_OF_BEARER\".
The AF shall additionally provide a Media-Component-Description AVP including
a single Media-Sub-Component AVP with the Flow-Usage AVP set to the value
\"AF_SIGNALLING\". The Media-Component-Description AVP shall contain the
Media-Component-Number AVP set to \"0\".
If the procedures in Clause 4.4.5a are not applied, the Media-Sub-Component
AVP shall contain the Flow-Number AVP set to \"0\", and the rest of AVPs
within the Media-Component-Description and Media-Sub-Component AVPs shall not
be used in this case.
When the PCRF receives an AA-Request as described in the preceding paragraph
from the AF, the PCRF shall perform session binding as described in 3GPP TS
29.213 [9] and acknowledges the AAR command by sending an AA‑Answer command to
the AF.
PCC/QoS Rules related to AF Signalling IP Flows should be provisioned to
PCEF/BBERF using the corresponding procedures specified at 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]
at an earlier stage (e.g. typically at the establishment of the IP-CAN bearer
dedicated for AF Signalling IP Flows). The PCRF may install the corresponding
dynamic PCC/QoS rule for the AF signalling IP flows if none has been installed
before.
NOTE 1: Well-known ports (e.g. 3GPP TS 24.229 [17] for SIP) or wildcard ports
can be used by PCRF to derive the dynamic PCC/QoS rule for the AF signalling
IP flows.
If the Rx Diameter Session is only used for subscription to Notification of
Signalling Path Status, the AF may cancel the subscription to notifications of
the status of the AF Signalling transmission path. In that case, the AF shall
use a Session-Termination-Request (STR) command to the PCRF, which shall be
acknowledged with a Session-Termination-Answer (STA) command.
NOTE 2: The Rx Diameter Session created for the AF signalling can also be used
when the AF requests notifications of IP-CAN type change and/or when the AF
provisions AF Signalling Flow Information.
### 4.4.5a Provisioning of AF Signalling Flow Information
This sub-clause is applicable when IMS restoration is supported according to
supported feature ProvAFsignalFlow as described in sub-clause 5.4.1.
An AF may provision information about the AF signalling IP flows between the
UE and the AF. To do so, the AF shall make use of an Rx Diameter session
already opened with the PCRF if an Rx Diameter session related to the AF
signalling is already established. The AF may modify an already open Rx
Diameter session related to the AF signalling (e.g. an Rx Diameter session
established for the purpose of subscription to notification of signalling path
status as described in 4.4.5) or it may open a new Rx Diameter session related
to the AF signalling if none exists.
To provision the AF signalling flow information the AF shall provide the UE\'s
IP address using either Framed-IP-Address AVP or Framed-Ipv6-Prefix AVP. The
AF shall additionally provide a Media-Component-Description AVP including one
or more Media-Sub-Component AVP(s) representing the AF signalling IP flows.
The Media-Component-Description AVP shall contain the Media-Component-Number
AVP set to \"0\". Each Media-Sub-Component AVP representing an AF signalling
IP flow shall contain the Flow-Number AVP set according to the rules described
in Annex B and one or two Flow-Description AVP(s) set to the IP flows of the
AF signalling. Additionally, the Media-Sub-Component AVP shall include the
Flow-Usage AVP set to the value \"AF_SIGNALLING\", the Flow-Status AVP set to
\"ENABLED\" and the AF-Signalling-Protocol AVP set to the value corresponding
to the signalling protocol used between the UE and the AF.
When the PCRF receives from the AF an AA-Request as described in the preceding
paragraph, the PCRF shall perform session binding as described in 3GPP TS
29.213 [9] and shall acknowledge the AAR command by sending an AA‑Answer
command to the AF.
PCC/QoS Rules related to the AF signalling IP flows could have been
provisioned to PCEF/BBERF using the corresponding procedures specified in 3GPP
TS 29.212 [8] at an earlier stage (e.g. typically at the establishment of the
IP-CAN bearer dedicated for AF Signalling IP Flows). The PCRF shall install
the corresponding dynamic PCC/QoS rule for the AF signalling IP flows.
The AF may de-provision the information about the AF signalling IP flows at
any time. To do that, if the Rx Diameter session is only used to provide
information about the AF Signalling IP flows, the AF shall close the Rx
Diameter session by sending a Session-Termination-Request (STR) command to the
PCRF, which shall be acknowledged with a Session-Termination-Answer (STA)
command. Otherwise, the AF shall remove the IP flows within the Media-Sub-
Component AVP by supplying the Flow-Status AVP with value \"REMOVED\". In both
cases, the PCRF shall remove the corresponding dynamic PCC/QoS rule for the AF
signalling IP flows.
### 4.4.6 Traffic Plane Events
#### 4.4.6.1 IP-CAN Session Termination
When an IP-CAN session is terminated, the PCRF shall inform the AF about the
IP-CAN session termination by sending an ASR (abort session request) command
to the AF on each active Rx Diameter session.
When the AF receives the ASR command, it shall acknowledge the command by
sending an ASA (abort session answer) command to the PCRF. After that the AF
shall initiate an AF session termination procedure as defined in subclause
4.4.4.
Signalling flows for IP-CAN session termination cases are presented in 3GPP TS
29.213 [9].
#### 4.4.6.2 Service Data Flow Deactivation
It may happen that one or more PCC/QoS Rules (i.e. Service Data Flows) are
deactivated at the PCEF/BBERF at a certain time, either permanently or
temporarily. When the PCRF gets the knowledge that one or more SDFs have been
deactivated, (e.g. due to a bearer release or loss of bearer or out of credit
condition), the PCRF shall inform the AF accordingly if the AF has previously
subscribed using the Specific-Action AVP in the AAR command.
When not all the service data flows within the AF session are affected, the
PCRF shall inform the AF by sending an RAR (re-authorization request) command.
The RAR command shall include the deactivated IP Flows encoded in the Flows
AVP and the cause encoded in the Specific-Action AVP.
If the RAN-NAS-Cause feature is supported and the PCRF received the access
network information from the PCEF/BBERF due to bearer termination, the PCRF
shall include in the RAR command the access network information within the
3GPP-User-Location-Info AVP (if available), TWAN-Identifier (if available and
Netloc-Trusted-WLAN feature is supported) User-Location-Info-Time AVP (if
available), 3GPP-SGSN-MCC-MNC AVP (if location info is not available) and/or
3GPP-MS-TimeZone AVP (if available). Additionally, if the PCRF received from
the PCEF the RAN cause and/or NAS cause due to bearer termination, the PCRF
shall provide the received cause(s) in the RAN-NAS-Release-Cause AVP in the
RAR command.
When the AF receives the RAR command, it shall acknowledge the command by
sending an RAA (re-authorization answer) command to the PCRF. The AF may also
update the session information by sending an AAR (AA-request) command to the
PCRF.
If the PCRF receives the AAR command, it shall acknowledge the command by
sending an AAA (AA-answer) command to the AF.
When all the service data flows within the AF session are affected, the PCRF
shall inform the AF by sending an ASR command on the Rx Diameter session
related to the AF session. When the AF receives the ASR command, it shall
acknowledge the command by sending an ASA (abort session answer) command to
the PCRF. After that the AF shall initiate an AF session termination procedure
as defined in clause 4.4.4.
Signalling flows for Service Data Flow Deactivation cases are presented in
3GPP TS 29.213 [9].
#### 4.4.6.3 Notification of Signalling Path Status
In the event that the PCRF is notified of the loss or release of resources
associated to the PCC/QoS Rules corresponding with AF Signalling IP Flows, the
PCRF shall inform the AF about the Loss of the Signalling Transmission path by
sending a Re‑Authorization Request (RAR) command to the AF. The RAR shall
include the Specific-Action AVP set to the value
\"INDICATION_OF_LOSS_OF_BEARER\" or \"INDICATION_OF_RELEASE_OF_BEARER\" and
the deactivated IP Flow encoded in the Flows AVP.
NOTE: According to the standardized QCI characteristics as defined in 3GPP TS
23.203 [2], the IMS signalling specific PCC rules include a QCI corresponding
to a non-GBR bearer. When these guidelines are followed, the
INDICATION_OF_LOSS_OF_BEARER will not be reported.
If the RAN-NAS-Cause feature is supported and the PCRF received the access
network information from the PCEF/BBERF due to bearer termination, the PCRF
shall include in the RAR command the access network information within the
3GPP-User-Location-Info AVP (if available), TWAN-Identifier (if available and
Netloc-Trusted-WLAN feature is supported) User-Location-Info-Time AVP (if
available), 3GPP-SGSN-MCC-MNC AVP (if location info is not available) and/or
3GPP-MS-TimeZone AVP (if available). Additionally, if the PCRF received from
the PCEF the RAN cause and/or NAS cause due to bearer termination, the PCRF
shall provide the received cause(s) in the RAN-NAS-Release-Cause AVP in the
RAR command.
When the AF receives the RAR command, it shall acknowledge the command by
sending an RAA command to the PCRF.
The AF may then decide to terminate the Rx Diameter session used for the
notification of the status of the AF Signalling transmission path. The AF may
also decide to terminate any other active Rx Diameter session with the PCRF
related to the AF Signalling which is not available any longer. In that case,
the AF shall then initiate the AF Termination procedure towards the PCRF as
defined in clause 4.4.4.
#### 4.4.6.4 IP-CAN type change Notification
If the AF has successfully subscribed to change notifications in UE\'s IP-CAN
type and RAT type, the PCRF shall provide the UE\'s IP-CAN type and RAT type
in the AA-Answer if already known by the PCRF. The PCRF shall also send an RAR
command when a corresponding event occurs, i.e. when the UE\'s IP-CAN type or
RAT type (if the IP-CAN type is GPRS), changes or becomes available. In this
case the RAR from the PCRF shall include the Specific-Action AVP for the
subscribed event and include the IP-CAN-Type AVP and RAT-Type AVP (in case of
3GPP IP‑CAN) for the UE\'s new IP-CAN/RAT. If the PCRF is informed of an IP-
CAN type change due to IP flow mobility as specified in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8],
where a subset the flows within the AF session are affected, the PCRF shall
include IP-CAN-type and RAT-type information (if applicable) to IP flow
mobility affected service data flows. The IP flow mobility affected service
data flows are included within the Flows AVP at command level.
NOTE: The RAT type event is only applicable for IP-CAN type GPRS, the PCRF
will provide the RAT type information to the AF not only in case of GPRS IP-
CAN type, but also in case of other 3GPP IP-CAN types.
#### 4.4.6.5 Access Network Charging Information Notification
If the AF has subscribed to a notification about Access Network Charging
Information, the PCRF shall provide the Access Network Charging Information in
the response, if already known by the PCRF. If not available, the PCRF shall
provide the Access Network Charging Information by sending a Re-Authorization-
Request (RAR) command when the Access Network Charging Information is received
from the PCEF. If different Access Network Charging Information is applicable
to the IP-CAN session, the PCRF shall notify the AF about the Access Network
Charging Information that applies to each authorized flow. The RAR shall
include the Specific-Action AVP set to the value
\"CHARGING_CORRELATION_EXCHANGE\" and shall include the assigned
**Access‑Network-Charging-Identifier**(s) and may include the Access-Network-
Charging-Address AVP.
#### 4.4.6.6 Reporting Usage for Sponsored Data Connectivity
When the AF session is associated with a sponsor and the AF provided usage
monitoring thresholds for such sponsor to the PCRF when the Rx Diameter
session was established or modified, the PCRF shall report accumulated usage
to the AF, when
\- the PCRF detects that the usage threshold provided by the AF has been
reached; or
\- the AF session is terminated by the AF ; or
\- the AF session is terminated by the PCRF due to the IP-CAN session
termination, the termination of all the service data flows of the AF session
or the home operator policy disallowing the UE accessing the sponsored data
connectivity in the roaming case.
When the PCRF detects that the usage threshold has been reached, the PCRF
shall report the accumulated usage as provided by the PCEF to the AF in a RA-
Request (RAR) command with the Specific-Action AVP set to the value
USAGE_REPORT Otherwise, when the AF session is terminated by the AF or the
PCRF, the PCRF shall report the accumulated usage as provided by the PCEF to
the AF in ST-Answer (STA) command.
The accumulated usage shall be reported in the Used-Service-Unit AVP within
the Sponsored-Connectivity-Data AVP.
If the AF receives a RAR command indicating the usage threshold is reached,
the AF may terminate the AF session or provide a new usage threshold in the
Granted-Service-Unit AVP within the Sponsored-Connectivity-Data AVP to the
PCRF in the AAR command. Alternatively, the AF may allow the session to
continue without providing new usage threshold in the AAR command.
NOTE: After the PCRF reports the accumulated usage to the AF, the AF can
provide a new usage threshold to the PCRF. The monitoring will not start until
the PCRF receives the new threshold from the AF and provide it to the PCEF
#### 4.4.6.7 Reporting Access Network Information
If the AF requests the PCRF to report the access network information (e.g.
user location and/or user timezone information), the AF shall subscribe to the
\"ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORT\" within the Specific-Action AVP and shall
include the required access network information within the Required-Access-
Info AVP. The AF may request the PCRF to report the access network information
in conjunction with providing the PCRF with the AF session information, refer
to subclause 4.4.1. Optionally, the AF may request the PCRF to report the
access network information without providing service information (see
subclause A.10.2). In the latter case the AF establishes an Rx session for the
AF session upon requesting the access network information from the PCRF with
an AA-Request command, containing information required for the session binding
in the Framed-IP-Address AVP, the Framed-Ipv6-Prefix AVP Subscription-Id AVP,
the Called-Station-Id AVP and/or the IP-Domain-Id AVP.
The AF may also request the PCRF to report the access network information at
Rx session termination. To do so, the AF shall include the required access
network information within the Required-Access-Info AVP in the corresponding
ST-Request.
When the PCRF receives a request to report the access network information from
the AF in an AAR command or in an S3GPP TR command triggered by the AF, if the
PCRF determines that the access network does not support the access network
information reporting based on the currently used IP-CAN type or the values of
RAT-Type AVP and AN-Trusted AVP or the PCEF/BBERF does not support the access
network information reporting based on the Supported-Feature AVP, the PCRF
shall respond to AF with an AAA or STA command including the NetLoc-Access-
Surpport AVP set to the value of 0 (NETLOC_ACCESS_NOT_SUPPORTED); otherwise,
it shall immediately configure the PCEF or BBERF to provide such access
network information.
When the PCRF then receives the access network information from the
PCEF/BBERF, the PCRF shall provide the corresponding access network
information to the AF within the 3GPP-User-Location-Info AVP (if available),
TWAN-Identifier AVP (if available), User-Location-Info-Time AVP (if
available), 3GPP-SGSN-MCC-MNC AVP (if location info is not available) and/or
3GPP-MS-TimeZone AVP in the RAR command if the Rx session is not being
terminated or in the STA command if the Rx session is being terminated. If the
information is provided in the RAR command, PCRF shall also provide the
ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORT within Specific-Action AVP.
NOTE 1: The PCRF receives the access network information from the PCEF/BBERF
if it is requested by the AF previously or the IP-CAN bearer/IP-CAN session is
terminated.
When the PCRF receives the NetLoc-Access-Support AVP set to the value of 0
(NETLOC_ACCESS_NOT_SUPPORTED) from the PCEF/BBERF, the PCRF shall send a RAR
command including the Specific-Action AVP set to
INDICATION_OF_ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORTING_FAILURE and the NetLoc-Access-
Support AVP set to the value of 0 (NETLOC_ACCESS_NOT_SUPPORTED) if the AF
requested the access network information in an AAR command or send an STA
command including the NetLoc-Access-Support AVP set to the value of 0
(NETLOC_ACCESS_NOT_SUPPORTED) if the AF requested the access network
information in an S3GPP TR command.
NOTE 2: The 3GPP GPRS, 3GPP EPS and Trusted WLAN support access network
information reporting in this release.
The PCRF shall not send an RAR command with the ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORT
value within a Specific-Action AVP to report any subsequently received access
network information to the AF, unless the AF sends a new request for access
network information.
#### 4.4.6.8 Temporary Network Failure handling
If the PCRF detects that a temporary network failure has occurred (e.g. the
SGW has failed for 3GPP-EPS access as defined in subclause B.3.14 of 3GPP TS
29.212 [8]) and the AF requests an AF session establishment or modification in
an AA-Request command, the PCRF shall respond to the AF with an AA-Answer
including the Experimental-Result-Code AVP set to the value
TEMPORARY_NETWORK_FAILURE.
If the PCRF detects that a temporary network failure has occurred (e.g. the
SGW has failed for 3GPP-EPS access) and the AF requests an AF session
termination in a ST-Request command, the PCRF shall respond with successful
Result-Code AVP to the AF.
NOTE 1: Actions over Gx/Gxx reference point when there is a temporary network
failure are described in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]. For example, for S-GW Restoration
procedures the PCRF will wait for the SGW recovery before deleting the
corresponding PCC/QoS rules,according to subclause B.3.14 in that
specification.
If the PCRF detects that the PCC/QoS rules related to an AF session cannot be
installed or modified because there is a temporary network failure (e.g. SGW
failed according to subclause B.3.14 in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8]) and if requested
by the AF, the PCRF shall send a RA-Request command to the AF with the
Specific-Action AVP set to INDICATION_OF_FAILED_RESOURCES_ALLOCATION.
### 4.4.7 P-CSCF Restoration Enhancement Support
This section is applicable when the PCRF-based P-CSCF Restoration Enhancement,
as defined in 3GPP TS 23.380 [28], is supported by both P-CSCF and PCRF.
The P-CSCF acting as AF shall send an AAR command including the Rx-Request-
Type AVP set to the value PCSCF_RESTORATION (2) to the PCRF in the case P-CSCF
Restoration needs to be performed. This AAR shall include the following
information required by the DRA or PCRF to find the corresponding IP-CAN
session:
\- The UE\'s IP address as applicable in the Framed-IP-Address AVP or in the
Framed-Ipv6-Prefix AVP. If the IP address is not unique (e.g. private IPv4
case), the P-CSCF shall also include the IP-Domain-ID AVP if available.
\- If the IP address is not available or if the IP address is not unique and
the IP-Domain-ID is not available, the P-CSCF shall include the IMSI in the
Subscription-Id AVP and the APN in the Called-Station-Id AVP.
The AF shall also include the Auth-Session-State AVP set to the value
NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1) in the AAR command, as described in IETF RFC 3588
[10]. As a consequence, the PCRF shall not maintain any state information
about this session.
The PCRF shall acknowledge the AAR command by sending an AAA command to the
P-CSCF acting as AF and shall include the Auth-Session-State AVP set to
NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1). The PCRF shall send a request for P-CSCF Restoration
to the PCEF for the corresponding IP-CAN session.
# 5 Rx protocol
## 5.1 Protocol support
The Rx interface in the present release is based on Rx and Gq protocols
defined for Release 6 as specified in 3GPP TS 29.211 [7] and 3GPP TS 29.209
[5] respectively. However, to be able to separate the policy and charging
rules function (PCRF) of the present release from the **policy decision
function (PDF) and charging rules function (CRF) of Release 6** , the Rx
application in the present release has an own vendor specific Diameter
application.
The Rx application is defined as an IETF vendor specific Diameter application,
where the vendor is 3GPP and the Application-ID for the Rx application in the
present release is 16777236. The vendor identifier assigned by IANA to 3GPP
(http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
NOTE: A route entry can have a different destination based on the application
identification AVP of the message. Therefore, Diameter agents (relay, proxy,
redirection, translation agents) must be configured appropriately to identify
the 3GPP Rx application within the Auth-Application-Id AVP in order to create
suitable routeing tables.
Due to the definition of the commands used in Rx protocol, there is no
possibility to skip the Auth-Application-Id AVP and use the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVP instead. Therefore the Rx application identification shall
be included in the Auth-Application-Id AVP.
With regard to the Diameter protocol defined over the Rx reference point, the
PCRF acts as a Diameter server, in the sense that it is the network element
that handles AF session authorization requests for a particular realm. The AF
acts as the Diameter client, in the sense that is the network element
requesting the authorization of resources for an AF session.
## 5.2 Initialization, maintenance and termination of connection and session
The initialization and maintenance of the connection between each AF and PCRF
pair is defined by the underlying protocol. Establishment and maintenance of
connections between Diameter nodes is described in RFC 3588 [10].
After establishing the transport connection, the PCRF and the AF shall
advertise the support of the Rx specific Application by including the value of
the application identifier in the Auth-Application-Id AVP and the value of the
3GPP (10415) in the Vendor-Id AVP of the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id AVP
contained in the Capabilities‑Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-
Answer commands. The Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-
Answer commands are specified in the Diameter Base Protocol (RFC 3588 [10]).
The termination of the Diameter user session is specified in RFC 3588 [10] in
clauses 8.4 and 8.5. The description of how to use of these termination
procedures in the normal cases is embedded in the procedures description
(clause 4.4).
## 5.3 Rx specific AVPs
Table 5.3.1 describes the Diameter AVPs defined for the Rx interface protocol,
their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values, whether or not the AVP may
be encrypted and which supported feature the AVP is applicable to. The Vendor-
Id header of all AVPs defined in the present document shall be set to 3GPP
(10415).
NOTE: Most of these AVPs have already been defined in 3GPP TS 29.209 [5] for
Rel-6. Their definition is based on the one used for Rel-6 with some possible
modifications to be applied to the Rel-7 protocols.
Table 5.3.1: Rx specific Diameter AVPs
| AVP Flag rules (Note 1) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Attribute Name | AVP Code | Clause defined | Value Type (Note 2) | Must | May | Should not | Must not | May Encr. | Applicability (Note 3)  
Abort-Cause | 500 | 5.3.1 | Enumerated | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Access-Network-Charging-Address | 501 | 5.3.2 | Address | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Access-Network-Charging-Identifier | 502 | 5.3.3 | Grouped | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Access-Network-Charging-Identifier-Value | 503 | 5.3.4 | OctetString | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Acceptable-Service-Info | 526 | 5.3.24 | Grouped | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
AF-Application-Identifier | 504 | 5.3.5 | OctetString | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
AF-Charging-Identifier | 505 | 5.3.6 | OctetString | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Application-Service-Provider-Identity | 532 | 5.3.29 | UTF8String | V | P |  | M | Y | SponsoredConnectivity  
Codec-Data | 524 | 5.3.7 | OctetString | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Flow-Description | 507 | 5.3.8 | IPFilterRule | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Flow-Number | 509 | 5.3.9 | Unsigned32 | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Flows | 510 | 5.3.10 | Grouped | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Flow-Status | 511 | 5.3.11 | Enumerated | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Flow-Usage | 512 | 5.3.12 | Enumerated | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
GCS-Identifier | 538 | 5.3.36 | OctetString | V | P |  | M | Y | GroupComService  
Service-URN | 525 | 5.3.23 | OctetString | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Specific-Action | 513 | 5.3.13 | Enumerated | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL | 515 | 5.3.14 | Unsigned32 | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL | 516 | 5.3.15 | Unsigned32 | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Media-Component-Description | 517 | 5.3.16 | Grouped | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Media-Component-Number | 518 | 5.3.17 | Unsigned32 | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Media-Sub-Component | 519 | 5.3.18 | Grouped | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Media-Type | 520 | 5.3.19 | Enumerated | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
MPS-Identifier | 528 | 5.3.30 | OctetString | V | P |  | M | Y | Rel10  
Min-Requested-Bandwidth-DL | 534 | 5.3.32 | Unsigned32 | V | P |  | M | Y | Rel10  
Min-Requested-Bandwidth-UL | 535 | 5.3.33 | Unsigned32 | V | P |  | M | Y | Rel10  
RR-Bandwidth | 521 | 5.3.20 | Unsigned32 | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
RS-Bandwidth | 522 | 5.3.21 | Unsigned32 | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Service-Info-Status | 527 | 5.3.25 | Enumerated | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
SIP-Forking-Indication | 523 | 5.3.22 | Enumerated | M,V | P |  |  | Y |   
Sponsor-Identity | 531 | 5.3.28 | UTF8String | V | P |  | M | Y | SponsoredConnectivity  
Sponsored-Connectivity-Data (NOTE 4) | 530 | 5.3.27 | Grouped | V | P |  | M | Y | SponsoredConnectivity SCTimeBasedUM  
AF-Signalling-Protocol | 529 | 5.3.26 | Enumerated | V | P |  | M | Y | ProvAFsignalFlow  
Required-Access-Info | 536 | 5.3.34 | Enumerated | V | P |  | M | Y | NetLoc  
Rx-Request-Type | 533 | 5.3.31 | Enumerated | V | P |  | M | Y |   
IP-Domain-Id | 537 | 5.3.35 | OctetString | V | P |  | M | Y |   
NOTE 1: The AVP header bit denoted as 'M', indicates whether support of the AVP is required. The AVP header bit denoted as 'V', indicates whether the optional Vendor-ID field is present in the AVP header. For further details, see RFC 3588 [10]. NOTE 2: The value types are defined in RFC 3588 [10]. NOTE 3: AVPs marked with a supported feature (e.g. "ProvAFsignalFlow", "SponsoredConnectivity", "Rel10" or "NetLoc") are applicable as described in clause 5.4.1 NOTE 4: Volume Usage monitoring control functionality is applicable for SponsoredConnectivity supported feature. Time Based Usage monitoring control is applicable for SCTimeBasedUM supported feature. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
### 5.3.1 Abort-Cause AVP
The Abort-Cause AVP (AVP code 500) is of type Enumerated, and determines the
cause of an abort session request (ASR) or of a RAR indicating a bearer
release. The following values are defined:
BEARER_RELEASED (0)
This value is used when the bearer has been deactivated as a result from
normal signalling handling. For GPRS the bearer refers to the PDP Context.
INSUFFICIENT_SERVER_RESOURCES (1)
This value is used to indicate that the server is overloaded and needs to
abort the session.
INSUFFICIENT_BEARER_RESOURCES (2)
This value is used when the bearer has been deactivated due to insufficient
bearer resources at a transport gateway (e.g. GGSN for GPRS).
PS_TO_CS_HANDOVER (3)
This value is used when the bearer has been deactivated due to PS to CS
handover.
SPONSORED_DATA_CONNECTIVITY_ DISALLOWED (4)
> This value is used in the ASR when the PCRF needs to initiates the AF
> session termination due to the operator policy (e.g. disallowing the UE
> accessing the sponsored data connectivity in the roaming case).
### 5.3.2 Access-Network-Charging-Address AVP
The Access-Network-Charging-Address AVP (AVP code 501) is of type Address, and
it indicates the IP Address of the network entity within the access network
performing charging (e.g. the GGSN IP address). The Access‑Network‑Charging-
Address AVP should not be forwarded over an inter-operator interface.
### 5.3.3 Access-Network-Charging-Identifier AVP
The Access-Network-Charging-Identifier AVP (AVP code 502) is of type Grouped,
and contains a charging identifier (e.g. GCID) within the Access-Network-
Charging-Identifier-Value AVP along with information about the flows
transported within the corresponding bearer within the Flows AVP. If no Flows
AVP is provided, the Access‑Network‑Charging-Identifier-Value applies for all
flows within the AF session.
The Access-Network-Charging-Identifier AVP can be sent from the PCRF to the
AF. The AF may use this information for charging correlation with session
layer.
AVP Format:
Access-Network-Charging-Identifier ::= \
{ Access-Network-Charging-Identifier-Value}
*[ Flows ]
### 5.3.4 Access-Network-Charging-Identifier-Value AVP
The Access-Network-Charging-Identifier-Value AVP (AVP code 503) is of type
OctetString, and contains a charging identifier (e.g. GCID).
### 5.3.5 AF-Application-Identifier AVP
The AF-Application-identifier AVP (AVP code 504) is of type OctetString, and
it contains information that identifies the particular service that the AF
service session belongs to. This information may be used by the PCRF to
differentiate QoS for different application services.
For example the AF-Application-Identifier may be used as additional
information together with the Media-Type AVP when the QoS class for the bearer
authorization at the Gx interface is selected. The AF-Application-Identifier
may be used also to complete the QoS authorization with application specific
default settings in the PCRF if the AF does not provide full Session-
Component-Description information.
### 5.3.6 AF-Charging-Identifier AVP
The AF-Charging-Identifier AVP (AVP code 505) is of type OctetString, contains
the AF Charging Identifier that is sent by the AF. This information may be
used for charging correlation with bearer layer.
### 5.3.7 Codec-Data AVP
The Codec-Data AVP (AVP code 524) is of type OctetString.
The Codec-Data AVP shall contain codec related information known at the AF.
This information shall be encoded as follows:
\- The first line of the value of the Codec-Data AVP shall consist of either
the word \"uplink\" or the word \"downlink\" (in ASCII, without quotes)
followed by a new-line character. The semantics of these words are the
following:
\- \"uplink\" indicates that the SDP was received from the UE and sent to the
network.
\- \"downlink\" indicates that the SDP was received from the network and sent
to the UE.
NOTE: The first line indicates the direction of the source of the SDP used to
derive the information. The majority of the information within the Codec-Data
AVP indicating \"downlink\" describes properties, for instance receiver
capabilities, of the sender of the SDP, the network in this case and is
therefore applicable for IP flows in the uplink direction. Similarly, the
majority of the information within the Codec-Data AVP indicating \"uplink\"
describes properties, for instance receiver capabilities, of the sender of the
SDP, the UE in this case and is therefore applicable for IP flows in the
downlink direction.
\- The second line of the value of the Codec-Data AVP shall consist of either
the word \"offer\" or the word \"answer\", or the word \"description\" (in
ASCII, without quotes) followed by a new-line character. The semantics of
these words are the following:
\- \"offer\" indicates that SDP lines from an SDP offer according to RFC 3264
[18] are being provisioned in the Codec-Data AVP;
\- \"answer\" indicates that SDP lines from an SDP answer according to RFC
3264 [18] are being provisioned in the Codec-Data AVP;
\- \"description\" indicates that SDP lines from a SDP session description in
a scenario where the offer-answer mechanism of RFC 3264 [18] is not being
applied are being provisioned in the Codec-Data AVP. For instance, SDP from an
RTSP \"Describe\" reply may be provisioned.
\- The rest of the value shall consist of SDP line(s) in ASCII encoding
separated by new-line characters, as specified in IETF RFC 4566 [13]. The
first of these line(s) shall be an \"m\" line. The remaining lines shall be
any available SDP \"a\" and \"b\" lines related to that \"m\" line. However,
to avoid duplication of information, the SDP \"a=sendrecv\", \"a=recvonly \",
\"a=sendonly\", \"a=inactive\", \"b:AS\", \"b:RS\" and \"b:RR\" lines do not
need to be included.
### 5.3.8 Flow-Description AVP
The Flow-Description AVP (AVP code 507) is of type IPFilterRule, and defines a
packet filter for an IP flow with the following information:
\- Direction (in or out). The direction \"in\" refers to uplink IP flows, and
the direction \"out\" refers to downlink IP flows.
\- Source and destination IP address (possibly masked).
\- Protocol.
\- Source and destination port.
The IPFilterRule type shall be used over Rx interface with the following
restrictions:
\- The Source Port may be omitted to indicate that any source port is allowed.
Lists or ranges shall not be used.
\- Only the Action \"permit\" shall be used.
\- No \"options\" shall be used.
\- The invert modifier \"!\" for addresses shall not be used.
\- The keyword \"assigned\" shall not be used.
NOTE: For TCP protocol, destination port can also be omitted.
If any of these restrictions is not observed by the AF, the server shall send
an error response to the AF containing the Experimental-Result-Code AVP with
value FILTER_RESTRICTIONS.
For the Rx interface, the Flow description AVP shall be used to describe a
single IP flow.
### 5.3.9 Flow-Number AVP
The Flow-Number AVP (AVP code 509) is of type Unsigned32, and it contains the
ordinal number of the IP flow(s), assigned according to the rules in Annex B.
### 5.3.10 Flows AVP
The Flows AVP (AVP code 510) is of type Grouped, and it indicates IP flows via
their flow identifiers.
When reporting an out of credit condition, the Final-Unit-Action AVP indicates
the termination action applied to the impacted flows.
If no Flow-Number AVP(s) are supplied, the Flows AVP refers to all Flows
matching the media component number.
AVP Format:
Flows::= \
{Media-Component-Number}
*[Flow-Number]
[Final-Unit-Action]
### 5.3.11 Flow-Status AVP
The Flow-Status AVP (AVP code 511) is of type Enumerated, and describes
whether the IP flow(s) are enabled or disabled. The following values are
defined:
ENABLED-UPLINK (0)
This value shall be used to enable associated uplink IP flow(s) and to disable
associated downlink IP flow(s).
ENABLED-DOWNLINK (1)
This value shall be used to enable associated downlink IP flow(s) and to
disable associated uplink IP flow(s).
ENABLED (2)
This value shall be used to enable all associated IP flow(s) in both
directions.
DISABLED (3)
This value shall be used to disable all associated IP flow(s) in both
directions.
REMOVED (4)
This value shall be used to remove all associated IP flow(s). The IP Filters
for the associated IP flow(s) shall be removed. The associated IP flows shall
not be taken into account when deriving the authorized QoS.
NOTE: The interpretation of values for the RTCP flows in the Rx interface is
described within the procedures in clause 4.4.3.
### 5.3.12 Flow-Usage AVP
The Flow-Usage AVP (AVP code 512) is of type Enumerated, and provides
information about the usage of IP Flows. The following values are defined:
NO_INFORMATION (0)
> This value is used to indicate that no information about the usage of the IP
> flow is being provided.
RTCP (1)
> This value is used to indicate that an IP flow is used to transport RTCP.
AF_SIGNALLING (2)
> This value is used to indicate that the IP flow is used to transport AF
> Signalling Protocols (e.g. SIP/SDP).
NO_INFORMATION is the default value.
NOTE: An AF may choose not to identify RTCP flows, e.g. in order to avoid that
RTCP flows are always enabled by the server.
### 5.3.13 Specific-Action AVP
The Specific-Action AVP (AVP code 513) is of type Enumerated.
Within a PCRF initiated Re-Authorization Request, the Specific-Action AVP
determines the type of the action.
Within an initial AA request the AF may use the Specific-Action AVP to request
any specific actions from the server at the bearer events and to limit the
contact to such bearer events where specific action is required. If the
Specific-Action AVP is omitted within the initial AA request, no notification
of any of the events defined below is requested at this time.
For one time specific actions, as identified in the value descriptions below,
the AF may also provide the Specific-Action AVP with the applicable one-time-
specific-action value(s) in subsequent AA-Requests. Non-one-time-specific-
action value(s) may only be provided in the initial AA-Request and shall then
be applicable for the entire lifetime of the Rx session.
NOTE 1: One time specific actions are reported once the required action is
fulfilled and are not reported again unless the AF sends a new request.
NOTE 2: Unless otherwise stated in the definition of the specific action
value, when the AF requests specific actions in the initial AA-Request, the
PCRF reports that action whenever new related information is available during
the lifetime of the Rx session.
NOTE 2a: Whether the PCRF decides to report INDICATION_OF_RELEASE_OF_BEARER
(4) or INDICATION_OF_FAILED_RESOURCES_ALLOCATION (9) upon receipt of a bearer
failure from the PCEF is left to the implementation.
The following values are defined:
Void (0)
CHARGING_CORRELATION_EXCHANGE (1)
> Within a RAR, this value shall be used when the server reports the access
> network charging identifier to the AF. The Access-Network-Charging-
> Identifier AVP shall be included within the request. In the AAR, this value
> indicates that the AF requests the server to provide the access network
> charging identifier to the AF for each authorized flow, when the access
> network charging identifier becomes known at the PCRF.
INDICATION_OF_LOSS_OF_BEARER (2)
> Within a RAR, this value shall be used when the server reports a loss of a
> bearer (in the case of GPRS PDP context bandwidth modification to 0 kbit for
> GBR bearers) to the AF. The SDFs that are deactivated as a consequence of
> this loss of bearer shall be provided within the Flows AVP. In the AAR, this
> value indicates that the AF requests the server to provide a notification at
> the loss of a bearer.
INDICATION_OF_RECOVERY_OF_BEARER (3)
> Within a RAR, this value shall be used when the server reports a recovery of
> a bearer (in the case of 3GPP-GPRS or 3GPP-EPS when PGW interoperates with a
> Gn/Gp SGSN, PDP context bandwidth modification from 0 kbit to another value
> for GBR bearers) to the AF. The SDFs that are re-activated as a consequence
> of the recovery of bearer shall be provided within the Flows AVP. In the
> AAR, this value indicates that the AF requests the server to provide a
> notification at the recovery of a bearer.
INDICATION_OF_RELEASE_OF_BEARER (4)
> Within a RAR, this value shall be used when the server reports the release
> of a bearer (e.g. PDP context removal for 3GPP-GPRS or bearer/PDP context
> removal for 3GPP-EPS) to the AF. The SDFs that are deactivated as a
> consequence of this release of bearer shall be provided within the Flows
> AVP. In the AAR, this value indicates that the AF requests the server to
> provide a notification at the removal of a bearer.
Void (5)
IP-CAN_CHANGE (6)
> This value shall be used in RAR command by the PCRF to indicate a change in
> the IP-CAN type or RAT type (if the IP-CAN type is GPRS). When used in an
> AAR command, this value indicates that the AF is requesting subscription to
> IP-CAN change and RAT change notification. When used in RAR it indicates
> that the PCRF generated the request because of an IP-CAN or RAT change. IP-
> CAN-Type AVP and RAT-Type AVP (in case of 3GPP IP‑CAN) shall be provided in
> the same request with the new/valid value(s).
>
> If an IP-CAN type or RAT type change is due to IP flow mobility and a subset
> of the flows within the AF session is affected, the affected service data
> flows shall be provided in the same request.
INDICATION_OF_OUT_OF_CREDIT (7)
> Within a RAR, this value shall be used when the PCRF reports to the AF that
> SDFs have run out of credit, and that the termination action indicated by
> the corresponding Final-Unit-Action AVP applies (3GPP TS 32.240 [23] and
> 3GPP TS 32.299 [24]. The SDFs that are impacted as a consequence of the out
> of credit condition shall be provided within the Flows AVP. In the AAR, this
> value indicates that the AF requests the PCRF to provide a notification of
> SDFs for which credit is no longer available. Applicable to functionality
> introduced with the Rel8 feature as described in subclause 5.4.1.
INDICATION_OF_SUCCESSFUL_RESOURCES_ALLOCATION (8)
> Within a RAR, this value shall be used by the PCRF to indicate that the
> resources requested for particular service information have been
> successfully allocated. The SDFs corresponding to the resources successfully
> allocated shall be provided within the Flows AVP.
>
> In the AAR, this value indicates that the AF requests the PCRF to provide a
> notification when the resources associated to the corresponding service
> information have been allocated.
>
> Applicable to functionality introduced with the Rel8 feature as described in
> subclause 5.4.1.
>
> NOTE 3: This value applies to applications for which the successful resource
> allocation notification is required for their operation since subscription
> to this value impacts the resource allocation signalling overhead towards
> the PCEF/BBERF.
INDICATION_OF_FAILED_RESOURCES_ALLOCATION (9)
> Within a RAR, this value shall be used by the PCRF to indicate that the
> resources requested for a particular service information cannot be
> successfully allocated. The SDFs corresponding to the resources that could
> not be allocated shall be provided within the Flows AVP.
>
> In the AAR, this value indicates that the AF requests the PCRF to provide a
> notification when the resources associated to the corresponding service
> information cannot be allocated. Applicable to functionality introduced with
> the Rel8 feature as described in subclause 5.4.1.
>
> NOTE 4: This value applies to applications for which the unsuccessful
> resource allocation notification is required for their operation since
> subscription to this value impacts the resource allocation signalling
> overhead towards the PCEF/BBERF.
INDICATION_OF_LIMITED_PCC_DEPLOYMENT (10)
> Within a RAR, this value shall be used when the PCRF reports the limited PCC
> deployment (i.e. dynamically allocated resources are not applicable) as
> specified at Annex K and Annex L in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2] to the AF. In the
> AAR, this value indicates that the AF requests the PCRF to provide a
> notification for the limited PCC deployment. Applicable to functionality
> introduced with the Rel8 feature as described in subclause 5.4.1.
USAGE_REPORT (11)
> In the RA-Request (RAR), this value shall be used by the PCRF to report
> accumulated usage volume and/or time of usage when the usage threshold
> provided by the AF has been reached.
>
> In the AA-Request (AAR), this value indicates that the AF requests PCRF to
> report accumulated usage volume and /or time of usage when it reaches the
> threshold.
>
> Applicable to functionality introduced with the SponsoredConnectivity
> feature for volume usage reporting and with SCTimeBased UM feature for time
> usage reporting as described in subclause 5.4.1.
ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORT (12)
> In the RA-Request (RAR), this value shall be used by the PCRF to report
> access network information when the PCRF receiving an Access Network
> Information report corresponding to the AF session from the PCEF/BBERF.
>
> In the AA-Request (AAR), this value indicates that the AF requests PCRF to
> report one time access network information when the PCRF receives the first
> Access Network Information report corresponding to the AF session from the
> PCEF/BBERF after the AF request for the access network information. The
> required access information is provided within the Required-Access-Info AVP.
> Applicable to functionality introduced with the NetLoc feature as described
> in subclause 5.4.1.
>
> The Specific-Action AVP with this value indicates a one time specific
> action.
INDICATION_OF_RECOVERY_FROM_LIMITED_PCC_DEPLOYMENT (13)
> Within a RAR, this value shall be used when the PCRF reports the recovery
> from limited PCC deployment (i.e. the UE moves from the VPLMN to the HPLMN
> as specified at Annex K in 3GPP TS 23.203 [2]) to the AF. In the AAR, this
> value indicates that the AF requests the PCRF to provide a notification for
> the recovery from limited PCC deployment. Applicable to functionality
> introduced with the Rel8 feature as described in subclause 5.4.1.
NOTE 5: This value is optional and only applicable to the scenario where PCC
is deployed in the HPLMN but not in the VPLMN and dynamic policy provisioning
only occurs in the home routed roaming cases if no BBERF is employed.
INDICATION_OF_ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORTING_FAILURE (14)
> In the RAR, this value shall be used when the PCRF reports the access
> network information reporting failure. When applicable, the NetLoc-Access-
> Support AVP may be provided as well to indicate the reason for the access
> network information reporting failure. This specific action does not require
> to be provisioned by the AF. Applicable to functionality introduced with the
> NetLoc feature as described in subclause 5.4.1.
### 5.3.14 Max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL AVP
The Max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL AVP (AVP code 515) is of type Unsigned32, and
it indicates the maximum bandwidth in bits per second for a downlink IP flow.
The bandwidth contains all the overhead coming from the IP-layer and the
layers above, e.g. IP, UDP, RTP and RTP payload.
When provided in an AA-Request, it indicates the maximum requested bandwidth.
When provided in an AA-Answer, it indicates the maximum bandwidth acceptable
by PCRF.
### 5.3.15 Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL AVP
The Max --Bandwidth-UL AVP (AVP code 516) is of type Unsigned32, and it
indicates the maximum requested bandwidth in bits per second for an uplink IP
flow. The bandwidth contains all the overhead coming from the IP-layer and the
layers above, e.g. IP, UDP, RTP and RTP payload.
When provided in an AA-Request, it indicates the maximum requested bandwidth.
When provided in an AA-Answer, it indicates the maximum bandwidth acceptable
by PCRF.
### 5.3.16 Media-Component-Description AVP
The Media-Component-Description AVP (AVP code 517) is of type Grouped, and it
contains service information for a single media component within an AF session
or the AF signalling information. The service information may be based on the
SDI exchanged between the AF and the AF session client in the UE. The
information may be used by the PCRF to determine authorized QoS and IP flow
classifiers for bearer authorization and PCC rule selection.
Within one Diameter message, a single IP flow shall not be described by more
than one Media-Component-Description AVP.
Bandwidth information and Flow-Status information provided within the Media-
Component-Description AVP applies to all those IP flows within the media
component, for which no corresponding information is being provided within
Media-Sub-Component AVP(s).
If a Media-Component-Description AVP is not supplied by the AF, or if optional
AVP(s) within a Media-Component-Description AVP are omitted, but corresponding
information has been provided in previous Diameter messages, the previous
information for the corresponding IP flow(s) remains valid.
All IP flows within a Media-Component-Description AVP are permanently disabled
by supplying a Flow Status AVP with value \"REMOVED\". The server may delete
corresponding filters and state information.
Reservation-Priority provided within the Media-Component-Description AVP in
the request from the AF applies to all those IP flows within the media
component and describes the relative importance of the IP flow as compared to
other IP flows. The PCRF may use this value to implement priority based
admission. If the Reservation-Priority AVP is not specified the IP flow
priority is DEFAULT (0).
Each Media-Component-Description AVP shall contain either zero, or one, or two
Codec-Data AVPs. In the case of conflicts, information contained in other AVPs
either within this Media-Component-Description AVP, or within the
corresponding Media-Component-Description AVP in a previous message, shall
take precedence over information within the Codec-Data AVP(s). The AF shall
provision all the available information in other applicable AVPs in addition
to the information in the Codec-Data AVP, if such other AVPs are specified.
If the SDP offer-answer procedures of IETF RFC 3264 [18] are applicable for
the session negotiation between the two ends taking part in the communication
(e.g. for IMS), the following applies:
\- The AF shall provision information derived from an SDP answer and shall
also provision information derived from the corresponding SDP offer.
\- If the Media-Component-Description AVP contains two Codec-Data AVPs, one of
them shall represent an SDP offer and the other one the corresponding SDP
answer.
\- If the Media-Component-Description AVP contains one Codec-Data AVP, and
this AVP represents an SDP offer, the AF shall provision the corresponding SDP
answer information in a Codec-Data AVP within a subsequent Rx message.
NOTE: Some SDP parameters for the same codec in the SDP offer and answer are
independent of each other and refer to IP flows in opposite directions, for
instance some MIME parameters conveyed within \"a=fmtp\" SDP lines and the
packetization time within the \"a=ptime\" line. Other parameters within the
SDP answer take precedence over corresponding parameters within the SDP offer.
If SDP is applied without using the offer-answer procedures, zero or one
Codec-Data AVP shall be provisioned.
The PCRF may provide the Media-Component-Description AVP(s) within the
Acceptable-Service-Info AVP in the AA-Answer command if the service
information received from the AF is rejected. For this usage, the Media-
Component-Description AVP shall only include the appropriate Media-Component-
Number AVP and the Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL and/or Max-Requested-Bandwidth-
DL AVPs indicating the maximum acceptable bandwidth.
AVP format:
Media-Component-Description ::= \
{ Media-Component-Number } ; Ordinal number of the media comp.
*[ Media-Sub-Component ] ; Set of flows for one flow identifier
[ AF-Application-Identifier ]
[ Media-Type ]
[ Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL ]
[ Max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL ]
[ Min-Requested-Bandwidth-UL ]
[ Min-Requested-Bandwidth-DL ]
[ Flow-Status ]
**[ Reservation-Priority ]**
[ RS-Bandwidth ]
[ RR-Bandwidth ]
*[ Codec-Data ]
### 5.3.17 Media-Component-Number AVP
The Media-Component-Number AVP (AVP code 518) is of type Unsigned32, and it
contains the ordinal number of the media component, assigned according to the
rules in Annex B.
When this AVP refers to AF signalling, this is indicated by using the value 0
according to the rules in Annex B.
### 5.3.18 Media-Sub-Component AVP
The Media-Sub-Component AVP (AVP code 519) is of type Grouped, and it contains
the requested bitrate and filters for the set of IP flows identified by their
common Flow-Identifier. The Flow-Identifier is defined in Annex B.
Possible Bandwidth information and Flow-Status information provided within the
Media-Sub-Component AVP takes precedence over information within the
encapsulating Media Component Description AVP. If a Media-Sub-Component- AVP
is not supplied, or if optional AVP(s) within a Media-Sub-Component AVP are
omitted, but corresponding information has been provided in previous Diameter
messages, the previous information for the corresponding IP flow(s) remains
valid, unless new information is provided within the encapsulating
Media‑Component-Description AVP. If Flow-Description AVP(s) are supplied, they
replace all previous Flow‑Description AVP(s), even if a new Flow-Description
AVP has the opposite direction as the previous Flow‑Description AVP.
The AF-Signalling-Protocol AVP may be included only if the Flow-Usage AVP has
a value of \'AF_SIGNALLING\'.
All IP flows within a Media-Sub-Component- AVP are permanently disabled by
supplying a Flow Status AVP with value \"REMOVED\". The server may delete
corresponding filters and state information.
AVP format:
Media-Sub-Component ::= \
{ Flow-Number } ; Ordinal number of the IP flow
0*2[ Flow-Description ] ; UL and/or DL
[ Flow-Status ]
[ Flow-Usage ]
[ Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL ]
[ Max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL ]
[ AF-Signalling-Protocol ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.3.19 Media-Type AVP
The Media-Type AVP (AVP code 520) is of type Enumerated, and it determines the
media type of a session component. The media types indicate the type of media
in the same way as the SDP media types with the same names defined in RFC 4566
[13]. The following values are defined:
\- AUDIO (0)
\- VIDEO (1)
\- DATA (2)
\- APPLICATION (3)
\- CONTROL (4)
\- TEXT (5)
\- MESSAGE (6)
\- OTHER (0xFFFFFFFF)
### 5.3.20 RR-Bandwidth AVP
The RR-Bandwidth AVP (AVP code 521) is of type Unsigned32, and it indicates
the maximum required bandwidth in bits per second for RTCP receiver reports
within the session component, as specified in RFC 3556 [11]. The bandwidth
contains all the overhead coming from the IP-layer and the layers above, i.e.
IP, UDP and RTCP.
### 5.3.21 RS-Bandwidth AVP
The RS-Bandwidth AVP (AVP code 522) is of type Unsigned32, and it indicates
the maximum required bandwidth in bits per second for RTCP sender reports
within the session component, as specified in RFC 3556 [11]. The bandwidth
contains all the overhead coming from the IP-layer and the layers above, i.e.
IP, UDP and RTCP.
### 5.3.22 SIP-Forking-Indication AVP
The SIP-Forking-Indication AVP (AVP code 523) is of type Enumerated, and
describes if several SIP dialogues are related to one Diameter session:
SINGLE_DIALOGUE (0)
This value is used to indicate that the Diameter session relates to a single
SIP dialogue.\ This is the default value applicable if the AVP is omitted.
SEVERAL_DIALOGUES (1)
This value is used to indicate that the Diameter session relates to several
SIP dialogues.
### 5.3.23 Service-URN AVP
The Service-URN AVP (AVP code 525) is of type OctetString, and it indicates
that an AF session is used for emergency traffic.
It contains values of the service URN including subservices, as defined in
[21] or registered at IANA. The string \"urn:service:\" in the beginning of
the URN shall be omitted in the AVP and all subsequent text shall be included.
Examples of valid values of the AVP are \"sos\", \"sos.fire\", \"sos.police\"
and \"sos.ambulance\".
### 5.3.24 Acceptable-Service-Info AVP
The Acceptable-Service-Info AVP (AVP code 526) is of type Grouped, and
contains the maximum bandwidth for an AF session and/or for specific media
components that will be authorized by the PCRF. The Max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL
AVP and Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL AVP directly within the Acceptable-Service-
Info AVP indicate the acceptable bandwidth for the entire AF session. The Max-
Requested-Bandwidth-DL AVP and Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL AVP within a Media-
Component-Description AVP included in the Acceptable-Service-Info AVP indicate
the acceptable bandwidth for the corresponding media component.
If the acceptable bandwidth applies to one or more media components, only the
Media-Component-Description AVP will be provided. If the acceptable bandwidth
applies to the whole AF session, only the Max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL AVP and
Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL AVP will be included.
Acceptable-Service-Info::= \
*[ Media-Component-Description]
[ Max-Requested-Bandwidth-DL ]
[ Max-Requested-Bandwidth-UL ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.3.25 Service-Info-Status-AVP
The Service-Info-Status AVP (AVP code 527) is of type Enumerated, and
indicates the status of the service information that the AF is providing to
the PCRF. If the Service-Info-Status AVP is not provided in the AA request,
the value FINAL SERVICE INFORMATION shall be assumed.
FINAL SERVICE INFORMATION (0)
This value is used to indicate that the service has been fully negotiated
between the two ends and service information provided is the result of that
negotiation.
PRELIMINARY SERVICE INFORMATION (1)
This value is used to indicate that the service information that the AF has
provided to the PCRF is preliminary and needs to be further negotiated between
the two ends (e.g. for IMS when the service information is sent based on the
SDP offer).
### 5.3.26 AF-Signalling-Protocol-AVP
The AF-Signalling-Protocol AVP (AVP code 529) is of type Enumerated, and
indicates the protocol used for signalling between the UE and the AF. If the
AF-Signalling-Protocol AVP is not provided in the AA-Request, the value
NO_INFORMATION shall be assumed.
NO_INFORMATION (0)
This value is used to indicate that no information about the AF signalling
protocol is being provided.
SIP (1)
This value is used to indicate that the signalling protocol is Session
Initiation Protocol.
### 5.3.27 Sponsored-Connectivity-Data AVP
The Sponsored-Connectivity-Data AVP (AVP code 530) is of type Grouped, and
contains the data associated with the sponsored data connectivity.
The Sponsor-Identity AVP identifies the sponsor. It shall be included by the
AF in the Sponsored-Connectivity-Data AVP.
The Application-Service-Provider-Identity AVP identifies the application
service provider. It shall be included by the AF in the Sponsored-
Connectivity-Data AVP.
The Granted-Service-Unit AVP shall be used by the AF to provide usage
threshold to the PCRF if the volume and/or time of traffic allowed during the
sponsored data connectivity is to be monitored.
The Used-Service-Unit AVP shall be used by the PCRF to provide the measured
usage to the AF. Reporting shall be done, as requested by the AF, in CC-Total-
Octets, CC-Input-Octets, CC-Output-Octets or CC-Time of the Used-Service-Unit
AVP.
AVP format:
Sponsored-Connectivity-Data::= \
[ Sponsor-Identity ]
[ Application-Service-Provider-Identity ]
[ Granted-Service-Unit ]
[ Used-Service-Unit ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.3.28 Sponsor-Identity AVP
The Sponsor-Identity AVP (AVP code 531) is of type UTF8String and is used for
sponsored data connectivity purposes as an identifier of the sponsor.
### 5.3.29 Application-Service-Provider-Identity AVP
The Application-Service-Provider-Identity AVP (AVP code 532) is of type
UTF8String and is used for sponsored data connectivity purposes as an
identifier of the application service provider.
### 5.3.30 MPS-Identifier AVP
The MPS-Identifier AVP (AVP code 528) is of type OctetString, and it indicates
that an AF session relates to an MPS session. It contains the national variant
for MPS service name (e.g., NGN GETS).
### 5.3.31 Rx-Request-Type AVP
The Rx-Request-Type AVP (AVP code 533) is of type Enumerated, and contains the
reason for sending the AA-Request message.
The following values are defined:
INITIAL_REQUEST (0)
An initial request is used to initiate an Rx session and contains information
that is relevant to initiation.
UPDATE_REQUEST (1)
An update request is used to update an existing Rx session.
PCSCF_RESTORATION (2)
A P-CSCF Restoration is requested. This value is only applicable to the PCSCF-
Restoration-Enhancement feature defined in clause 5.4.1.
### 5.3.32 Min-Requested-Bandwidth-DL AVP
The Min-Requested-Bandwidth-DL AVP (AVP code 534) is of type Unsigned32, and
it indicates the minimum requested bandwidth in bits per second for a downlink
IP flow. The bandwidth contains all the overhead coming from the IP-layer and
the layers above, e.g. IP, TCP, UDP, HTTP, RTP and RTP payload.
When provided in an AA-Request, it indicates the minimum requested bandwidth.
### 5.3.33 Min-Requested-Bandwidth-UL AVP
The Min-Requested-Bandwidth-UL AVP (AVP code 535) is of type Unsigned32, and
it indicates the minimum requested bandwidth in bits per second for an uplink
IP flow. The bandwidth contains all the overhead coming from the IP-layer and
the layers above, e.g. IP, TCP, UDP, HTTP, RTP and RTP payload.
When provided in an AA-Request, it indicates the minimum requested bandwidth.
### 5.3.34 Required-Access-Info AVP
The Required-Access-Info AVP (AVP code 536) is of type Enumerated, and
contains the access network information required for that AF session.
The following values are defined:
USER_LOCATION (0)
Indicates that the user location information shall be reported, the PCRF shall
report the user location information within the 3GPP-User-Location-Info AVP
(if available), the serving PLMN identifier within the 3GPP-SGSN-MCC-MNC AVP
(if available), the user location information within the TWAN-Identifier (if
available) and User-Location-Info-Time AVP (if available).
MS_TIME_ZONE (1)
Indicates that the user timezone information shall be reported, the PCRF shall
report the user timezone information within the 3GPP-MS-TimeZone AVP.
### 5.3.35 IP-Domain-Id AVP
The IP-Domain-Id AVP (AVP code 537) is of type (OctetString), and indicates
the domain information which assists session binding.
### 5.3.36 GCS-Identifier AVP
The GCS-Identifier AVP (AVP code 538) is of type OctetString, and it indicates
that an AF session relates to a Group Communication session that requires
prioritization.The values that identify the Group Communication session are
not specified.
## 5.4 Rx re-used AVPs
### 5.4.0 General
Table 5.4.0.1 lists the Diameter AVPs re-used by the Rx reference point from
existing Diameter Applications, including a reference to their respective
specifications and when needed, a short description of their usage within the
Rx reference point. Other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for
the AVPs from Diameter Base Protocol, do not need to be supported. The AVPs
from Diameter Base Protocol are not included in table 5.4.0.1, but they are
re-used for the Rx protocol. Unless otherwise stated, re-used AVPs shall
maintain their \'M\', \'P\' and \'V\' flag settings. Where 3GPP Radius VSAs
are re-used, unless otherwise stated, they shall be translated to Diameter
AVPs as described in RFC 4005 [12] with the exception that the \'M\' flag
shall be set and the \'P\' flag may be set.
Table 5.4.0.1: Rx re-used Diameter AVPs
+----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Attribute Name | Reference | Comments | Applicability | | | | | (notes 1, 2) | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3G | TS | Indicates the | NetLoc | | PP-MS-TimeZone | 29.061 [34] | offset between | | | | | universal time | RAN-NAS-Cause | | | | and local time | | | | | in steps of 15 | | | | | minutes of | | | | | where the MS | | | | | currently | | | | | resides. | | | | | | | | | | This AVP shall | | | | | have the \'M\' | | | | | bit cleared. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3GP | TS | Indicates the | NetLoc, | | P-SGSN-MCC-MNC | 29.061 [34] | serving core | Netlo | | | | network | c-Trusted-WLAN | | | | operator ID. | | | | | For GPRS | RAN-NAS-Cause | | | | accesses the | | | | | MCC and the | | | | | MNC of the | | | | | SGSN. | | | | | | | | | | For EPS the | | | | | MCC and the | | | | | MNC provided | | | | | by the SGW or | | | | | TWAG. | | | | | | | | | | This AVP shall | | | | | have the \'M\' | | | | | bit cleared. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | 3GPP-User | TS | Indicates | NetLoc | | -Location-Info | 29.061 [34] | details of | | | | | where the UE | RAN-NAS-Cause | | | | is currently | | | | | located (e.g. | | | | | SAI or | | | | | CGI),Coding | | | | | shall be done | | | | | as defined in | | | | | TS | | | | | 29.274 [33]. | | | | | | | | | | This AVP shall | | | | | have the \'M\' | | | | | bit cleared. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | User-Loca | T | Indicates the | NetLoc | | tion-Info-Time | S 29.212 [8] | time the UE | | | | | was last known | RAN-NAS-Cause | | | | to be in the | | | | | location which | | | | | is reported | | | | | during bearer | | | | | deactivation | | | | | or IP-CAN | | | | | session | | | | | termination | | | | | procedure. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Cal | R | The PDN the | Rel8 | | led-Station-Id | FC 4005 [12] | user is | | | | | connected to. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Fin | R | The action | Rel8 | | al-Unit-Action | FC 4006 [14] | applied by the | | | | | PCEF when the | | | | | user\'s | | | | | account cannot | | | | | cover the | | | | | service cost. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Fra | R | The valid | | | med-IP-Address | FC 4005 [12] | routable Ipv4 | | | | | address that | | | | | is applicable | | | | | for the IP | | | | | Flows towards | | | | | the UE at the | | | | | PCEF. The PCRF | | | | | shall use this | | | | | address to | | | | | identify the | | | | | correct IP‑CAN | | | | | session | | | | | (session | | | | | binding). For | | | | | example, the | | | | | IP address may | | | | | actually be | | | | | that of the | | | | | network | | | | | interface of a | | | | | NAT device | | | | | between the UE | | | | | and the GW. | | | | | The values | | | | | | | | | | 0xFFFFFFFF and | | | | | 0xFFFFFFFE are | | | | | not applicable | | | | | as described | | | | | in | | | | | RF | | | | | C 4005 [12]. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Fram | R | A valid full | | | ed-Ipv6-Prefix | FC 4005 [12] | Ipv6 address | | | | | that is | | | | | applicable to | | | | | an IP flow or | | | | | IP flows | | | | | towards the UE | | | | | at the PCEF. | | | | | The PCRF shall | | | | | use this | | | | | address to | | | | | identify the | | | | | correct IP-CAN | | | | | session | | | | | (session | | | | | binding, refer | | | | | to | | | | | TS | | | | | 29.213 [9]). | | | | | For example, | | | | | the IP address | | | | | may actually | | | | | be that of the | | | | | network | | | | | interface of a | | | | | NAT device | | | | | between the UE | | | | | and the GW. | | | | | | | | | | The encoding | | | | | of the value | | | | | within this | | | | | Octet String | | | | | type AVP shall | | | | | be as defined | | | | | in | | | | | RF | | | | | C 3162 [20], | | | | | clause 2.3. | | | | | The | | | | | \"Reserved\", | | | | | \"P | | | | | refix-Length\" | | | | | and \"Prefix\" | | | | | fields shall | | | | | be included in | | | | | this order. | | | | | The AF shall | | | | | set the | | | | | \"Prefix | | | | | Length\" to | | | | | 128 and encode | | | | | the Ipv6 | | | | | address of the | | | | | UE within the | | | | | \"Prefix\" | | | | | field. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Grante | R | The volume | Sponsore | | d-Service-Unit | FC 4006 [14] | and/or time | dConnectivity, | | (NOTE 3) | | thresholds for | | | | | sponsored data | SCTimeBasedUM | | | | connectivity. | | | | | Only | | | | | CC | | | | | -Total-Octets, | | | | | one of the | | | | | C | | | | | C-Input-Octets | | | | | and | | | | | CC- | | | | | Output-Octets, | | | | | or CC-Time | | | | | AVPs are | | | | | reused. | | | | | | | | | | This AVP shall | | | | | have the \'M\' | | | | | bit cleared. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | IP-CAN-Type | T | IP-CAN type of | | | | S 29.212 [8] | the user. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | OC-OLR | IETF | Contains the | | | | RFC7683 [35] | necessary | | | | | information to | | | | | convey an | | | | | overload | | | | | report | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | OC-Supp | IETF | Defines the | | | orted-Features | RFC7683 [35] | support for | | | | | the Diameter | | | | | overload | | | | | indication | | | | | conveyence by | | | | | the sending | | | | | node | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RAN-NAS | T | Indicates RAN | RAN-NAS-Cause | | -Release-Cause | S 29.212 [8] | and/or NAS | | | | | release cause | | | | | code | | | | | information. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NetLoc- | T | Indicates the | NetLoc | | Access-Support | S 29.212 [8] | level of | | | | | support for | | | | | NetLoc | | | | | procedures | | | | | provided by | | | | | the current | | | | | access | | | | | network. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | RAT-Type | T | Indicate which | Rel8 | | | S 29.212 [8] | Radio Access | | | | | Technology is | | | | | currently | | | | | serving the | | | | | UE. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Reserv | TS | The vendor-id | | | ation-Priority | 183.017 [15] | shall be set | | | | | to ETSI | | | | | ( | | | | | 13019) [15]. | | | | | | | | | | The support of | | | | | this AVP shall | | | | | be advertised | | | | | in the | | | | | capabilities | | | | | exchange | | | | | mechanisms | | | | | (CER/CEA) by | | | | | including the | | | | | ETSI parameter | | | | | in the | | | | | Suppo | | | | | rted-Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | S | R | The | | | ubscription-Id | FC 4006 [14] | identification | | | | | of the | | | | | subscription | | | | | (IMSI, MSISDN, | | | | | etc.) | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Supp | TS | If present, | Rel8 | | orted-Features | 29.229 [25] | this AVP | | | | | informs the | | | | | destination | | | | | host about the | | | | | features that | | | | | the origin | | | | | host requires | | | | | to | | | | | successfully | | | | | complete this | | | | | command | | | | | exchange. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | Use | R | The measured | Sponsor | | d-Service-Unit | FC 4006 [14] | volume and/or | edConnectivity | | | | time for | | | (NOTE 3) | | sponsored data | SCTimeBasedUM | | | | connectivity. | | | | | Only | | | | | CC | | | | | -Total-Octets, | | | | | one of the | | | | | C | | | | | C-Input-Octets | | | | | and | | | | | CC- | | | | | Output-Octets, | | | | | or CC-Time | | | | | AVPs are | | | | | reused. | | | | | | | | | | This AVP shall | | | | | have the \'M\' | | | | | bit cleared. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | T | TS | Indicates the | Netlo | | WAN-Identifier | 29.061 [34] | UE location in | c-Trusted-WLAN | | | | a Trusted WLAN | | | | | Access | RAN-NAS-Cause | | | | Network. | | | | | | | | | | This AVP shall | | | | | have the \'M\' | | | | | bit cleared. | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+ | NOTE 1: AVPs | | | | | marked with | | | | | \"Rel8\" are | | | | | applicable as | | | | | described in | | | | | clause 5.4.1. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: AVPs | | | | | marked with | | | | | \"Sponsored | | | | | Connectivity\" | | | | | are applicable | | | | | for sponsored | | | | | data | | | | | connectivity. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Volume | | | | | Usage | | | | | monitoring | | | | | control | | | | | functionality | | | | | is applicable | | | | | for | | | | | Sponsor | | | | | edConnectivity | | | | | supported | | | | | feature. Time | | | | | Based Usage | | | | | monitoring | | | | | control is | | | | | applicable for | | | | | SCTimeBasedUM | | | | | supported | | | | | feature. | | | | +----------------+----------------+----------------+----------------+
### 5.4.1 Use of the Supported-Features AVP on the Rx reference point
The Supported-Features AVP is used during session establishment to inform the
destination host about the required and optional features that the origin host
supports. The client shall, in the first request of a Diameter session
indicate the set of supported features. The server shall, in the first answer
within the Diameter session indicate the set of features that it has in common
with the client and that the server shall support within the same Diameter
session. Any further command messages shall always be compliant with the list
of supported features indicated in the Supported-Features AVPs during session
establishment. Features that are not advertised as supported shall not be used
to construct the command messages for that Diameter session. Unless otherwise
stated, the use of the Supported-Features AVP on the Rx reference point shall
be compliant with the requirements for dynamic discovery of supported features
and associated error handling on the Cx reference point as defined in clause
7.2.1 of 3GPP TS 29.229 [25].
The base functionality for the Rx reference point is the 3GPP Rel-7 standard
and a feature is an extension to that functionality. If the origin host does
not support any features beyond the base functionality, the Supported-Features
AVP may be absent from the Rx commands. As defined in clause 7.1.1 of 3GPP TS
29.229 [25], when extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature,
the new AVPs shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined
mandatory in the command ABNF.
As defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [25], the Supported-Features AVP is of type
grouped and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On
the Rx reference point, the Supported-Features AVP is used to identify
features that have been defined by 3GPP and hence, for features defined in
this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain the vendor ID of 3GPP (10415).
If there are multiple feature lists defined for the Rx reference point, the
Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists from one another.
On receiving an initial request application message, the destination host
shall act as defined in clause 7.2.1 of 3GPP TS 29.229 [25]. The following
exceptions apply to the initial and stateless AAR/AAA command pair:
\- If the AF supporting post-Rel-7 Rx functionality is able to interoperate
with a PCRF supporting Rel-7, the AAR shall include the features supported by
the AF within Supported-Features AVP(s) with the \'M\' bit cleared. Otherwise,
the AAR shall include the supported features within the Supported-Features
AVP(s) with the M-bit set.
NOTE 1: One instance of Supported-Features AVP is needed per Feature-List-ID.
\- If the AAR command does not contain any Supported-Features AVP(s) and the
PCRF supports Rel-7 Rx functionality, the AAA command shall not include the
Supported-Features AVP. In this case, both AF and PCRF shall behave as
specified in the Rel-7 version of this document.
\- If the AAR command contains the Supported-Features AVP(s), the PCRF shall
include the Supported-Features AVP(s) in the AAA command, with the \'M\' bit
cleared, indicating only the features that both the PCRF and AF support.
NOTE 2: The client will always declare all features that are supported
according to table 5.4.1.1. When more than one feature identifying a release
is supported by both AF and PCRF, the AF will work according to the latest
common supported release.
Once the PCRF and AF have negotiated the set of supported features during
session establishment, the set of common features shall be used during the
lifetime of the Diameter session.
The table below defines the features applicable to the Rx interfaces for the
feature list with a Feature-List-ID of 1.
Table 5.4.1.1: Features of Feature-List-ID 1 used in Rx
+-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Feature bit | Feature | M/O | Description | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 0 | Rel8 | M | This feature | | | | | indicates the | | | | | support of the | | | | | base 3GPP Rel-8 | | | | | functionality, | | | | | including the | | | | | AVPs and | | | | | corresponding | | | | | procedures | | | | | supported by the | | | | | base 3GPP Rel-7 | | | | | Rx standard, but | | | | | excluding those | | | | | features | | | | | represented by | | | | | separate feature | | | | | bits. AVPs | | | | | introduced with | | | | | this feature are | | | | | marked with | | | | | \"Rel8\" in Table | | | | | 5.4.0.1 | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 1 | Rel9 | M | This feature | | | | | indicates the | | | | | support of the | | | | | base 3GPP Rel-9 | | | | | functionality, | | | | | including the | | | | | AVPs and | | | | | corresponding | | | | | procedures | | | | | supported by the | | | | | Rel8 feature bit, | | | | | but excluding | | | | | those features | | | | | represented by | | | | | separate feature | | | | | bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 2 | ProvAFsignalFlow | O | This indicates | | | | | support for the | | | | | feature of | | | | | provisioning of | | | | | AF signalling | | | | | flow information | | | | | as described in | | | | | subclause 4.4.5a. | | | | | If the PCRF | | | | | supports this | | | | | feature the AF | | | | | may provision AF | | | | | signalling flow | | | | | information. | | | | | | | | | | > NOTE: This | | | | | > feature is used | | | | | > by the IMS | | | | | > Restoration | | | | | > Procedures to | | | | | > provide to the | | | | | > PDN-Gateway the | | | | | > address of the | | | | | > P-CSCF selected | | | | | > by the UE, | | | | | > refer to | | | | | > | | | | | TS 23.380 [28]. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 3 | Spon | O | This feature | | | soredConnectivity | | indicates support | | | | | for sponsored | | | | | data connectivity | | | | | feature. If the | | | | | PCRF supports | | | | | this feature, the | | | | | AF may provide | | | | | sponsored data | | | | | connectivity to | | | | | the subscriber. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 4 | Rel10 | M | This feature | | | | | indicates the | | | | | support of the | | | | | base 3GPP Rel-10 | | | | | functionality, | | | | | including the | | | | | AVPs and | | | | | corresponding | | | | | procedures | | | | | supported by the | | | | | Rel8 and Rel9 | | | | | feature bit, but | | | | | excluding those | | | | | features | | | | | represented by | | | | | separate feature | | | | | bits. AVPs | | | | | introduced with | | | | | this feature are | | | | | marked with | | | | | \"Rel10\" in | | | | | table 5.3.1. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 5 | NetLoc | O | This feature | | | | | indicates the | | | | | support of the | | | | | Access Network | | | | | Information | | | | | Reporting. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 6 | ExtendedFilter | O | This feature | | | | | indicates the | | | | | support for the | | | | | local (i.e. UE) | | | | | address and mask | | | | | being present in | | | | | filters signalled | | | | | between network | | | | | and UE. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 7 | SCTimeBasedUM | O | This feature | | | | | indicates support | | | | | for sponsored | | | | | data connectivity | | | | | feature with | | | | | time-based usage | | | | | monitoring | | | | | control required. | | | | | If the PCRF | | | | | supports this | | | | | feature, the AF | | | | | may provide time | | | | | threshold for the | | | | | usage monitoring | | | | | control. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 8 | Ne | O | This feature | | | tloc-Trusted-WLAN | | indicates the | | | | | support for the | | | | | Trusted WLAN | | | | | access.It | | | | | requires that | | | | | NetLoc feature is | | | | | also supported. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 9 | RAN-NAS-Cause | O | This feature | | | | | indicates the | | | | | support for the | | | | | detailed release | | | | | cause code | | | | | information (NOTE | | | | | 1) from the | | | | | access network. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 10 | GroupComService | O | This feature | | | | | indicates the | | | | | support of Group | | | | | Communication | | | | | services as | | | | | described in | | | | | TS 23.468 [36] | | | | | for unicast | | | | | services. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Feature bit: The | | | | | order number of | | | | | the bit within | | | | | the | | | | | **Feature-List | | | | | AVP where the | | | | | least significant | | | | | bit is assigned | | | | | number \"0\".** | | | | | | | | | | **Feature: A | | | | | short name that | | | | | can be used to | | | | | refer to the bit | | | | | and to the | | | | | feature, e.g. | | | | | \"EPS\".** | | | | | | | | | | **M/O: Defines if | | | | | the | | | | | implementation of | | | | | the feature is | | | | | mandatory (\"M\") | | | | | or optional | | | | | (\"O\").** | | | | | | | | | | Description: A | | | | | clear textual | | | | | description of | | | | | the feature. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 1: In this | | | | | release, the | | | | | release cause | | | | | code information | | | | | from the access | | | | | network can | | | | | include RAN/NAS | | | | | release cause(s). | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+
Table 5.4.1.2: Features of Feature-List-ID 2 used in Rx
+-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Feature bit | Feature | M/O | Description | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | 0 | PCSCF-Restor | O | This feature | | | ation-Enhancement | | indicates support | | | | | of P-CSCF | | | | | Restoration | | | | | Enhancement. It | | | | | is used for the | | | | | PCRF and the | | | | | P-CSCF to | | | | | indicate if they | | | | | support P-CSCF | | | | | Restoration | | | | | Enhancement. | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+ | Feature bit: The | | | | | order number of | | | | | the bit within | | | | | the | | | | | **Feature-List | | | | | AVP where the | | | | | least significant | | | | | bit is assigned | | | | | number \"0\".** | | | | | | | | | | **Feature: A | | | | | short name that | | | | | can be used to | | | | | refer to the bit | | | | | and to the | | | | | feature, e.g. | | | | | \"EPS\".** | | | | | | | | | | **M/O: Defines if | | | | | the | | | | | implementation of | | | | | the feature is | | | | | mandatory (\"M\") | | | | | or optional | | | | | (\"O\").** | | | | | | | | | | Description: A | | | | | clear textual | | | | | description of | | | | | the feature. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-----+-------------------+
## 5.5 Rx specific Experimental-Result-Code AVP values
RFC 3588 [10] specifies the Experimental-Result AVP containing Vendor-ID AVP
and Experimental-Result-Code AVP. The Experimental-Result-Code AVP (AVP Code
298) is of type Unsigned32 and contains a vendor-assigned value representing
the result of processing a request. The Vendor-ID AVP shall be set to 3GPP
(10415).
Specific values of the Rx specific Experimental-Result-Code AVP are:
INVALID_SERVICE_INFORMATION (5061)
The PCRF rejects new or modified service information the service information
provided by the AF is invalid or insufficient for the server to perform the
requested action.
FILTER_RESTRICTIONS (5062)
The PCRF rejects new or modified service information because the Flow-
Description AVP(s) cannot be handled by the server because restrictions
defined in clause 5.3.7 are not observed.
REQUESTED_SERVICE_NOT_AUTHORIZED (5063)
The PCRF rejects new or modified service information because the requested
service, as described by the service information provided by the AF, is not
consistent with either the related subscription information, operator defined
policy rules and/or the supported features in the IP-CAN network.
DUPLICATED_AF_SESSION (5064)
The PCRF rejects a new Rx session setup because the new Rx session relates to
an AF session with another related active Rx session, e.g. if the AF provided
the same AF charging identifier for this new Rx session that is already in use
for the other ongoing Rx session.
IP-CAN_SESSION_NOT_AVAILABLE (5065)
The PCRF rejects a new Rx session setup when it fails to associate the
described service IP flows within the session information received from the AF
to an existing IP-CAN session.
UNAUTHORIZED_NON_EMERGENCY_SESSION (5066)
The PCRF rejects a new Rx session setup because the session binding function
associated a non-Emergency IMS session to an IP-CAN session established to an
Emergency APN.
UNAUTHORIZED_SPONSORED_DATA_CONNECTIVITY (5067)
> The PCRF rejects a new Rx session setup because the PCRF can\'t authorize
> the sponsored data connectivity based on the sponsored data connectivity
> profile or the operator policy (e.g. the sponsored data connectivity not
> authorized in the roaming case).
TEMPORARY_NETWORK_FAILURE (5068)
The PCRF rejects new or modified service information because there is a
temporary failure in the access network (e.g. the SGW has failed).
## 5.6 Rx messages
Existing Diameter command codes from the Diameter base protocol RFC 3588 [10]
and the NASREQ Diameter application (RFC 4005 [12]) are used with the Rx
specific AVPs. An Rx specific Auth‑Application id is used together with the
command code to identify the Rx messages.
NOTE 1: The notion of NAS (Network Access Server) is not used here, NASREQ is
just used for protocol purposes, not for its functional meaning.
NOTE 2: Some of the AVPs included in the messages formats below are in bold to
highlight that these AVPs are used by this specific protocol and do not belong
to the original Diameter Base Protocol RFC 3588 [10].
NOTE3: Multiple instances of the Subscription-Id AVP in the AAR or RAR command
correspond to multiple types of identifier for the same subscriber, for
example IMSI and MSISDN.
### 5.6.1 AA-Request (AAR) command
The AAR command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 265 and the \'R\'
bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by an AF to the PCRF in order to
provide it with the Session Information.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Auth-Application-Id }
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
{ Destination-Realm }
[ Destination-Host ]
[ IP-Domain-Id ]
[ Auth-Session-State ]
**[ AF-Application-Identifier ]**
***[ Media-Component-Description ]**
**[ Service-Info-Status ]**
**[ AF-Charging-Identifier ]**
**[ SIP-Forking-Indication ]**
***[ Specific-Action ]**
***[ Subscription-Id ]**
**[ OC-Supported-Features ]**
***[ Supported-Features ]**
**[ Reservation-Priority ]**
**[ Framed-IP-Address ]**
**[ Framed-Ipv6-Prefix ]**
**[ Called-Station-Id ]**
**[ Service-URN ]**
**[ Sponsored-Connectivity-Data ]**
**[ MPS-Identifier ]**
**[ GCS-Identifier ]**
**[ Rx-Request-Type ]**
***[ Required-Access-Info ]**
[ Origin-State-Id ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ Route-Record ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.6.2 AA-Answer (AAA) command
The AAA command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 265 and the \'R\'
bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by the PCRF to the AF in
response to the AAR command.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Auth-Application-Id }
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
[ Result-Code ]
[ Experimental-Result ]
[ Auth-Session-State ]
***[ Access-Network-Charging-Identifier ]**
**[ Access-Network-Charging-Address ]**
**[ Acceptable-Service-Info ]**
**[ IP-CAN-Type ]**
**[ NetLoc-Access-Support ]**
[ RAT-Type ]
***[ Flows ]**
**[ OC-Supported-Features ]**
**[ OC-OLR ]**
*[ Supported-Features ]
*[ Class ]
[ Error-Message ]
[ Error-Reporting-Host ]
*[ Failed-AVP ]
[ Origin-State-Id ]
*[ Redirect-Host ]
[ Redirect-Host-Usage ]
[ Redirect-Max-Cache-Time ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.6.3 Re-Auth-Request (RAR) command
The RAR command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 258 and the \'R\'
bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by the PCRF to the AF in order to
indicate an Rx specific action.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
{ Destination-Realm }
{ Destination-Host }
{ Auth-Application-Id }
*{ Specific-Action }
**[ OC-Supported-Features ]**
***[ Access-Network-Charging-Identifier ]**
**[ Access-Network-Charging-Address ]**
***[ Flows ]**
***[ Subscription-Id ]**
**[ Abort-Cause ]**
**[ IP-CAN-Type ]**
**[ NetLoc-Access-Support ]**
**[ RAT-Type ]**
**[ Sponsored-Connectivity-Data ]**
**[ 3GPP-User-Location-Info ]**
**[ User-Location-Info-Time** ]
**[ 3GPP-MS-TimeZone ]**
***[ RAN-NAS-Release-Cause ]**
**[ 3GPP-SGSN-MCC-MNC ]**
**[ TWAN-Identifier ]**
[ Origin-State-Id ]
*[ Class ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ Route-Record ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.6.4 Re-Auth-Answer (RAA) command
The RAA command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 258 and the \'R\'
bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by the AF to the PCRF in
response to the RAR command.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
[ Result-Code ]
[ Experimental-Result ]
**[ OC-Supported-Features ]**
**[ OC-OLR ]**
***[ Media-Component-Description ]**
**[ Service-URN ]**
[ Origin-State-Id ]
*[ Class ]
[ Error-Message ]
[ Error-Reporting-Host ]
*[ Redirect-Host ]
[ Redirect-Host-Usage ]
[ Redirect-Max-Cache-Time ]
*[ Failed-AVP ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.6.5 Session-Termination-Request (STR) command
The S3GPP TR command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 275 and the
\'R\' bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by the AF to inform the PCRF
that an established session shall be terminated.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
{ Destination-Realm }
{ Auth-Application-Id }
{ Termination-Cause }
[ Destination-Host ]
**[ OC-Supported-Features ]**
***[ Required-Access-Info ]**
*[ Class ]
[ Origin-State-Id ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ Route-Record ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.6.6 Session-Termination-Answer (STA) command
The STA command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 275 and the \'R\'
bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by the PCRF to the AF in
response to the S3GPP TR command.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
[ Result-Code ]
[ Error-Message ]
[ Error-Reporting-Host ]
**[ OC-Supported-Features ]**
**[ OC-OLR ]**
[ Failed-AVP ]
**[ Sponsored-Connectivity-Data ]**
[ Origin-State-Id ]
**[ 3GPP-User-Location-Info ]**
**[ User-Location-Info-Time ]**
**[ 3GPP-MS-TimeZone ]**
***[ RAN-NAS-Release-Cause ]**
**[ 3GPP-SGSN-MCC-MNC ]**
**[ TWAN-Identifier ]**
**[ Netloc-Access-Support ]**
*[ Class ]
*[ Redirect-Host ]
[ Redirect-Host-Usage ]
[ Redirect-Max-Cache-Time ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.6.7 Abort-Session-Request (ASR) command
The ASR command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 274 and the \'R\'
bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent by the PCRF to inform the AF that
bearer for the established session is no longer available.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
{ Destination-Realm }
{ Destination-Host }
{ Auth-Application-Id }
**[ OC-Supported-Features ]**
**{ Abort-Cause }**
[ Origin-State-Id ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ Route-Record ]
*[ AVP ]
### 5.6.8 Abort-Session-Answer (ASA) command
The ASA command, indicated by the Command-Code field set to 274 and the \'R\'
bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is sent by the AF to the PCRF in
response to the ASR command.
Message Format:
\ ::= \
\
{ Origin-Host }
{ Origin-Realm }
[ Result-Code ]
**[ OC-Supported-Features ]**
**[ OC-OLR ]**
[ Origin-State-Id ]
[ Error-Message ]
[ Error-Reporting-Host ]
*[ Failed-AVP ]
*[ Redirect-Host ]
[ Redirect-Host-Usage ]
[ Redirect-Max-Cache-Time ]
*[ Proxy-Info ]
*[ AVP ]
###### ## Annex A (normative): IMS Related P-CSCF Procedures over Rx
# A.1 Provision of Service Information at P-CSCF
The P-CSCF shall send service information to the PCRF upon every SIP message
that includes an SDP answer payload for the purpose of authorizing the IP
flows and the QoS resources required for a negotiated IMS session, unless the
SDP payload only relates to a circuit-switched bearer (i.e. \"c=\" line set to
\"PSTN\" and an \"m=\" line set to \"PSTN\", refer to 3GPP TS 24.292 [26]).
The service information shall be derived both from the SDP offer and the SDP
answer. This ensures that the PCRF receives proper information to perform
media authorization for all possible IMS session set-up scenarios, and that
the PCRF is also capable of handling session modifications. The P-CSCF may
include the Service-Info-Status AVP with the value set to
FINAL_SERVICE_INFORMATION.
Additionally, the P-CSCF may send service information to the PCRF when
receiving a SIP message that includes an SDP offer payload for the purpose of
performing an early bandwidth authorization check, or for enabling pre-
authorization for a UE terminated IMS session establishment or modification
with UE initiated resource reservation, or for the retrieval of network
provided access network information (see subclause A.10.2). The P-CSCF shall
send service information to the PCRF when receiving a SIP message that
includes an SDP offer payload when the IMS session is an MPS session that
requires priority treatment. For a UE terminated session the P-CSCF may send
the service information derived from the SDP offer when the SDP offer either
does not include any preconditions information or includes preconditions
information indicating that the local preconditions (i.e. the preconditions
related to the remote peer) are already met. In this case, the P-CSCF shall
derive the service information only from the SDP offer and shall include the
Service-Info-Status AVP with the value set to PRELIMINARY SERVICE INFORMATION.
NOTE: For a UE terminated session setup, when the SDP offer either does not
include any preconditions information or includes preconditions information
indicating that the local preconditions (i.e. the preconditions related to the
remote peer) are already met, the terminating UE can request a resource
modification prior to sending the SDP answer. Even if the IP address and port
information in the session information derived from the SDP offer can be
insufficient for PCC rule authorization, the policy to handle such UE
initiated requests at the PCRF can take into account the fact that an IMS
session establishment is ongoing, for instance in deciding whether to
authorize the request and in selecting an appropriate charging key and a
gating policy.
The P-CSCF shall derive Flow-Description AVP within the service information
from the SDP as follows:
\- An uplink Flow-Description AVP shall be formed as follows: The destination
address shall be taken from the SDP information received by the P-CSCF in
downlink direction, while the source IP address may be formed from the address
present in the SDP received by the P-CSCF in uplink direction (taking into
account only the 64 bit prefix of the Ipv6 address) Source and destination
ports shall be derived according to rules provided in 3GPP TS 29.213 [9]
subclause 6.2.
EXAMPLE 1: Assuming UE A sends an SDP to UE B, the PCRF of UE B uses the
address present in this SDP for the destination address of UE B\'s uplink
Flow-Description AVP, while the PCRF of the UE A uses the 64 bit prefix of the
same address for the source address of UE A\'s uplink Flow‑Description AVP. If
the source address is not formed from the 64 bit prefix, the source address
shall be wildcarded.
\- A downlink Flow-Description AVP shall be formed as follows: The destination
address shall be taken from the SDP information received by the P-CSCF in
uplink direction, while the source IP address may be formed (in order to
reduce the possibilities of bearer misuse) from the destination address in the
SDP received by the P-CSCF in downlink direction (taking into account only the
64 bit prefix of the Ipv6 address) Source and destination ports shall be
derived according to rules provided in 3GPP TS 29.213 [9] subclause 6.2.
EXAMPLE 2: Assuming UE A sends an SDP to UE B, the PCRF of UE A uses the
address present in this SDP for the destination address of UE A\'s downlink
Flow-Description AVP, while the PCRF of UE B uses the 64 bit prefix of the
same address for the source address of UE B\'s downlink Flow‑Description AVP.
If the source address is not formed from the 64 bit prefix, the source address
shall be wildcarded.
The P-CSCF shall derive the bandwidth information within the service
information, from the \"b=AS\" SDP parameter, as detailed in 3GPP TS 29.213
[9] subclause 6.2. For the possibly associated RTCP IP flows, the P-CSCF shall
use the SDP \"b=RR\" and \"b=RS\" parameters, if present, as specified in 3GPP
TS 29.213 [9] subclause 6.2. The \"b=AS\", \"b=RR\" and \"b=RS\" parameters in
the SDP contain all the overhead coming from the IP-layer and the layers
above, e.g. IP, UDP, RTP and RTCP payload, or IP, UDP and RTCP.
However, if service information is received containing the \"b=TIAS\" SDP
parameter that corresponds to an SDP answer payload, and if the P-CSCF
supports this parameter, the P-CSCF may derive the bandwidth from this
parameter rather than from the \"b=AS\" SDP parameter, as detailed in 3GPP TS
29.213 [9] subclause 6.2.
When available, the P-CSCF shall also indicate to PCRF, as a complement to the
Service Information, the IMS Communication Service Identifier within the AF-
Application-Identifier AVP. The originating P-CSCF shall take the IMS
Communication Service Identifier value from the SIP response. The terminating
P-CSCF shall take the IMS Communication Service Identifier value from the SIP
request. Otherwise, the P-CSCF may not be able to provide an IMS Communication
Service Identifier value to the PCRF. The format and specific headers where
IMS communication service identifiers are transported within SIP are defined
in 3GPP TS 24.229 [17].
If the Service-URN AVP does not include an emergency service URN, i.e. a top-
level service type of \"sos\" as specified in IETF RFC 5031 [21] and possibly
additional sub-service information on the type of the emergency service and
the PCRF binds the IMS service session to an IP-CAN session established to an
Emergency APN, the PCRF shall return an AAA command with Experimental-Result-
Code AVP set to the value UNAUTHORIZED_NON_EMERGENCY_SESSION to the P-CSCF.
Upon receiving an AAA with Experimental-Result-Code AVP set to the value
UNAUTHORIZED_NON_EMERGENCY_SESSION the P-CSCF shall apply the procedures
defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [17].
NOTE: The PCRF determines whether an IP-CAN session is established to an
Emergency APN based on the information received over Gx and operator
configuration.
The PCRF may decide not to authorize requested service information. The PCRF
will indicate it to the P-CSCF by sending an AA-Answer with Experimental-
Result-Code AVP set to the value REQUESTED_SERVICE_NOT_AUTHORIZED. Upon
receiving an AA-Answer with Experimental-Result-Code AVP set to the value
REQUESTED_SERVICE_NOT_AUTHORIZED the P-CSCF shall apply the procedures defined
in 3GPP TS 24.229 [17].
# A.2 Enabling of IP Flows
Prior to the completion of the SIP session set-up, i.e. until the 200 OK
(INVITE) or any other 2xx response is received, the P-CSCF may enable or
disable media IP flows depending on operator policy, thus allowing or
forbidding early media in forward and/or backward direction. Only to disable
early media, the P-CSCF may modify the values of the Flow-Status AVPs derived
from SDP according to 3GPP TS 29.213 [9] clause 6.2. If the P-CSCF chooses to
modify the values, the P-CSCF shall store the last received SDP.
When a 2xx response is received, the P-CSCF shall enable all media IP flows
according to the direction attribute within the last received SDP, as
specified in 3GPP TS 29.213 [9] clause 6.2. When a 2xx response is received
and the P-CSCF previously provided modified values of the Flow-Status AVPs in
the session information, the P-CSCF shall provide service information with
values of the Flow-Status AVPs corresponding to the last received SDP.
NOTE: In most cases a 2xx response is a 200 OK.
If the P-CSCF receives SDP answers after the completion of the SIP session
set-up, i.e. after the 200 OK (INVITE) or any other 2xx response is received,
the P-CSCF shall provide the Flow-Status AVP, based on the last received SDP
answer. The Flow-Status AVP as derived from the SDP according to 3GPP TS
29.213 [9] clause 6.2.
# A.3 Support for SIP forking
The P-CSCF shall be able to handle forking when PCC is applied. Forking can
occur as specified in 3GPP TS 23.228 [16]. The related UE procedures are
described in 3GPP TS 24.229 [17].
## A.3.1 PCC rule provisioning for early media for forked responses
When a SIP session has been originated by a connected UE, the P-CSCF may
receive multiple provisional responses due to forking before the first final
answer is received. Multiple early media session may be established during
this process.
The UE and the P-CSCF become aware of the forking only when a subsequent
provisional response arrives for a new early dialogue. After the first early
media session is established, for each subsequent provisional response
establishing an additional early media session,, the P-CSCF shall use an AA
request within the existing Diameter session containing the SIP-Forking-
Indication AVP with value SEVERAL_DIALOGUES and include the service
information derived from the latest provisional response.
The P-CSCF shall also provision the service information derived from any
subsequent SDP offer-answer exchange within an early dialogue (e.g. in PRACK
and OK(PRACK), or UPDATE and OK(UPDATE) ) using an AA request within the
existing Diameter session containing the SIP-Forking-Indication AVP with value
SEVERAL_DIALOGUES and the derived service information.
When receiving an AA request containing the SIP-Forking-Indication AVP with
value SEVERAL_DIALOGUES, the PCRF shall identify the existing authorization
information for that AF session. The PCRF shall send additional PCC Rules or
individual service data flow filters to already provide PCC rules as required
by the Flow Description AVPs within the session information to the PCEF. The
PCRF shall authorize any additional media components and any increased QoS
requirements for the previously authorized media components, as requested
within the service information. The PCRF shall authorize the maximum bandwidth
required by any of the dialogues, but not the sum of the bandwidths required
by all dialogues. Thus, the QoS authorized for a media component is equal to
the highest QoS requested for that media component by any of the forked
responses. The PCRF shall open or close the gates for service flows depending
on the flow status that is being provisioned. However, if a flow ID has been
enabled in uplink or downlink direction or both way within previous service
information, it shall remain enabled even if the PCRF receives service
information that disable this flow ID within an AA request containing the SIP-
Forking-Indication AVP with value SEVERAL_DIALOGUES.
## A.3.2 Updating the provisioned PCC rules at the final answer
The P-CSCF shall store the SDP information for each early dialogue separately
till the first final SIP answer is received. Then the related early dialogue
is progressed to an established dialogue to establish the final SIP session.
All the other early dialogues are terminated. The service information for the
SIP session is updated to match the requirements of the remaining early
dialogue only.
When receiving the first final SIP response, the P-CSCF shall send an AA
request without the SIP-Forking-Indication AVP and include the service
information derived from the SDP corresponding to the dialogue of the final
response. The P-CSCF shall provision the full service information including
the applicable Flow-Description AVP(s) and Flow-Status AVP(s).
When receiving an AA request with no SIP-Forking-Indication AVP or with a SIP-
Forking-Indication AVP with value SINGLE_DIALOGUE, the PCRF shall update
installed PCC Rules information and Authorized-QoS information to match only
the requirements of the service information within this AA request. The PCRF
should immediately remove PCC Rule(s) or individual service data flow filters
not matching IP flow(s) in the updated Service Information, to reduce the risk
for initial clipping of the media stream, and to minimize possible misuse of
resources. The PCRF shall also open or close the gates for service flows
according to the flow status in the received service information.
# A.4 Notification of AF Signalling Transmission Path Status
When the P-CSCF receives an initial REGISTER SIP message from an attached UE,
the P-CSCF may subscribe to notifications of the status of the AF Signalling
transmission path using the procedures specified in clause 4.4.5. Once the
P-CSCF has subscribed, the P-CSCF may receive notifications from the PCRF
according to clause 4.4.6.3.
NOTE 1: When the Standardised QCI characteristics as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203
[2] are followed, the QCI for IMS signalling will correspond to a non-GBR
bearer. In this case, the P-CSCF will not receive notifications related to the
Specific-Action with value \"INDICATION_OF_LOSS_OF_BEARER\".
NOTE 2: This procedure is not applicable for IMS registrations for Emergency
sessions.
The P-CSCF shall cancel the subscription to notification of the status of the
AF Signalling transmission path when the AF Signalling to that particular user
is terminated (i.e. when the user is de-REGISTERED from the IM CN subsystem).
When the P-CSCF receives a notification of loss of signalling connectivity
from the PCRF, the P-CSCF shall behave as defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [17].
# A.5 Indication of Emergency Session
A SIP INVITE request can contain a service URN as defined in IETF RFC 5031
[21] within the request URI. If the service within this URN is \"sos\",
possibly with additional sub-service information, the P-CSCF shall provision
this service and sub-service information within the Service-URN AVP towards
the PCRF. The P-CSCF may also provision possible information about other
services received within the service URN.
# A.6 Notification IP-CAN Type Change
When the P-CSCF receives an initial REGISTER SIP message from an attached UE,
the P-CSCF mayrequest from the PCRF the information about the type of IP-CAN
the UE is attached to using the procedure specified in subclause 4.4.1.
NOTE: This procedure is not applicable for IMS registrations for Emergency
sessions.
If the P-CSCF requests information about the type of IP-CAN,the P-CSCF shall
also subscribe within the same AAR command operation to notifications for
changes of the IP-CAN type used by the UE. The P-CSCF shall include a
Specific-Action AVP in the AAR that is set to the value of IP-CAN_CHANGE.
When the P-CSCF receives the AA-Answer or RA-Request from the PCRF, the P-CSCF
stores the IP-CAN type information and the RAT type information (if also
provided by the PCRF) and behaves as defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [17].
The P-CSCF may receive notifications for changes of the IP-CAN type from the
PCRF according to clause 4.4.6.4. When the P-CSCF receives a notification of
the change of the IP-CAN used by the UE, the P-CSCF stores the new IP-CAN type
information and behaves as defined in 3GPP TS 24.229 [17].
The P-CSCF shall cancel the subscription to notification for changes of the
IP-CAN type used by the UE when the user is de-REGISTERED from the IM CN
subsystem.
# A.7 Support for Early Session disposition SDP
## A.7.1 General
As a network option, the P-CSCF may support the PCC procedures in the present
Clause to handle \"early session\" disposition type SDP, as standardised in
IETF RFC 3959 [27].
## A.7.2 Service Information Provisioning for Early Media
The P-CSCF can receive \"early session\" disposition SDP in addition to
\"session\" disposition SDP in SIP early dialogues.
The P-CSCF shall then provision service information derived both from the
\"early session\" disposition SDP and \"session\" disposition SDP applying the
procedures in Clauses A.1, A.2, and A.3, and in the present Clause.
The P-CSCF shall apply the mapping rules in Annex B.1.2.2.2 to derive the flow
identifiers from \"early session\" disposition SDP.
If a single media line with one media type (e.g. \"audio\" or \"video\") is
contained in \"early session\" disposition SDP and a single media line with
the same media type is contained in the \"session\" disposition SDP of the
same SIP dialogue, and both media lines describe service flows of the same
directionality (uplink, downlink, or bidirectional), the P-CSCF should
describe those SDP media lines in the same session information media component
(with the same flow ID).
The \"early session\" disposition SDP can also contain media lines of a type
not included in the \"session\" disposition SDP, or several media lines of the
same type. Such media components shall be described in own media components in
the service information.
If the P-CSCF desires to invoke special policies or separate event
notifications for an \"early session\" disposition media line, it may choose
to provision a separate session information media component even if a media
line with the same media type and directionality is contained in \"session\"
disposition SDP.
NOTE 1: A PCRF is then likely to supply separate PCC rules for early media and
the corresponding final media. This may lead to an over provisioning of
resources during call establishment and a subsequent reconfiguration of the
radio bearer, or even to a call failure if the extra resources are not
authorized or available.
If the P-CSCF receives \"early session\" disposition SDP before any
\"session\" disposition SDP and supplies service information derived from the
\"early session\" disposition SDP at this point of time, it shall use
dedicated media components relating only to the \"early session\" disposition
SDP in the service information.
NOTE 2: The \"session\" disposition SDP offer will frequently occur before the
\"early session\" disposition SDP offer, but can also occur in parallel or in
exceptional cases afterwards. The \"session\" disposition SDP answer can be
contained in the same SIP message as the \"early session\" disposition SDP
offer, or can be sent in a 200 OK (INVITE), i.e. after the \"early session\"
disposition SDP answer.
If the P-CSCF includes any media component relating both to \"early session\"
disposition SDP and \"session\" disposition SDP in the service information,
the P-CSCF shall:
\- provision the service information derived from \"early session\"
disposition SDP and the service information derived from \"session\"
disposition SDP in separate Rx AA-Requests, and shall send a new Rx AA-Request
only after any previous Rx AA-Request has been acknowledged; and
\- provision the first service information (either derived from \"early
session\" disposition SDP or \"session\" disposition SDP) without the SIP-
Forking-Indication AVP, or with the SIP-Forking-Indication AVP with value
SINGLE_DIALOGUE; and
\- provision all subsequent service information during ongoing call
establishment with the SIP-Forking-Indication AVP with value
SEVERAL_DIALOGUES; and
\- if an SDP answer has been received and Codec-Data AVPs are provisioned
within a Media-Component-Description AVP, provision a Codec-Data AVP derived
from the corresponding offer together with a Codec-Data AVP derived from the
SDP answer.
NOTE 3: The P-CSCF needs to provision the service information derived from
\"early session\" disposition SDP and the service information derived from
\"session\" disposition SDP in separate Rx AA-Requests because the encoding of
the media-component does not allow for the simultaneous provisioning of two
corresponding filters.
NOTE 4: The PCRF will treat service information containing the SIP-Forking-
Indication AVP as described in Clause A.3.
## A.7.3 Updating the Provisioned Service Information when Dialogue is
established
The P-CSCF shall store the SDP information for the \"session\" disposition
type until the first final SIP answer is received. Then the early media
described in the \"early session\" disposition type SDP are terminated.
The P-CSCF shall then update the service information to match the requirements
of the media described in the \"session\" disposition type SDP only:
\- If the P-CSCF included any media component relating both to \"early
session\" disposition SDP and \"session\" disposition SDP in the service
information, the P-CSCF shall send an AA request without the SIP-Forking-
Indication AVP or with a SIP-Forking-Indication AVP with value SINGLE_DIALOGUE
and shall include the service information derived from the \"session\"
disposition SDP. The P-CSCF shall provision the full service information
including the applicable Flow-Description AVP(s) and Flow-Status AVP(s).
\- The P-CSCF shall disable any media component(s) in the service information
that relate to early media only by setting their flow status to \"removed\".
## A.8 Provision of Signalling Flow Information at P-CSCF
When the P-CSCF has successfully concluded the initial registration of an
attached UE, i.e., when the P-CSCF has sent to the UE a SIP 200 (OK) response
to the SIP REGISTER request, the P-CSCF may provision information about the
SIP signalling flows between the UE and itself using the procedure specified
in subclause 4.4.5a. If the P-CSCF already has an open Rx Diameter session
with the PCRF related to the signalling with the UE, e.g. one that has been
opened according to the procedure described in subclause A.6 and/or in
subclause A.4, the P-CSCF shall reuse the already open session to provision
the SIP Signalling IP Flow information.
NOTE: This procedure is not applicable for IMS registrations for Emergency
sessions.
If the P-CSCF provisions information about SIP signalling flows, the P-CSCF
shall ensure that for each signalling IP flow information it provides, the
Flow-Description AVP shall accurately reflect the IP flow information as seen
in the IP header \'on the wire\'. The P-CSCF shall set the value of the AF-
Signalling-Protocol AVP to \'SIP\'.
When the P-CSCF de-registers the UE and terminates SIP Signalling to the UE,
the P-CSCF shall de-provision the SIP Signalling IP flow information from the
PCRF as described in subclause 4.4.5a.
# A.9 Handling of MPS Session
When the P-CSCF receives an authorised Resource-Priority header field or a
temporarily authorised Resource-Priority header field containing an
appropriate namespace and priority value in SIP signaling, and recognizes the
need for priority treatment as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [17], the P-CSCF
shall include the MPS-Identifier AVP and Reservation-Priority AVP in the AAR
command towards the PCRF. The MPS-Identifier AVP shall contain the national
variant for MPS service name indicating an MPS session. The Reservation-
Priority AVP shall include the priority value of the related priority service.
The Reservation-Priority AVP shall be populated with a default value if the
priority value is unknown.
NOTE 1: Various mechanisms can be applied to recognize the need for priority
treatment in the P-CSCF (e.g., based on the dialled digits), according to
national regulation and network configuration, as stated in 3GPP TS 24.229
[17].
NOTE 2: Lowest user priority value shall be mapped in the corresponding lowest
enumerated value of the Reservation-Priority AVP.
Upon reception of a request that requires MPS treatment, the PCRF shall derive
the PCC/QoS Rules corresponding to the MPS session, as appropriate. The PCRF
shall take specific actions on the corresponding IP-CAN to ensure that the MPS
session is prioritized, as described in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8], clause 4.5.19.1.3.
When the P-CSCF terminates the MPS session, the PCRF shall delete the PCC/QoS
Rules corresponding to the MPS session. The PCRF shall revoke the actions
related to the prioritization of the MPS session in the corresponding IP-CAN,
as described in 3GPP TS 29.212 [8], clause 4.5.19.1.3.
# A.10 Retrieval of network provided location information
## A.10.1 General
According to Annex E.7 of 3GPP TS 23.228 [16], the P-CSCF can use PCC to
retrieve network provided location information. Information flows related to
the distribution of network provided location information within the IMS are
provided in Annex R of 3GPP TS 23.228 [16].
This sublause provides optional PCC procedures to support the retrieval of
network provided location information.
The originating P-CSCF can, depending on operator policy, retrieve the user
location and/or UE Time Zone information either before sending the INVITE
towards the terminating side or upon reception of the SDP answer from the
terminating side.
## A.10.2 Retrieval of network provided location information at originating
P-CSCF for inclusion in SIP Request
If the originating P-CSCF is required by operator policy to retrieve network
provided location information before forwarding a SIP INVITE request, upon
reception of an INVITE/UPDATE request, the P-CSCF shall send an AA-Request
according to subclause 4.4.1 (SIP INVITE request) or 4.4.2 (SIP INVITE/UPDATE
request) including:
\- the \"ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORT\" value within the Specific-Action AVP;
and
\- the required access network information within the Required-Access-Info
AVP.
If the SIP INVITE request is an initial SIP INVITE request, the P-CSCF shall
establish an Rx session for the new SIP session with the AA-Request according
to subclause 4.4.6.7 (if no session information is included) or 4.4.1 (if
preliminary session information is included).
The P-CSCF will receive the access network information from the PCRF in an
RAR, and should include this access network information in the SIP
INVITE/UPDATE requests that it forwards. When the retrieved access network
information corresponds to the TWAN-Identifier AVP, the P-CSCF may also map
the retrieved access network information to a Geographical Identifier for
routing, as specified in Annex E.8 of 3GPP TS 23.228 [16].
## A.10.3 Retrieval of network provided location information at originating
P-CSCF for inclusion in SIP response confirmation
If an originating P-CSCF is required by operator policy to retrieve network
provided location information before forwarding an SDP answer, the P-CSCF
shall apply the following procedures:
Upon reception of an SDP offer, the P-CSCF may send an AA-Request to the PCRF
according to subclause A.1 and may include in this AA-request:
\- the \"ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORT\" value within the Specific-Action AVP;
and
\- the required access network information within the Required-Access-Info
AVP.
Upon reception of an SDP answer, the P-CSCF will send an AA-Request to the
PCRF according to subclause A.1. If the P-CSCF has not requested access
network information upon reception of the SDP offer, the P-CSCF shall include
in this AA-request:
\- the \"ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORT\" value within the Specific-Action AVP;
and
\- the required access network information within the Required-Access-Info
AVP.
The P-CSCF will receive the access network information from the PCRF in an
RAR, and should include this access network information in the SIP message
with the response confirmation before forwarding it. When the retrieved access
network information corresponds to the TWAN-Identifier AVP, the P-CSCF may
also map the retrieved access network information to a Geographical Identifier
for routing, as specified in Annex E.8 of 3GPP TS 23.228 [16].
## A.10.4 Retrieval of network provided location information at terminating
P-CSCF
If a terminating P-CSCF is required by operator policy to retrieve network
provided location information at session establishment and/or modification,
when receiving a SIP response, the P-CSCF shall apply the following
procedures:
Upon reception of a SIP response that requires the inclusion of access network
information and includes an SDP answer, the P-CSCF will send an AA-Request to
the PCRF according to subclause A.1 and shall include in this AA-request:
\- the \"ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORT\" value within the Specific-Action AVP;
and
\- the required access network information within the Required-Access-Info
AVP.
Upon reception of a SIP response that requires the inclusion of access network
information and includes no SDP answer, the P-CSCF shall send an AA-Request
including:
\- the \"ACCESS_NETWORK_INFO_REPORT\" value within the Specific-Action AVP;
and
\- the required access network information within the Required-Access-Info
AVP.
The P-CSCF may also include in the AA-Request
\- service information derived from an SDP offer within the SIP response; and
\- the Service-Info-Status AVP with the value set to PRELIMINARY SERVICE
INFORMATION.
If the SIP INVITE request is an initial SIP INVITE request, the P-CSCF shall
establish an Rx session for the new SIP session with the AA-Request according
to subclause 4.4.6.7 (if no session information is included) or 4.4.1 (if
preliminary session information is included).
If an Rx session related to service data has not yet been established, the
P-CSCF shall establish an Rx session for the new SIP session with the AA-
Request according to subclause 4.4.6.7 (if no session information is included)
or 4.4.1 (if preliminary session information is included).
The P-CSCF will receive the access network information from the PCRF in an
RAR, and should include this access network information in the SIP response
before forwarding it. When the retrieved access network information
corresponds to the TWAN-Identifier AVP, the P-CSCF may also map the retrieved
access network information to a Geographical Identifier for routing, as
specified in Annex E.8 of 3GPP TS 23.228 [16].
## A.10.5 Provisioning of network provided location information at SIP session
release
If a P-CSCF is required by operator policy to include network provided
location information in SIP session release signalling, the P-CSCF shall apply
the following procedures:
Upon reception of a SIP session release request that requires the inclusion of
network provided location information, the P-CSCF will send an ST-Request and
shall include in this request the required access network information within
the Required-Access-Info AVP.
The P-CSCF will receive the access network information from the PCRF in the
corresponding ST-Answer, and should include this access network information
either in the SIP session termination request (at the originating side) or a
reply to the SIP session termination request (at the terminating side). When
the retrieved access network information corresponds to the TWAN-Identifier
AVP, the P-CSCF may also map the retrieved access network information to a
Geographical Identifier for routing, as specified in Annex E.8 of 3GPP TS
23.228 [16].
# A.11 Handling of RAN/NAS release cause values
If the P-CSCF is required by operator policy to provide the RAN/NAS release
cause information, it includes this information in the corresponding SIP
message as specified in 3GPP TS 24.229 [17] when received from the PCRF (see
subclause 4.4.4, 4.4.6.1, 4.4.6.2, 4.4.6.3 and 4.4.6.7).
###### ## Annex B (normative): Flow identifiers: Format definition and
examples
# B.1 Format of a flow identifier
## B.1.1 General
A flow identifier is expressed as a 2-tuple as follows:
\
where both are numbered starting from 1. The encoding of the flow identifier
is as indicated in 3GPP TS 24.008 [12].
If UE and AF share an algorithm for a given application, which guarantees that
UE and AF assign the same ordinal number to each media component, the ordinal
numbers of the IP Flows within a media component shall be assigned according
to the following rules:
\- All IP flow(s) or bidirectional combinations of two IP flow(s) within the
media component, for which a downlink destination port number is available,
shall be assigned ordinal numbers in the order of downlink destination port
numbers.
\- All IP flows, where no downlink destination port number is available, shall
be assigned the next higher ordinal numbers in the order of uplink destination
port numbers.
The ordinal number of a media component shall not be changed when the session
description information is modified.
If no SDI with fixed and unique positions for media components is exchanged
between UE and AF, the UE and AF may assign the ordinal numbers of the media
components in another application-dependent algorithm which guarantees that UE
and AF assign the same ordinal number to each media component.
If UE and AF do not share an algorithm for a given application, which
guarantees that UE and AF assign the same ordinal number to each media
component, the ordinal number of the media component shall be set to zero and
the ordinal number of the IP flows shall be assigned according to the
following rules:
1\. If ordinal numbers for several IP flows are assigned at the same time, all
uplink IP flows shall be assigned lower ordinal number than all downlink IP
flows.
2\. If ordinal numbers for several IP flows are assigned at the same time, all
uplink and all downlink IP flows shall separately be assigned ordinal numbers
according to increasing internet protocol number assigned by IANA (e.g. 6 for
TCP and 17 for UDP)
3\. If ordinal numbers for several IP flows are assigned at the same time, for
each internet protocol with a port concept, all uplink and all downlink IP
flows of this internet protocol shall separately be assigned ordinal numbers
according to increasing port numbers.
4\. If IP flows are removed from an existing session, the previously assigned
binding info shall remain unmodified for the remaining IP flows.
5\. If IP flows are added to an existing session, the previously assigned
binding info shall remain unmodified and the new IP flows shall be assigned
ordinal numbers following the rules 1. To 3., starting with the first
previously unused ordinal number. The numbers freed in step 4. Shall not be
reused.
If the IP flows correspond to AF signalling (e.g. SIP signalling IP Flows),
and no IP flow information is provided both the ordinal number of the media
component and the IP flows shall be set to zero. In the case when the IP flow
information of the AF signalling is provided, the ordinal number of the media
component will be set to zero, and the ordinal number(s) of the IP flows shall
follow the rules set above for the case when the UE and AF do not share an
algorithm for a given application.
## B.1.2 Derivation of Flow Identifiers from SDP
### B.1.2.1 Standard Procedure
The procedure in Table B.1.2.1.1 shall be applied for SDP of \"session\"
disposition type within SIP and for all SDP outside SIP.
Table B.1.2.1.1: Standard Procedure to derive Flow Identifiers from SDP
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The ordinal number of the | The ordinal number of the IP | | position of the media component | flow(s) within the media | | | component description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The ordinal number of the | The ordinal number of the IP | | position of the \"m=\" line in | flow(s) within the \"m=\" line | | the SDP | assigned in the order of | | | increasing downlink destination | | | port numbers, if downlink | | | destination port numbers are | | | available. For uplink or | | | inactive unicast media IP flows, | | | a downlink destination port | | | number is nevertheless | | | available, if SDP offer-answer | | | according to RFC 3264 is used. | | | | | | The ordinal number of the IP | | | flow(s) within the \"m=\" line | | | assigned in the order of | | | increasing uplink destination | | | port numbers, if no downlink | | | destination port numbers are | | | available. | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
### B.1.2.2 SDP with \"early session\" disposition type
The procedure in Table B.1.2.2.1 shall be applied for SDP of \"early session\"
disposition type within SIP. The \"early session\" disposition type is
specified within IETF RFC 3959 [27].
Table B.1.2.2.1: Procedure to derive Flow Identifiers from \"early session\"
disposition SDP
+----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | The ordinal number of the | The ordinal number of the IP | | position of the media component | flow(s) within the media | | | component description | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+ | If a single media component with | As in table B.1.2.1.1. | | one media type (e.g. \"audio\" | | | or \"video\") is contained in | | | \"early session\" disposition | | | SDP and a single media component | | | with the same media type is | | | contained in the \"session\" | | | disposition SDP of the same SIP | | | dialogue, and if both SDP media | | | components are described in a | | | single Rx service information | | | media component, that Rx service | | | information media component | | | shall obtain the media component | | | number derived from \"session\" | | | disposition SDP following the | | | rules in table B.1.2.1.1. | | | | | | Otherwise each media component | | | shall obtain the ordinal number | | | of the position of the \"m=\" | | | line in the \"early session\" | | | disposition SDP plus 1000 as | | | media component ordinal number. | | +----------------------------------+----------------------------------+
# B.2 Example 1
An UE, as the offerer, sends a SDP session description, as shown in table
B.2.1, to an application server (only relevant SDP parameters are shown):
Table B.2.1: The values of the SDP parameters sent by the UE in example 1.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > V=0\ | | > o=ecsreid 3262464865 3262464868 IN IP6 | | > 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > s=MM01\ | | > i=One unidirectional audio media and one unidirectional video | | > media and one bidirectional application media\ | | > t=3262377600 3262809600\ | | > m=video 50230 RTP/AVP 31\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > a=recvonly\ | | > m=audio 50330 RTP/AVP 0\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > a=sendonly\ | | > m=application 50430 udp wb\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > a=sendrecv | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
and receives the SDP parameters, as shown in table B.2.2, from the application
server:
Table B.2.2: The values of the SDP parameters sent by the application server
in example 1.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > V=0\ | | > o=ecsreid 3262464865 3262464868 IN IP6 | | > 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > s=MM01\ | | > i=One unidirectional audio media and one unidirectional video | | > media and one bidirectional application media\ | | > t=3262377600 3262809600\ | | > m=video 51372 RTP/AVP 31\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014\ | | > a=sendonly\ | | > m=audio 49170 RTP/AVP 0\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014\ | | > a=recvonly\ | | > m=application 32416 udp wb\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:000A:03A7:0250:DAFF:FE0E:C6F2\ | | > a=sendrecv | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
From this offer--answer exchange of SDP parameters the UE and the PCRF each
creates a list of flow identifiers comprising the IP flows as shown in table
B.2.3:
Table B.2.3: Flow identifiers in example 1.
* * *
Order of \'m=\'-line Type of IP flows Destination IP address / Port number of
the IP flows Flow identifier 1 RTP (Video) DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 50230 \ 1 RTCP DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 50231 \ 1 RTCP UL
2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014 / 51373 \ 2 RTP (Audio) UL
2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014 / 49170 \ 2 RTCP DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 50331 \ 2 RTCP UL
2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014 / 49171 \ 3 UDP (application) DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 50430 \ 3 UDP (application) UL
2001:0646:000A:03ª7:0250:DAFF:FE0E:C6F2 / 32416 \
* * *
# B.3 Example 2
In the general case, multiple ports may be specified with a \"number of
ports\" qualifier as follows, RFC 2327 [17]:
m=\ \/\ \ \
An UE, as the offerer, sends a SDP session description, as shown in table
B.3.1, to an application server (only relevant SDP parameters are shown):
Table B.3.1: The values of the SDP parameters sent by the UE in example 2.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > v=0\ | | > o=ecsreid 3262464321 3262464325 IN IP6 | | > 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > s=MM02\ | | > i=One unidirectional audio media consisting of two media IP flows | | > described by one media component\ | | > t=3262377600 3262809600\ | | > m=audio 50330/2 RTP/AVP 0\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > a=recvonly | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
and receives the SDP parameters, as shown in table B.3.2, from the application
server:
Table B.3.2: The values of the SDP parameters sent by the application server
in example 2.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > v=0\ | | > o=ecsreid 3262464321 3262464325 IN IP6 | | > 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > s=MM02\ | | > i=One unidirectional audio media consisting of two media IP flows | | > described by one media component\ | | > t=3262377600 3262809600\ | | > m=audio 49170/2 RTP/AVP 0\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014\ | | > a=sendonly | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
From this offer--answer exchange of SDP parameters the UE and the PCRF each
creates a list of flow identifiers comprising the IP flows as shown in table
B.3.3:
Table B.3.3: Flow identifiers in example 2.
* * *
Order of \'m=\'-line Type of IP flows Destination IP address / Port number of
the IP flows Flow identifier 1 RTP (audio) DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 50330 \ 1 RTCP DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 50331 \ 1 RTCP UL
2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014 / 49171 \ 1 RTP (audio) DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 50332 \ 1 RTCP DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 50333 \ 1 RTCP UL
2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014 / 49173 \
* * *
# B.4 Example 3 without media components.
The UE and AF do not exchange SDP for an application and do not share an
algorithm, which guarantees that UE and AF assign the same ordinal number to
each media component.
At the AF session initiation, the UE and AF agree to set up the following IP
flows:
\- Uplink UDP flow with destination port 100.
\- Downlink UDP flow with destination port 100.
\- Downlink TCP flow with destination port 100.
\- Uplink TCP flow with destination port 100.
\- Uplink UDP flow with destination port 200.
The following binding info is assigned to these IP flows.
\- Uplink UDP flow with destination port 100: (0, 2)
\- Downlink UDP flow with destination port 100: (0, 5)
\- Downlink TCP flow with destination port 100: (0, 4)
\- Uplink TCP flow with destination port 100: (0, 1)
\- Uplink UDP flow with destination port 200: (0, 3)
At a later stage in the session, the TCP IP flows are removed and the
following IP flows are added:
\- Uplink UDP flow with destination port 150.
\- Downlink UDP flow with destination port 50.
The following binding info is assigned to the IP flows existing at this stage:
\- Uplink UDP flow with destination port 100: (0, 2)
\- Downlink UDP flow with destination port 100: (0, 5)
\- Uplink UDP flow with destination port 200: (0, 3)
\- Uplink UDP flow with destination port 150: (0, 6)
\- Downlink UDP flow with destination port 50: (0, 7)
# B.5 Example 4
In this example, the SDP \"a=rtcp\" attribute defined in IETF RFC 3605 is
used.
An UE, as the offerer, sends a SDP session description, as shown in table
B.5.1, to an application server (only relevant SDP parameters are shown):
Table B.5.1: The values of the SDP parameters sent by the UE in example 1.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > V=0\ | | > o=ecsreid 3262464865 3262464868 IN IP6 | | > 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > s=MM01\ | | > i=One unidirectional video media\ | | > t=3262377600 3262809600\ | | > m=video 50230 RTP/AVP 31\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > a=recvonly\ | | > a=rtcp: 49320 | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
and receives the SDP parameters, as shown in table B.5.2, from the application
server:
Table C.5.2: The values of the SDP parameters sent by the application server
in example 1.
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | > V=0\ | | > o=ecsreid 3262464865 3262464868 IN IP6 | | > 2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A\ | | > s=MM01\ | | > i=One unidirectional video media\ | | > t=3262377600 3262809600\ | | > m=video 51372 RTP/AVP 31\ | | > c=IN IP6 2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014\ | | > a=sendonly\ | | > a=rtcp:53020 | +----------------------------------------------------------------------+
From this offer--answer exchange of SDP parameters the UE and the PCRF each
creates a list of flow identifiers comprising the IP flows as shown in table
B.5.3:
Table B.5.3: Flow identifiers in example 4.
* * *
Order of \'m=\'-line Type of IP flows Destination IP address / Port number of
the IP flows Flow identifier 1 RTP (Video) DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 50230 \ 1 RTCP DL
2001:0646:00F1:0045:02D0:59FF:FE14:F33A / 49320 \ 1 RTCP UL
2001:0646:000A:03A7:02D0:59FF:FE40:2014 / 53020 \
* * *
###### ## Annex C (informative): Void
#