# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document defines the Diameter-based interfaces specific to SMS
when they are used in conjunction with the \"SMS in MME\" architecture
specified in 3GPP TS 23.272 [2] or for SGSN supporting EPS interfaces. It
comprises:
\- the Diameter application for the S6c interface between the HSS and the
central SMS functions (SMS-GMSC, SMS Router) ;
\- the Diameter application
\- for the SGd interface between the MME, the SMS-IWMSC, the SMS-GMSC and the
SMS Router.
\- for the Gdd interface between the SGSN, the SMS-IWMSC, the SMS-GMSC and the
SMS Router.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.272: \"Circuit Switched (CS) fallback in Evolved Packet System
(EPS); Stage 2\".
[3] 3GPP TS 23.040: \"Technical realization of the Short Message Service
(SMS)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Evolved Packet System (EPS); Mobility Management Entity
(MME) and Serving GPRS Support Node (SGSN) related interfaces based on
Diameter protocol\".
[5] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol;
Protocol details\".
[6] IETF RFC 2234: \"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF\".
[7] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[8] IETF RFC 5516: \"Diameter Command Code Registration for the Third
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Evolved Packet System (EPS)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 29.002: \"Mobile Application Part (MAP) specification\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.173: \"Location Services (LCS); Diameter-based SLh interface
for Control Plane LCS\".
[11] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security \".
[12] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transport Protocol\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation E.164: \"The international public telecommunication
numbering plan\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol; Protocol
details\".
[15] 3GPP TS 29.336: \"Home Subscriber Server (HSS) diameter interfaces for
interworking with packet data networks and applications\".
[16] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[17] 3GPP TS 23.204: \"Support of Short Message Service (SMS) over generic
3GPP Internet Protocol (IP) access; Stage 2\".
[18] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
ABNF Augmented Backus-Naur Form
IANA Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
IP-SM-GW IP Short Message Gateway
MWD Message Waiting Data
RP Relay layer Protocol
RP-MTI RP Message Type Indicator
RP-SMEA RP SME-Address
RP-UI RP User Information
SM RL Short Message Relay Layer
SMS-GMSC Gateway MSC for SMS
SMS-IWMSC Interworking MSC for SMS
SMSMI SMS without MSISDN in IMS
# 4 General
## 4.1 Introduction
The SMS in MME architecture is described in 3GPP TS 23.272 [2] and has
specified the reference points S6c and SGd.
The clause 4 addresses Diameter aspects which are common to S6c, SGd and Gdd.
## 4.2 Use of Diameter Base protocol
The Diameter Base Protocol as specified in IETF RFC 3588 [7] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
## 4.3 Securing Diameter messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [11].
## 4.4 Accounting functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the S6c, SGd and Gdd interfaces.
## 4.5 Use of sessions
Diameter sessions shall be implicitly terminated over the S6c, SGd and Gdd
interfaces. An implicitly terminated session is one for which the server does
not maintain state information. The client shall not send any re-authorization
or session termination requests to the server.
The Diameter base protocol includes the Auth-Session-State AVP as the
mechanism for the implementation of implicitly terminated sessions.
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 3588 [7]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
## 4.6 Transport protocol
Diameter messages over the S6c, SGd and Gdd interfaces shall make use of SCTP
as specified in IETF RFC 4960 [12] as transport protocol.
## 4.7 Advertising application support
The MME, HSS, SMS-IWMSC, SMS-GMSC and SMS Router shall advertise support of
the Diameter S6c Application over the S6c interface and of the Diameter SGd
Application over the SGd interface by including the value of the application
identifier in the Auth-Application-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The SGSN, SMS-IWMSC, SMS-GMSC and SMS Router shall advertise support of the
Diameter SGd Application over the Gdd interface by including the value of the
application identifier in the Auth-Application-Id AVP within the Vendor-
Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per IETF RFC 3588 [7].
## 4.8 Diameter Application Identifier
The S6c and the SGd/Gdd interface protocols shall be defined, each, as an IETF
vendor specific Diameter application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The vendor
identifier assigned by IANA to 3GPP
(http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the S6c Diameter application
is 16777312 (allocated by IANA).
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the SGd Diameter application,
which is also applicable to the Gdd interface is 16777313 (allocated by IANA).
## 4.9 Use of the Supported-Features AVP
When new functionality is introduced on the S6c or SGd Diameter applications,
it should be defined as optional. If backwards incompatible changes can not be
avoided, the new functionality shall be introduced as a new feature and
support advertised with the Supported-Features AVP. The usage of the
Supported-Features AVP on the S6c or SGd applications is consistent with the
procedures for the dynamic discovery of supported features as defined in
clause 7.2 of 3GPP TS 29.229 [5].
When extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature, the new AVPs
shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined mandatory in the
command ABNF.
As defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [5], the Supported-Features AVP is of type
grouped and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On
the all reference points as specified in this specification, the Supported-
Features AVP is used to identify features that have been defined by 3GPP and
hence, for features defined in this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain
the vendor ID of 3GPP (10415). If there are multiple feature lists defined for
the reference point, the Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists
from one another.
# 5 Diameter based S6c interface between HSS and central SMS functions
## 5.1 Introduction
The S6c interface enables the retrieval of routing information for the
transfer of short messages, the report of status of the delivery status of a
short message and the alerting of the SMS-SC between the HSS, the SMS-GMSC and
the SMS Router as described in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3].
## 5.2 Procedures description
### 5.2.1 Send Routing Info for SM procedure
#### 5.2.1.1 General
This procedure shall be used between the SMS-GMSC or the IP-SM-GW and the HSS
to retrieve the routing information needed for routing the short message to
the serving MSC or MME or SGSN. This procedure is also used between the SMS-
GMSC and the SMS Router or the IP-SM-GW, and between the HSS and the SMS
Router or the IP-SM-GW in order to enforce routing of the SM delivery via the
HPLMN of the receiving MS.
This procedure is applicable to an IP-SM-GW for its SMS Router function when
using the S6c interface.
This procedure is used according to the call flows described in 3GPP TS 23.040
[2] clause 10.
Table 5.2.1.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.2.1.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Send-Routing-Info-for-SM-
Request/Answer (SRR/SRA) in the Diameter application specified in subclause
5.3.2.
Table 5.2.1.1-1: Send Routing Info for SM Request
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | MSISDN | MSISDN | C | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present when the | | | | | MSISDN exists and | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | MSISDN of the | | | | | user. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | IMSI | User-Name | **C** | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | (See IETF RFC | | present when the | | | 3588 [6]) | | MSISDN does not | | | | | exist and shall | | | | | contain | | | | | | | | | | - the IMSI of | | | | | the user in the | | | | | context of T4 | | | | | device triggering | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.682 [18]; | | | | | | | | | | - or the HSS ID | | | | | value in the | | | | | context of | | | | | MSISDN-less SMS | | | | | delivery in IMS | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.204 [17]),. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SMSMI Correlation | SMS | **C** | This information | | ID | MI-Correlation-ID | | element indicates | | | | | by its presence | | | | | that the request | | | | | is sent in the | | | | | context of | | | | | MSISDN-less SMS | | | | | delivery in IMS | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.204 [17]). | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | SIP-URI of the | | | | | (MSISDN-less) | | | | | destination user. | | | | | The SIP-URI of | | | | | the originating | | | | | user and the | | | | | HSS-ID shall be | | | | | absent from this | | | | | information | | | | | element. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Service Centre | SC-Address | **M** | This information | | Address | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Service Centre | | | | | address. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM-RP-MTI | SM-RP-MTI | **C** | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | RP-Message Type | | | | | Indicator of the | | | | | Short Message. It | | | | | is used to | | | | | distinguish a SM | | | | | sent to the | | | | | mobile station in | | | | | order to | | | | | acknowledge an | | | | | MO-SM initiated | | | | | by the mobile | | | | | from a normal | | | | | MT-SM. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM-RP-SMEA | SM-RP-SMEA | **C** | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | RP-Originating | | | | | SME-address of | | | | | the Short Message | | | | | Entity that has | | | | | originated the | | | | | SM. This | | | | | information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | SMS-GMSC supports | | | | | receiving of the | | | | | two numbers from | | | | | the HSS. Used by | | | | | the short message | | | | | service relay | | | | | sub-layer | | | | | protocol it shall | | | | | be formatted | | | | | according to the | | | | | formatting rules | | | | | of address fields | | | | | as described in | | | | | 3GPP TS 23 040 | | | | | [2]. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SRR Flags | SRR-Flags | **C** | This Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | a bit mask. See | | | | | 5.3.3.4 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits and the | | | | | condition for | | | | | each bit to be | | | | | set or not. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM-Delivery Not | SM-Delivery Not | **O** | This information | | Intended | Intended | | element, when | | | | | present, shall | | | | | indicate that | | | | | delivery of a | | | | | short message is | | | | | not intended. It | | | | | further indicates | | | | | whether only IMSI | | | | | or only MCC+MNC | | | | | are requested. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element may be | | | | | set by entities | | | | | that request the | | | | | service without | | | | | intending to | | | | | deliver a short | | | | | message, and | | | | | shall be | | | | | evaluated by the | | | | | SMS Router and | | | | | may be evaluated | | | | | by the HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | (See 3GPP TS | | contain the list | | | 29.229 [5]) | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
Table 5.2.1.1-2: Send Routing Info for SM Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | **M** | Result of the | | | Experi | | request. | | | **mental-Result** | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for S6c errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. This | | | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | operation with an | | | | | indication of the | | | | | success / errors. | | | | | | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable in | | | | | this case: | | | | | | | | | | - Unknown User; | | | | | | | | | | - Service | | | | | Barred; | | | | | | | | | | - Teleservice | | | | | Not | | | | | Provisioned; | | | | | | | | | | - Absent User; | | | | | | | | | | - Facility Not | | | | | Supported. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | IMSI | User-Name | **C** | This information | | | | | element: | | | (See IETF RFC | | | | | 3588 [6]) | | - either shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | IMSI of the | | | | | user. | | | | | | | | | | - or, if | | | | | enforcement | | | | | of routing an | | | | | SM via the | | | | | HPLMN of the | | | | | receiving MS | | | | | or UE is | | | | | deployed, | | | | | shall contain | | | | | an MT | | | | | Correlation | | | | | ID instead of | | | | | an IMSI when | | | | | the service | | | | | is used | | | | | between | | | | | SMS-GMSC and | | | | | SMS Router | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.040 [3] | | | | | for more | | | | | information). | | | | | | | | | | - or, if the | | | | | \"SM-Delivery | | | | | Not | | | | | Intended\" | | | | | Information | | | | | Element was | | | | | present in | | | | | the request | | | | | with a value | | | | | of \"only | | | | | MCC+MNC | | | | | requested\", | | | | | may contain | | | | | MCC+MNC+dummy | | | | | MSIN. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present in a | | | | | successful | | | | | answer. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present in an | | | | | answer from the | | | | | HSS to the | | | | | IP-SM-GW, if an | | | | | Absent User | | | | | result is | | | | | returned and the | | | | | UNRI is not set. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Serving-Node | Serving-Node | **C** | If the | | | | | \"SM-Delivery Not | | | | | Intended\" | | | | | Information | | | | | Element was not | | | | | present in the | | | | | request, this | | | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | identity of one | | | | | serving node on | | | | | which the user is | | | | | registered. This | | | | | identity shall | | | | | either be: | | | | | | | | | | - the Diameter | | | | | identity and | | | | | the Diameter | | | | | realm of the | | | | | MME | | | | | registered | | | | | for MT SMS | | | | | plus the E164 | | | | | number of the | | | | | MME for MT | | | | | SMS; | | | | | | | | | | - or the ISDN | | | | | number of the | | | | | MSC; | | | | | | | | | | - or the | | | | | Diameter | | | | | identity and | | | | | the Diameter | | | | | realm of the | | | | | SGSN, if they | | | | | are | | | | | available, | | | | | and the ISDN | | | | | number of the | | | | | SGSN, | | | | | | | | | | - or the | | | | | Diameter | | | | | identity and | | | | | the Diameter | | | | | realm of the | | | | | IP-SM-GW, if | | | | | they are | | | | | available, | | | | | and the ISDN | | | | | number of the | | | | | IP-SM-GW. | | | | | | | | | | If the | | | | | \"SM-Delivery Not | | | | | Intended\" | | | | | Information | | | | | Element was | | | | | present in the | | | | | request, this | | | | | information | | | | | element may be | | | | | absent. | | | | | | | | | | This information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present in a | | | | | successful | | | | | answer. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | LMSI | LMSI | **C** | The HSS shall | | | | | include the LMSI | | | | | in a successful | | | | | response, if the | | | | | VLR has used the | | | | | LMSI and if there | | | | | is the ISDN | | | | | number of an MSC | | | | | in the answer. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Additional | Additi | **C** | This information | | Serving Node | onal-Serving-Node | | element, when | | | | | present shall | | | | | either contain: | | | | | | | | | | - the Diameter | | | | | identity and | | | | | the Diameter | | | | | realm of the | | | | | MME | | | | | registered | | | | | for MT SMS | | | | | plus the E164 | | | | | number of the | | | | | MME for MT | | | | | SMS. | | | | | | | | | | - or the ISDN | | | | | number of the | | | | | MSC | | | | | | | | | | - or the | | | | | Diameter | | | | | identity and | | | | | the Diameter | | | | | realm of the | | | | | SGSN, if they | | | | | are | | | | | available, | | | | | and the ISDN | | | | | number of the | | | | | SGSN. | | | | | | | | | | It shall not | | | | | contain | | | | | information | | | | | delivered in the | | | | | Serving Node | | | | | information | | | | | element. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | User Identifier | User-Identifier | **C** | This information | | Alert | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | MSISDN stored in | | | | | the HSS, when | | | | | available. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | MWD Status | MWD-Status | **C** | This Information | | | | | Element is sent | | | | | when appropriate | | | | | and shall contain | | | | | a bit mask. See | | | | | 5.3.3.8 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | MME Absent User | MME-Absent-U | **C** | This information | | Diagnostic SM | ser-Diagnostic-SM | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | reason of the | | | | | absence of the | | | | | user when given | | | | | by the MME and | | | | | stored in the HSS | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | MSC Absent User | MSC-Absent-U | **C** | This information | | Diagnostic SM | ser-Diagnostic-SM | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | reason of the | | | | | absence of the | | | | | user when given | | | | | by the MSC and | | | | | stored in the HSS | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SGSN Absent User | SGSN-Absent-U | **C** | This information | | Diagnostic SM | ser-Diagnostic-SM | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | reason of the | | | | | absence of the | | | | | user when given | | | | | by the SGSN and | | | | | stored in the HSS | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | | (See 3GPP TS | | contain the list | | | 29.229 [5]) | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
#### 5.2.1.2 Detailed behaviour of the SMS-GMSC
The SMS-GMSC shall make use of this procedure to retrieve the routing
information needed for routing the short message to the serving MSC or MME or
SGSN or for enforcing routing of the SM delivery via the SMS Router of HPLMN.
It shall populate the information elements in the Send Routing Info for SM
request according to the table 5.2.1.1-1.
When the Send Routing Info for SM Request is sent by the SMS-GMSC to the HSS
in a retry context of SMS for IMS UE to IMS UE without MSISDN (see 3GPP TS
23.204 [17]), IMSI may not be available. In this case the IMSI information
element shall be populated with the HSS-ID value.
When receiving the Send Routing Info for-SM Answer, the SMS-GMSC or the SMS
Router shall use the received Diameter address if the SMS-GMSC or the SMS
Router transfers the terminating short message over the SGd or the Gdd
interface.
#### 5.2.1.3 Detailed behaviour of the HSS
This subclause describes the HSS behaviour when the HSS receives a Send
Routing Info for SM request which is not forwarded to an SMS Router or an IP-
SM-GW.
The HSS shall check if the user identified by the MSISDN is known; otherwise,
the HSS shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN.
The HSS shall check if a MT SMS Teleservice subscription exists; otherwise,
the HSS shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_SERVICE_NOT_SUBSCRIBED.
The HSS shall check if the user is not barred for receiving MT short messages;
otherwise, the HSS shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set to DIAMETER_
SERVICE _ERROR_BARRED.
The HSS shall check if one or more serving nodes are registered for MT SMS;
otherwise, the HSS shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_ABSENT_USER. If there is no serving node being registered for
MT SMS and the Single-Attempt-Delivery flag in SRR-Flags AVP is set, the HSS
shall not add the SC address into the MWD list.
The HSS shall then return a Send Routing Info for SM answer with a Result-Code
set to DIAMETER_SUCCESSFUL that shall contain the addresses of the serving
nodes that are registered for MT SMS according the following rules:
\- if the GPRS indicator is not set, only one serving node address shall be
returned according to the SM transfer option where MME is considered as a MSC.
The address of the MME, if returned, shall comprise the MME Diameter address
and the MME Number for MT SMS.
\- if the GPRS indicator is set, two serving node addresses shall be returned
of which
\- the Diameter address of the SGSN if available and the SGSN number,
> \- either the number of the MSC or the Diameter address and the number of
> the MME for MT SMS.
\- when two serving g nodes addresses are returned, the HSS selects which
serving node it will populate in the Serving Node information element and in
the Additional Serving Node information elements.
NOTE: MSC and MME cannot be both registered as serving nodes for MT SMS at a
given time (cf 3GPP TS 23.272 [2])
If the stored MSISDN number is not the same as the one received in the Send
Routing Info for SM request service, the stored MSISDN number shall be
included in the message.
In the context of MSISDN-less SMS delivery in IMS (see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]),
if the HSS receives an SMSMI correlation ID, the HSS shall return the IP-SM-GW
number and shall not forward the request to an IP-SM-GW.
#### 5.2.1.4 Detailed behaviour of the SMS Router
When receiving a Send Routing Info for SM request, the SMS Router shall:
\- send a Send Routing Info for SM request to the HSS to retrieve the routing
information needed for routing the short message to the serving MSC or MME or
SGSN;
\- if the Send Routing Info for SM answer received from HSS is successful, the
SMS Router shall send a Send Routing Info for SM answer to the SMS-GMSC where
> \- the SMS router shall populate the same Serving Node and Additional
> Serving Node fields (i.e AVPs) as the ones it received in the Send Routing
> Info for SM answer from HSS, but with its own SMS Router number and its own
> SMS Router Diameter address;
\- if the Send Routing Info for SM answer received from HSS is not successful,
the SMS Router shall send a Send Routing Info for SM answer to the SMS-GMSC
with the same Diameter error result code.
If the SMS Router receives some of the following information elements, User
Identifier Alert, MWD Status, MSC Absent User Diagnostic SM, MME Absent User
Diagnostic SM, SGSN Absent User Diagnostic SM, it shall transfer them in the
Send-Routing Info for SM answer to the SMS-GMSC.
### 5.2.2 Alert Service Centre procedure
#### 5.2.2.1 General
This procedure shall be used between the HSS and the SMS-IWMSC to indicate
that the MS is now recognized by the PLMN to have recovered its operation to
allow for an MT SMS delivery. This procedure is used according to the call
flows described in 3GPP TS 23.040 [2] clause 10.
Table 5.2.2.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.2.2.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Alert-Service-Centre-Request/Answer
(ALR/ALA) in the Diameter application specified in subclause 5.3.2.
Table 5.2.2.1-1: Alert Service Centre Request
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Service Centre | SC-Address | M | This information | | Address | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Service Centre | | | | | address received | | | | | from the mobile | | | | | station. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | User Identifier | User-Identifier | **M** | This information | | Alert | | | element shall | | | | | contain: | | | | | | | | | | - either the | | | | | Alert MSISDN | | | | | when it | | | | | exists; | | | | | | | | | | - or the IMSI | | | | | in the | | | | | context of T4 | | | | | device | | | | | triggering | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.682 [18] | | | | | if MSISDN is | | | | | not | | | | | available; | | | | | | | | | | - or a dummy | | | | | MSISDN value | | | | | (see clause 3 | | | | | of 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.003 | | | | | [16]) if no | | | | | MSISDN in a | | | | | retry context | | | | | of SMS for | | | | | IMS UE to IMS | | | | | UE without | | | | | MSISDN (see | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.204 | | | | | [17]). | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SMSMI Correlation | SMS | C | This information | | ID | MI-Correlation-ID | | shall contain the | | | | | SIP-URI of the | | | | | destination user | | | | | which is stored | | | | | in the Message | | | | | Waiting Data list | | | | | in a retry | | | | | context of SMS | | | | | for IMS UE to IMS | | | | | UE without MSISDN | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.204 [17]). | | | | | The HSS-ID and | | | | | the Originating | | | | | SIP-URI shall be | | | | | absent. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | | (See 3GPP TS | | contain the list | | | 29.229 [5]) | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
Table 5.2.2.1-2: Alert Service Centre Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | **M** | This information | | | Ex | | element shall | | | perimental-Result | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | request. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for errors | | | | | defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for S6c errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. This | | | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | operation with an | | | | | indication of the | | | | | success / errors. | | | | | No errors are | | | | | defined for this | | | | | case. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | | (See 3GPP TS | | contain the list | | | 29.229 [5]) | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
#### 5.2.2.2 Detailed behaviour of the HSS
The HSS shall make use of this procedure to alert the service centre when the
mobile user is active after a short message transfer has failed because the
mobile user is not reachable, or when the UE has indicated that it has memory
capacity to accept a short message.
It is an operator option to resend an Alert Service Centre request to the SMS-
IWMSC if the alert is unsuccessful. The number of repeat attempts and the
interval between them is also an operator option. The service centre address
should be purged from the MWD list if the alert is consistently unsuccessful.
#### 5.2.2.3 Detailed behaviour of the SMS-IWMSC
When receiving an Alert Service Centre request the SMS-IWMSC shall check
whether the service centre address is known. If the service centre address is
not valid, then no further action shall be taken.
If the service centre address is valid, the SMS-IW-MSC generates an Alert
Service Centre message towards the SMS Centre.
### 5.2.3 Report SM Delivery Status procedure
#### 5.2.3.1 General
This procedure shall be used between the SMS-GMSC or the IP-SM-GW and the HSS
to update the Message Waiting Data in the HSS or to inform the HSS of a
successful SM transfer after polling. This procedure is invoked by the SMS-
GMSC or the IP-SM-GW.
This procedure is applicable to an IP-SM-GW for its SMS Router function when
using the S6c interface.
This procedure is used according to the call flows described in 3GPP TS 23.040
[2] clause 10.
Table 5.2.3.1-1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 5.2.3.1-2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Report-SM-Delivery-Status-
Request/Answer (RDR/RDA) in the Diameter application specified in subclause
5.3.2.
Table 5.2.3.1-1: Report SM Delivery Status Request
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | User Identifier | User-Identifier | M | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain: | | | | | | | | | | - the MSISDN of | | | | | the user when | | | | | it exists. | | | | | | | | | | - or the IMSI | | | | | of the UE if | | | | | MSISDN is not | | | | | available in | | | | | the context | | | | | of a SM | | | | | delivery | | | | | status report | | | | | following a | | | | | T4 Submit | | | | | Trigger (see | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.682 [18] | | | | | . | | | | | | | | | | - or the value | | | | | of the HSS ID | | | | | within the | | | | | User-Name AVP | | | | | in a retry | | | | | context of | | | | | SMS for IMS | | | | | UE to IMS UE | | | | | without | | | | | MSISDN (see | | | | | 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.204 | | | | | [17]), | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SMSMI-Correlation | SMS | **C** | In a retry | | ID | MI-Correlation-ID | | context of SMS | | | | | for IMS UE to IMS | | | | | UE without MSISDN | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.204 [17]), | | | | | this information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | SIP-URI of the | | | | | (MSISDN-less) | | | | | destination user. | | | | | The originating | | | | | SIP-URI and the | | | | | HSS-ID shall be | | | | | absent from this | | | | | information | | | | | element. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Service Centre | SC-Address | **M** | This information | | Address | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Service Centre | | | | | address. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM Delivery | SM | M | This information | | Outcome | -Delivery-Outcome | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | causes for | | | | | setting the | | | | | message waiting | | | | | data in the HSS | | | | | according to the | | | | | network node(s) | | | | | used for the SM | | | | | delivery: | | | | | | | | | | - MSC | | | | | | | | | | - MME | | | | | | | | | | - SGSN | | | | | | | | | | - IP-SM-GW. | | | | | | | | | | At least one | | | | | cause shall be | | | | | present. A cause | | | | | originated from a | | | | | MSC and a cause | | | | | originated from a | | | | | MME shall not be | | | | | both present. | | | | | | | | | | When the cause is | | | | | Absent User, the | | | | | Absent User | | | | | Diagnostic, if | | | | | available, shall | | | | | be associated to | | | | | the cause. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | RDR Flags | RDR-Flags | O | This Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | a bit mask. See | | | | | 5.3.3.x for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits and the | | | | | condition for | | | | | each bit to be | | | | | set or not. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | | (See 3GPP TS | | contain the list | | | 29.229 [5]) | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
Table 5.2.3.1-2: Report SM Delivery Status Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | **M** | This information | | | Ex | | element shall | | | perimental-Result | | contain the | | | | | Result of the | | | | | request. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for errors | | | | | defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for S6c errors. | | | | | This is a grouped | | | | | AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. This | | | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | operation with an | | | | | indication of the | | | | | success / errors. | | | | | The following | | | | | errors are | | | | | applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Unknown User; | | | | | | | | | | - Message | | | | | Waiting List | | | | | Full. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | MSISDN- Alert | User-Identifier | **C** | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the Alert | | | | | MSISDN of the | | | | | user if it is | | | | | different from | | | | | the MSISDN | | | | | received in the | | | | | request. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | | (See 3GPP TS | | contain the list | | | 29.229 [5]) | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
#### 5.2.3.2 Detailed behaviour of the SMS-GMSC
The SMS-GMSC shall make use of this procedure if:
\- the reason received from the serving node for failure to deliver the
message is absent user , unidentified user or SM delivery failure with error
cause \"UE memory capacity exceeded\", and the SC address is not yet included
in the MWD set, or
\- the reason received from the serving node for failure to deliver the
message is absent user, unidentified user or SM delivery failure with error
cause \"UE memory capacity exceeded\", and the corresponding flag in the HSS
(as indicated in the information received from HSS) is not set, or
\- the reason received from the serving node (MSC/MME or SGSN) for failure to
deliver the message is absent user and the absent user diagnostic is different
from the absent user diagnostic received from the HSS.
If absent user diagnostic information (see 3GPP TS 23.040 [3]) is received
with the absent user error indication then the SMS-GMSC shall relay this
information to the HSS.
#### 5.2.3.3 Detailed behaviour of IP-SM-GW
The IP-SM-GW shall make use of this procedure if:
\- the reason for failure to deliver the message is absent user, unidentified
user or SM delivery failure with error cause \"UE memory capacity exceeded\",
and the SC address is not yet included in the MWD set, or
\- the reason for failure to deliver the message is absent user, unidentified
user or SM delivery failure with error cause \"UE memory capacity exceeded\",
and the corresponding flag in the HSS (as indicated in the information
received in the MAP_INFORM_SERVICE_CENTRE) is not set, or
\- the reason for failure to deliver the message is absent user and the absent
user diagnostic is different from the absent user diagnostic received from the
HSS.
#### 5.2.3.4 Detailed behaviour of the HSS
When receiving a Report SM Delivery Status request the HSS shall check if the
user is known.
If the user is not known, the HSS shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set
to DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN.
If it is known, the HSS shall update the Message Waiting data as described in
3GPP TS 23.040 [3]. If the Single-Attempt-Delivery flag in RDR-Flags AVP is
set, the HSS shall not add the SC address into the MWD list.
If the message waiting data is full, the HSS shall return an Experimental-
Result-Code set to DIAMETER_ERROR_MWD_LIST_FULL.
If the received MSISDN is different from the stored MSISDN, the HSS shall
return the Alert MSISDN.
## 5.3 Protocol specification
### 5.3.1 Routing considerations
#### 5.3.1.1 Requests from the SMS-GMSC or the SMS router
##### 5.3.1.1.1 Introduction
The subclauses in 5.3.1.1 specify the use of the Diameter routing AVPs
Destination-Realm and Destination-Host over the S6c interface for Diameter
command requests from the SMS-GMSC or the SMS router or the IP-SM-GW (i.e. for
the Send Routing Info for SM and the Report SM Delivery Status procedures) The
subclause 5.3.1.1 also applies for the Report SM Delivery Status request
generated by a SMS-SC in a retry context of SMS for IMS UE to IMS UE without
MSISDN (see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]) .
##### 5.3.1.1.2 Routing from the originating PLMN
If the SMS-GMSC or the SMS router has stored or can obtain the address/name
and the home network domain name of the HSS identified by the MSISDN or the
IMSI, both the Destination-Realm and Destination-Host AVPs shall be present in
the request.
The SMS Router shall use the MCC/MNC values of the PLMN to which it belongs,
to build the MCC/MNC based network domain as described in subclause 19.2 of
3GPP TS 23.003 [16] and include it in the Destination-Realm AVP of the
request. The request shall then be routed to the next Diameter node.
If the SMS-GMSC can only obtain the MCC/MNC values from the MSISDN or the
IMSI, the SMS-GMSC shall use them to build the MCC/MNC based network domain as
described in subclause 19.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [16] and include it in the
Destination-Realm AVP of the request. The request shall then be routed to the
next Diameter node.
If the SMS-GMSC cannot obtain the MCC/MNC values from the MSISDN of the user,
the SMS-GMSC may forward the request to a Diameter node within the same PLMN,
the Destination Realm content being left to the PLMN operator choice. Then:
  * if a Diameter node in the routing path insides the PLMN of the SMS-GSMC can obtain the MCC/MNC values of the PLMN to which the user is subscribed to (i.e. when the number portability is resolved in the network of the SMS-GMSC), or
  * if, otherwise, the Diameter node can obtain the MCC/MNC values of the PLMN associated to the CC and NDC codes of the MSISDN of the user, then
  * the Diameter node shall use them to build the MCC/MNC based network domain as described in subclause 19.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [16] and include it in the Destination-Realm AVP of the request. The request shall then be routed to the next Diameter node.
If the MCC/MNC values of the PLMN associated to the CC and NDC codes of the
MSISDN or the MCC/MNC values of the PLMN to which the user is subscribed to
cannot be obtained in the PLMN of the SMS-GMSC, the request shall be replaced
in the PLMN of the SMS-GMSC by an equivalent request routed through a MAP
interface (e.g. via an IWF).
NOTE 1: The inter PLMN routing principle is to reuse the routing based on a
MCC/MNC based domain name as used by other Diameter applications such as
S6a/d. It is assumed that obtaining the relevant MCC/MNC values from the
MSISDN can be achieved in the PLMN to which the SMS-GMSC belongs. Otherwise
MAP based routing is used. This routing principle may be completed with other
routing solutions in the future.
NOTE 2: The Number portability resolution in the PLMN of the SMS-GMSC can be
handled by an intermediate Diameter agent consulting a Number Portability
Database of the Network Portability domain to which the PLMN of the SMS-GMSC
belongs.
If the SMS-SC or the SMS-GMSC, in a retry context of SMS for IMS UE to IMS UE
without MSISDN (see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]), has stored or can obtain the
address/name and the home network domain name of the HSS identified by the HSS
ID, both the Destination-Realm and Destination-Host AVPs shall be present in
the request.
If the SMS-SC or the SMS-GMSC, in a retry context of SMS for IMS UE to IMS UE
without MSISDN (see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]), can only obtain the MCC/MNC values
from the HSS ID, the SMS-SC shall use them to build the MCC/MNC based network
domain as described in subclause 19.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [16] and include it in
the Destination-Realm AVP of the request. The request shall then be routed to
the next Diameter node.
NOTE: In a retry context of MSISDN-less SMS delivery in IMS (see 3GPP TS
23.204 [17]), the SMS-SC gets the HSS-ID from the MO Forward Short Message
request as described in subclause 6.2.1.
##### 5.3.1.1.3 Routing in the HPLMN
When the request reaches a Diameter node in the home PLMN of the user and when
multiple and separately addressable HSSs have been deployed in the home PLMN,
the identity of the HSS that holds the subscriber data for a given user
identified by its MSISDN may be retrieved by a user identity to HSS resolution
mechanism as described in subclause 5.4.
When the request (i.e Send Routing Info for SM or Report SM Delivery Status)
for SM occurs in the retry context of SMS for IMS UE to IMS UE without MSISDN
(see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]), the Diameter identity of the HSS that holds the
subscriber data for a given user may be retrieved by a user identity to HSS
resolution mechanism as described in subclause 5.4, where the HSS ID conveyed
in the request is considered as a user identity.
Consequently, the Destination-Host AVP is declared as optional in the ABNF for
all requests initiated by an SMS-GMSC or a SMS Router.
The HSS, when receiving a Send Routing Info for SM request, checks if an SMS
Router is configured in the home network or if an IP-SM-GW has been registered
for the user. If yes, the HSS shall act as a Diameter proxy and forward the
request to the SMS Router or to the IP-SM-GW, by inserting the Diameter
address of the SMS Router or of the IP-SM-GW as the Diameter destination
address. If the Send Routing Info for SM request occurs in the retry context
of SMS for IMS UE to IMS UE without MSISDN (see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]), the HSS
shall return the IP-SM-GW address and shall not forward the request to an IP-
SM-GW.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the commands,
it may be ignored by the receiving node, and it shall not be used for routing
purposes.
#### 5.3.1.2 Requests from the HSS
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host over the S6c interface for Diameter command requests from
the HSS (i.e. for the Alert SC procedure).
If the HSS has stored the address/name of the SMS-SC and the associated home
network domain name in the Message Waiting Data of the user, both the
Destination-Realm and Destination-Host AVPs shall be present in the Diameter
request. Otherwise the routing shall use MAP.
### 5.3.2 Commands
#### 5.3.2.1 Introduction
This section defines the Command code values and related ABNF for each command
described for the S6c interface.
#### 5.3.2.2 Command-Code values
This section defines the Command-Code values for the S6c interface application
as allocated by IANA in the IETF RFC 5516 [8].
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 2234 [6],
according to the rules in IETF RFC 3588 [7]. In the case, the definition and
use of an AVP is not specified in this document, the guidelines in IETF RFC
3588 [7] shall apply.
NOTE: For this release, the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID is included as an
optional AVP in all commands in order to ensure interoperability with diameter
agents following a strict implementation of IETF RFC 3588 [7], by which
messages not including this AVP will be rejected. IETF RFC 3588 [7] indicates
that the AVP shall be present in all proxiable commands, such as those
specified here, despite that the contents of this AVP are redundant since the
Application ID is already present in the command header. This AVP may be
removed in subsequent revisions of this specification, once the diameter base
protocol is updated accordingly.
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 5.3.2.2/1: Command-Code values for S6c
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Section Send-Routing-Info-for-SM-Request SRR
8388647 5.3.2.3 Send-Routing-Info-for-SM-Answer SRA 8388647 5.3.2.4 Alert-
Service-Centre-Request ALR 8388648 5.3.2.5 Alert-Service-Centre-Answer ALA
8388648 5.3.2.6 Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Request RDR 8388649 5.3.2.7 Report-
SM-Delivery-Status-Answer RDA 8388649 5.3.2.8
* * *
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to 16777312
(application identifier of the S6c interface application allocated by IANA).
#### 5.3.2.3 Send-Routing-Info-for-SM-Request (SRR) Command
The Send-Routing-Info-for-SM-Request (SRR) command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388647 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is
sent from SMS-GMSC to HSS or SMS Router or from SMS Router to HSS.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ PXY, 16777312 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> [ MSISDN ]
>
> [ User-Name ]
>
> **[ SMSMI-Correlation-ID ]**
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ SC-Address ]
>
> [ SM-RP-MTI ]
>
> [ SM-RP-SMEA ]
>
> [ SRR-Flags ]
>
> [ SM-Delivery-Not-Intended ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
#### 5.3.2.4 Send-Routing-info-for-SM-Answer (SRA) Command
The Send-Routing-Info-for-SM-Answer command (SRA) command, indicated by the
Command-Code field set to 8388647 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command
Flags field, is sent from HSS to SMS-GMSC or SMS Router or from SMS Router to
SMS-GMSC.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777312 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ User-Name ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ Serving-Node ]
>
> [ Additional-Serving-Node ]
>
> [ LMSI ]
>
> [ **User-Identifier** ]
>
> [ MWD-Status ]
>
> [ MME-Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM ]
>
> [ MSC-Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM ]
>
> [ SGSN-Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
#### 5.3.2.5 Alert-Service-Centre-Request (ALR) Command
The Alert-Service-Centre-Request (ALR) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388648 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is sent
from SMS-GMSC or IP-SM-GW to HSS.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ 16777312 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { SC-Address }
>
> { User-Identifier }
>
> **[ SMSMI-Correlation-ID ]**
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
#### 5.3.2.6 Alert-Service-Centre-Answer (ALA) Command
The Alert-Service-Centre-Answer (ALA) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388648 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent from HSS to SMS-GMSC or IP-SM-GW.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777312 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
#### 5.3.2.7 Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Request (RDR) Command
The Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Request (RDR) command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388649 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is
sent from SMS-GMSC or IP-SM-GW to HSS.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ PXY, 16777312 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> { User-Identifier }
>
> **[ SMSMI-Correlation-ID ]**
>
> { SC-Address }
>
> { SM-Delivery-Outcome }
>
> [ RDR-Flags ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
#### 5.3.2.8 Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Answer (RDA) Command
The Report-SM-Delivery-Status-Answer (RDA) command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388649 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command Flags
field, is sent from HSS to SMS-GMSC or IP-SM-GW.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777312 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ **User-Identifier** ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 5.3.3 AVPs
#### 5.3.3.1 General
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs defined for the S6c interface
protocol, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and whether or
not the AVP may be encrypted. The Vendor-ID header of all AVPs defined in this
specification shall be set to 3GPP (10415).
For all AVPs which contain bit masks and are of the type Unsigned32, e.g. TFR-
Flags, bit 0 shall be the least significant bit. For example, to get the value
of bit 0, a bit mask of 0x0001 should be used.
Table 5.3.3.1/1: S6c specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | Se | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | ction | Type | | | hould | not | Encr. | | Name | | de | | | | not | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM-R | 3308 | 5. | Enume | M, V | | | | No | | P-MTI | | 3.3.2 | rated | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM-RP | 3309 | 5. | O | M, V | | | | No | | -SMEA | | 3.3.3 | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SRR- | 3310 | 5. | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | Flags | | 3.3.4 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM-D | 3311 | 5. | Enume | M, V | | | | No | | elive | | 3.3.5 | rated | | | | | | | ry-No | | | | | | | | | | t-Int | | | | | | | | | | ended | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MWD-S | 3312 | 5. | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | tatus | | 3.3.8 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MME- | 3313 | 5. | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | Absen | | 3.3.9 | ned32 | | | | | | | t-Use | | | | | | | | | | r-Dia | | | | | | | | | | gnost | | | | | | | | | | ic-SM | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MSC- | 3314 | 5.3 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | Absen | | .3.10 | ned32 | | | | | | | t-Use | | | | | | | | | | r-Dia | | | | | | | | | | gnost | | | | | | | | | | ic-SM | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SG | 3315 | 5.3 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | SN-Ab | | .3.11 | ned32 | | | | | | | sent- | | | | | | | | | | User- | | | | | | | | | | Diagn | | | | | | | | | | ostic | | | | | | | | | | SM | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM-D | 3316 | 5.3 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | elive | | .3.14 | ouped | | | | | | | ry-Ou | | | | | | | | | | tcome | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MME | 3317 | 5.3 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | -SM-D | | .3.15 | ouped | | | | | | | elive | | | | | | | | | | ry-Ou | | | | | | | | | | tcome | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | MSC | 3318 | 5.3 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | -SM-D | | .3.16 | ouped | | | | | | | elive | | | | | | | | | | ry-Ou | | | | | | | | | | tcome | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SGSN | 3319 | 5.3 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | -SM-D | | .3.17 | ouped | | | | | | | elive | | | | | | | | | | ry-Ou | | | | | | | | | | tcome | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | IP- | 3320 | 5.3 | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | SM-GW | | .3.18 | ouped | | | | | | | -SM-D | | | | | | | | | | elive | | | | | | | | | | ry-Ou | | | | | | | | | | tcome | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM | 3321 | 5.3 | Enume | M, V | | | | No | | -Deli | | .3.19 | rated | | | | | | | very- | | | | | | | | | | Cause | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Absen | 3322 | 5.3 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | t-Use | | .3.20 | ned32 | | | | | | | r-Dia | | | | | | | | | | gnost | | | | | | | | | | ic-SM | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | RDR- | 3323 | 5.3 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | Flags | | .3.21 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | "M\", | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"V\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | IETF | | | | | | | | | | RFC | | | | | | | | | | 3588 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | stand | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | match | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | able, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | gnore | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | -bit. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs re-used from existing Diameter
Applications, including a reference to their respective specifications and
when needed, a short description of their use within this interface.
Any other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from
Diameter Base Protocol, do not need to be supported. The AVPs from Diameter
Base Protocol are not included in table 5.3.3.1/2, but they may be re-used for
this interface.
Table 5.3.3.1/2: S6c re-used Diameter AVPs
+-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Attribute Name | Reference | Comments | M-bit | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | User-Name | IETF RFC 3588 | | Must | | | [7] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | MSISDN | 3GPP TS 23.329 | | | | | [14] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | SC-Address | 3GPP TS 29.338 | It is defined for | | | | | the SGd/Gdd | | | | | interface, see | | | | | subclause 6.3.3.2 | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | LMSI | 3GPP TS 29.173 | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Serving-Node | 3GPP TS 29.173 | See subclause | | | | [10] | 5.3.3.6 | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | MSC-Number | 3GPP TS 29.173 | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | MME-Name | 3GPP TS 29.173 | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | MME-Realm | 3GPP TS 29.173 | | Must | | | [10] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | MME- | 3GPP TS 29.272 | | Must | | Number-for-MT-SMS | [4] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | SGSN-Number | 3GPP TS 29.272 | | | | | [4] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | SGSN-Name | 3GPP TS 29.173 | | | | | [10] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | SGSN-Realm | 3GPP TS | | | | | 29.173[10] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Additi | 3GPP TS 29.173 | See subclause | | | onal-Serving-Node | [10] | 5.3.3.7 | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | User-Identifier | 3GPP TS 29.336 | | | | | [15] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | SM-Deliv | 3GPP TS 29.338 | It is defined for | | | ery-Failure-Cause | | the SGd/Gdd | | | | | interface, see | | | | | subclause 6.3.3.5 | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | IP-SM-GW-Name | 3GPP TS 29.336 | | | | | [15] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | IP-SM-GW-Number | 3GPP TS 29.336 | | | | | [15] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | SMS | 3GPP TS 29.338 | It is defined for | | | MI-Correlation-ID | | the SGd/Gdd | | | | | interface, see | | | | | subclause 6.3.3.2 | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | De | 3GPP TS 29.338 | It is defined for | | | stination-SIP-URI | | the SGd/Gdd | | | | | interface, see | | | | | subclause 6.3.3.2 | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | S | 3GPP TS 29.229 | | | | upported-Features | [5] | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Feature-List-ID | 3GPP TS 29.229 | See subclause | | | | [5] | 5.3.3.12 | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | Feature-List | 3GPP TS 29.229 | See subclause | | | | [5] | 5.3.3.13 | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+ | NOTE 1: The M-bit | | | | | settings for | | | | | re-used AVPs | | | | | override those of | | | | | the defining | | | | | specifications | | | | | that are | | | | | referenced. | | | | | Values include: | | | | | \"Must set\", | | | | | \"Must not set\". | | | | | If the M-bit | | | | | setting is blank, | | | | | then the defining | | | | | specification | | | | | applies. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If the | | | | | M-bit is set for | | | | | an AVP and the | | | | | receiver does not | | | | | understand the | | | | | AVP, it shall | | | | | return a | | | | | rejection. If the | | | | | M-bit is not set | | | | | for an AVP, the | | | | | receiver shall | | | | | not return a | | | | | rejection, | | | | | whether or not it | | | | | understands the | | | | | AVP. If the | | | | | receiver | | | | | understands the | | | | | AVP but the M-bit | | | | | value does not | | | | | match with the | | | | | definition in | | | | | this table, the | | | | | receiver shall | | | | | ignore the M-bit. | | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------------------+-------+
#### 5.3.3.2 SM-RP-MTI
The SM-RP-MTI AVP is of type Enumerated and shall contain the RP-Message Type
Indicator of the Short Message. The following values are defined:
\- SM_DELIVER (0)
\- SM_STATUS_REPORT (1)
#### 5.3.3.3 SM-RP-SMEA
The SM-RP-SMEA AVP is of type OctetString and shall contain the RP-Originating
SME-address of the Short Message Entity that has originated the SM. It shall
be formatted according to the formatting rules of the address fields described
in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3].
#### 5.3.3.4 SRR-Flags
The SRR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 5.3.3.4./1:
Table 5.3.3.4/1: SRR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 GPRS-Indicator This bit shall be set if the SMS-GMSC
supports receiving of two serving nodes addresses from the HSS. 1 SM-RP-PRI
This bit shall be set if the delivery of the short message shall be attempted
when a service centre address is already contained in the Message Waiting Data
file 2 Single-Attempt-Delivery This bit if set indicates that only one
delivery attempt shall be performed for this particular SM. NOTE 1: Bits not
defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending entity and discarded by
the receiving entity.
* * *
#### 5.3.3.5 SM-Delivery-Not-Intended
The SM-Delivery-Not-Intended AVP is of type Enumerated and shall indicate by
its presence that delivery of a short message is not intended. It further
indicates whether only IMSI or only MCC+MNC with the following values:
\- ONLY_IMSI_REQUESTED (0),
\- ONLY_MCC_MNC_REQUESTED (1).
#### 5.3.3.6 Serving-Node
The Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped. This AVP shall contain the
information about the network node serving the targeted SMS user. It is
originally defined in 3GPP TS 29.173 [10].
AVP format
> Serving-Node ::= \
>
> [ SGSN-Name ]
>
> [ SGSN-Realm ]
>
> [ SGSN-Number ]
>
> [ MME-Name ]
>
> [ MME-Realm ]
>
> [ MME-Number-for-MT-SMS ]
>
> [ MSC-Number ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Number ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Name ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Realm ]
>
> *[AVP]
The following combinations are allowed:
a) SGSN-Number
b) SGSN-Name & SGSN-Realm & SGSN-Number if the HSS supports the \"Gdd in
SGSN\" feature and has received the \"Gdd in SGSN\" indication over S6a or Gr
interface from the SGSN (cf. 3GPP TS 29.272 [4] and 3GPP TS 29.002 [9])
c) MME-Name & MME-Realm & MME-Number-for-MT-SMS
d) MSC-Number
e) MSC-Number & MME-Name & MME-Realm
f) IP-SM-GW-Number
g) IP-SM-GW-Number & IP-SM-GW-Name.
#### 5.3.3.7 Additional-Serving-Node
The Additional-Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped. This AVP shall contain the
information about the network node serving the targeted user. It is originally
defined in 3GPP TS 29.173 [10].
AVP format
> Additional-Serving-Node ::= \
>
> [ SGSN-Name ]
>
> [ SGSN-Realm ]
>
> [ SGSN-Number ]
>
> [ MME-Name ]
>
> [ MME-Realm ]
>
> [ MME-Number-for-MT-SMS ]
>
> [ MSC-Number ]
>
> *[AVP]
The following combinations are allowed:
a) SGSN-Number
b) SGSN-Name & SGSN-Realm & SGSN-Number if the HSS supports the \"Gdd in
SGSN\" feature and has received the \"Gdd in SGSN\" indication over S6a or Gr
interface from the SGSN (cf. 3GPP TS 29.272 [4] and 3GPP TS 29.002 [9]
c) MME-Name & MME-Realm & MME-Number-for-MT-SMS
d) MSC-Number
e) MSC-Number & MME-Name & MME-Realm
#### 5.3.3.8 MWD-Status
The MWD-Status AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 5.3.3.8/1:
Table 5.3.3.8/1: MWD Status
* * *
bit name Description 0 SC-Address Not included This bit when set shall
indicate the presence of the SC Address in the Message Waiting Data in the
HSS. 1 MNRF-Set This bit, when set, shall indicate that the MNRF flag is set
in the HSS 2 MCEF-Set This bit, when set, shall indicate that the MCEF flag is
set in the HSS. 3 MNRG-Set This bit, when set, shall indicate that the MNRG
flag is set in the HSS NOTE: Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared
by the sending HSS and discarded by the receiving MME.
* * *
#### 5.3.3.9 MME-Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM
The MME-Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall indicate
the diagnostic explaining the absence of the user given by the MME. The values
are defined in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3] subclause 3.3.2.
#### 5.3.3.10 MSC-Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM
The MSC-Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall indicate
the diagnostic explaining the absence of the user given by the MSC. The values
are defined in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3] subclause 3.3.2.
#### 5.3.3.11 SGSN-Absent-Subscriber-Diagnostic-SM
The SGSN-Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall
indicate the diagnostic explaining the absence of the user given by the SGSN.
The values are defined in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3] subclause 3.3.2.
#### 5.3.3.12 Feature-List-ID AVP
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [5]. For this release, the
Feature-List-ID AVP value shall be set to 1.
#### 5.3.3.13 Feature-List AVP
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [5]. A null value
indicates that there is no feature used by the application.
NOTE: There is no feature defined for this release.
#### 5.3.3.14 SM-Delivery-Outcome
The SM-Delivery-Outcome AVP is of type Grouped. This AVP contains the result
of the SM delivery.
AVP format:
> SM-Delivery-Outcome::= \
>
> [ MME-SM-Delivery-Outcome ]
>
> [ MSC-SM-Delivery-Outcome ]
>
> [ SGSN-SM-Delivery-Outcome ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-SM-Delivery-Outcome]
>
> *[AVP]
#### 5.3.3.15 MME-SM-Delivery-Outcome
The MME-Delivery-Outcome AVP is of type grouped and shall indicate the outcome
of the SM delivery for setting the message waiting data in the HSS when the SM
delivery is with an MME.
AVP format:
> MME-SM-Delivery-Outcome::= \>
>
> [ SM-Delivery-Cause ]
>
> [ Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM ]
#### 5.3.3.16 MSC-SM-Delivery-Outcome
The MSC-Delivery-Outcome AVP is of type grouped and shall indicate the outcome
of the SM delivery for setting the message waiting data in the HSS when the SM
delivery is with an MSC.
AVP format:
> MSC-SM-Delivery-Outcome::= \
>
> [ SM-Delivery-Cause ]
>
> [ Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM ]
#### 5.3.3.17 SGSN-SM-Delivery-Outcome
The SGSN-Delivery-Outcome AVP is of type grouped and shall indicate the
outcome of the SM delivery for setting the message waiting data in the HSS
when the SM delivery is with an SGSN.
AVP format:
> SGSN-SM-Delivery-Outcome::= \
>
> [ SM-Delivery-Cause ]
>
> [ Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM ]
#### 5.3.3.18 IP-SM-GW-SM-Delivery-Outcome
The IP-SM-GW-SM-Delivery-Outcome AVP is of type grouped and shall indicate the
outcome of the SM delivery for setting the message waiting data when the SM
delivery is with an IP-SM-GW. The following values are defined.
AVP format:
> IP-SM-GW-SM-Delivery-Outcome::= \
>
> [ SM-Delivery-Cause ]
>
> [ Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM ]
#### 5.3.3.19 SM-Delivery-Cause
The SM-Delivery-Cause AVP is of type Enumerated and shall indicate the cause
of the SMP delivery result. The following values are defined:
\- UE_ MEMORY_CAPACITY_EXCEEDED (0)
\- ABSENT_USER (1)
\- SUCCESSFUL_TRANSFER (2)
#### 5.3.3.20 Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM
The Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM AVP is of type Unsigned32 and shall indicate the
diagnostic explaining the absence of the subscriber. The values are defined in
3GPP TS 23.040 [3] subclause 3.3.2.
#### 5.3.3.21 RDR-Flags
The RDR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 5.3.3.21/1:
Table 5.3.3.21/1: RDR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 Single-Attempt-Delivery This bit if set indicates that
only one delivery attempt shall be performed for this particular SM. NOTE 1:
Bits not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending entity and
discarded by the receiving entity.
* * *
## 5.4 User identity to HSS resolution
The User identity to HSS resolution mechanism enables the SMS-GMSC or SMS
Router in the home PLMN or Diameter proxy agents in the home PLMN to find the
identity of the HSS that holds the subscriber data for a given user identified
by its MSISDN or by its IMSI when multiple and separately addressable HSSs
have been deployed in the home PLMN. The resolution mechanism is not required
in PLMNs that utilise a single HSS.
This User identity to HSS resolution mechanism may rely on routing
capabilities provided by Diameter and be implemented in the home PLMN within
dedicated Diameter Agents (Proxy Agents) responsible for determining the HSS
identity based on the provided user identity. If this Diameter based
implementation is selected by the home PLMN operator, the principles described
below shall apply.
When more than one independently addressable HSS are deployed in the home
PLMN, each SMS-GMSC or SMS-Router network of the home PLMN shall be configured
with the address/identity of a Diameter Agent (Proxy Agent) implementing this
resolution mechanism.
Diameter Relay agents and/or Diameter Proxy agents in the home PLMN receiving
the Diameter signalling from SMS-GMSC located in other PLMNs shall be
configured with the address/identity of a Diameter Agent (Proxy Agent)
implementing this resolution mechanism.
To get the HSS identity that holds the subscriber data for a given user
identity in the home network, the Diameter request normally destined to the
HSS shall be sent to the pre-configured address/identity of a Diameter Proxy
agent supporting the User identity to HSS resolution mechanism.
\- If this Diameter request is received by a Diameter Redirect Agent, the
Diameter Redirect Agent shall determine the HSS identity based on the provided
user identity (i.e. MSISDN or IMSI) and shall return a notification of
redirection towards the HSS identity, in response to the Diameter request.
Multiple HSS identities may be included in the response, as specified in IETF
RFC 3588 [4]. In such a case, the requesting Diameter entity shall send the
Diameter request to the first HSS identity in the ordered list received in the
Diameter response from the Diameter Redirect Agent. If no successful response
to the Diameter request is received, the requesting Diameter entity shall send
a Diameter request to the next HSS identity in the ordered list. This
procedure shall be repeated until a successful response from an HSS is
received. After the user identity to HSS resolution, the MME or the SGSN shall
store the determined HSS identity/name/Realm and shall use it in further
Diameter requests to the same user identity.
\- If this Diameter request is received by a Diameter Proxy Agent, the
Diameter Proxy Agent shall determine the HSS identity based on the provided
user identity (i.e. MSISDN or IMSI) and shall forward the Diameter request
directly to the HSS. In this case, the user identity to HSS resolution
decision is communicated to the SMS-GMSC in the Origin-Host/Origin-Realm AVPs
of the response.
NOTE: Alternatives to the user identity to HSS resolution Diameter based
implementation are outside the scope of this specification.
The User identity to HSS resolution mechanism, in a retry context of SMS for
IMS UE to IMS UE without MSISDN (see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]), applies as
described in this clause for requests issued by the SMS-SC to a HSS and where
the IMSI of the user is replaced by the HSS ID of the HSS storing the
subscription data of the user.
# 6 Diameter based SGd/Gdd interfaces between MME/SGSN and central SMS
functions
## 6.1 Introduction
The SGd interface enables the transfer of short messages between the MME, the
SMS-IWMSC, the SMS-GMSC and the SMS Router as described in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3].
The Gdd interface enables the transfer of short messages between the SGSN, the
SMS-IWMSC, the SMS-GMSC and the SMS Router as described in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3].
Editor's note: the reference to TS 23.040 is to be confirmed after the
corresponding update of TS 23.040.
## 6.2 Procedures description
### 6.2.1 MO Forward Short Message procedure
#### 6.2.1.1 General
This procedure shall be used between the serving MME or SGSN or IP-SM-GW and
the SMS-IWMSC to forward mobile originated short messages from a mobile user
to a Service Centre.
This procedure is used according to the call flows described in 3GPP TS 23.040
[3] clause 10.
Table 6.2.1.1/1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 6.2.1.1/2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
This procedure is mapped to the commands MO-Forward-Short-Message-
Request/Answer (OFR/OFA) in the Diameter application specified in subclause
6.3.2.
Table 6.2.1.1/1: MO Forward Short Message Request
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP DA | SC-Address | M | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Service Centre | | | | | address received | | | | | from the mobile | | | | | station. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP OA | ** | **M** | This information | | | User-Identifier**| | element shall | | | | | contain: | | | | | | | | | | - the IMSI if it | | | | | is available; | | | | | | | | | | - the MSISDN of | | | | | the user when it | | | | | exists. | | | | | | | | | | - a dummy MSISDN | | | | | value in the | | | | | context of | | | | | MSISDN-less SMS | | | | | delivery in IMS | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.204 [17]),if | | | | | IMSI is not | | | | | available. In | | | | | this case the | | | | | originating user | | | | | is identified by | | | | | the Originating | | | | | SIP-URI (see | | | | | SMSMI-Correlation | | | | | ID). | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP UI | SM-RP-UI |** M**| This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the short | | | | | message transfer | | | | | protocol data | | | | | unit | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SMSMI-Correlation | SMS |** C**| This information | | ID | MI-Correlation-ID | | element indicates | | | | | by its presence | | | | | that the request | | | | | is sent in the | | | | | context of | | | | | MSISDN-less SMS | | | | | delivery in IMS | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.204 [17]). | | | | | | | | | | When present, | | | | | this information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain an HSS-ID | | | | | identifying the | | | | | destination | | | | | user\'s HSS, a | | | | | Destination | | | | | SIP-URI | | | | | identifying the | | | | | MSISDN-less | | | | | destination user, | | | | | and an | | | | | Originating | | | | | SIP-URI | | | | | identifying the | | | | | MSISDN-less | | | | | originating user. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | OFR Flags | OFR-Flags |** C**| This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain a bit | | | | | mask. See | | | | | 6.3.3.12 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM Delivery | SM |** C** | This information | | Outcome | -Delivery-Outcome | | element shall be | | | | | present if the | | | | | SMSMI Correlation | | | | | ID is present and | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | IP-SM-GW SM | | | | | Delivery Outcome | | | | | with the causes | | | | | for setting the | | | | | message waiting | | | | | data in the HSS. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
NOTE: In the context of MSISDN-less SMS delivery in IMS (see 3GPP TS 23.204
[17]), the IP-SM-GW gets the HSS-ID and the SM Delivery Outcome from the SIP
message coming from the IMS network of the destination user and indicating a
temporary SMS delivery failure.
Table 6.2.1.1/2: MO-Forward Short Message Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | **M** | This information | | | Ex | | element shall | | | perimental-Result | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for SGd/Gdd | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. The | | | | | following errors | | | | | are applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Facility Not | | | | | Supported; | | | | | | | | | | - SM Delivery | | | | | Failure. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM Delivery | SM-Delivery- | **C** | If the | | Failure Cause | Failure-Cause | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | is set to | | | | | DIAME | | | | | TER_ERROR_SM_D | | | | | ELIVERY_FAILURE, | | | | | this information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present and | | | | | indicate one of | | | | | the following: | | | | | | | | | | - unknown | | | | | Service | | | | | Centre | | | | | address; | | | | | | | | | | - Service | | | | | Centre | | | | | congestion; | | | | | | | | | | - invalid Short | | | | | Message | | | | | Entity | | | | | address; | | | | | | | | | | - user not | | | | | Service | | | | | Centre user. | | | | | | | | | | It may be | | | | | completed with a | | | | | Diagnostic | | | | | information | | | | | element. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP UI | SM-RP-UI | **O** | If present, this | | | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain a short | | | | | message transfer | | | | | protocol data | | | | | unit in the | | | | | message delivery | | | | | acknowledgement | | | | | from the | | | | | SMS-IWMSC to the | | | | | MME or SGSN | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the list | | | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
#### 6.2.1.2 Detailed behaviour of the MME, the SGSN and the IP-SM-GW
When the \"SMS in MME\" feature is applied for the UE, the MME shall make use
of this procedure to forward mobile originated short messages received from
the UE to the SMS-IWMSC associated to the SMS-SC indicated by the UE.
When the SGSN supports the SMS service for the UE, the SGSN shall make use of
this procedure to forward mobile originated short messages received from the
UE to the SMS-IWMSC associated to the SMS-SC indicated by the UE.
The IP-SM-GW shall make use of this procedure to forward mobile originated
short messages received from the UE to the SMS-IWMSC associated to the SMS-SC
indicated by the UE. This procedure shall be also used in the context of
MSISDN-less SMS delivery in IMS (see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]), when the direct SMS
delivery has failed,
The MME or the SGSN shall check if the SMS related subscription data (e.g. ODB
data and Call Barring) allows forwarding the short message.
#### 6.2.1.3 Detailed behaviour of the SMS-IWMSC
When receiving the MO Forward Short Message Request, the SMS-IWMSC shall check
if the SMS-SC is known, if it is not, an Experimental-Result-Code set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_SM_DELIVERY_FAILURE and a SM Delivery Failure Cause indicating
\"unknown Service Centre address\" shall be returned to the MME or the SGSN.
The SMS IWMSC shall then pass the short message to the addressed SMS-SC.
If the SMS-SC returns a negative acknowledgement, an Experimental-Result-Code
set to DIAMETER_ERROR_SM_DELIVERY_FAILURE and a SM Delivery Failure Cause
indicating the cause given by the SMC-SC shall be returned to the MME or the
SGSN.
If the SMS-SC returns a positive acknowledgement to the SMS IWMSC, a Result-
Code set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS shall be returned to the MME or the SGSN.
If a requested facility is not supported, an Experimental-Result-Code set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_FACILITY_NOT_SUPPORTED shall be returned.
### 6.2.2 MT Forward Short Message procedure
#### 6.2.2.1 General
This procedure shall be used between the SMS-GMSC and the serving MME or SGSN
(transiting an SMS Router, if present) or IP-SM-GW to forward mobile
terminated short messages.
This procedure is used according to the call flows described in 3GPP TS 23.040
[3] clause 10.
Table 6.2.2.1/1 specifies the involved information elements for the request.
Table 6.2.2.1/2 specifies the involved information elements for the answer.
This procedure is mapped to the commands MT-Forward-Short-Message-
Request/Answer (TFR/TFA) in the Diameter application specified in subclause
6.3.2.
Table 6.2.2.1/1: MT Forward Short Message Request
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP DA | User-Name (See | M | This information | | | IETF RFC 3588 | | element shall | | | [6]) | | contain | | | | | | | | | | - either an IMSI | | | | | | | | | | - or a HSS ID | | | | | value if an | | | | | SMSMI-Correlation | | | | | ID is present, | | | | | the destination | | | | | user being | | | | | identified by the | | | | | Destination | | | | | SIP-URI within | | | | | the SMSMI | | | | | Correlation ID. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP OA | SC-Address | **M** | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Service Centre | | | | | address. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SMSMI Correlation | SMS | **C** | This information | | ID | MI-Correlation-ID | | element indicates | | | | | by its presence | | | | | that the request | | | | | is sent in the | | | | | context of | | | | | MSISDN-less SMS | | | | | delivery in IMS | | | | | (see 3GPP TS | | | | | 23.204 [17]). | | | | | | | | | | When present, | | | | | this information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | Destination | | | | | SIP-URI | | | | | identifying the | | | | | (MSISDN-less) | | | | | destination user | | | | | and the | | | | | Originating | | | | | SIP-URI | | | | | identifying the | | | | | (MSISDN-less) | | | | | originating user. | | | | | The HSS-ID shall | | | | | be absent from | | | | | this information | | | | | element. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP UI | SM-RP-UI | **M** | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain the short | | | | | message transfer | | | | | protocol data | | | | | unit. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **MME Number for |** MME-Nu | **C** | This Information | | MT SMS**| mber-for-MT-SMS** | | Element contains | | | | | the ISDN number | | | | | of the MME (see | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | | [3]) and shall | | | | | be present when | | | | | the request is | | | | | sent to a MME. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **SGSN Number** | **SGSN-Number** | **C** | This Information | | | | | Element contains | | | | | the ISDN number | | | | | of the SGSN (see | | | | | 3GPP TS 23.003 | | | | | [3]) and shall | | | | | be present when | | | | | the request is | | | | | sent to a SGSN. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | **TFR-Flags** | **TFR-Flags** | **C** | This information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain a bit | | | | | mask. Bit 0 | | | | | indicates when | | | | | set if the | | | | | Service Centre | | | | | has more messages | | | | | to send | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM Delivery Timer | SM-Delivery-Timer | **O** | This information | | | | | element, when | | | | | present, shall | | | | | indicate the SM | | | | | Delivery Timer | | | | | value set in the | | | | | SMS-GMSC to the | | | | | IP-SM-GW. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM Delivery Start | SM-Delivery- | **O** | This information | | Time | Start-Time | | element, when | | | | | present, shall | | | | | indicate the | | | | | timestamp (in | | | | | UTC) at which the | | | | | SM Delivery | | | | | Supervision Timer | | | | | was started in | | | | | the SMS-GMSC. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | | (See 3GPP TS | | contain the list | | | 29.229 [5]) | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
Table 6.2.2.1/2: MT Forward Short Message Answer
+-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | element name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | **M** | This information | | | Ex | | element shall | | | perimental-Result | | contain the | | | | | result of the | | | | | operation. | | | | | | | | | | The Result-Code | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | to indicate | | | | | success / errors | | | | | as defined in the | | | | | Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for SGd/Gdd | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | shall contain the | | | | | 3GPP Vendor ID in | | | | | the Vendor-Id | | | | | AVP, and the | | | | | error code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. The | | | | | following errors | | | | | are applicable: | | | | | | | | | | - Unknown User; | | | | | | | | | | - Absent User; | | | | | | | | | | - User busy for | | | | | MT SMS; | | | | | | | | | | - Illegal User; | | | | | | | | | | - Illegal | | | | | Equipment; | | | | | | | | | | - SM Delivery | | | | | Failure. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Absent User | Absent-U | **O** | This information | | Diagnostic SM | ser-Diagnostic-SM | | element may be | | | | | present when | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | is set to | | | | | DIAMETER_ER | | | | | ROR_ABSENT_USER | | | | | and it shall | | | | | contain the | | | | | reason of the | | | | | absence of the | | | | | user given by the | | | | | MME or the SGSN. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM Delivery | SM-Delivery- | **C** | If | | Failure Cause | Failure-Cause | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | is set to | | | | | DIAME | | | | | TER_ERROR_SM_D | | | | | ELIVERY_FAILURE, | | | | | this information | | | | | element shall be | | | | | present and | | | | | indicate one of | | | | | the following: | | | | | | | | | | - memory | | | | | capacity | | | | | exceeded in | | | | | the mobile | | | | | equipment; | | | | | | | | | | - UE error; | | | | | | | | | | - mobile | | | | | equipment not | | | | | equipped to | | | | | support the | | | | | mobile | | | | | terminated | | | | | short message | | | | | service. | | | | | | | | | | It may be | | | | | completed with a | | | | | Diagnostic | | | | | information | | | | | element | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | SM RP UI | SM-RP-UI | **O** | If present, this | | | | | information | | | | | element shall | | | | | contain a short | | | | | message transfer | | | | | protocol data | | | | | unit in the | | | | | message delivery | | | | | acknowledgement | | | | | from the MME to | | | | | the Service | | | | | Centre. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | | (See 3GPP TS | | contain the list | | | 29.229 [5]) | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+-------+-------------------+
#### 6.2.2.2 Detailed behaviour of the MME and the SGSN
When receiving a MT Forward Short Message Request, the MME or the SGSN shall
check if the IMSI is known,
If it is not known, an Experimental-Result-Code set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN shall be returned.
The MME or the SGSN shall attempt to deliver the short message to the UE.
If the delivery of the short message to the UE is successful, the MME or the
SGSN shall return a Result-Code set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS.
If the UE is not reachable via the MME, the MME shall set the MNRF flag and
shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set to DIAMETER_ERROR_ABSENT_USER.
If the UE is not reachable via the SGSN, the SGSN shall set the MNRG flag and
shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set to DIAMETER_ERROR_ABSENT_USER.
If the delivery of the mobile terminated short message failed because of
memory capacity exceeded or UE error or UE not SM equipped, the MME or the
SGSN shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_SM_DELIVERY_FAILURE complemented with a SM Delivery Failure
Cause indication.
If a requested facility is not supported, the MME or the SGSN shall return an
Experimental-Result-Code set to DIAMETER_ERROR_FACILITY_NOT_SUPPORTED.
If the user is busy for MT SMS, i.e. the mobile terminated short message
transfer cannot be completed because:
\- another mobile terminated short message transfer is going on and the
delivery node does not support message buffering; or
\- another mobile terminated short message transfer is going on and it is not
possible to buffer the message for later delivery; or
\- the message was buffered but it is not possible to deliver the message
before the expiry of the buffering time defined in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3],
the MME or the SGSN shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_BUSY_FOR_MT_SMS.
If the delivery of the mobile terminated short message failed because the
mobile station failed authentication, the MME or the SGSN shall return an
Experimental-Result-Code set to DIAMETER_ERROR_ILLEGAL_USER.
If the delivery of the mobile terminated short message failed because an IMEI
check failed, i.e. the IMEI was blacklisted or not white-listed, the MME or
the SGSN shall return an Experimental-Result-Code set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_ILLEGAL_EQUIPMENT.
#### 6.2.2.3 Detailed behaviour of the SMS-GMSC
The SMS-GMSC shall make use of this procedure over the SGd interface or over
the Gdd interface for the delivery of a MT short message when it has selected
the serving node of which it obtained the Diameter Identity from the answer of
the Send Routing Info for SM procedure.
NOTE: The SMS-GMSC is not aware that the MT Forward Short Message Request may
be routed to a SMS router.
#### 6.2.2.4 Detailed behaviour of the SMS-Router
When the SMS router has received a MT Forward Short Message from the SMS-GMSC
and the SMS Router has selected the MME or the SGSN for delivery, the SMS
Router shall forward it to the MME or the SGSN.
When a MT Forward Short Message Answer is received from the MME, the SMS
Router shall forward it to the SMS-GMSC.
## 6.3 Protocol specification
### 6.3.1 Routing considerations
#### 6.3.1.1 Routing for MO Forward SM messages:
This subclause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-
Realm and Destination-Host over the SGd or Gdd interfaces for the Diameter
command requests from the MME or from the SGSN (i.e. for the MO forward SM
procedure).
This subclause also applies for the Diameter command MO forward SM request
from the IP-SM-GW towards an SMS-SC/SMS-IWMSC, including the case where the MO
forward SM request occurs in the retry context of SMS for IMS UE to IMS UE
without MSISDN (see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]). MME or SGSN is replaced by IP-SM-GW
in the text of this subclause.
If the MME or the SGSN, from the SMS-SC E164 number received from the UE, can
obtain the address/name of the SMS-IWMSC and the associated home network
domain name (e.g. by local configuration), both the Destination-Realm and
Destination-Host AVPs shall be present in the request.
If the MME or the SGSN, from the SMS-SC E164 number received from the UE, can
only obtain the MCC/MNC values of the PLMN to which the SMS-SC belongs, the
MME or the SGSN shall use them to build the MCC/MNC based network domain as
described in subclause 19.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [16] and include it in the
Destination-Realm AVP of the request. The request shall then be routed to the
next Diameter node.
If the MME or the SGSN cannot obtain the MCC/MNC values from the SMS-SC E164
number, the MME or the SGSN shall forward the request to a Diameter node
within the same PLMN, the Destination Realm content being left to the PLMN
operator choice. Then:
  * if a Diameter node in the routing path insides the PLMN of the MME can obtain the MCC/MNC values of the PLMN to which the SMS-SC belongs,
  * it shall use them to build the MCC/MNC based network domain as described in subclause 19.2 of 3GPP TS 23.003 [16] and include it in the Destination-Realm AVP of the request. The request shall then be routed to the next Diameter node.
If the MCC/MNC values of the PLMN to which the SMS-SC belongs cannot be
obtained in the PLMN of the MME or the SGSN, the request shall be replaced in
the PLMN of the MME or the SGSN by an equivalent request routed through a MAP
interface (e.g. via an IWF).
NOTE 1: The inter PLMN routing principle is to reuse the routing based on a
MCC/MNC based domain name as used by other Diameter applications such as
S6a/d. It is assumed that obtaining the relevant MCC/MNC values from the E164
number of the SMS-SC can be achieved in the PLMN which the MME belongs to.
Otherwise a MAP based routing is used. This routing principle may be completed
with other routing solutions in the future.
Consequently, the Destination-Host AVP is declared as optional in the ABNF for
all requests initiated by an MME or a SGSN.
#### 6.3.1.2 Routing for MT Forward SM messages:
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host for the Diameter command requests from the SMS-GMSC or
the SMS Router (i.e. for the MT forward SM procedure).
  * if the SMS-GMSC has received the Diameter address/name of an MME or of the SGSN in the answer to its interrogation to the HSS/HLR for retrieving routing information and if it selects this serving node, it shall use it to populate the Destination-Realm and Destination-Host AVPs.
  * If the SMS Router has received the Diameter address/name of the MME or of the SGSN in the answer to its interrogation to the HSS/HLR for retrieving routing information and if it selects this serving node, it shall use this Diameter address/name to populate the Destination-Realm and Destination-Host AVPs.
Consequently, the Destination-Host AVP is declared as mandatory in the ABNF
for all requests initiated by an SMS-GMSC or a SMS router.
### 6.3.2 Commands
#### 6.3.2.1 Introduction
This section defines the Command code values and related ABNF for each command
described for the SGd interface.
#### 6.3.2.2 Command-Code values
This section defines the Command-Code values for the SGd interface application
as allocated by IANA in the IETF RFC 5516 [8], the SGd interface application
being used over the SGd and Gdd interfaces.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 2234 [6],
according to the rules in IETF RFC 3588 [7]. In the case, the definition and
use of an AVP is not specified in this document, the guidelines in IETF RFC
3588 [7] shall apply.
NOTE: For this release, the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID is included as an
optional AVP in all commands in order to ensure interoperability with diameter
agents following a strict implementation of IETF RFC 3588 [7], by which
messages not including this AVP will be rejected. IETF RFC 3588 [7] indicates
that the AVP shall be present in all proxiable commands, such as those
specified here, despite that the contents of this AVP are redundant since the
Application ID is already present in the command header. This AVP may be
removed in subsequent revisions of this specification, once the diameter base
protocol is updated accordingly.
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 6.3.2.2/1: Command-Code values for SGd/Gdd
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Section MO-Forward-Short-Message Request OFR
8388645 6.3.2.3 MO-Forward-Short-Message Answer OFA 8388645 6.3.2.4 MT-
Forward-Short-Message Request TFR 8388646 6.3.2.5 MT-Forward-Short-Message
Answer TFA 8388646 6.3.2.6
* * *
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to 16777313
(application identifier of the SGd interface application, allocated by IANA).
#### 6.3.2.3 MO-Forward-Short-Message-Request (OFR) Command
The MO-Forward-Short-Message-Request (OFR) command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388645 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the MME / SGSN to the SMS-IWMSC.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ PXY, 16777313 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { SC-Address }
>
> [ OFR-Flags ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> { User-Identifier }
>
> { SM-RP-UI }
>
> **[ SMSMI-Correlation-ID ]**
>
> [ SM-Delivery-Outcome ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
#### 6.3.2.4 MO-Forward-Short-Message-Answer (OFA) Command
The MO-Forward-Short-Message-Answer Command (OFA) command, indicated by the
Command-Code field set to 8388645 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command
Flags field, is sent from the SMS-IWMSC to the MME / SGSN.
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777313 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ SM-Delivery- Failure-Cause ]
>
> [ SM-RP-UI ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
#### 6.3.2.5 MT-Forward-Short-Message-Request (TFR) Command
The MT-Forward-Short-Message-Request (TFR) command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388646 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the SMS-GMSC to the MME / SGSN (transiting an SMS Router, if
present).
Message Format
> \ ::= \ PXY, 16777313 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> { Destination-Host }
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { User-Name }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> **[ SMSMI-Correlation-ID ]**
>
> { SC-Address }
>
> { SM-RP-UI }
>
> [ MME-Number-for-MT-SMS ]
>
> [ SGSN-Number ]
>
> [ TFR-Flags ]
>
> [ SM-Delivery-Timer ]
>
> [ SM-Delivery-Start-Time ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
#### 6.3.2.6 MT-Forward-Short-Message-Answer (TFA) Command
The MT-Forward-Short-Message-Answer Command (TFA) command, indicated by the
Command-Code field set to 8388646 and the \'R\' bit cleared in the Command
Flags field, is sent from the MME / SGSN to the SMS-GMSC (transiting an SMS
Router, if present).
Message Format
> \ ::= \ 16777313 >
>
> \
>
> [ Vendor-Specific-Application-Id ]
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> [ Absent-User-Diagnostic-SM ]
>
> [ SM-Delivery- Failure-Cause ]
>
> [ SM-RP-UI ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
### 6.3.3 AVPs
#### 6.3.3.1 General
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs defined for the SGd/Gdd
interface protocol, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and
whether or not the AVP may be encrypted. The Vendor-ID header of all AVPs
defined in this specification shall be set to 3GPP (10415).
For all AVPs which contain bit masks and are of the type Unsigned32, e.g.,
TFR-Flags, bit 0 shall be the least significant bit. For example, to get the
value of bit 0, a bit mask of 0x0001 should be used.
Table 6.3.3.1/1: SGd/Gdd specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | Se | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | ction | Type | | | hould | not | Encr. | | Name | | de | | | | not | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SC-Ad | 3300 | 6. | O | M, V | | | | No | | dress | | 3.3.2 | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM- | 3301 | 6. | O | M, V | | | | No | | RP-UI | | 3.3.3 | ctetS | | | | | | | | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | TFR- | 3302 | 6. | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | Flags | | 3.3.4 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM | 3303 | 6. | Gr | M, V | | | | No | | -Deli | | 3.3.5 | ouped | | | | | | | very- | | | | | | | | | | Fai | | | | | | | | | | lure- | | | | | | | | | | Cause | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | S | 3304 | 6. | Enume | M, V | | | | No | | M-Enu | | 3.3.6 | rated | | | | | | | merat | | | | | | | | | | ed-De | | | | | | | | | | liver | | | | | | | | | | y-Fai | | | | | | | | | | lure- | | | | | | | | | | Cause | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM- | 3305 | 6. | O | M, V | | | | No | | Diagn | | 3.3.7 | ctetS | | | | | | | ostic | | | tring | | | | | | | -Info | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM | 3306 | 6.3 | Unsig | M, V | | | | No | | -Deli | | .3.10 | ned32 | | | | | | | very- | | | | | | | | | | Timer | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SM | 3307 | 6.3 | Time | M, V | | | | No | | -Deli | | .3.11 | | | | | | | | very- | | | | | | | | | | Start | | | | | | | | | | -Time | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SMSMI | 3324 | 6.3 | Gr | V | | | M | No | | -Corr | | .3.13 | ouped | | | | | | | elati | | | | | | | | | | on-ID | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | H | 3325 | 6.3 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | SS-ID | | .3.14 | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Orig | 3326 | 6.3 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | inati | | .3.15 | tring | | | | | | | ng-SI | | | | | | | | | | P-URI | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Dest | 3327 | 6.3 | UTF8S | V | | | M | No | | inati | | .3.16 | tring | | | | | | | on-SI | | | | | | | | | | P-URI | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | OFR- | 3328 | 6.3 | Unsig | V | | | M | No | | Flags | | .3.12 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | "M\", | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"V\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | IETF | | | | | | | | | | RFC | | | | | | | | | | 3588 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [4]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | stand | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | match | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | able, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | gnore | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | -bit. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs re-used from existing Diameter
Applications, including a reference to their respective specifications and
when needed, a short description of their use within this interface.
Any other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from
Diameter Base Protocol, do not need to be supported. The AVPs from Diameter
Base Protocol are not included in table 6.3.3.1/2, but they may be re-used for
this interface.
Table 6.3.3.1/2: SGd/Gdd re-used Diameter AVPs
+------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | Attribute Name | Reference | Comments | M-bit | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | User-Name | IETF RFC 3588 | | Must | | | [7] | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | User-Identifier | 3GPP TS 29.336 | | | | | [15] | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | MME-N | 3GPP TS 29.272 | | | | umber-for-MT-SMS | [4] | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | SGSN-Number | 3GPP TS 29.272 | | Must not | | | [4] | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | Absent-Us | 3GPP TS 29.338 | It is defined | | | er-Diagnostic-SM | | for the S6c | | | | | interface, see | | | | | subclause | | | | | 5.3.3.20 | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | Su | 3GPP TS 29.229 | | | | pported-Features | [5] | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | Feature-List-ID | 3GPP TS 29.229 | See subclause | | | | [5] | 6.3.3.8 | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | Feature-List | 3GPP TS 29.229 | See subclause | | | | [5] | 6.3.3.9 | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+ | NOTE 1: The | | | | | M-bit settings | | | | | for re-used AVPs | | | | | override those | | | | | of the defining | | | | | specifications | | | | | that are | | | | | referenced. | | | | | Values include: | | | | | \"Must set\", | | | | | \"Must not | | | | | set\". If the | | | | | M-bit setting is | | | | | blank, then the | | | | | defining | | | | | specification | | | | | applies. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: If the | | | | | M-bit is set for | | | | | an AVP and the | | | | | receiver does | | | | | not understand | | | | | the AVP, it | | | | | shall return a | | | | | rejection. If | | | | | the M-bit is not | | | | | set for an AVP, | | | | | the receiver | | | | | shall not return | | | | | a rejection, | | | | | whether or not | | | | | it understands | | | | | the AVP. If the | | | | | receiver | | | | | understands the | | | | | AVP but the | | | | | M-bit value does | | | | | not match with | | | | | the definition | | | | | in this table, | | | | | the receiver | | | | | shall ignore the | | | | | M-bit. | | | | +------------------+------------------+------------------+----------+
#### 6.3.3.2 SC-Address
The SC-Address AVP is of type UTF8String and it shall contain the E164 number
of the SMS-SC, in international number format as described in ITU-T
Recommendation E.164 [13].
#### 6.3.3.3 SM-RP-UI
The SM-RP-UI is of type OctetString and it shall contain a short message
transfer protocol data unit (TPDU) which is defined in 3GPP TS 23.040 [3] and
represents the user data field carried by the short message service relay sub-
layer protocol. Its maximum length is of 200 octets.
#### 6.3.3.4 TFR-Flags
The TFR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 6.3.3.4/1:
Table 6.3.3.4/1: TFR-Flags
* * *
Bit Name Description 0 More-Messages-To-Send This bit, when set, shall
indicate that the service centre has more short messages to send. NOTE 1: Bits
not defined in this table shall be cleared by the sending entity and discarded
by the receiving entity.
* * *
#### 6.3.3.5 SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause
The SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain
information about the cause of the failure of a SM delivery with an optional
Diagnostic information.
The AVP format shall conform to:
SM-Delivery-Failure-Cause ::= \
> { SM-Enumerated-Delivery-Failure-Cause }
>
> [ SM-Diagnostic-Info ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
#### 6.3.3.6 SM-Enumerated-Delivery-Failure-Cause
The SM-Enumerated-Delivery-Failure-Cause AVP is of type enumerated and it
shall contain the cause of the failure of a SM delivery. The following values
are defined:
MEMORY_CAPACITY_EXCEEDED (0),
EQUIPMENT_PROTOCOL_ERROR (1),
EQUIPMENT_NOT_SM-EQUIPPED (2),
UNKNOWN_SERVICE_CENTRE (3),
SC-CONGESTION (4),
INVALID_SME-ADDRESS (5),
USER_NOT_SC-USER (6).
NOTE: The values of the SM- Enumerated-Delivery-Failure-Cause AVP correspond
to the ones for the SM-EnumeratedDeliveryFailureCause parameter in MAP as
described in 3GPP TS 29.002[9].
#### 6.3.3.7 SM-Diagnostic-Info
The SM-Diagnostic-Info AVP is of type OctetString and it shall contain a
complementary information associated to the SM Delivery Failure cause.
#### 6.3.3.8 Feature-List-ID AVP
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [5]. For this release, the
Feature-List-ID AVP value shall be set to 1.
#### 6.3.3.9 Feature-List AVP
The syntax of this AVP is defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [5]. A null value
indicates that there is no feature used by the application.
NOTE: There is no feature defined for this release.
#### 6.3.3.10 SM-Delivery-Timer
The SM-Delivery-Timer is of type Integer and it shall contain the value in
seconds of the timer for SM Delivery.
#### 6.3.3.11 SM-Delivery-Start-Time
The SM-Delivery-Start-Time is of type Time and in shall contain the timestamp
(in UTC) at which the SM Delivery Supervision Timer was started.
#### 6.3.3.12 OFR-Flags
The OFR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it shall contain a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits shall be as defined in table 6.3.3.12/1:
Table 6.3.3.12/1: OFR-Flags
+-----+-------------------+------------------------------------------+ | Bit | Name | Description | +-----+-------------------+------------------------------------------+ | 0 | S6a/S6d-Indicator | This bit, when set, indicates that the | | | | OFR message is sent on the Gdd | | | | interface, i.e. the source node is an | | | | SGSN (or a combined MME/SGSN to which | | | | the UE is attached via UTRAN). | | | | | | | | This bit, when cleared, indicates that | | | | the OFR message is sent on the SGd | | | | interface, i.e. the source node is an | | | | MME (or a combined MME/SGSN to which the | | | | UE is attached via UTRAN or GERAN). | +-----+-------------------+------------------------------------------+
#### 6.3.3.13 SMSMI-Correlation-ID
The SMSMI-Correlation-ID AVP is of type Grouped. It shall contain information
identities used in the context of MSISDN-less SMS delivery in IMS (see 3GPP TS
23.204 [17]).
The AVP format shall conform to:
SMS-MI-Correlation-ID ::= \
> [ HSS-ID ]
>
> [ Originating-SIP-URI ]
>
> [ Destination-SIP-URI ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
#### 6.3.3.14 HSS-ID
The HSS-ID AVP is of type UTF8String. The definition and the composition of
the HSS-ID are specified in 3GPP TS 23.003 [16].
#### 6.3.3.15 Originating-SIP-URI
The Originating-SIP-URI AVP is of type UTF8String. It shall contain the Public
identity of the IMS UE without MSISDN which is the sender of a short message,
in the context of MSISDN-less SMS delivery in IMS (see 3GPP TS 23.204 [17]).
#### 6.3.3.16 Destination-SIP-URI
The Destination-SIP-URI AVP is of type UTF8String. It shall contain the Public
identity of the IMS UE without MSISDN which is the recipient of a short
message, in the context of MSISDN-less SMS delivery in IMS (see 3GPP TS 23.204
[17]).
# 7 Result Codes and Experimental-Result values
## 7.1 General
This section defines result code values that shall be supported by all
Diameter implementations that conform to this specification.
## 7.2 Success
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in Diameter Base Protocol RFC 3588 [7] shall be applied.
## 7.3 Permanent Failures
### 7.3.1 General
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in Diameter Base Protocol RFC 3588
[7] shall be applied. When one of the result codes defined here is included in
a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-Result AVP and the Result-Code
AVP shall be absent.
### 7.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the MME over the SGd interface or by the
SGSN over the Gdd interface to indicate that the user identified by the IMSI
is unknown.
This result code shall be sent by the SMS-IWMSC over the SGd interface to
indicate that the user identified by the MSISDN is unknown.
This result code shall be sent by the HSS or the SMS Router over the S6c
interface to indicate that the user identified by the MSISDN is unknown.
### 7.3.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_ABSENT_USER (5550)
This result code shall be sent by the MME over the SGd interface or by the
SGSN over the Gdd interface to indicate that the UE is not reachable.
This result code shall be sent by the HSS or the SMS Router over the S6c
interface to indicate that the UE is not reachable.
### 7.3.4 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_BUSY_FOR_MT_SMS (5551)
This result code shall be sent by the MME or the SGSN when the user is busy
for MT SMS.
### 7.3.5 DIAMETER_ERROR_FACILITY_NOT_SUPPORTED (5552)
This result code shall be sent to indicate a requested facility is not
supported.
NOTE: This code corresponds to the Facility Not Supported MAP error and may be
used by an IWF.
### 7.3.6 DIAMETER_ERROR_ILLEGAL_USER (5553)
This result code shall be sent by the MME or the SGSN to indicate that the
delivery of the mobile terminated short message failed because the mobile
station failed authentication.
### 7.3.7 DIAMETER_ERROR_ILLEGAL_EQUIPMENT (5554)
This result code shall be sent by the MME or the SGSN to indicate that the
delivery of the mobile terminated short message failed because an IMEI check
failed, i.e. the IMEI was blacklisted or not white-listed.
### 7.3.8 DIAMETER_ERROR_SM_DELIVERY_FAILURE (5555)
This result code shall be sent by the MME or the SGSN or the SMS-IWMSC to
indicate that the delivery of the mobile terminated short message failed.
### 7.3.9 DIAMETER_ERROR_SERVICE_NOT_SUBSCRIBED (5556)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS or the SMS Router over the S6c
interface to indicate that the MT SMS Teleservice is not part of the
subscription.
### 7.3.10 DIAMETER_ERROR_SERVICE_BARRED (5557)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS or the SMS Router over the S6c
interface to indicate that the MT SMS Teleservice is barred.
This result code shall be sent by the MME to indicate that the delivery of the
mobile terminated short message failed because of the barring of the SMS
service.
### 7.3.11 DIAMETER_ERROR_MWD_LIST_FULL (5558)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS over the S6c interface to indicate
that the Message Waiting List is full.
## 7.4 Transient Failures
### 7.4.1 General
Result codes that fall within the transient failures category shall be used to
inform a peer that the request could not be satisfied at the time it was
received, but may be able to satisfy the request in the future. The Result-
Code AVP values defined in Diameter Base Protocol RFC 3588 [7] shall be
applied.
#