# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document describes the Diameter-based interfaces between the HSS
and other network elements involved in the architecture for interworking with
packet data networks and applications, such as Machine-Type Communications
(MTC).
In particular, this document specifies the S6m interface between the Home
Subscriber Server (HSS) and the MTC Interworking Function (MTC-IWF) and the
S6n interface between the HSS and the MTC-AAA. The procedures over those
interfaces are defined in 3GPP TS 23.682 [2].
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 23.682: \"Architecture enhancements to facilitate communications
with packet data networks and applications\".
[3] IETF RFC 3588: \"Diameter Base Protocol\".
[4] 3GPP TS 33.210: \"3G security; Network Domain Security (NDS); IP network
layer security\".
[5] IETF RFC 4960: \"Stream Control Transport Protocol\".
[6] 3GPP TS 29.228: \"IP multimedia (IM) Subsystem Cx Interface; Signalling
flows and Message Elements\".
[7] 3GPP TS 29.229: \"Cx and Dx interfaces based on the Diameter protocol;
protocol details \".
[8] 3GPP TS 29.173: \"Diameter-based SLh interface for Control Plane LCS\".
[9] IETF RFC 5234: \"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF\".
[10] 3GPP TS 29.329: \"Sh Interface based on the Diameter protocol\".
[11] 3GPP TS 23.003: \"Numbering, addressing and identification\".
[12] 3GPP TS 29.338: \"Diameter based protocols to support SMS capable MMEs\".
[13] 3GPP TS 29.368: \"Tsp interface protocol between the MTC Interworking
Function (MTC-IWF) and Service Capability Server (SCS)\".
[14] 3GPP TS 29.272: \"Mobility Management Entity (MME) and Serving GPRS
Support Node (SGSN) related interfaces based on Diameter protocol\".
[15] IETF RFC 7683: \"Diameter Overload Indication Conveyance\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AAA Authentication, Authorization and Accounting
ABNF Augmented Backus-Naur Form
AVP Attribute-Value Pair
IANA Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
MTC Machine-Type Communications
MTC-IWF MTC Interworking Function
SCS Services Capability Server
# 4 General Description
## 4.1 Introduction
The S6m reference point between the MTC-IWF and the HSS, and the S6n reference
point between the MTC-AAA and the HSS, are defined in the 3GPP TS 23.682 [2].
This document describes the Diameter-based S6m and S6n related procedures,
message parameters and protocol specification.
An excerpt of the architecture for Machine-Type Communication, as defined in
3GPP TS 23.682 [2] is shown in Figure 4.1-1, where the relevant interfaces
towards the HSS are highlighted.
Figure 4.1-1: 3GPP Architecture for Machine-Type Communication
In this architecture, the S6m reference point connects the MTC-IWF with the
HSS, where the subscription information of the UE (e.g., an MTC device) is
stored. This reference points allows the MTC-IWF to retrieve subscription data
and to do any necessary mapping between different identities associated to the
UE.
The S6m interface shall allow the MTC-IWF to:
\- retrieve subscription information of the UE from the HSS,
\- request routing information from the HSS, i.e. the address of the UE\'s
serving nodes supporting SMS for the UE ; in this context serving nodes of the
UE are the MSC or MME but not both, the SGSN, and the IP-SM-GW,
\- retrieve the IMSI of the UE,
\- perform authorization of the Service Capability Server that is requesting
to send a device trigger to the UE.
Additionally, the S6n reference point connects the MTC-AAA with the HSS, and
it allows the MTC-AAA to do the mapping of the UE IMSI to the external
identifier(s) of the UE.
# 5 Diameter-based S6m/S6n Interface
## 5.1 Introduction
This section describes the Diameter-based S6m and S6n interface related
procedures and Information elements exchanged between functional entities.
In the tables that describe the Information Elements transported by each
Diameter command, each Information Element is marked as (M) Mandatory, (C)
Conditional or (O) Optional in the \"Cat.\" column. For the correct handling
of the Information Element according to the category type, see the description
detailed in section 6 of the 3GPP TS 29.228 [6].
## 5.2 Procedure Descriptions
### 5.2.1 Subscriber Information Retrieval
#### 5.2.1.1 General
This procedure is used between the MTC-IWF and the HSS and between the MTC-AAA
and the HSS.
When the procedure is invoked by the MTC-IWF, it is used:
\- To translate an external identifier, or MSISDN, to the IMSI of the user,
\- To retrieve information about the serving entities currently serving a
certain user,
\- To authorize a certain SCS to request a specific service (e.g. device
triggering),
\- To retrieve subscription data of the user, associated to the specific
service requested by the SCS.
When the procedure is invoked by the MTC-AAA, it is used:
\- To translate an IMSI to one or more external identifiers of the user.
This procedure is mapped to the commands Subscriber-Information-Request/Answer
in the Diameter application specified in chapter 6. Tables 5.2.1.1/1 and
5.2.1.1/2 detail the involved information elements.
Table 5.2.1.1/1: Subscriber Information Retrieval (Request)
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identifier | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 6.4.2) | | | contain the | | | | | identity of the | | | | | UE. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP | | | | | containing either | | | | | an External | | | | | Identifier, an | | | | | MSISDN or an IMSI | | | | | (exactly one, and | | | | | only one, of | | | | | those identifiers | | | | | shall be included | | | | | in the request). | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Requested Service | Service-ID | O | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 6.4.3) | | | contain the | | | | | service requested | | | | | by the SCS. In | | | | | this release, | | | | | only the Device | | | | | Triggering | | | | | service is | | | | | supported. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | SCS Identity | SCS-Identity | O | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | (see 6.4.4) | | | contain the | | | | | identity of the | | | | | Service | | | | | Capability Server | | | | | that is | | | | | requesting a | | | | | service to be | | | | | applied to a | | | | | certain UE. | | | | | | | | | | When the | | | | | Service-ID | | | | | indicates | | | | | DEVICE_TRIGGER | | | | | (0), the | | | | | SCS-Identity | | | | | shall be | | | | | formatted as an | | | | | E.164 address as | | | | | described in | | | | | section 6.4.4. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Service | S | O | This Information | | Parameters | ervice-Parameters | | Element shall | | | | | contain the | | (see 6.4.5) | | | parameters | | | | | associated to the | | | | | requested service | | | | | by the SCS | | | | | (identified by | | | | | the Service-ID | | | | | AVP). In this | | | | | release, only | | | | | parameters | | | | | associated to | | | | | Device Triggering | | | | | via SMS-MT (T4) | | | | | is supported. | | | | | | | | | | For Device | | | | | Triggering via | | | | | SMS-MT, this AVP | | | | | may contain: | | | | | Pri | | | | | ority-Indication, | | | | | SM-RP-SMEA... | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | SIR Flags | SIR-Flags | M | This Information | | | | | Element shall | | | | | contain a bit | | | | | mask. See section | | | | | 6.4.7 for the | | | | | meaning of the | | | | | bits. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | Information | | | | | Element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [7]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
Table 5.2.1.1/2: Subscriber Information Retrieval (Response)
+-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Information | Mapping to | Cat. | Description | | Element Name | Diameter AVP | | | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Result | Result-Code / | M | Result of the | | | Ex | | request. | | (See 6.3) | perimental-Result | | | | | | | Result-Code AVP | | | | | shall be used for | | | | | errors defined in | | | | | the Diameter Base | | | | | Protocol. | | | | | | | | | | Ex | | | | | perimental-Result | | | | | AVP shall be used | | | | | for S6m/S6n | | | | | errors. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP which | | | | | contains the 3GPP | | | | | Vendor ID in the | | | | | Vendor-Id AVP, | | | | | and the error | | | | | code in the | | | | | Experim | | | | | ental-Result-Code | | | | | AVP. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | User Identity | User-Identifier | C | This information | | | | | element shall | | (see 6.4.2) | | | contain the User | | | | | Identity of the | | | | | UE. This is a | | | | | grouped AVP | | | | | containing an | | | | | External | | | | | Identifier, an | | | | | MSISDN, an IMSI, | | | | | or other | | | | | service-specific | | | | | identities (such | | | | | as an LMSI...). | | | | | | | | | | There may be | | | | | multiple | | | | | instances of this | | | | | IE in the | | | | | response provided | | | | | by the HSS. | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall be | | | | | present only when | | | | | the Result- Code | | | | | is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Service Data | Service-Data | C | This information | | | | | element shall | | (see 6.4.7) | | | contain data | | | | | related to the | | | | | requested service | | | | | and additional | | | | | data specific to | | | | | each triggering | | | | | method. | | | | | | | | | | In this release, | | | | | only data | | | | | associated to | | | | | trigger delivery | | | | | via SMS-MT (T4) | | | | | is supported. | | | | | | | | | | This IE shall be | | | | | present only when | | | | | the Requested | | | | | Service IE was | | | | | included in the | | | | | request, and the | | | | | Result- Code is | | | | | D | | | | | IAMETER_SUCCESS. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+ | Supported | S | O | If present, this | | Features | upported-Features | | information | | | | | element shall | | (See 3GPP TS | | | contain the list | | 29.229 [7]) | | | of features | | | | | supported by the | | | | | origin host. | +-------------------+-------------------+------+-------------------+
#### 5.2.1.2 Detailed Behaviour of the HSS
When the Subscriber Information Retrieval request is received from the MTC-
IWF, indicated by the S6m/S6n indicator, which shall be set, the HSS shall, in
the following order:
1\. Check that the User Identity for whom data is asked exists in HSS. If not,
Experimental-Result shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN in the
Subscriber Information Retrieval Response.
2\. Check whether the requesting SCS is authorized to request the specified
service for the UE. If not, Experimental-Result shall be set to
DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_ENTITY (5510) in the Subscriber
Information Retrieval Response.
3\. Check that the requested service (e.g., device trigger) is authorized. If
not, Experimental-Result shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE
(5511) in the Subscriber Information Retrieval Response.
4\. Check whether the UE is currently registered in any serving node
supporting SMS for the UE (MSC or MME which has registered as MSC but not
both, SGSN, IP-SM-GW). If the user is not registered in any serving node, the
HSS shall answer successfully, but it shall not include any Serving Node or
Additional Serving Node(s) in the response; also, it shall indicate to the
MTC-IWF that the user is absent, in the Subscriber Information Retrieval
Response, by setting the relevant bit in the HSS-Cause IE.
The HSS shall also check if the UE is known to be not reachable in the
registered serving nodes (i.e. check MNRF, MNRG, and UNRI) and if the trigger
delivery is requested with \"non-priority\"; if both are true, the HSS shall
answer successfully, but it shall not include any Serving Node or Additional
Serving Node(s) in the response, and it shall set the \"Absent Subscriber\"
flag in the HSS-Cause IE.
5\. Check that the requested service can be delivered according to the user\'s
provisioned teleservices and the user\'s active barring conditions. In the
response, the HSS shall set accordingly the corresponding bits in the HSS-
Cause IE (see clause 6.4.9).
If there is an error in any of the above steps then the HSS shall stop
processing and shall return the error code specified in the respective step.
If the HSS cannot fulfil the received request for reasons not stated in the
above steps (e.g. due to a database error), it shall stop processing the
request and set Result-Code to DIAMETER_UNABLE_TO_COMPLY.
Otherwise, the requested operation shall take place and the HSS shall return
the Result-Code AVP set to DIAMETER_SUCCESS. The HSS returns the network
addresses of the registered serving nodes supporting SMS for the UE (MSC or
MME that has registered as MSC but not both and/or SGSN and/or IP-SM-GW), if
available (and not marked \"not reachable\" by MNRF, MNRG, or UNRI, unless
priority was indicated) in the HSS, and the IMSI of the subscriber, and the
corresponding data needed by the service requested by the SCS; if available,
the MSISDN of the user shall also be returned by the HSS, along with the
user\'s IMSI.
When the Subscriber Information Retrieval request is received from the MTC-
AAA, indicated by the S6m/S6n indicator, which shall be cleared, the HSS shall
check:
\- That the User Identity IE is included in the request, and that it contains
an IMSI; if other IEs are included in the request, they may be ignored by the
HSS.
\- Whether the user identified by that IMSI is known in the HSS. If it is
known, the HSS shall answer successfully and return in the response one or
several instances of the User Identity IE, each one containing either an
External-Identifier or an MSISDN. If it is not known, Experimental-Result
shall be set to DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN in the Subscriber Information
Retrieval Response.
#### 5.2.1.3 Detailed Behaviour of the MTC-IWF
When the MTC-IWF sends a Subscriber Information Retrieval request to the HSS,
it shall set the S6m/S6n indicator bit in the SIR Flags IE.
Upon receipt of a successful Subscriber Information Retrieval response, when
multiple serving nodes are returned from HSS, the MTC-IWF should give a higher
preference to the serving node included in the \"Serving Node\" IE, than to
those serving nodes included in the list of \"Additional Serving Node\" IEs.
#### 5.2.1.4 Detailed Behaviour of the MTC-AAA
When the MTC-AAA sends a Subscriber Information Retrieval request to the HSS,
it shall clear the S6m/S6n indicator bit in the SIR Flags IE.
The MTC-AAA shall only include the User Identifier IE in the request, and it
shall contain only the IMSI of the UE.
# 6 Protocol Specification
## 6.1 Introduction
### 6.1.1 Use of Diameter Base Protocol
The Diameter Base Protocol as specified in IETF RFC 3588 [3] shall apply
except as modified by the defined support of the methods and the defined
support of the commands and AVPs, result and error codes as specified in this
specification. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures (including error
handling and unrecognised information handling) shall be used unmodified.
### 6.1.2 Securing Diameter Messages
For secure transport of Diameter messages, see 3GPP TS 33.210 [4].
### 6.1.3 Accounting Functionality
Accounting functionality (Accounting Session State Machine, related command
codes and AVPs) shall not be used on the S6m interface.
### 6.1.4 Use of Sessions
Between the MTC-IWF and the HSS, Diameter sessions shall be implicitly
terminated. An implicitly terminated session is one for which the server does
not maintain state information. The client shall not send any re-authorization
or session termination requests to the server.
The Diameter base protocol includes the Auth-Session-State AVP as the
mechanism for the implementation of implicitly terminated sessions.
The client (server) shall include in its requests (responses) the Auth-
Session-State AVP set to the value NO_STATE_MAINTAINED (1), as described in
IETF RFC 3588 [3]. As a consequence, the server shall not maintain any state
information about this session and the client shall not send any session
termination request. Neither the Authorization-Lifetime AVP nor the Session-
Timeout AVP shall be present in requests or responses.
### 6.1.5 Transport Protocol
Diameter messages over the S6m interface shall make use of SCTP IETF RFC 4960
[5] as transport protocol.
### 6.1.6 Routing Considerations
This clause specifies the use of the Diameter routing AVPs Destination-Realm
and Destination-Host.
The S6m reference point is defined as an intra-operator interface so, both
MTC-IWF and HSS shall be located in the same network domain/realm.
If the MTC-IWF knows the address/name of the HSS for a certain user, both the
Destination-Realm AVP and the Destination-Host AVP shall be present in the
request. Otherwise, only the Destination-Realm AVP shall be present and the
command shall be routed to the next Diameter node. Consequently, the
Destination-Host AVP is declared as optional in the ABNF for all requests
initiated by the MTC-IWF.
Destination-Realm AVP is declared as mandatory in the ABNF for all requests.
If the Vendor-Specific-Application-ID AVP is received in any of the commands,
it may be ignored by the receiving node, and it shall not be used for routing
purposes.
NOTE: The Vendor-Specific-Application-ID can be included as an optional AVP in
all commands in order to ensure interoperability with diameter agents
following a strict implementation of IETF RFC 3588 [3], by which messages not
including this AVP will be rejected. IETF RFC 3588 [3] indicates that the AVP
shall be present in all proxiable commands, such as those defined in this
specification, despite the fact that the contents of this AVP are redundant
since the Application ID is already present in the command header. This AVP
may be removed in subsequent revisions of this specification, once the
diameter base protocol is updated accordingly.
### 6.1.7 Advertising Application Support
The HSS and the MTC-IWF shall advertise support of the Diameter S6m
Application by including the value of the application identifier in the Auth-
Application-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-Application-Id grouped AVP of
the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The vendor identifier value of 3GPP (10415) shall be included in the
Supported-Vendor-Id AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands, and in the Vendor-Id AVP within the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id grouped AVP of the Capabilities-Exchange-Request and
Capabilities-Exchange-Answer commands.
The Vendor-Id AVP included in Capabilities-Exchange-Request and Capabilities-
Exchange-Answer commands that is not included in the Vendor-Specific-
Application-Id AVPs as described above shall indicate the manufacturer of the
Diameter node as per IETF RFC 3588 [3].
### 6.1.8 Diameter Application Identifier
The S6m/S6n interface protocol shall be defined as an IETF vendor specific
Diameter application, where the vendor is 3GPP. The vendor identifier assigned
by IANA to 3GPP (http://www.iana.org/assignments/enterprise-numbers) is 10415.
The Diameter application identifier assigned to the S6m interface application
is 16777310 (allocated by IANA).
### 6.1.9 Use of the Supported-Features AVP
When new functionality is introduced on the S6m application, it should be
defined as optional. If backwards incompatible changes can not be avoided, the
new functionality shall be introduced as a new feature and support advertised
with the Supported-Features AVP. The usage of the Supported-Features AVP on
the S6m application is consistent with the procedures for the dynamic
discovery of supported features as defined in clause 7.2 of 3GPP TS 29.229
[7].
When extending the application by adding new AVPs for a feature, the new AVPs
shall have the M bit cleared and the AVP shall not be defined mandatory in the
command ABNF.
As defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [7], the Supported-Features AVP is of type
grouped and contains the Vendor-Id, Feature-List-ID and Feature-List AVPs. On
the all reference points as specified in this specification, the Supported-
Features AVP is used to identify features that have been defined by 3GPP and
hence, for features defined in this document, the Vendor-Id AVP shall contain
the vendor ID of 3GPP (10415). If there are multiple feature lists defined for
the reference point, the Feature-List-ID AVP shall differentiate those lists
from one another.
### 6.1.10 User Identity to HSS resolution
The User identity to HSS resolution mechanism enables the MTC-IWF to find the
identity of the HSS that holds the subscription data for the target user when
multiple and separately addressable HSSs have been deployed in the home
network. The resolution mechanism is not required in networks that utilise a
single HSS.
This User identity to HSS resolution mechanism may rely on routing
capabilities provided by Diameter and be implemented in the home operator
network within dedicated Diameter Agents (Redirect Agents or Proxy Agents)
responsible for determining the HSS identity based on the provided user
identity (e.g., external identifiers provided by the MTC-IWF).
NOTE: Alternatives to the user identity to HSS resolution Diameter based
implementation are outside the scope of this specification.
## 6.2 Commands
### 6.2.1 Introduction
This section defines the Command code values and related ABNF for each command
described in this specification.
### 6.2.2 Command-Code values
This section defines Command-Code values for the S6m/S6n interface application
as allocated by IANA.
Every command is defined by means of the ABNF syntax IETF RFC 5234 [9],
according to the rules in IETF RFC 3588 [3]. When the definition and use of an
AVP is not specified in this document, the guidelines in IETF RFC 3588 [3]
shall apply.
The following Command Codes are defined in this specification:
Table 6.2.2/1: Command-Code values for S6m/S6n
* * *
Command-Name Abbreviation Code Section Subscriber-Information-Request SIR
8388641 6.2.3 Subscriber-Information-Answer SIA 8388641 6.2.4
* * *
For these commands, the Application-ID field shall be set to 16777310
(application identifier of the S6m/S6n interface application, allocated by
IANA).
### 6.2.3 Subscriber-Information-Request (SIR) Command
The Subscriber-Information-Request (SIR) command, indicated by the Command-
Code field set to 8388641 and the \"R\" bit set in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the MTC-IWF to the HSS or from the MTC-AAA to the HSS.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ PXY, 16777310 >
>
> \
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ Destination-Host ]
>
> { Destination-Realm }
>
> { User-Identifier }
>
> [ Service-ID ]
>
> [ SCS-Identity ]
>
> [ Service-Parameters ]
>
> { SIR-Flags }
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
### 6.2.4 Subscriber-Information-Answer (SIA) Command
The Subscriber-Information-Answer (SIA) command, indicated by the Command-Code
field set to 8388641 and the \"R\" bit cleared in the Command Flags field, is
sent from the HSS to the MTC-IWF or from the HSS to the MTC-AAA.
Message Format:
> \ ::= \ 16777310 >
>
> \
>
> [ Result-Code ]
>
> [ Experimental-Result ]
>
> { Auth-Session-State }
>
> { Origin-Host }
>
> { Origin-Realm }
>
> [ OC-Supported-Features ]
>
> [ OC-OLR ]
>
> ***[ Supported-Features ]**
>
> *[ User-Identifier ]
>
> [ Service-Data ]
>
> *[ Failed-AVP ]
>
> *[ Proxy-Info ]
>
> *[ Route-Record ]
>
> *[ AVP ]
## 6.3 Result-Code AVP and Experimental-Result AVP Values
### 6.3.1 General
This section defines result code values that shall be supported by all
Diameter implementations that conform to this specification.
### 6.3.2 Success
Result codes that fall within the Success category shall be used to inform a
peer that a request has been successfully completed. The Result-Code AVP
values defined in Diameter Base Protocol RFC 3588 [3] shall be applied.
### 6.3.3 Permanent Failures
Errors that fall within the Permanent Failures category shall be used to
inform the peer that the request has failed, and should not be attempted
again. The Result-Code AVP values defined in Diameter Base Protocol RFC 3588
[3] shall be applied. When one of the result codes defined here is included in
a response, it shall be inside an Experimental-Result AVP and the Result-Code
AVP shall be absent.
#### 6.3.3.1 DIAMETER_ERROR_USER_UNKNOWN (5001)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the user identified
by the IMSI, MSISDN, or External-Identifier is unknown. This error code is
defined in 3GPP TS 29.229 [7].
#### 6.3.3.2 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_REQUESTING_ENTITY (5510)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the SCS is not
allowed to request control plane services for an UE, to the MTC-IWF.
#### 6.3.3.3 DIAMETER_ERROR_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVICE (5511)
This result code shall be sent by the HSS to indicate that the specific
service requested by the SCS is not allowed for an UE, or that it cannot be
delivered according to the current subscribed services of the UE.
## 6.4 AVPs
### 6.4.1 General
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs defined for the S6m/S6n
interface protocol, their AVP Code values, types, possible flag values and
whether or not the AVP may be encrypted. The Vendor-ID header of all AVPs
defined in this specification shall be set to 3GPP (10415).
Table 6.4.1/1: S6m/S6n specific Diameter AVPs
+-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | Flag | | | | | | | | | | rules | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Attr | AVP | Se | Value | Must | May | S | Must | May | | ibute | Code | ction | Type | | | hould | not | Encr. | | Name | | de | | | | not | | | | | | fined | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | IP-SM | 3100 | 6 | O | M,V | | | | No | | -GW-N | | .4.14 | ctetS | | | | | | | umber | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | IP- | 3101 | 6 | D | M,V | | | | No | | SM-GW | | .4.15 | iamet | | | | | | | -Name | | | erIde | | | | | | | | | | ntity | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | User- | 3102 | 6.4.2 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | Ident | | | ouped | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Servi | 3103 | 6.4.3 | Enume | M,V | | | | No | | ce-ID | | | rated | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SC | 3104 | 6.4.4 | O | M,V | | | | No | | S-Ide | | | ctetS | | | | | | | ntity | | | tring | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Ser | 3105 | 6.4.5 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | vice- | | | ouped | | | | | | | Param | | | | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | T4- | 3106 | 6.4.6 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | Param | | | ouped | | | | | | | eters | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Se | 3107 | 6.4.7 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | rvice | | | ouped | | | | | | | -Data | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | T4 | 3108 | 6.4.8 | Gr | M,V | | | | No | | -Data | | | ouped | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | HSS- | 3109 | 6.4.9 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Cause | | | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | SIR- | 3110 | 6 | Unsig | M,V | | | | No | | Flags | | .4.10 | ned32 | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | Exte | 3111 | 6 | UTF8S | M,V | | | | No | | rnal- | | .4.11 | tring | | | | | | | Ident | | | | | | | | | | ifier | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | IP-S | 3112 | 6 | D | M,V | | | | No | | M-GW- | | .4.18 | iamet | | | | | | | Realm | | | erIde | | | | | | | | | | ntity | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"M\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | su | | | | | | | | | | pport | | | | | | | | | | of | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | requ | | | | | | | | | | ired. | | | | | | | | | | The | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | h | | | | | | | | | | eader | | | | | | | | | | bit | | | | | | | | | | de | | | | | | | | | | noted | | | | | | | | | | as | | | | | | | | | | \"V\" | | | | | | | | | | indi | | | | | | | | | | cates | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | opt | | | | | | | | | | ional | | | | | | | | | | Vend | | | | | | | | | | or-ID | | | | | | | | | | field | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | pr | | | | | | | | | | esent | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | he | | | | | | | | | | ader. | | | | | | | | | | For | | | | | | | | | | fu | | | | | | | | | | rther | | | | | | | | | | det | | | | | | | | | | ails, | | | | | | | | | | see | | | | | | | | | | IETF | | | | | | | | | | RFC | | | | | | | | | | 3588 | | | | | | | | | | \ | | | | | | | | | | [3]. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | and | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | under | | | | | | | | | | stand | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | is | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | set | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | an | | | | | | | | | | AVP, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | r | | | | | | | | | | eturn | | | | | | | | | | a | | | | | | | | | | rejec | | | | | | | | | | tion, | | | | | | | | | | wh | | | | | | | | | | ether | | | | | | | | | | or | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | it | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP. | | | | | | | | | | If | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | u | | | | | | | | | | nders | | | | | | | | | | tands | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | AVP | | | | | | | | | | but | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M-bit | | | | | | | | | | value | | | | | | | | | | does | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | match | | | | | | | | | | with | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | defin | | | | | | | | | | ition | | | | | | | | | | in | | | | | | | | | | this | | | | | | | | | | t | | | | | | | | | | able, | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | rec | | | | | | | | | | eiver | | | | | | | | | | shall | | | | | | | | | | i | | | | | | | | | | gnore | | | | | | | | | | the | | | | | | | | | | M | | | | | | | | | | -bit. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+------+-----+-------+-------+-------+
The following table specifies the Diameter AVPs re-used by the S6m/S6n
interface protocol from existing Diameter Applications, including a reference
to their respective specifications and when needed, a short description of
their use within S6m/S6n.
Any other AVPs from existing Diameter Applications, except for the AVPs from
Diameter Base Protocol, do not need to be supported. The AVPs from Diameter
Base Protocol are not included in table 6.4.1/2, but they may be re-used for
the S6m/S6n protocol.
Table 6.4.1/2: S6m/S6n re-used Diameter AVPs
* * *
Attribute Name Reference Comments User-Name IETF RFC 3588 [3] This AVP shall
contain the IMSI of the UE, in the User-Identifier AVP. MSISDN 3GPP TS 29.329
[10]  
LMSI 3GPP TS 29.173 [8]  
Serving-Node 3GPP TS 29.173 [8] see 6.4.12 Additional-Serving-Node 3GPP TS
29.173 [8] see 6.4.13 Supported-Features 3GPP TS 29.229 [7]  
Feature-List-ID 3GPP TS 29.229 [7]  
Feature-List 3GPP TS 29.229 [7]  
SM-RP-SMEA 3GPP TS 29.338 [12]  
Priority-Indication 3GPP TS 29.368 [13]  
MME-Number-for-MT-SMS 3GPP TS 29.272 [14]  
OC-Supported-Features IETF RFC 7683 [15] See 6.4.16 OC-OLR IETF RFC 7683 [15]
See 6.4.17
* * *
### 6.4.2 User-Identifier
The User-Identifier AVP is of type Grouped and it contains the different
identifiers used by the UE.
AVP format:
> User-Identifier ::= \
>
> [ User-Name ]
>
> [ MSISDN ]
>
> [ External-Identifier ]
>
> [ LMSI ]
>
> *[AVP]
This AVP shall contain at least one of the identifiers used by the UE, i.e.,
it shall not be empty. The IMSI of the UE shall be included (when applicable)
in the User-Name AVP.
### 6.4.3 Service-ID
The Service-ID AVP is of type Enumerated and it shall identify the service
requested by the SCS. The following values are defined:
DEVICE_TRIGGER (0)
The SCS requests a control plane device triggering to the UE.
### 6.4.4 SCS-Identity
The SCS-Identity AVP is of type OctetString and it shall contain the identity
of the SCS which originated the service request towards the MTC-IWF, over the
Tsp reference point.
The encoding of the SCS-Identity AVP is defined per SCS service.
For the device triggering service, the SCS-Identity AVP shall contain the ISDN
number of the SCS in international ISDN number format as described in ITU-T
Rec E.164 [41]. It shall be encoded as a TBCD-string. See 3GPP TS 29.002 [24]
for encoding of TBCD-strings. This AVP shall not include leading indicators
for the nature of address and the numbering plan.
### 6.4.5 Service-Parameters
The Service-Parameters AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the service-
specific parameters related to the device triggering request handled by the
MTC-IWF.
AVP format:
> Service-Parameters ::= \
>
> [ T4-Parameters ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.4.6 T4-Parameters
The T4-Parameters AVP is of type Grouped.
AVP format:
> T4-Parameters ::= \
>
> [ Priority-Indication ]
>
> [ SM-RP-SMEA ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.4.7 Service-Data
The Service-Data AVP is of type Grouped, and it contains the service-specific
data related to the device triggering request handled by the MTC-IWF.
> Service-Data ::= \
>
> [ T4-Data ]
>
> *[AVP]
### 6.4.8 T4-Data
The T4-Data AVP is of type Grouped and it shall contain information about the
network node(s) serving the targeted user for SMS, i.e. the names/numbers of
the serving nodes (MSC or MME , SGSN, IP-SM-GW) which allow the trigger
delivery. AVP format:
> T4-Data ::= \
>
> [ HSS-Cause ]
>
> [ Serving-Node ]
>
> *[ Additional-Serving-Node ]
>
> *[AVP]
When the HSS-Cause indicates Absent Subscriber, via the corresponding flag in
the bit mask, the Serving-Node and Additional-Serving-Node AVPs shall not be
present. Additional-Serving-Node AVP shall be absent if Serving-Node AVP is
absent.
### 6.4.9 HSS-Cause
The HSS-Cause AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits is defined in table 6.4.9/1:
Table 6.4.9/1: HSS-Cause
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | Bit | Name | Description | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 0 | Absent Subscriber | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that there | | | | is no serving node | | | | registered in the | | | | HSS over which the | | | | corresponding | | | | triggering method | | | | should be | | | | immediately | | | | attempted for the | | | | user. NOTE 1. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 1 | Teleservice Not | This bit, when set, | | | Provisioned | indicates that the | | | | required | | | | teleservice(s) for | | | | the corresponding | | | | triggering method | | | | are not provisioned | | | | in the HSS/HLR for | | | | the user. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | 2 | Call Barred | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that the | | | | user has an active | | | | barring condition | | | | which makes it | | | | impossible to | | | | deliver the | | | | corresponding | | | | triggering method. | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | NOTE 1: This may be | | | | caused because there | | | | is not any serving | | | | node currently | | | | registered in HSS | | | | for the user, or | | | | because the user is | | | | known to be absent | | | | in all suitable | | | | registered serving | | | | nodes (based on | | | | MNRF, MNRG and UNRI | | | | flags) and the | | | | trigger delivery is | | | | requested with | | | | \"non-priority\". | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Bits not | | | | defined in this | | | | table shall be | | | | cleared by the HSS | | | | and discarded by the | | | | receiving node, | | | | MTC-IWF. | | | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
### 6.4.10 SIR-Flags
The SIR-Flags AVP is of type Unsigned32 and it contains a bit mask. The
meaning of the bits is defined in table 6.4.10/1:
Table 6.4.10/1: SIR-Flags
+-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | bit | name | Description | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | 0 | S6m/S6n Indicator | This bit, when set, | | | | indicates that the | | | | SIR message is sent | | | | on the S6m interface, | | | | i.e. the source node | | | | is an MTC-IWF. | | | | | | | | This bit, when | | | | cleared, indicates | | | | that the SIR message | | | | is sent on the S6n | | | | interface, i.e. the | | | | source node is an | | | | MTC-AAA. | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+ | Note: Bits not | | | | defined in this table | | | | shall be cleared by | | | | the sending node, | | | | MTC-IWF or MTC-AAA, | | | | and discarded by the | | | | receiving HSS. | | | +-----------------------+-------------------+-----------------------+
### 6.4.11 External-Identifier
The External-Identifier AVP is of type UTF8String, and it shall contain an
external identifier of the UE. See 3GPP TS 23.003 [11] for the definition and
formatting of the external identifier.
### 6.4.12 Serving-Node
The Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped and it shall contain the name/number
of the serving node to be used for T4-triggering. It is originally defined in
3GPP TS 29.173 [8].
> Serving-Node ::= \
>
> [ SGSN-Name ]
>
> [ SGSN-Realm ]
>
> [ SGSN-Number ]
>
> [ MME-Name ]
>
> [ MME-Realm ]
>
> [ MME-Number-for-MT-SMS ]
>
> [ MSC-Number ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Number ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Name ]
>
> [ IP-SM-GW-Realm ]
>
> *[AVP]
The following combinations are allowed:
a) SGSN-Number
b) SGSN-Name & SGSN-Realm & SGSN-Number if the HSS supports the \"Gdd in
SGSN\" feature and has received the \"Gdd in SGSN\" indication over S6a or Gr
interface from the SGSN (cf. 3GPP TS 29.272 [4] and 3GPP TS 29.002 [9])
c) MME-Name & MME-Realm & MME-Number-for-MT-SMS
d) MSC-Number
e) MSC-Number & MME-Name & MME-Realm
f) IP-SM-GW-Number
g) IP-SM-GW-Number & IP-SM-GW-Name & IP-SM-GW-Realm
### 6.4.13 Additional-Serving-Node
The Additional-Serving-Node AVP is of type Grouped and when present it shall
contain the name/number of an additional serving node to be used for
T4-triggering. It is originally defined in 3GPP TS 29.173 [8],
> Additional-Serving-Node ::= \
>
> [ SGSN-Name ]
>
> [ SGSN-Realm ]
>
> [ SGSN-Number ]
>
> [ MME-Name ]
>
> [ MME-Realm ]
>
> [ MME-Number-for-MT-SMS ]
>
> [ MSC-Number ]
>
> *[AVP]
The following combinations are allowed:
a) SGSN-Number
b) SGSN-Name & SGSN-Realm & SGSN-Number if the HSS supports the \"Gdd in
SGSN\" feature and has received the \"Gdd in SGSN\" indication over S6a or Gr
interface from the SGSN (cf. 3GPP TS 29.272 [4] and 3GPP TS 29.002 [9])
c) MME-Name & MME-Realm & MME-Number-for-MT-SMS
d) MSC-Number
e) MSC-Number & MME-Name & MME-Realm
### 6.4.14 IP-SM-GW-Number
The IP-SM-GW-Number AVP is of type OctetString and it shall contain the ISDN
number of the IP-SM-GW in international number format as described in ITU-T
Rec E.164 [41]. It shall be encoded as a TBCD-string. See 3GPP TS 29.002 [24]
for encoding of TBCD-strings. This AVP shall not include leading indicators
for the nature of address and the numbering plan.
### 6.4.15 IP-SM-GW-Name
The IP-SM-GW-Name AVP is of type DiameterIdentity and it shall contain the
Diameter identity of the registered IP-SM-GW. For further details on the
encoding of this AVP, see IETF RFC 3588 [5].
### 6.4.16 OC-Supported-Features
The OC-Supported-Features AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC
7683 [15]. This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism,
see Annex A for more information.
### 6.4.17 OC-OLR
The OC-OLR AVP is of type Grouped and it is defined in IETF RFC 7683 [15].
This AVP is used to support Diameter overload control mechanism, see Annex A
for more information.
### 6.4.18 IP-SM-GW-Realm
The IP-SM-GW-Realm AVP is of type DiameterIdentity and it shall contain the
Diameter identity of the registered IP-SM-GW\'s realm. For further details on
the encoding of this AVP, see IETF RFC 3588 [5].
###### ## Annex A (normative): Diameter overload control mechanism
## A.1 General
IETF RFC 7683 [15] specifies a Diameter overload control mechanism which
includes the definition and the transfer of related AVPs between Diameter
nodes.
## A.2 S6m interface
### A.2.1 General
The Diameter overload control mechanism is an optional feature over the S6m
interface.
It is recommended to make use of the IETF RFC 7683 [15] on the S6m interface
where, when applied, the MTC-IWF shall behave as a reacting node and the
HSS3GPP AAA server as a reporting node.
NOTE: There is no need to support this mechanism in the other way (overload of
the MTC-IWF) as no Diameter request commands are sent by the HSS to the MTC-
IWF.
### A.2.2 HSS behaviour
The HSS requests traffic reduction from the MTC-IWF when it is in an overload
situation, by including OC-OLR AVP in answer commands as described in IETF RFC
7683 [15].
The HSS identifies that it is in an overload situation by implementation
specific means. For example, the HSS may take into account the traffic over
the S6m interfaces or other interfaces, the level of usage of internal
resources (CPU, memory), the access to external resources etc.
The HSS determines the specific contents of the OC-OLR AVP in overload reports
and the HSS decides when to send OC-OLR AVPs by implementation specific means.
### A.2.3 MTC-IWF behaviour
The MTC-IWF applies required traffic reduction received in answer commands to
subsequent applicable requests, as per IETF RFC 7683 [15].
Requested traffic reduction is achieved by the MTC-IWF by implementation
specific means. For example, it may implement message throttling with
prioritization.
Annex B gives guidance on message prioritisation over the S6m interface.
###### ## Annex B (Informative): Diameter overload control node behaviour
## B.1 Introduction
Annex B gives guidance on the Diameter overload control node behaviours
regarding message prioritisation over the S6m interface.
## B.2 Message prioritisation over S6m
This clause gives an analysis of possible behaviours of the MTC-IWF regarding
message prioritisation as guidance and for an informative purpose.
When the HSS is overloaded, the MTC-IWF will receive overload reports from the
HSS requesting a reduction of requests sent by the MTC-IWF. This will apply to
the SIR request commands.
The MTC-IWF can consider some messages with a lower or a higher priority;
lower priority messages will be candidates for throttling before higher
priority messages.
Following considerations can be taken into account:
\- SIR messages for a given SCS have a lower priority according to operator
policies;
\- If a SCS node generates a peak signalling over the Tsp interface, SIR
messages over S6m related to this SCS may have a lower priority;
\- The SIR messages over S6m related to a recall procedure or a replace
procedure over the Tsp interface (see 3GPP TS 29.368 [13]) may have a lower
priority according to operator policies.
#