# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document establishes Over the Air antenna minimum requirements for
User Equipment (UE) and Mobile Station (MS).
Requirements are defined for roaming bands for the speech position (beside the
head) and for the data transfer position (free space). Requirements for free
space are applicable to devices used in the data transfer position and consist
of laptop mounted equipment (LME) plug-in UEs and laptop embedded equipment
(LEE) UEs. All bands are potential roaming bands, and the requirements for
roaming bands shall therefore be fulfilled for all bands supported by a UE/MS.
Requirements for operating bands are dependent on how the network has been
built and are thus operator specific and can not be specified here.
Recommended performance values for operating bands (Annex B) are however
included in this specification for information. It should be recognised that
the ability to meet the recommended performance values depends on the number
of frequency bands supported by the UE/MS.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
• References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
• For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
• For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25 101: \"User Equipment (UE) radio transmission and reception
(FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 45.005: \"Radio transmission and reception\".
[4] 3GPP TS 34.114: \"User Equipment (UE) / Mobile Station (MS) Over The Air
(OTA) antenna performance; Conformance testing\".
[5] ETSI ETR 273: \"Electromagnetic compatibility and Radio spectrum Matters
(ERM); Improvement of radiated methods of measurement (using test sites) and
evaluation of the corresponding measurement uncertainties; Part 1:
Uncertainties in the measurement of mobile radio equipment characteristics;
Sub-part 2: Examples and annexes\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [1] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[1].
**Primary mechanical mode:** the mode that is most often used during a call
beside the head. Other mechanical modes are secondary. Every terminal has at
least one primary mechanical mode.
**Speech position:** UE used close to head phantom (Specific Anthropomorphic
Mannequin).
**Data transfer position:** UE used away from the user's head For LME and LEE
devices free space configuration without head and hand phantoms is applicable.
**FS:** UE used in a free space configuration.
**LME:** Laptop mounted equipment (such as plug-in devices like USB dongles).
**LEE:** Laptop embedded equipment (such as embedded module card embedded in
notebooks).
## 3.2 Symbols
None
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
OTA Over the Air
TRP Total Radiated Power
TRS Total Radiated Sensitivity
# 4 General
## 4.1 Minimum Requirements for Roaming Bands
The minimum requirements for roaming bands apply only to the primary
mechanical mode in the environmental conditions specified in Annex A. All
bands are potential roaming bands, and a UE/MS shall fulfil the minimum
requirements for roaming bands for all bands supported by the UE/MS.
## 4.2 Relationship between Minimum Requirements for Roaming Bands and Test
Requirements
The Minimum Requirements for roaming bands given in this specification make no
allowance for measurement uncertainty. The test specification 34.114 [4] Annex
F defines Test Tolerances. These Test Tolerances are individually calculated
for each test. The Test Tolerances are used to relax the Minimum Requirements
in this specification to create Test Requirements.
The measurement results returned by the test system are compared - without any
modification - against the Test Requirements as defined by the shared risk
principle.
The Shared Risk principle is defined in ETR 273 [5] Part 1 sub-part 2 section
6.5.
## 4.3 Terminal Classes
### 4.3.1 Mechanical modes
The mechanical modes of a terminal are declared by the manufacturer. A
terminal shall have at least one mechanical mode. If only one mode is
supported, then this is defined as the primary.
# 5 Frequency bands
The requirements defined in this specification apply to the frequency bands
defined below.
## 5.1 General
The information presented in this subclause is based on a chip rate of 3.84
Mcps and 1.28 Mcps (TDD).
NOTE: Other chip rates may be considered in future releases.
## 5.2 FDD Frequency bands
a) UTRA/FDD is designed to operate in the following paired bands:
Table 5.1: UTRA FDD frequency bands
+----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | Operating Band | UL Frequencies | DL frequencies | | | | | | | UE transmit, Node B receive | UE receive, Node B transmit | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | I | 1920 - 1980 MHz | 2110 -2170 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | II | 1850 -1910 MHz | 1930 -1990 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | III | 1710-1785 MHz | 1805-1880 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | IV | 1710-1755 MHz | 2110-2155 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | V | 824 - 849 MHz | 869-894 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VI | 830-840 MHz | 875-885 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VII | 2500-2570 MHz | 2620-2690 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | VIII | 880 - 915 MHz | 925 - 960 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | IX | 1749.9-1784.9 MHz | 1844.9-1879.9 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+ | XIX | 830 - 845MHz | 875 - 890 MHz | +----------------+-----------------------------+-----------------------------+
b) Deployment in other frequency bands is not precluded
## 5.3 TDD Frequency bands
UTRA/TDD is designed to operate in the following bands;
a) 1900 - 1920 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission\ 2010 - 2025 MHz Uplink
and downlink transmission
b)* 1850 - 1910 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission\ 1930 - 1990 MHz: Uplink
and downlink transmission
c)* 1910 - 1930 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
d)** 2570 - 2620 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
e) 2300 - 2400 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
f) 1880 - 1920 MHz: Uplink and downlink transmission
* Used in ITU Region 2
**Used in ITU Region 1
## 5.4 GSM Frequency Bands
Table 5.2: GSM frequency bands
+----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | Operating Band | UL Frequencies | DL frequencies | | | | | | | MS transmit, BTS receive | MS receive, BTS transmit | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | GSM 850 | 824 - 849 MHz | 869-894 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | P-GSM 900 | 890 - 915 MHz | 935 - 960 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | E-GSM 900 | 880 - 915 MHz | 925 - 960 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | DCS 1800 | 1710-1785 MHz | 1805-1880 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+ | PCS 1900 | 1850 -1910 MHz | 1930 -1990 MHz | +----------------+--------------------------+--------------------------+
# 6 Transmitter Performance
## 6.1 Total Radiated Power
The average TRP of low, mid and high channel in beside head position shall be
higher than minimum performance requirements for roaming bands shown in Table
5.2. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRP results of both
right and left side of the phantom head.
Figure 6.1: Average TRP
In addition the minimum TRP of each measured channel in beside head position
shall be higher than minimum performance requirements shown in the columns
\"Min\".
Figure 6.2: Minimum TRP
### 6.1.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands
#### 6.1.1.1 FDD
Minimum performance requirements for FDD roaming bands are shown in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1: TRP minimum performance requirement for FDD roaming bands in the
speech position and the primary mechanical mode
* * *
Operating band Power Class 1 Power Class 2 Power Class 3 Power Class 3bis
Power Class 4  
Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm)  
Average Min Average Min Average Min I - - +15 +13 +15 +13 +13 +11 II - - +15
+13 +15 +13 +13 +11 III - - +15 +13 +15 +13 +13 +11 IV - - +15 +13 +15 +13 +13
+11 V - - +11 +9 +11 +9 +9 +7 VI - - +11 +9 +11 +9 +9 +7 VII - - +15 +13 +15
+13 +13 +11 VIII - - +12 +10 +12 +10 +10 +8 IX - - +15 +13 +15 +13 +13 +11 XIX
- - +11.5 +9.5 +11.5 +9.5 +9.5 +7.5 NOTE: applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.
* * *
#### 6.1.1.2 GSM
For GMSK in the speech position and the primary mechanical mode.
Table 6.2: TRP minimum performance requirement for GSM roaming bands in the
speech position and the primary mechanical mode
* * *
Operating band Power Class 1 Power Class 2 Power Class 3 Power Class 4 Power
Class 5  
Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm)  
Average Min Average Min Average Min Average Min Average Min GSM 850 19.5 17.5  
GSM 900 20.5 18.5  
DCS 1800 21 19  
PCS 1900 21 19  
NOTE: applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.
* * *
#### 6.1.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD
For URTA LCR TDD UE in the speech position and the primary mechanical mode,
the TRP minimum performance requirements are listed in Table 6.3.
Table 6.3: TRP minimum performance requirement for UTRA LCR TDD roaming bands
in the speech position and the primary mechanical mode
* * *
Operating band Power Class 1 Power Class 2 Power Class 3 Power Class 4  
Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm)  
Average Min Average Min Average Min Average Min a － － +15 +13 － － － － b － －
TBD TBD － － － － c － － TBD TBD － － － － d － － TBD TBD － － － － e － － +15 +13 － －
－ － f － － +15 +13 － － － － Note: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.
* * *
## 6.2 Total Radiated Power for LME/LEE
Requirements in this section are stated for free space configuration and are
applicable to devices used in data transfer position such as laptop mounted
equipment (LME) plug-in UEs and laptop embedded equipment (LEE) UEs.
The average TRP of low, mid and high channel shall be higher than minimum
performance requirements for roaming bands shown in section 5.2. The averaging
shall be done in linear scale for the TRP results.
Figure 6.3: Average TRP
In addition the minimum TRP of each measured channel shall be higher than
minimum performance requirements shown in the columns \"Min\".
Figure 6.4: Minimum TRP
### 6.2.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands
#### 6.2.1.1 FDD
Minimum performance requirements for FDD roaming bands are shown in Table 6.4
and Table 6.5.
Table 6.4: TRP minimum performance requirement for LME devices in the data
transfers position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | ating | Class | Class | Class | Class | Class | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 3bis | 4 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | I | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | V | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VI | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VIII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | XIX | | | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM/ | | | | | | | | | | UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | USB | | | | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | | | | ug-in | | | | | | | | | | dev | | | | | | | | | | ices. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
Table 6.5: TRP minimum performance requirement for LEE devices in the data
transfers position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | ating | Class | Class | Class | Class | Class | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 3bis | 4 | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | I | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | V | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VI | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | VIII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | XIX | | | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | TBD | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM/ | | | | | | | | | | UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | ebook | | | | | | | | | | dev | | | | | | | | | | ices. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
#### 6.2.1.2 GSM
Minimum performance requirements for GSM roaming bands are shown in Table 6.6
and Table 6.7.
Table 6.6: TRP minimum performance requirement for LME devices in the data
transfer position
Operating band | Power Class 1 | Power Class 2 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 | Power Class 5 |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) |  |  |  |  |   
| Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min  
GSM 850 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
GSM 900 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
DCS 1800 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
PCS 1900 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. NOTE 2: Applicable for USB plug-in devices. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
Table 6.7: TRP minimum performance requirement for LEE devices in the data
transfer position
Operating band | Power Class 1 | Power Class 2 | Power Class 3 | Power Class 4 | Power Class 5 |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) | Power (dBm) |  |  |  |  |   
| Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min | Average | Min  
GSM 850 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
GSM 900 | - | - | - | - | - | - | TBD | TBD | - | -  
DCS 1800 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
PCS 1900 | TBD | TBD | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | -  
NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices. |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
#### 6.2.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD
For URTA LCR TDD the TRP minimum performance requirements are listed in Table
6.8 and Table 6.9.
Table 6.8: TRP minimum performance requirement for LME devices in the data
transfer position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | ating | Class | Class | Class | Class | | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | a | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | b | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | c | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | d | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | e | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | f | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | | | | | /UTRA | | | | | | | | | | LCR | | | | | | | | | | TDD. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | USB | | | | | | | | | | pl | | | | | | | | | | ug-in | | | | | | | | | | dev | | | | | | | | | | ices. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
Table 6.9: TRP minimum performance requirement for LEE devices in the data
transfer position
+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | Oper | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | ating | Class | Class | Class | Class | | | | | | band | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | | | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | Av | Min | | | erage | | erage | | erage | | erage | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | A | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | B | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | C | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | D | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | E | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | F | － | － | TBD | TBD | － | － | － | － | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+ | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 1: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | dual | | | | | | | | | | -mode | | | | | | | | | | GSM | | | | | | | | | | /UTRA | | | | | | | | | | LCR | | | | | | | | | | TDD. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE | | | | | | | | | | 2: | | | | | | | | | | Appli | | | | | | | | | | cable | | | | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | | | | not | | | | | | | | | | ebook | | | | | | | | | | dev | | | | | | | | | | ices. | | | | | | | | | +-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-------+-----+-------+-----+
# 7 Receiver Performance
## 7.1 Total Radiated Sensitivity
The average TRS of low, mid and high channel in beside head position for 1%
BER with 12.2kbps DL reference channel as defined in Annex C.3 of [2] shall be
lower than minimum performance requirements for roaming bands shown in Table
7.1. The averaging shall be done in linear scale for the TRS results of both
right and left side of the phantom head.
Figure 7.1: Average TRS
In addition the maximum TRS of each measured channel in beside head position
shall be better than minimum performance requirements for roaming bands shown
in the columns \"Max\".
Figure 7.2: Maximum TRS
### 7.2 Minimum requirement for roaming bands
#### 7.2.1 FDD
Minimum performance requirements for FDD roaming bands are shown in Table 7.1.
The values in the tables are Îor with no interference.
Table 7.1: TRS minimum requirements for FDD roaming bands in the speech
position for the primary mechanical mode
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | | | Average | Max | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | I | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101 | -98 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | II | dBm/3.84 MHz | -99 | -96 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | III | dBm/3.84 MHz | -98 | -95 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IV | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101 | -98 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | V | dBm/3.84 MHz | -96 | -93 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VI | dBm/3.84 MHz | -96 | -93 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VII | dBm/3.84 MHz | -99 | -96 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VIII | dBm/3.84 MHz | -96 | -93 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IX | dBm/3.84 MHz | -100 | -97 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | XIX | dBm/3.84 MHz | -96 | -93 | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1 For Power Class 3, | | | | | 3bis and 4 this shall be | | | | | achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2 For the UE which | | | | | supports both Band III and | | | | | Band IX operating | | | | | frequencies, the reference | | | | | level of TDB dBm TRS | | | | | \ [average and | | | | | min] shall apply for Band | | | | | IX. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE3 Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 4 For the UE which | | | | | supports DB-DC-HSDPA | | | | | configuration 2, average | | | | | \ level of -98 | | | | | dBm/3.84 MHz and max | | | | | \ level of -95 | | | | | dBm/3.84 MHz shall apply for | | | | | Band II. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 5 For the UE which | | | | | supports DB-DC-HSDPA | | | | | configuration 2, average | | | | | \ level of -100 | | | | | dBm/3.84 MHz and max | | | | | \ level of -97 | | | | | dBm/3.84 MHz shall apply for | | | | | Band IV. | | | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
### 7.2.2 GSM
Transmitted radiated sensitivity in the primary mechanical mode for TCH/FS at
2% class II (RBER) [3].
Table 7.2: TRS minimum requirements for FDD roaming bands in the speech
position for the primary mechanical mode
+-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | | | Average | Max | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | GSM 850 | dBm | -98 | -95 | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | GSM 900 | dBm | -97 | -94 | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | -99.5 | -96.5 | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | -98.5 | -95.5 | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+ | NOTE 1: For Power Class 1 and 4 | | | | | this shall be achieved at the | | | | | maximum output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE2: Applicable for dual-mode | | | | | GSM/UMTS. | | | | +-------------------------------------+------+--------------+-------+
Annexes are only to be used where appropriate.
#### 7.2.3 UTRA LCR TDD
For URTA LCR TDD UE in the speech position and the primary mechanical mode,
the TRS minimum performance requirements are listed in Table 7.3.
Table 7.3: TRS minimum requirement for UTRA LCR TDD roaming bands in the
speech position for the primary mechanical mode
* * *
Operating Band Unit \  
\- - Average Max a dBm/1.28 MHz -101 -100 b dBm/1.28 MHz TBD TBD c dBm/1.28
MHz TBD TBD d dBm/1.28 MHz TBD TBD e dBm/1.28 MHz -101 -100 f dBm/1.28 MHz
-101 -100 Note: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.
* * *
## 7.3 Total Radiated Sensitivity for LME/LEE
Requirements in this section are stated for free space configuration and are
applicable to devices used in data transfer position such as laptop mounted
equipment (LME) plug-in UEs and laptop embedded equipment (LEE) UEs.
The average TRS of low, mid and high shall be lower than minimum performance
requirements for roaming bands shown in section 5.2. The averaging shall be
done in linear scale for the TRS results.
Figure 7.3: Average TRS
In addition the maximum TRS of each measured channel shall be better than
minimum performance requirements for bands shown in the columns \"Max\".
Figure 7.4: Maximum TRS
### 7.3.1 Minimum requirement for roaming bands
#### 7.3.1.1 FDD
Minimum performance requirements for FDD roaming bands are shown in Table 7.4
and Table 7.5. The values in the tables are Îor with no interference.
The average TRS in data transfer position for 1% BER with 12.2 kbps DL
reference channel as defined in C.3 [2] shall be lower than minimum
requirements for roaming bands shown in Table 7.4 and Table 7.5.
Table 7.4: TRS minimum requirements for LME devices in data transfer position
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | | | Average | Max | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | I | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | II | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | III | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IV | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | V | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VI | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VII | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VIII | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IX | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | XIX | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1 For Power Class 3, | | | | | 3bis and 4 this shall be | | | | | achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2 Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3 Applicable for USB | | | | | plug-in devices. | | | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
Table 7.5: TRS minimum requirements for LEE devices in data transfer position
+-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | | | Average | Max | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | I | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | II | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | III | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IV | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | V | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VI | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VII | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | VIII | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | IX | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | XIX | dBm/3.84 MHz | TBD | TBD | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1 For Power Class 3, | | | | | 3bis and 4 this shall be | | | | | achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2 Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3 Applicable for | | | | | notebook devices. | | | | +-------------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----+
#### 7.3.1.2 GSM
For GPRS the PDTCH/CS1 at 10% BLER [3] TRS minimum performance requirements
are listed in Table 7.6 and Table 7.7.
Table 7.6: TRS minimum requirements for LME devices in data transfer position
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | | | Average | Max | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: For Power Class 1 and 4 this | | | | | shall be achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode | | | | | GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for USB plug-in | | | | | devices. | | | | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
Table 7.7: TRS minimum requirements for LEE devices in data transfer position
+---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | | | Average | Max | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: For Power Class 1 and 4 this | | | | | shall be achieved at the maximum | | | | | output power. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for dual-mode | | | | | GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for notebook | | | | | devices. | | | | +---------------------------------------+------+--------------+-----+
#### 7.3.1.3 UTRA LCR TDD
For URTA LCR TDD the TRS minimum performance requirements are listed in Table
7.8 and Table 7.9.
Table 7.8: TRS minimum requirements for LME devices in data transfer position
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | - | - | Average | Max | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | a | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | b | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | c | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | d | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | e | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | F | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for USB | | | | | plug-in devices. | | | | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
Table 7.9: TRS minimum requirements for LEE devices in data transfer position
+---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | - | - | Average | Max | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | A | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | B | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | C | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | D | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | E | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | F | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | TBD | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for | | | | | dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD. | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook | | | | | devices. | | | | +---------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----+
###### ## Annex A (normative): Environmental conditions
# A.1 General
This normative annex specifies the environmental requirements of the UE.
Within these limits the requirements of the present documents shall be
fulfilled.
# A.2 Environmental requirements
The requirements in this clause apply to all types of UE(s) and MS(s).
## A.2.2 Temperature
All the OTA requirements are applicable in room temperature [e.g. 25°C)].
## A.2.3 Voltage
The UE shall be equipped with a real battery that is fully charged (in the
beginning of the Test).
###### ## Annex B (informative): Recommended performance
# B.1 General
This annex introduces the concept of recommended OTA performance for operating
bands. This requirement is not mandatory but is recommended.
The concept of recommended performance is to ensure that UE/MS OTA performance
is maximised in order to improve user experience and network performance. It
is recognised that the ability to meet the recommended performance depends on
the number of frequency bands supported by the UE/MS.
# B.2 Total Radiated Power
The OTA performance for FDD, GSM and UTRA LCR TDD should be greater or equal
than the recommended values shown in Tables B.1, B.1a, B.1b, B.2, B.2a, B.2b
and B.3, B.3a, B.3b, respectively.
Table B.1: TRP recommended performance for FDD in the speech position and the
primary mechanical mode.
* * *
Operating band Power Class 1 Power Class 2 Power Class 3 Power Class 3bis
Power Class 4 Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm)
Average Average Average I - - +18 +18 +16 II - - +18 +18 +16 III - - +18 +18
+16 IV - - +18 +18 +16 V - - +14 +14 +12 VI - - +14.5 +14.5 +12.5 VII - - +18
+18 +16 VIII - - +15 +15 +13 IX - - +18 +18 +16 XIX - - +14.5 +14.5 +12.5
NOTE: applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.
* * *
Table B.1a: TRP recommended performance for FDD and LME devices in data
transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | Class 1 | Class 2 | Class 3 | Class | Class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | I | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VI | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VIII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | XIX | | | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for USB | | | | | | | plug-in | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table B.1b: TRP recommended performance for FDD and LEE devices in data
transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | Class 1 | Class 2 | Class 3 | Class | Class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | | | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | I | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | II | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | III | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IV | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | V | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VI | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | VIII | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | IX | - | - | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | XIX | | | TBD | TBD | TBD | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | notebook | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table B.2: TRP recommended performance for GSM in the speech position and the
primary mechanical mode.
* * *
Operating band Power Class 1 Power Class 2 Power Class 3 Power Class 4 Power
Class 5 Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Average
Average Average Average Average GSM 850 24  
GSM 900 24  
DCS 1800 24  
PCS 1900 24  
NOTE: applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS.
* * *
Table B.2a: TRP recommended performance for GSM and LME devices in data
transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | Class 1 | Class 2 | Class 3 | Class 4 | Class 5 | | band | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 850 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 900 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DCS 1800 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | PCS 1900 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for USB | | | | | | | plug-in | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table B.2b: TRP recommended performance for GSM and LEE devices in data
transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | Class 1 | Class 2 | Class 3 | Class 4 | Class 5 | | band | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 850 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | GSM 900 | - | - | - | TBD | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | DCS 1800 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | PCS 1900 | TBD | - | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | G | | | | | | | SM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | notebook | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table B.3: TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in the speech position
and the primary mechanical mode.
* * *
Operating band Power Class 1 Power Class 2 Power Class 3 Power Class 3bis
Power Class 4 Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm) Power (dBm)
Average Average Average Average Average a - +18 - - - b - TBD - - - c - TBD -
- - d - TBD - - - e - +18 - - - f - +18 - - - Note : Applicable for dual-mode
GSM/UTRA LCR TDD..
* * *
Table B.3a: TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD and LME devices in
data transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | Class 1 | Class 2 | Class 3 | Class | Class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | c | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | d | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | e | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | f | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | GSM/UTRA | | | | | | | LCR | | | | | | | TDD.. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for USB | | | | | | | plug-in | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
Table B.3b: TRP recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD and LEE devices in
data transfer position
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | O | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | perating | Class 1 | Class 2 | Class 3 | Class | Class 4 | | band | | | | 3bis | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Power | Power | Power | Power | Power | | | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | (dBm) | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | | Average | Average | Average | Average | Average | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | a | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | b | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | c | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | d | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | e | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | f | - | TBD | - | - | - | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+ | NOTE 1: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | d | | | | | | | ual-mode | | | | | | | GSM/UTRA | | | | | | | LCR | | | | | | | TDD.. | | | | | | | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: | | | | | | | Ap | | | | | | | plicable | | | | | | | for | | | | | | | notebook | | | | | | | devices. | | | | | | +----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
# B.3 Total Radiated Sensitivity
The OTA performance for FDD, GSM and UTRA LCR TDD should be lesser or equal
than the recommended values shown in Tables B.4, B.4a, B.4b, B.5, B.5a, B.5b
and B.6, B.6a, B.6b respectively.
Table B.4: TRS recommended performance for FDD in the speech position for the
primary mechanical mode
+--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | | | Average | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | I | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | II | dBm/3.84 MHz | -102 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | III | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IV | dBm/3.84 MHz | -104 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | V | dBm/3.84 MHz | -99.5 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VI | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VII | dBm/3.84 MHz | -102 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | VIII | dBm/3.84 MHz | -100 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | IX | dBm/3.84 MHz | -103 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | XIX | dBm/3.84 MHz | -101 | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: For the UE which supports | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average | | | | \ level of -101 dBm/3.84 | | | | shall apply for Band II. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: For the UE which supports | | | | DB-DC-HSDPA configuration 2, average | | | | \ level of -103 dBm/3.84 | | | | MHz shall apply for Band IV. | | | +--------------------------------------+--------------+--------------+
Table B.4a: TRS recommended performance for FDD and LME devices in the data
transfer position
* * *
Operating Band Unit \ Average I dBm/3.84 MHz TBD II dBm/3.84 MHz TBD
III dBm/3.84 MHz TBD IV dBm/3.84 MHz TBD V dBm/3.84 MHz TBD VI dBm/3.84 MHz
TBD VII dBm/3.84 MHz TBD VIII dBm/3.84 MHz TBD IX dBm/3.84 MHz TBD XIX
dBm/3.84 MHz TBD NOTE 1: Applicable for USB plug-in devices.
* * *
Table B.4b: TRS recommended performance for FDD and LEE devices in the data
transfer position
* * *
Operating Band Unit \ Average I dBm/3.84 MHz TBD II dBm/3.84 MHz TBD
III dBm/3.84 MHz TBD IV dBm/3.84 MHz TBD V dBm/3.84 MHz TBD VI dBm/3.84 MHz
TBD VII dBm/3.84 MHz TBD VIII dBm/3.84 MHz TBD IX dBm/3.84 MHz TBD XIX
dBm/3.84 MHz TBD NOTE 1: Applicable for notebook devices.
* * *
Table B.5: TRS recommended performance for GSM in the speech position and the
primary mechanical mode.
* * *
Operating Band Unit \ Average GSM 850 dBm -100.5 GSM 900 dBm -100.5
DCS 1800 dBm -103.5 PCS 1900 dBm -103.5 NOTE: applicable for dual-mode
GSM/UMTS.
* * *
Table B.5a: TRS recommended performance for GSM and LME devices in the data
transfer position
+---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | | | Average | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | NOTE 3: Applicable for USB plug-in devices. | | | +---------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
Table B.5b: TRS recommended performance for GSM and LEE devices in the data
transfer position
+--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | | | Average | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | GSM 850 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | GSM 900 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | DCS 1800 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | PCS 1900 | dBm | TBD | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UMTS. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook devices. | | | +--------------------------------------------+------+--------------+
Table B.6: TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD in the speech position
and the primary mechanical mode.
* * *
Operating Band Unit \ \- - Average a dBm/1.28 MHz -105 b dBm/1.28 MHz
TBD c dBm/1.28 MHz TBD d dBm/1.28 MHz TBD e dBm/1.28 MHz -105 f dBm/1.28 MHz
-105 NOTE: Applicable for dual-mode GSM/UTRA LCR TDD..
* * *
Table B.6a: TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD and LME devices in
the data transfer position
+----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | - | - | Average | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | a | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | b | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | c | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | d | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | e | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | f | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode | | | | GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for USB plug-in | | | | devices. | | | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
Table B.6a: TRS recommended performance for UTRA LCR TDD and LEE devices in
the data transfer position
+----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | Operating Band | Unit | \ | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | - | - | Average | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | a | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | b | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | c | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | d | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | e | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | f | dBm/1.28 MHz | TBD | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+ | NOTE 1: Applicable for dual-mode | | | | GSM/UTRA LCR TDD.. | | | | | | | | NOTE 2: Applicable for notebook | | | | devices. | | | +----------------------------------------+--------------+------------+
#