# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document provides the description of the Packet Data Convergence
Protocol (PDCP).
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 23.060: \"General Packet Radio Service (GPRS); Service
description; Stage 2\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC); protocol specification\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.301: \"Radio Interface Protocol Architecture\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.303: \"Interlayer Procedures in Connected Mode\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.322: \"RLC Protocol Specification\".
[6] IETF RFC 2507: \"IP Header Compression\".
[7] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[8] IETF RFC 3095: \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Framework and four
profiles: RTP, UDP, ESP, and uncompressed\".
[9] IETF RFC 3096: \"Requirements for robust IP/UDP/RTP header compression\".
[10] IETF RFC 4815: \" RObust Header Compression (ROHC): Corrections and
Clarifications to RFC 3095\".
[11] 3GPP TS 26.101: \"Mandatory speech codec speech processing functions;
Adaptive Multi-Rate (AMR) speech codec frame structure\".
[12] 3GPP TS 26.201: \"Speech codec speech processing functions; Adaptive
Multi-Rate - Wideband (AMR-WB) speech codec; Frame structure\".
# 3 Definitions and Abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
[7] and the following apply.
_N-context_ Refers collectively to both _N-context-C_ and _N-context-D_.
_N-context_ * Refers collectively to both _N-context-C*_ and _N-context-D*_.
_N-context_ -C The compression context for downlink in SRNC at any given point
of time.
_N-context_ -C* The frozen snapshot of the compression context for downlink
taken by SRNC.
_N-context_ -C-static*\ The frozen snapshot of the static part of the
compression context for downlink taken by SRNC.
_N-context_ -D The decompression context for uplink in SRNC at any given point
of time.
_N-context_ -D* The frozen snapshot of the decompression context for uplink
taken by SRNC.
_N_ -context-D-static*\ The frozen snapshot of the static part of the
decompression context for uplink taken by SRNC.
_M-context_ Refers collectively to both _M-context-C_ and _M-context-D_.
_M-context_ * Refers collectively to both _M-context-C*_ and _M-context-D*_.
_M-context_ -C The compression context for uplink in UE at any given point of
time.
_M-context_ -C* The frozen snapshot of the compression context for uplink
taken by UE.
_M-context_ -C-static*\ The frozen snapshot of the static part of the
compression context for uplink taken by UE.
_M-context_ -D The decompression context for downlink in UE at any given point
of time.
_M-context_ -D* The frozen snapshot of the decompression context for downlink
taken by UE.
_M-context_ -D-static*\ The frozen snapshot of the static part of the
decompression context for downlink taken by UE.
M-HC Entity located in the mobile terminal that performs header compression
for uplink (i.e. UE PDCP)
M-HCD Refers collectively to both _M-HC_ and _M-HD_.
M-HD Entity located in the mobile terminal that performs header decompression
for downlink (i.e. UE PDCP)
N-HC Entity located in the network that performs header compression for
downlink (i.e. RNC PDCP)
N-HCD Refers collectively to N-HC and N-HD
N-HD Entity located in the network that performs header decompression for
uplink (i.e. RNC PDCP)
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AMR Adaptive Multi-Rate
AS Access Stratum
CID Context Identifier
C-SAP Control Service Access Point
HC Header Compression
IETF Internet Engineering Task Force
IP Internet Protocol
L2 Layer 2 (data link layer)
L3 Layer 3 (network layer)
MBMS Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service
M-HC Mobile Header Compressor
M-HCD Mobile Header Compressor/Decompressor
M-HD Mobile Header Decompressor
NAS Non Access Stratum
N-HC Network Header Compressor
N-HCD Network Header Compressor/Decompressor
N-HD Network Header Decompressor
PDCP Packet Data Convergence Protocol
PDU Protocol Data Unit
PID Packet Identifier
PPP Point-to-Point Protocol
> p-t-p Point-to-Point
>
> p-t-m Point-to-Multipoint
RB Radio Bearer
RFC Request For Comments
RLC Radio Link Control
RNC Radio Network Controller
ROHC RObust Header Compression
RTP Real Time Protocol
SDU Service Data Unit
TCP Transmission Control Protocol
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 General
## 4.1 Objective
The present document describes the functionality of the PDCP.
## 4.2 Overview on sublayer architecture
Figure 1 shows the model of the PDCP within the radio interface protocol
architecture. The radio interface protocol architecture is defined in [3].
Every PS domain RAB is associated with one RB, which in turn is associated
with one PDCP entity. Each PDCP entity is associated with one or two (one for
each direction) RLC entities depending on the RB characteristic (i.e.uni-
directional or bi-directional) and RLC mode. The PDCP entities are located in
the PDCP sublayer.
Every PDCP entity uses zero, one or several different header compression
protocols. Each individual PDCP entity uses at most one instance of each
header compression protocol. Several PDCP entities may be defined for a UE
with each using the same or a different set of header compression protocols.
In this version of the specification, only two header compression protocols,
RFC 2507 [6] and ROHC [8], [10], are supported.
Every CS domain voice RAB is associated with one RB, which in turn is
associated with one PDCP entity. Each PDCP entity is associated with two UM
RLC entities as CS voice RBs are always bi-directional. The PDCP entities are
located in the PDCP sublayer. The PDCP entity serving CS service does not use
header compression.
The PDCP sublayer is configured by upper layer [2] through the PDCP-C-SAP.
Figure 1: PDCP structure
Figure 1 represents one possible structure for the PDCP sublayer and should
not restrict implementation. A PDCP entity is mapped to either one AM RLC
entity or one or two UM or TM RLC entities. When a PDCP entity is mapped to
two UM or TM RLC entities each RLC entity is used for a different direction.
# 5 Functions
PDCP provides its services to the NAS at the UE or the relay at the Radio
Network Controller (RNC).
The Packet Data Convergence Protocol shall perform the following functions:
\- header compression and decompression of IP data streams (e.g., TCP/IP and
RTP/UDP/IP headers for IPv4 and IPv6) at the transmitting and receiving
entity, respectively.
\- transfer of user data. This function is used for conveyance of data between
users of PDCP services.
\- maintenance of PDCP sequence numbers for radio bearers that are configured
to support lossless SRNS Relocation or lossless DL RLC PDU size change.
\- transfer of CS counter if the radio bearer is connected to a CS domain
radio access bearer.
\- add and remove the padding in PDCP PDU for octet alignment.
PDCP uses the services provided by the Radio Link Control (RLC) sublayer.
## 5.1 Header Compression
The header compression protocol is specific to the particular network layer,
transport layer or upper layer protocol combinations e.g. TCP/IP and
RTP/UDP/IP. The network layer protocol type, e.g. IP or PPP, is indicated
during PDP context activation as defined in [1]. The header compression
protocols and their parameters are configured by upper layers for each PDCP
entity. Compressor and decompressor initiated signalling between peer PDCP
entities, during operation, is accomplished through in-band signalling.
### 5.1.1 Mapping of PID values
Depending on the configuration by upper layers (i.e. PDCP PDU type to be used
and header compressor protocol), the PDCP sublayer shall be able to:
\- identify different types of header compression protocols;
\- if RFC2507:
\- distinguish different header compression protocol packet types within a
header compression protocol.
The above requirements are realised by utilising the PID field in the PDCP
PDU.
The mapping of the PID values shall follow the general rules listed below:
\- PID values shall be mapped to the different packet types independently at
each PDCP entity;
\- PID value \"0\" shall indicate \"no compression\". PID value \"0\" shall be
used in a PDCP PDU containing in its Data field a PDCP SDU that is unchanged
by the Sender and that shall not be decompressed by the Receiver.;
\- PID values are mapped in ascending order, starting from 1, for every
configured header compression protocol, in the order of configuration by upper
layer. The first available PID value is assigned to the first packet type of
the header compression protocol as defined in the specification for this
header compression protocol. PID values are mapped for all the specified
packet types defined for the header compression protocol and in the order
defined in subclause 5.1.2.2 and 5.1.3.3 for the respective header compression
protocol;
\- PID values are re-mapped for the PDCP entity after any reconfiguration of
the header compression protocols for that entity.
The following table illustrates an example of the PID value mapping to the
packet types when five arbitrary header compression methods are configured for
one PDCP entity: RFC 2507[6], Methods A and B, ROHC [8], [10] and Method C.
Method A, Method B and Method C are imaginary header compression protocols
introduced for the purpose of illustration.
Table 1: Example of the PID value mapping table
+----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | PID | Optimisation method | Packet type | | | | | | Value | | | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 0 | No header compression | - | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 1 | RFC 2507 | Full header | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 2 | RFC 2507 | Compressed TCP | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 3 | RFC 2507 | Compressed TCP nondelta | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 4 | RFC 2507 | Compressed non TCP | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 5 | RFC 2507 | Context state | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 6 | Method A | Packet Type 1 of Method A | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 7 | Method A | Packet Type 2 of Method A | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 8 | Method B | Packet Type 1 of Method B | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 9 | Method B | Packet Type 2 of Method B | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 10 | RFC 3095, RFC 4815 | ROHC packet format | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 11 | Method C | Packet Type 1 of Method C | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 12 | Method C | Packet Type 2 of Method C | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+ | 13...31 | Unassigned value | - | +----------+-----------------------+---------------------------+
### 5.1.2 IP Header Compression (RFC 2507)
The detailed operation of the RFC 2507 header compression protocol is
specified in IETF RFC 2507 [6]. The mechanisms related to error recovery and
packet reordering are also described in RFC 2507. These mechanisms shall be
included in the functionality of the header compression supported by PDCP. The
implementation of the RFC 2507 header compression functionality is not covered
in this specification and is left to the implementation.
#### 5.1.2.1 Context identifiers
Context identifiers for RFC 2507 shall only be included in the RFC 2507 packet
types format, as defined in [6].
#### 5.1.2.2 Mapping of PID values for RFC 2507
PID values shall be mapped to the RFC 2507 header compression packet types in
the order presented in Table 2 below where \"n\" is the number of PID values
already mapped to other protocol packet types.
Table 2: Mapping of PID values for RFC 2507 header compression protocol
* * *
PID value Optimisation method Packet type n+1 RFC 2507 Full header n+2 RFC
2507 Compressed TCP n+3 RFC 2507 Compressed TCP non-delta n+4 RFC 2507
Compressed non-TCP n+5 RFC 2507 Context state
* * *
#### 5.1.2.3 Management of Full Header transmission
Transmission of a full header packet may be controlled by the lower layer
information.
For a TCP stream, if the PDCP receives from lower layer the information of
failed transmission of a single packet, the PDCP may send the next packet as a
full header.
For a non-TCP stream, if the PDCP receives from lower layer the information of
successful transmission of a full header packet, the PDCP may stop sending a
full header packet that contains the same full header as the previously
transmitted one.
### 5.1.3 Robust Header Compression
The detailed operation of the, \"RObust Header Compression (ROHC)\" protocol
is specified in IETF RFC 3095 [8] and IETF RFC 4815 [10].
#### 5.1.3.1 Context identifiers
The context of the ROHC protocol is defined in [8] and [10]. ROHC can be
configured to support one or several contexts. Each context is identified by a
value known as the context identifier (CID).
#### 5.1.3.2 Void
#### 5.1.3.3 Mapping of PID values
The following PID value shall be mapped to the robust header compression
protocol as presented in the table where n is the number of PID values already
assigned to other protocol packet types.
Table 4: Mapping of PID values for RFC 3905 header compression protocol
* * *
PID value Optimisation method Packet type n+1 RFC 3095, RFC 4815 ROHC packet
format
* * *
#### 5.1.3.4 Void
#### 5.1.3.5 Protocol Parameters
ROHC has two types of parameters [8], [10]:
\- configuration parameters: these are mandatory and must be configured
between compressor and decompressor peers.
> \- implementation parameters: these are optional and, when used, stipulate
> how the compression protocol operates.
These parameters are categorized in four different groups, as defined below:
\- M: Mandatory and configured by upper layers.
\- MO: Parameters that must be supported and when used can only be configured
or triggered by upper layers.
\- O: Optional parameters that are not configured by upper layers. They may be
used locally (i.e. UTRAN and/or in UE).
\- N/A: These are not used in ROHC.
The usage and definition of the parameters shall be as specified below.
\- MAX_CID (M): This is the maximum CID value that can be used. One CID value
shall always be reserved for uncompressed flows.
> \- LARGE_CIDS: This is not configured by upper layers but inferred from the
> configured value of MAX_CID according to the following rule:
If MAX_CID > 15 then LARGE_CIDS = TRUE else LARGE_CIDS = FALSE.
> \- PROFILES (M): Profiles are used to define which profiles are allowed to
> be used by the UE in uplink. In downlink, all the profiles defined in [8]
> shall be supported.
>
> \- FEEDBACK_FOR (N/A):
>
> \- MRRU (M): Segmentation is not used by default.
\- NO_OF_PACKET_SIZES_ALLOWED (N/A).
\- PACKET_SIZES_ALLOWED (N/A)
\- PAYLOAD_SIZES (O).
\- NO_OF_PACKET_SIZES_USED (O).
\- PACKET_SIZES_USED (O).
\- CONTEXT_REINITIALIZATION (MO).
\- MODE (O).
\- CLOCK_RESOLUTION (O).
\- REVERSE_DECOMPRESSION_DEPTH (M): Default value is that reverse
decompression is not used.
#### 5.1.3.6 Configuration by RRC
If the variable \"PDCP_ROHC_TARGET_MODE\" [2] is stored in the UE, and if
applicable for the ROHC profile applied, the de-compressor shall only perform
the operational state transitions defined in [8] to the stored mode.
If the variable \"PDCP_ROHC_TARGET_MODE\" [2] is not stored in the UE, the de-
compressor shall not restrict the operational state transitions defined in
[8].
## 5.2 Void
## 5.3 Data Transfer
If header compression is configured the PDCP entity in the Sender shall:
\- perform header compression upon reception of a PDCP SDU from upper layers;
\- if the radio bearer is configured for lossless SRNS Relocation or lossless
DL RLC PDU size change:
\- maintain PDCP sequence numbering as specified in subclause 5.6.1.1;
\- submit the PDCP PDU to lower layer in the sequence received from the upper
layer.
If radio bearer is connected to a CS domain radio access bearer, the sender
shall:
\- if the PDCP SDU length is of 1 or more bits:
\- include the CS counter in the PDCP AMR Data PDU as specified in subclause
5.6.1.4;
\- indicate the PDCP AMR PDU type in the PDU type field;
\- fill the data field of the PDCP AMR PDU type with the PDCP SDU and add
padding bits as specified in subclause 8.2.4.
NOTE: If no AMR or AMR WB frames is generated by upper layers, no PDCP PDU is
submitted to the lower layer.
When the PDCP entity at the Receiver receives the PDCP PDU from lower layers,
it shall:
\- if the received PDCP PDU is of type PDCP AMR Data PDU:
\- the PDCP SDU is derived from the data field of the PDCP AMR Data PDU. The
receiver determines the bit aligned data content and Frame Type from the PDU
Data field length, as possible AMR and AMR WB payload has a unique size when
being octet aligned;
\- deliver the PDCP SDU and CS counter from the received PDCP header to the
upper layer.
\- else:
\- perform header decompression (if header compression is configured) of the
PDCP PDU to obtain the PDCP SDU; and
\- deliver the PDCP SDU to the upper layer in the order received from the
lower layer;
\- if the received PDCP PDU is of type PDCP SeqNum PDU:
\- follow the procedure in subclause 5.6.1.2.
### 5.3.1 Data transfer over acknowledged mode RLC
Figure 2 shows the PDCP data transfer over acknowledged mode RLC.
Figure 2: PDCP data transfer over acknowledged mode RLC
NOTE: If the primitive RLC-AM-DATA.req is used with parameter CNF, the
primitive RLC-AM-DATA.cnf is delivered. Otherwise, this primitive is not
delivered.
### 5.3.2 Data transfer over unacknowledged and transparent mode RLC
Figure 3 shows the PDCP data transfer over unacknowledged or transparent mode
RLC.
Figure 3: PDCP data transfer over unacknowledged or transparent mode RLC
## 5.4 SRNS Relocation
In case of SRNS Relocation upper layer indicates to PDCP to perform either the
re-initialisation or the context relocation of compression protocols of an RB,
or the release of the compression protocols of an RB. In this version of the
specification, context relocation is only applicable to RFC3095. Each of the
compression protocols is handled independently, but the context relocation
capability is optional for the UE and it is indicated as a part of the UE
radio access capabilities.
The re-initialisation of a given compression protocol entails the following:
\- Compression parameters may be reconfigured by upper layers during re-
initialisation, otherwise compression parameters remain valid during re-
initialisation.
\- All compression state information is initialised, e.g. header compression
contexts. Therefore, the first \'compressed\' packet type after SRNS
Relocation is a full header.
\- The PDCP sequence numbers are not changed due to the PDCP header
compression protocol re-initialisation.
The context relocation of a given compression protocol entails the following:
> \- Configured compression parameters remain valid during context relocation.
>
> \- A snapshot of the compression state information (context) is taken in the
> source RNC and transferred to the target RNC, which initialises the header
> compression protocol according to the transferred snapshot. Therefore, the
> (de)compression continues after SRNS Relocation from the context used before
> relocation.
>
> \- Some additional specific actions are performed both in UE and UTRAN
> during the SRNS Relocation in order to keep the (de)compressors consistent.
### 5.4.1 Lossless SRNS Relocation
Lossless SRNS Relocation is only applicable when RLC is configured for in-
sequence delivery and acknowledged mode. The support of lossless SRNS
Relocation is configured by upper layer.
For the support of lossless SRNS Relocation, the PDCP entities maintain
sequence numbers for PDCP SDUs, as described in subclause 5.6.1.1.
These sequence numbers are synchronised between PDCP Sender and Receiver, as
described in subclause 5.6.1.2.
When a lossless SRNS Relocation is performed sequence numbers are exchanged
between UE and UTRAN. They are used to confirm PDCP SDUs transmitted but not
yet acknowledged by the Receiver, as described in subclause 5.6.1.3. After
relocation the data transfer begins with the first unconfirmed PDCP SDU.
#### 5.4.1.1 Void
#### 5.4.1.2 Void
#### 5.4.1.3 Void
### 5.4.2 Context relocation
The header compression context relocation is performed by the decision of
upper layers in source RNC based on the UE radio capabilities. The decision is
done independently every time the SRNS relocation occurs and is specific for
each header compression protocol. It is indicated to UE as a part of the SRNS
relocation signalling of the upper layer and the selected relocation method is
configured to UE PDCP by the upper layer.
The header compression context relocation shall not be performed if the radio
bearer is configured to support the lossless SRNS Relocation.
**In the UE** , upon reception of the indication about SRNS relocation being
performed:
\- the upper layer configures PDCP (_CPDCP-CONFIG.Req_) to perform either re-
initialisation (R) or the context relocation (C) of header compression
protocols;
\- if the context relocation is to be applied for RFC3095 header compression
protocol:
\- if the **compressor** (M-HC) is operating in **R mode** :
\- uplink data may be compressed and transmitted normally.
\- if the **compressor** (M-HC) is operating in **O mode** :
\- compress and transmit uplink data as specified in [8] using the assumption
that all ROHC uplink packets transmitted are likely to be lost. When SRNS
relocation is completed, M-HC should return to normal operation.
> NOTE: When the M-HC is using the assumption that all ROHC uplink packets
> transmitted are likely to be lost:
>
> \- the M-HC can not transit to a higher compression state;
>
> \- for W-LSB encoding, the M-HC updates the set of candidate reference
> values used by the decompressor by adding newly transmitted values but not
> removing old values.
\- if the **compressor** (M-HC) is operating in **U mode** :
\- M-HC shall transit to FO state and send IR-DYN to re-synchronise the
dynamic part of the uplink context.
\- if the reverse decompression is applied in the **decompressor** (M-HD):
-flush the reverse decompression buffer by discarding all packets in the buffer.
\- in the **decompressor** (M-HD), in **all modes** :
\- downlink data may be received and decompressed normally.
**In the UTRAN source RNC** , while SRNS relocation is being performed:
\- if the context relocation is to be applied for RFC3095 header compression
protocol:
\- PDCP is requested to take a context snapshot by the upper layer (_CPDCP-
CONTEXT.Req_);
\- if the **compressor** (source N-HC) is operating in **R mode** :
\- the source N-HC should take a snapshot of its header compression compressor
context (denoted _N-context-C*_);
\- header compression contexts should not be updated anymore even though
downlink data may be compressed and transmitted otherwise normally. This can
be done by sending R-1* packets.
\- if the **compressor** (source N-HC) is operating in **O mode** :
\- the source N-HC should take a snapshot of its header compression compressor
context (denoted _N-context-C*_);
\- after the snapshot is taken, the source N-HC should only send UO-0 or UO-1*
packets. This means only RTP SN, RTP TS, and IP-ID (for IPv4 only) fields are
updated in the decompressor context at M-HD.
\- if the **compressor** (source N-HC) is operating in **U mode** :
\- the source N-HC should take a snapshot of the static part of its header
compression compressor context (denoted _N-context-C-static*_).
\- if the **decompressor** (source N-HD) is operating in **R or O mode** :
\- if the source N-HD is sure about the integrity of the _N-context-D:_
\- the source N-HD should take a snapshot of its header compression
decompressor context (denoted as _N-context-D*_).
\- if the source N-HD is only sure about the integrity of the static part of
the _N-context-D_ (e.g. due to multiple detected errors):
\- the source N-HD should take a snapshot only of the static part of the _N-
context-D_ (denoted as _N-context-D-static*_).
\- RFC3095 acknowledgments should not be generated anymore even though uplink
data may be received and decompressed otherwise normally.
\- if the **decompressor** (source N-HD) is operating in **U mode** :
\- the source N-HD should take a snapshot of the static part of its header
compression decompressor context (denoted _N-context-D-static*_).
\- either _N-context-C*_ or _N-context-C-static*_ and either _N-context-D*_ or
_N-context-D-static*_ should be delivered to the upper layer as _Context-Info
(CPDCP-CONTEXT.Conf)_ , which is to be transmitted further to the target RNC.
**In the UTRAN target RNC** , while SRNS relocation is being performed:
\- the upper layer configures PDCP (_CPDCP-CONFIG.Req_) to perform either
initialisation (I) or the context relocation (C) of header compression
protocols;
\- the new header compression entity should be created;
\- if the context relocation is to be applied for RFC3095 header compression
protocol:
\- in the **compressor** (target N-HC), in **all modes** :
\- the header compression compressor (target N-HC) should be initialised to
the same mode as used in the source N-HC using _N-context-C*_ as the initial
header compression compressor context;
\- in addition, if the source N-HC was operating in U-mode, the target N-HC
should first send IR-DYN to resynchronise the dynamic part of the downlink
context.
\- in the **decompressor** (target N-HD), in **all modes** :
\- if _Context-Info_ carries N-context-D*:
\- the header compression decompressor (target N-HD) should be initialised to
the same mode as used in the source N-HD using _N-context-D*_ as the initial
header compression decompressor context.
\- if _Context-Info_ carries N-context-D-static*:
\- the header compression decompressor (target N-HD) should be initialised to
the same mode as used in the source N-HD using N-context-D-static* as the
initial header compression decompressor context;
\- the target N-HD should send a request for IR-DYN.
## 5.5 Lossless DL RLC PDU size change
Lossless DL RLC PDU size change is only applicable when RLC is configured for
in-sequence delivery and acknowledged mode. The support of lossless DL RLC PDU
size change is configured by upper layer.
For the support of lossless DL RLC PDU size change, the PDCP entities maintain
sequence numbers for DL PDCP SDUs, as described in subclause 5.6.1.1.
These DL sequence numbers are synchronised between PDCP Sender in the UTRAN
and Receiver in the UE, as described in subclause 5.6.1.2.
When a lossless DL RLC PDU size change is performed the next expected
DL_Receive PDCP SN is sent from the UE to the UTRAN. It is used to confirm DL
PDCP SDUs transmitted but not yet acknowledged by the Receiver in the UE, as
described in subclause 5.6.1.3. After lossless DL RLC PDU size change the data
transfer begins with the first unconfirmed DL PDCP SDU.
## 5.6 General procedures
#### 5.6.1.1 PDCP Sequence Numbering
The value of the PDCP sequence number ranges from 0 to 65535. The PDCP SN
window size indicates the maximum number of PDCP SDUs, not confirmed to have
been successfully transmitted to the peer entity by lower layer, that can be
numbered at any given time. The PDCP SN window size is configured by upper
layers. PDCP sequence numbers are set to \"0\" when the PDCP entity is set-up
for the first time.
In the following the \"submission/reception of a PDCP SDU to/from lower
layer\" is used as a synonym for the submission/reception of a PDCP Data PDU
or a PDCP SeqNum PDU to/from lower layer that carries in its Data field a
compressed or uncompressed PDCP SDU.
If lossless SRNS relocation and/or lossless DL RLC PDU size change are/is
supported by the UE, for each radio bearer configured to support \"lossless
SRNS relocation or lossless DL RLC PDU size change\" as specified in [1], PDCP
sequence numbers are applied:
\- in the UE:
\- the DL_Receive PDCP SN shall be set to \"0\" for the first PDCP SDU
received from lower layer;
\- the DL_Receive PDCP SN shall be incremented by \"1\" for the next PDCP SDU
received from lower layer.
\- in the UTRAN:
\- the DL_Send PDCP SN should be set to \"0\" for the first PDCP SDU submitted
to lower layer;
\- the DL_Send PDCP SN should be incremented by \"1\" for the next PDCP SDU
submitted to lower layer.
Additionally, if lossless SRNS relocation is supported by the UE, for each
radio bearer configured to support \"lossless SRNS relocation or lossless DL
RLC PDU size change\" as specified in [1], PDCP sequence numbers are applied:
\- in the UE:
\- the UL_Send PDCP SN shall be set to \"0\" for the first PDCP SDU submitted
to lower layer;
\- the UL_Send PDCP SN shall be incremented by \"1\" for the next PDCP SDU
submitted to lower layer;
\- in the UTRAN:
\- the UL_Receive PDCP SN should be set to \"0\" for the first PDCP SDU
received from lower layer;
> \- the UL_Receive PDCP SN should be incremented by \"1\" for the next PDCP
> SDU received from lower layer.
PDCP sequence numbers shall not be decremented in a PDCP entity.
#### 5.6.1.2 PDCP Sequence Number synchronization
For radio bearers that are configured to support \"lossless SRNS Relocation or
lossless DL RLC PDU size change\" as specified in [1]:
the UE PDCP entity shall:
\- if the UE supports lossless SRNS relocation,
> \- if a PDCP entity has to synchronise the UL PDCP SN following a RLC reset
> or RLC transmitting side re-establishment not caused by a lossless SRNS
> Relocation; or
>
> \- if the UE PDCP entity receives an invalid \"next expected UL Receive PDCP
> SN\" from upper layer after a lossless SRNS Relocation;
>
> \- trigger the PDCP SN synchronisation procedure by submitting one PDCP
> SeqNum PDU to lower layer;
>
> \- consider that the synchronisation procedure is complete on confirmation
> by lower layer of the successful transmission of the PDCP SeqNum PDU.
\- if the UE supports lossless DL RLC PDU size change but not lossless SRNS
relocation, the UE PDCP entity shall not submit PDCP SeqNum PDU to lower
layer.
\- the UTRAN PDCP entity should:
\- if a PDCP entity has to synchronise the DL PDCP SN following a RLC reset or
RLC transmitting side re-establishment not caused by a lossless SRNS
Relocation or a lossless DL RLC size change; or
\- if the UTRAN PDCP entity receives an invalid \"next expected DL_Receive
PDCP SN\" from upper layer after lossless SRNS Relocation or lossless DL RLC
PDU size change:
> \- trigger the PDCP SN synchronisation procedure by submitting one PDCP
> SeqNum PDU to lower layer;
>
> \- consider that the synchronisation procedure is complete on confirmation
> by lower layer of the successful transmission of the PDCP SeqNum PDU.
In the UE/UTRAN, the \"next expected UL/DL_Receive PDCP SN\" is considered
invalid if its value is less than the UL/DL_Send PDCP SN of the first
transmitted but not yet acknowledged PDCP SDU or greater than that of the
first unsent PDCP SDU.
On receiving a PDCP SeqNum PDU:
\- the UE PDCP entity shall:
\- set the value of the DL_Receive PDCP SN to the value indicated in the PDCP
SeqNum PDU;
\- the UTRAN PDCP entity should:
\- set the value of the UL_Receive PDCP SN to the value indicated in the PDCP
SeqNum PDU.
NOTE: If UTRAN has the intention to use only the lossless DL RLC PDU size
change, UTRAN may not maintain UL PDCP SN. In this case, UTRAN should still
transfer the user data to upper layer.
#### 5.6.1.3 Sequence Number and Data Forwarding
In case of a lossless SRNS Relocation procedure or lossless DL RLC size
change, as described in [1]:
\- the UE shall send to the UTRAN the next expected DL_Receive PDCP SN.
Additionally, in case of lossless SRNS relocation procedure, as described in
[1]:
\- the UTRAN should send to the UE the next expected UL_Receive PDCP SN.
This information exchange synchronises the Sequence Numbers at the UE and
UTRAN PDCP entities.
When requested by the upper layer, for each radio bearer configured to support
lossless SRNS Relocation, the PDCP sublayer in the source RNC should forward
the following to the target RNC:
\- the UL_Receive PDCP SN of the next PDCP SDU expected to be received from
the UE;
\- the DL_Send PDCP SN of the first transmitted but not yet acknowledged PDCP
SDU;
\- the transmitted but not yet acknowledged PDCP SDUs together with their
related DL_Send PDCP SNs;
\- the not yet transmitted PDCP SDUs.
#### 5.6.1.4 CS Counter Handling
In case the radio bearer is connected to a CS domain radio access bearer, the
CS counter shall be included in the PDCP AMR Data PDU.
The value of the CS counter shall be set to the first to fifth LSBs of the CFN
at which the packet has been received from higher layers.
In the receiving side, the CS counter shall be delivered to the upper layer
together with the PDCP SDU.
The CS counter is used to manage the delay jitter generated by the radio
layer. The CS counter plus the value of the information element \"Max CS
delay\", as signalled in [2], indicates the latest instance at which the AMR
or AMR WB frames is delivered to the upper layer.
## 5.7 Header Compression and Decompression for MBMS
Header compression and decompression for a p-t-m MBMS service is performed in
ROHC U-mode.
Applying ROHC for p-t-m RB configuration is optional and should be configured
per MBMS session.
### 5.7.1 Cell change inside the same cell group
When a UE moves to a cell that is the same cell group with that of the
previous cell while reciving a p-t-m MBMS service which is provided in both
cells, the UE shall:
\- continue header decompression during and after cell change.
### 5.7.2 Cell change between cell groups
When a UE moves to a cell that is the different cell group with that of the
previous cell while reciving a p-t-m MBMS service which is provided in both
cells, the UE shall:
\- reconfigure and re-initialise the PDCP entity;
\- reuse the static part of the header decompressor context used in the
previous cell;
\- re-initialise header decompression after receiving IR-DYN or IR packet and
correcting the CID of the context with the CID being used in the new cell.
NOTE: How to correct CID is implementation issue and is not specified.
# 6 Services
## 6.1 Services provided to upper layers
The following services are provided by PDCP to upper layers:
\- transfer of user data;
\- maintenance of PDCP SDU sequence numbers.
## 6.2 Services expected from RLC layer
For a detailed description of the following functions see [5].
\- transparent data transfer Service;
\- unacknowledged data transfer Service;
\- acknowledged data transfer Service.
# 7 Elements for layer-to-layer communication
The interaction between the PDCP layer and other layers are described in terms
of primitives where the primitives represent the logical exchange of
information and control between the PDCP layer and other layers. The
primitives shall not specify or constrain implementations.
## 7.1 Primitives between PDCP and upper layers
The primitives between PDCP and upper layers are shown in Table 5.
Table 5: Primitives between PDCP and upper layers
* * *
Generic Name Parameter  
Req. Ind. Resp. Conf. PDCP-DATA Data Data, CS Counter Not Defined Not Defined
CPDCP-CONFIG PDCP-Info, RLC-SAP SN_Sync, R/I/C/RS, Context-Info, PDCP
Unrecoverable Error Detection Not Defined Not Defined Not Defined CPDCP-
CONTEXT None Not Defined Not Defined Context-Info CPDCP-RELEASE RLC-SAP Not
Defined Not Defined Not Defined CPDCP-SN PDCP SN Not Defined Not Defined Not
Defined CPDCP-RELOC Next_Receive_SN Not Defined Not Defined Next_Receive_SN,
Next_Send_SN
* * *
Each Primitive is defined as follows:
a) PDCP-DATA-Req./Ind.
\- PDCP-DATA-Req is used by upper user-plane protocol layers to request a
transmission of upper layer PDU. PDCP-DATA-Ind is used to deliver PDCP SDU
that has been received to upper user plane protocol layers.
b) CPDCP-CONFIG-Req.
\- CPDCP-CONFIG-Req is used to configure and -- in case of already existing
PDCP entity -- to reconfigure a PDCP entity and to assign it to the radio
bearer associated with that entity.
c) CPDCP-RELEASE-Req.
\- CPDCP-RELEASE-Req is used by upper layers to release a PDCP entity.
d) CPDCP-SN-Req.
\- This primitive is used at the UTRAN. CPDCP-SN-Req is used to transfer the
PDCP SN to PDCP.
e) CPDCP-RELOC-Req/Conf.
\- CPDCP-RELOC-Req initiates the SRNS Relocation procedure in PDCP for those
radio bearers that are configured to support lossless SRNS Relocation. The
Next_Receive_SN is only included at the UE side.
\- CPDCP-RELOC-Conf is used to transfer the Next_Receive_SN and/or
Next_Send_SN to upper layers for lossless SRNS Relocation. The Next_Send_SN is
only included at the source RNC.
> f) CPDCP-CONTEXT-Req./Conf.
\- CPDCP-CONTEXT-Req initiates specific actions in the source RNC in order to
perform context relocation as a part of the SRNS relocation. The primitive is
applicable only in the source RNC.
\- CPDCP-CONTEXT-Conf is used to transfer the header compression context
information from PDCP to upper layer in order to perform context relocation as
a part of the SRNS relocation. The primitive is applicable only in the source
RNC.
The following parameters are used in the primitives:
1) PDCP-Info:
\- Contains the parameters for each of the header compression protocols
configured to be used by one PDCP entity.
2) RLC-SAP:
\- The RLC-SAP (TM/UM/AM) used by PDCP entity when communicating with RLC
sublayer.
3) SN_Sync:
\- Indicates that PDCP should start PDCP SN synchronisation procedure.
4) Next_Send_SN:
\- The Send PDCP SN of the next PDCP SDU to be sent. There is one in the
uplink (UL_Send PDCP SN) and one in the downlink (DL_Send PDCP SN). Refer to
subclause 5.4.1.
5) Next_Receive_SN:
> \- The Receive PDCP SN of the next PDCP SDU expected to be received. There
> is one in the uplink (UL_Receive PDCP SN) and one in the downlink
> (DL_Receive PDCP SN). Refer to subclause 5.4.1.
6) PDCP SN:
\- This includes a PDCP sequence number.
7) R/I/C/RS
\- Indicates that PDCP should Re-initialise (R)/Initialise (I) the header
compression protocols. Alternatively (Context-relocation, C) it indicates that
UE PDCP shall perform specific actions related to context relocation during
SRNS relocation. (RS) indicates to Re-initialise while keeping the static part
of the header compression (only for ROHC). R/I/C/RS indication is given
separately for each of the configured header compression protocol, if several
exist for a given radio bearer.
8) Context-Info:
\- Contains the header compression context information of each of the header
compression protocols that are subject to the context relocation during SRNS
relocation.
9) CS Counter:
\- Contains the timing information of AMR or AMR WB frame that will be used by
upper layer.
10) PDCP Unrecoverable Error Detection:
\- Determines whether PDCP Unrecoverable Error Detection shall be performed in
a PDCP entity.
# 8 Elements for peer-to-peer communication
## 8.1 Protocol data units
Different PDU formats are defined for the PDCP protocol, one not introducing
any overhead to the (compressed) PDCP SDU, others introducing such overhead.
## 8.2 Formats
A PDCP PDU shall be a multiple of 8 bits, if the RLC entity is configured for
unacknowledged or acknowledged mode. Otherwise, if the RLC entity is
configured for transparent mode, it is bit-aligned. In Tables 6, 7 and 8, bit
strings are represented as follows: the first bit is the leftmost one on the
first line of the table, the last bit is the rightmost on the last line of the
table, and more generally the bit string is to be read from left to right and
then in the reading order of the lines.
SDUs are bit strings, with any non-null length. If not compressed within PDCP
an SDU is included from first bit onward.
### 8.2.1 PDCP-No-Header PDU
The PDCP-No-Header PDU does not introduce any overhead to the PDCP SDU. The
use of the PDCP-No-Header PDU is configured by the upper layer.
The format of the PDCP-No-Header PDU is shown in Table 6.
Table 6: PDCP-No-Header PDU
* * *
Data
* * *
### 8.2.2 PDCP Data PDU
The PDCP Data PDU is used to convey:
\- data containing an uncompressed PDCP SDU; or
\- header compression related control signalling; or
\- data that has been obtained from PDCP SDU after header compression.
The format of the PDCP Data PDU is shown in Table 7.
Table 7: PDCP Data PDU format
* * *
PDU type PID Data
* * *
### 8.2.3 PDCP SeqNum PDU
The PDCP SeqNum PDU is used to convey a PDCP SDU sequence number and:
\- data containing an uncompressed PDCP SDU; or
\- data that has been obtained from PDCP SDU after header compression.
The format of the PDCP SeqNum PDU is shown in Table 8.
Table 8: PDCP SeqNum PDU format
* * *
PDU type PID Sequence number
Data
* * *
### 8.2.4 PDCP AMR Data PDU
The PDCP AMR Data PDU is used to convey:
\- a PDCP SDU containing AMR or AMR WB frame
The format of the PDCP AMR Data PDU is shown in Table 9.
Table 9: PDCP AMR Data PDU format
* * *
PDU type CS counter Data
* * *
The PDCP PDU is octet aligned but the actual PDCP SDU carrying the AMR or AMR
WB frame may not be octet aligned. The data field contains the \"AMR Core
Frame\" of AMR IF1 as defined in [11] or \"AMR-WB Core Frame\" of AMR-WB IF1
as defined in [12]. The AMR classes are always encoded in the order of class
A, B and C, where d(0) of the \"AMR Core Frame\" or \"AMR-WB Core Frame\" is
carried in the first bit of data field. Any padding for octet alignment is
inserted at the end of the data field.
## 8.3 Parameters
If not otherwise mentioned in the definition of each field then the bits in
the parameters shall be interpreted as follows: the left most bit string is
the first and most significant and the right most bit is the last and least
significant bit.
Unless otherwise mentioned, integers are encoded in standard binary encoding
for unsigned integers. In all cases the bits appear ordered from MSB to LSB
when read in the PDU.
### 8.3.1 PDU Type
Length: 3 bits.
The PDU type field indicates the PDCP Data PDU type.
* * *
Bit PDU Type 000 PDCP Data PDU (Table 7) 001 PDCP SeqNum PDU (Table 8) 010
PDCP AMR Data PDU (Table 9) 011-111 Reserved (PDUs with this encoding are
invalid for this version of the protocol)
* * *
### 8.3.2 PID
Length: 5 bits.
The PID field indicates the used header compression and packet type.
* * *
Bit Description 00000 No header compression 00001-11111 Dynamically negotiated
header compression identifier, as described in subclause 5.1.1
* * *
The PID field value indicates the used header compression protocol type and
packet type. A specific header compression protocol may utilize a certain
range of consecutive values from the PID field value space for different
packet types. The Receiving PDCP entity performs the necessary operation (e.g.
header decompression) according to the PID field value.
### 8.3.3 Data
The Data field may include either one of the following:
\- Uncompressed PDCP SDU;
\- Header compressed PDCP SDU;
\- Header compression protocol feedback information.
### 8.3.4 Sequence number
Length: 16 bits
PDCP SDU sequence number.
### 8.3.5 CS counter
Length: 5 bits
CS counter field value indicates the timing of AMR or AMR WB frame.
# 9 Handling of unknown, unforeseen and erroneous protocol data
## 9.1 Invalid PDU type
If a PDCP entity receives a PDCP PDU with a PDU Type set to Reserved (see
subclause 8.3.1), it shall:
\- discard the PDCP PDU.
If a PDCP entity is not configured for lossless SRNS Relocation or lossless DL
RLC PDU size change and receives a PDCP SeqNum PDU, it shall:
\- discard the PDCP SeqNum PDU.
## 9.2 Invalid PID value
If a PDCP entity receives a PDCP PDU with a PID value that is not mapped with
a valid packet type (see subclause 5.1.1), it shall:
\- discard the PDCP PDU.
## 9.3 PDCP Unrecoverable Error Detection
For each radio bearer that is configured to perform PDCP Unrecoverable Error
Detection:
\- if the PDCP entity receives 2 or 3 consecutive PDCP PDUs with an unexpected
or invalid PDU Type or PID value:
\- the UE PDCP entity may indicate PDCP Unrecoverable Error to upper layer
[2].
\- if the PDCP entity receives 4 consecutive PDCP PDUs with an unexpected or
invalid PDU Type or PID value:
\- the UE PDCP entity shall indicate PDCP Unrecoverable Error to upper layer
[2].
NOTE1: Until the UE receives 4 consecutive PDCP PDUs with an unexpected or
invalid PDU Type or PID value, the UE may apply a self-recovery mechanism. For
example, the UE PDCP entity may indicate to RLC layer that HFN can be
incremented.
NOTE2: The PDCP unrecoverable error detection is performed before the invalid
PDU type check specified in subclause 9.1.
NOTE3: PDCP unrecoverable error detection in the UE can only detect the
problem in the downlink.
###### ## Annex A (normative): ROHC performance testing
## A.1 Introduction
This subclause defines performance test cases for ROHC. The ROHC profile
within scope is profile 0x0001 for compression of RTP/UDP/IP headers only.
This subclause is not meant to bring incoherent limitations to
implementations, and is not meant to create a sub-specification of [8], [10]
either, as a consequence of the requirements on performance that it defines.
### A.1.1 Purpose of the performance testing
The purpose of the test cases is to ensure that ROHC implementations meet
minimal requirements that can fairly be expected when subjected to an input
sequence that includes frequently occurring and commonly observed changes in
the values of header fields. The metrics used correspond to:
  * the average compressed header size for an entire test sequence, to assess an implementation's efficiency in terms of its overall compression ratio, and
  * the average compressed header size for different sub-sequences within each test case, to assess an implementation's ability to minimize the variance in compressed header size with respect to the selection of the packet format used for individual packets.
The latter is to avoid a less desirable behaviour where a compressor would
consistently and exclusively use two types of compressed header formats; one
format that offers no compression but that completely updates and/or repairs
the context e.g. when the patterns of the header fields to be compressed do
not allow optimal compression, and another format that provides the most
efficient compression ratio otherwise. While it is noted that the use of
larger headers is perfectly acceptable protocol-wise [8], the tests herein are
meant to encourage compressor implementations to actively and efficiently
implement compression.
These metrics are defined so that they are not impacted by an implementation's
specific robustness algorithm(s) as well as to allow a wide range of
compression strategies.
Compressor implementations are expected to implement robustness algorithms
according to the optimistic approach for the U/O-modes of operation. The
optimistic approach is the part of the selection of the packet format where a
format that contains the necessary information to update a field is used a
number N time, starting from the packet for which a new value has to be
established in the decompressor context. While N is an implementation
parameter, the metrics for each sequence in U/O-mode is expressed in terms of
this parameter. Implementation should use the value N as an input parameter
for the testing, to adapt to the expected robustness level required for the
testing. The value of the parameter N is defined in test case definition
separately (informative value is given in Annex B.2.3.). Similarly, R-mode
operation requires that an update be conveyed to the decompressor until it
gets acknowledged; however for R-mode, relevant test cases provide explicit
feedback messages when necessary.
The performance tests for ROHC as described in this subclause are carried out
by providing a sequence of uncompressed IP/UDP/RTP packets to the ROHC RTP
compressor, together with artificially generated feedback messages that are
synchronized with the packet sequence. All packets in these sequences are
built on the same base structure, with most field values being constant. The
performance test cases define different change patterns for three specific
fields: the IPv4 IP ID, the RTP SN, and the RTP TS.
### A.1.2 Input sequence for uncompressed headers
The structure of the IPv4/UDP/RTP header and IPv6/UDP/RTP header is outlined
in annex A.3, along with tables of the values to be used for each field.
Fields with values marked ANY can have any value;, these are the addressing
fields that uniquely identify the flow of packets being compressed and their
respective value does not otherwise affect the expected compression ratio as
they are either sent in uncompressed form or completely omitted in compressed
packets. The checksum values are dependent on the entire content of the packet
and are calculated according to their respective protocol specifications, RFC
768 and RFC 791, which are referred to in the tables. For the input sequence,
the UDP checksum with IPv4 shall always be enabled and thus have a non-zero
value, i.e the two octets of the UDP checksum are always included as part of
the calculation of the compressed header size for both IPv4 and IPv6. Each
test sequence defines specific values to create varying change patterns for
the IPv4 IP ID, the RTP SN, and the RTP TS. A dummy payload of an arbitrary
non-zero value shall be appended at the end of the header data, following the
RTP header.
The outline of each test case follows the same format with respect to the
input sequences and the requirements. Test 1a and 1b are base tests using a
well-behaving flow of packets as one of the inputs. All subsequent tests are
based on test 1a or test 1b, each with specific test events added to the
packet flow of the base tests.
### A.1.3 Feedback format for the test cases
The feedback messages used in the test cases, when applicable, are
artificially generated and interspersed with the input sequence of
uncompressed packets. Feedback messages are generated according to the
following format:
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| 1 1 1 1 0 \| Code \| feedback type octet
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\|Acktype\| Mode \| SN \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| SN \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| 0 0 0 1 \| 0 0 0 1 \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| CRC \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Where:
\- Code is set to 0x4 (indicates that feedback data above the type octet is 4
octets)
\- Acktype is set to 0x0 (means ACK)
\- Mode is set as defined by the test case
\- SN is set as defined by the test case
\- CRC is the 8-bit CRC computed over the entire feedback payload including
any CID fields but excluding the packet type, the \'Size\' field and the
\'Code\' octet, using the polynomial defined in [8], [10].
NOTE: If compressor uses CID field in compressed packet, the CID field should
be included in the feedback packet and the Code and CID should be set as
defined in [8].
### A.1.4 Feedback generation for test cases (R-mode only)
This subclause defines a mechanism by which the test equipment shall
dynamically generate feedback messages for each test case, once a transition
to R-mode has been initiated and for the entire R-mode operation thereafter.
Test cases may define additional feedback messages as input to the compressor.
The test equipment shall generate a feedback message when the ROHC packet type
octet of the received compressed header matches any of the values as described
in the table A.1.4. The compressed header type can be identified by inspecting
the packet type octet of the compressed header, i.e. the first octet of the
ROHC base header [8].
Table A.1.4: Bitmasks for feedback generation
* * *
Compressed Header Type (binary mask) Packet Type Outcome 01xxxxxx R-0-CRC Send
feedback 110xxxxx UOR-2* Send feedback 1111110x IR Send feedback 11111000 IR-
DYN Send feedback Other values Other packets No feedback
* * *
where \'x\' means \'any value\'.
The feedback message shall be of the format as described in subclause A.1.3
using:
\- Mode is set to 0x3 (means R-mode)
\- SN is set to the RTP SN corresponding to the received compressed header.
The test equipment shall index the input sequence of uncompressed headers
using the RTP Sequence Number, and it shall associate the correct RTP SN to
each compressed header that it receives back from the compressor. The test
equipment can derive the RTP SN by counting the number of received compressed
headers.
NOTE: The purpose of this mechanism is only to provide feedback to the
compressor when operating in R-mode; it is not meant to make further
verifications of any specific ROHC functionality and applies only to the test
cases defined in this annex.
### A.1.5 Calculation of compressed header size
The following fields shall be excluded from the calculation of the size of the
compressed header in evaluation of compression performance:
\- ROHC CID/add-CID octet(s);
\- ROHC padding octets;
\- ROHC segmentation octets;
\- ROHC feedback octets, either piggybacked on the behalf of an associated
decompressor or as feedback packets interspersed within the flow of compressed
packets.
## A.2 Test outline -- RoHC RTP Profile 0x0001
RoHC compression shall start in U-mode, in accordance with RFC3095. Transition
to other compression modes shall be initiated by the test equipment sending a
feedback packet of type 2, indicating the desired mode transition.
### A.2.1 Test 1a - Base test of ROHC RTP O-mode compressor
#### A.2.1.1 Test purpose
The purpose of the base test case is to verify that the compressor properly
implements compression for a well-behaved IP/UDP/RTP packet flow, i.e. that it
makes use of efficient compressed packet formats available to ROHC RTP [8]
when operating in O-mode.
#### A.2.1.2 Sequence details
A sequence consisting of 70 packets in total is used, where all header fields
are set according to the basic test packet structure, as described in
subclause A.3, with addition of the following:
> 1\. The RTP Sequence Number is a linearly increasing counter with a packet-
> to-packet delta of 1, set to 0x0000 for the first packet and thus ending
> with 0x0045 (69) in the last packet of the sequence
>
> 2\. The RTP Time Stamp is a linearly increasing counter with a packet-to-
> packet delta of 160, set to 0x00000000 for the first packet and thus ending
> with 0x00002B20 (11040) in the last packet of the sequence.
>
> 3\. The IP Identification is set to the same value as the RTP Sequence
> Number; this means that for IPv4 the IP-ID behaviour is not random, thus
> value(RND)=0 defined in [8] for both IPv4 and IPv6.
Between the 6th and 7th packets (SN=5 and SN=6) of the sequence, a ROHC
feedback packet of feedback type 2 is to be given to the ROHC compressor to
trigger an immediate transition to O-mode operation. The format of that packet
is as follows:
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| 1 1 1 1 0 \| Code \| feedback type octet
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\|Acktype\| Mode \| SN \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| SN \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| 0 0 0 1 \| 0 0 0 1 \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| CRC \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Where:
\- Code is set to 0x4 (indicates that feedback data above the type octet is 4
octets)
\- Acktype is set to 0x0 (means ACK)
\- Mode is set to 0x2 (means O-mode)
\- SN is set to 0x000
\- CRC is the 8-bit CRC computed over the entire feedback payload including
any CID fields but excluding the packet type, the \'Size\' field and the
\'Code\' octet, using the polynomial defined in [8], [10].
NOTE: If compressor uses CID field in compressed packet, the CID field should
be included in the feedback packet and the Code and CID should be set as
defined in [8].
#### A.2.1.3 Test requirement
Table A.2.1.3: Test Requirement for Test 1a
* * *
               Average Compressed Header Size, IPv4   Average Compressed Header size, IPv6
SN \= N 5 octets 5 octets
* * *
N is smaller than 8.
The sequence of expected compressed headers can be illustrated as follow
(informative):
Figure A.2.1.3: Expected outcome for Test 1a
### A.2.2 Test 1b - Base test of ROHC RTP R-mode compressor
#### A.2.2.1 Test purpose
The purpose of the base test case is to verify that the compressor properly
implements compression for a well-behaved IP/UDP/RTP packet flow, i.e. that it
makes use of efficient compressed packet formats available to ROHC RTP [8]
when operating in R-mode.
#### A.2.2.2 Sequence details
A sequence consisting of 70 packets in total is used where all header fields
are set according to the basic test packet structure, as described in
subclause A.3, with addition of the following:
> 1\. The RTP Sequence Number is a linearly increasing counter with a packet-
> to-packet delta of 1, set to 0x0000 for the first packet and thus ending
> with 0x0045 (69) in the last packet of the sequence
>
> 2\. The RTP Time Stamp is a linearly increasing counter with a packet-to-
> packet delta of 160, set to 0x00000000 for the first packet and thus ending
> with 0x00002B20 (11040) in the last packet of the sequence.
>
> 3\. The IP Identification is set to the same value as the RTP Sequence
> Number; this means that for IPv4 the IP-ID behaviour is not random, thus
> value(RND)=0 defined in [8] for both IPv4 and IPv6.
Between the 6th and 7th (SN=5 and SN=6) packets of the sequence, the first
ROHC feedback packet of feedback type 2 is to be given to the ROHC compressor
to initiate transition to R-mode operation. The format of that packet is as
follows:
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| 1 1 1 1 0 \| Code \| feedback type octet
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\|Acktype\| Mode \| SN \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| SN \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| 0 0 0 1 \| 0 0 0 1 \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
\| CRC \|
+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
Where:
\- Code is set to 0x4 (indicates that feedback data above the type octet is 4
octets)
\- Acktype is set to 0x0 (means ACK)
\- Mode is set to 0x3 (means R-mode)
\- SN is set to 0x000
\- CRC is the 8-bit CRC computed over the entire feedback payload including
any CID fields but excluding the packet type, the \'Size\' field and the
\'Code\' octet, using the polynomial defined in [8], [10].
The test equipment waits for a UOR-2, IR-DYN or IR packet from the RoHC
compressor with the mode transition parameter set to R. The value of x is the
RTP SN of this received packet for which the test equipment generates the
second feedback packet of type 2, as described in subclause A.1.4.
#### A.2.2.3 Test requirement
Table A.2.2.3: Test Requirement for Test 1b
* * *
                   Average Compressed Header Size, IPv4   Average Compressed Header size, IPv6
SN \= x+1 5 octets 5 octets
* * *
The sequence of expected compressed headers can be illustrated as follow
(informative):
Figure A.2.2.3: Expected outcome for Test 1b
### A.2.3 Void
#### A.2.3.1 Void
#### A.2.3.2 Void
#### A.2.3.3 Void
### A.2.4 Void
#### A.2.4.1 Void
#### A.2.4.2 Void
#### A.2.4.3 Void
### A.2.5 Test 3a - Re-establishment of TS function after DTX in O-mode
#### A.2.5.1 Test purpose
The purpose of the TS re-establishment test case is to verify that the
compressor re-establishes the proper TS value after a DTX period, i.e. that it
use efficient header formats available to ROHC RTP [8] when operating in
O-mode.
#### A.2.5.2 Sequence details
The test sequence is the same as in subclause A.2.1, with the following
exception:
> 1\. The RTP Time Stamp is a linearly increasing counter with a packet-to-
> packet delta of 160, set to 0x00000000 for the first packet.
>
> 2\. For packet with SN = 20, TS is increased to represent a 32 (0.64
> seconds) packet skip (32x160) and is thus set to (20+32)x160=8320
> (0x00002080). Then TS continues to grow as stated in 1 above.
>
> 3\. For packet with SN = 30, TS is increased to represent a 128 (2.56
> seconds) packet skip (128x160) and is thus set to (30+32+128)x160=30400
> (0x000076C0). Then TS continues to grow as stated in 1 above.
>
> 4\. For packet with SN = 40, TS is increased to represent a 2048 (40.96
> seconds) packet skip (2048x160) and is thus set to
> (40+32+128+2048)x160=359680 (0x00057D00). Then TS continues to grow as
> stated in 1 above.
>
> 5\. TS thus ends at 364320 (0x00058F20) in the last packet of the sequence
> with RTP sequence number 69.
#### A.2.5.3 Test requirement
Table A.2.5.3: Test Requirement for Test 3a
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Average Compressed | Average Compressed | | | Header Size, IPv4 | Header size, IPv6 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SN \ 1\. The RTP Time Stamp is a linearly increasing counter with a packet-to-
> packet delta of 160, set to 0x00000000 for the first packet.
>
> 2\. For packet with SN = 20, TS is increased to represent a 32 (0.64
> seconds) packet skip (32x160) and is thus set to (20+32)x160=8320
> (0x00002080). Then TS continues to grow as stated in 1 above.
>
> 3\. For packet with SN = 30, TS is increased to represent a 128 (2.56
> seconds) packet skip (128x160) and is thus set to (30+32+128)x160=30400
> (0x000076C0). Then TS continues to grow as stated in 1 above.
>
> 4\. For packet with SN = 40, TS is increased to represent a 2048 (40.96
> seconds) packet skip (2048x160) and is thus set to
> (40+32+128+2048)x160=359680 (0x00057D00). Then TS continues to grow as
> stated in 1 above.
>
> 5\. TS thus ends at 393120 (0x0005FFA0) in the last packet of the sequence
> with RTP sequence number 69.
#### A.2.6.3 Test requirement
Table A.2.6.3: Test Requirement for Test 3b
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Average Compressed | Average Compressed | | | Header Size, IPv4 | Header size, IPv6 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SN \ 1\. The RTP Time Stamp is a linearly increasing counter with a packet-to-
> packet delta of 160, set to 0x00000000 for the first packet.
>
> 2\. For packets SN = 20, 21 and 22, TS is increased to represent a 7 (0.14
> seconds) packet skip (7x160) and is thus set to (20+7)x160=4320
> (0x000010E0), (21+7+7)x160=5600(0x000015E0) and
> (22+7+7+7)x160=6880(0x00001AE0), respectively.
>
> 3\. For packets SN = 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34, TS is increased to represent a 7
> (0.14 seconds) packet skip (7x160) and is thus set to 9280 (0x00002440),
> 10560 (0x00002940), 11840 (0x00002E40), 13120 (0x00003340) and 14400
> (0x00003840) respectively.
>
> 4\. For packets SN = 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, and 46, TS is increased to
> represent a 7 (0.14 seconds) packet skip (7x160) and is thus set to 16480
> (0x00004060), 17760 (0x00004560), 19040 (0x00004A60), 20320 (0x00004F60),
> 21600 (0x00005460), 22880 (0x00005960) and 24160 (0x00005E60) respectively.
>
> 5\. TS thus ends at 27840 (0x00006CC0) in the last packet of the sequence
> with RTP sequence number 69.
#### A.2.11.3 Test requirement
Table A.2.11.3: Test Requirement for Test 6a
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Average Compressed | Average Compressed | | | Header Size, IPv4 | Header size, IPv6 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SN \ 1\. The RTP Time Stamp is a linearly increasing counter with a packet-to-
> packet delta of 160, set to 0x00000000 for the first packet.
>
> 2\. For packets SN = 20, 21 and 22, TS is increased to represent a 7 (0.14
> seconds) packet skip (7x160) and is thus set to (20+7)x160=4320
> (0x000010E0), (21+7+7)x160=5600(0x000015E0) and
> (22+7+7+7)x160=6880(0x00001AE0), respectively.
>
> 3\. For packets SN = 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34, TS is increased to represent a 7
> (0.14 seconds) packet skip (7x160) and is thus set to 9280 (0x00002440),
> 10560 (0x00002940), 11840 (0x00002E40), 13120 (0x00003340) and 14400
> (0x00003840) respectively.
>
> 4\. For packets SN = 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, and 46, TS is increased to
> represent a 7 (0.14 seconds) packet skip (7x160) and is thus set to 16480
> (0x00004060), 17760 (0x00004560), 19040 (0x00004A60), 20320 (0x00004F60),
> 21600 (0x00005460), 22880 (0x00005960) and 24160 (0x00005E60) respectively.
>
> 5\. TS thus ends at 27840 (0x00006CC0) in the last packet of the sequence
> with RTP sequence number 69.
#### A.2.12.3 Test requirement
Table A.2.12.3: Test Requirement for Test 6b
+----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | | Average Compressed | Average Compressed | | | Header Size, IPv4 | Header size, IPv6 | +----------------------+----------------------+----------------------+ | SN \= 60+N 5 octets 5 octets
* * *
N is smaller than 8. The sequence of expected compressed headers can be
illustrated as follow (informative):
Figure A.2.13.3: Expected outcome for Test 7a
## A.3 Test packet structures
IPv6/UDP/RTP\ 1 2 3\ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9 0 1\ +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\|Version\| Traffic Class \| Flow Label \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| Payload
Length \| Next Header \| Hop Limit \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| \|\ \+
+\ \| \|\ \+ Source Address +\ \| \|\ \+ +\ \| \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| \|\ \+
+\ \| \|\ \+ Destination Address +\ \| \|\ \+ +\ \| \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| Source
Port \| Destination Port \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| Length
\| Checksum \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\|V=2\|P\|X\| CC \|M\| PT \| sequence number \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \|
timestamp \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \|
synchronization source (SSRC) identifier \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
IPv4/UDP/RTP\ 1 2 3\ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9 0 1\ +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\|Version\| IHL \|Type of Service\| Total Length \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \|
Identification \|R\|D\|F\| Fragment Offset \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| Time to
Live \| Protocol \| Header Checksum \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| Source
Address \|\ +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\| Destination Address \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| Options
\| Padding \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| Source
Port \| Destination Port \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \| Length
\| Checksum \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\
\|V=2\|P\|X\| CC \|M\| PT \| sequence number \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \|
timestamp \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+\ \|
synchronization source (SSRC) identifier \|\
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
IPv6 header fields
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
\| Field \| Size (bits) \| Value \|
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
\| Version \| 4 \| 0x6 \|
\| Traffic Class \| 8 \| 0x00 \|
\| Flow Label \| 20 \| 0x00000 \|
\| Payload Length \| 16 \| 0x0034 \|
\| Next Header \| 8 \| 0x11 \|
\| Hop Limit \| 8 \| Test dependent \|
\| Source Address \| 128 \| ANY \|
\| Destination Address \| 128 \| ANY \|
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
IPv4 header fields
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
\| Field \| Size (bits) \| Value \|
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
\| Version \| 4 \| 0x4 \|
\| Header Length (IHL) \| 4 \| 0x5 \|
\| Type Of Service \| 8 \| 0x00 \|
\| Packet Length \| 16 \| 0x0048 \|
\| Identification \| 16 \| Test dependent \|
\| Reserved flag (R) \| 1 \| 0x0 \|
\| Don\'t Fragment (D) \| 1 \| 0x1 \|
\| More Fragments (F) \| 1 \| 0x0 \|
\| Fragment Offset \| 13 \| 0x0000 \|
\| Time To Live \| 8 \| Test dependent \|
\| Protocol \| 8 \| 0x11 \|
\| Header Checksum \| 16 \| See RFC 791 \|
\| Source Address \| 32 \| ANY \|
\| Destination Address \| 32 \| ANY \|
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
UDP header fields
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
\| Field \| Size (bits) \| Value \|
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
\| Source Port \| 16 \| ANY \|
\| Destination Port \| 16 \| ANY \|
\| Length \| 16 \| 0x0034 \|
\| Checksum \| 16 \| See RFC 768 \|
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
RTP header fields
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
\| Field \| Size (bits) \| Value \|
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
\| Version (V) \| 2 \| 0x2 \|
\| Padding (P) \| 1 \| 0x0 \|
\| Extension (X) \| 1 \| 0x0 \|
\| CSRC Counter (CC) \| 4 \| 0x0 \|
\| Marker (M) \| 1 \| 0x0 \|
\| Payload Type (PT) \| 7 \| 0x60 \|
\| Sequence Number \| 16 \| Test dependent \|
\| Timestamp \| 32 \| Test dependent \|
\| SSRC \| 32 \| ANY \|
+---------------------+-------------+----------------+
###### ## Annex B (informative): Reference model for generating ROHC
performance requirements
## B.1 Introduction
ROHC compressor and de-compressor may use a set of parameters in order to
operate (e.g. L confidence parameter, dynamic FOtimer and static IRtimer, K1
out of N1, K2 out of N2...) that may be optimised for a given application
(e.g. Voice over IP, Videotelephony over IP, Interactive Gaming over IP...).
NOTE: L confidence parameter allows setting the number of times an IR or IR-
Dyn packet is transmitted and FOtimer and IRtimer are used in order to
determine when a transition to a lower compressor state is necessary: The
dynamic timer FOtimer triggers SO state to FO state transition and the static
IRtimer triggers SO/FO state to IR state transition.
## B.2 For Voice over IP (VoIP) optimisation
### B.2.1 ROHC parameters optimisations for VoIP
For the support of VoIP in UTRAN, ROHC compressor and de-compressor parameter
values (L confidence parameter, dynamic FOtimer and static IRtimer, K1 out of
N1, K2 out of N2) may be used. Values used in ROHC reference model are given
in annex B.2.2 for O-mode.
\- The initialisation phase duration;
\- The reaction delay to decompression failure;
\- The header compression ratio (compressed header size / uncompressed header
size);
\- The error rates (in UDP and PDCP layers);
The amount of transferred data (including ROHC compressed packets and
feedbacks);
\- The resource usage (transport block occupancy in the RLC layer).
### B.2.2 Parameter setting for ROHC reference model for VoIP
The following parameters setting is applied in the reference model for ROHC
performance tests of VoIP application:
Table B.2.2: ROHC parameters setting for VoIP
* * *
ROHC parameter O-mode L 2 FOtimer 0.12 second IRtimer 0.12 second K1 / N1 2 /
20 K2 /N2 1 / 1
* * *
### B.2.3 Setting the parameter value N in test cases for VoIP
In test cases for VoIP to evaluate ROHC Compression performance for both O-
and R-mode, the parameter N (defined in Annex A) is set to 4.
#