# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
This document provides a high level description of the mobility procedures
applicable to Home NodeB support in the current Release. Where appropriate,
the reasons behind the agreements are provided. Throughout this document,
unless otherwise stated, the UE is assumed to be a current Release UE that
supports the Closed Subscriber Group (CSG) feature, whether it is actually a
member of a CSG or not. A UE that does not support the CSG feature is not
required to support any of the procedures stated in this document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
> [1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
>
> [2] 3GPP TS 25.304: \"UE procedures in idle mode and procedures for cell
> reselection in connected mode\".
>
> [3] 3GPP TS 25.331: \"Radio Resource Control (RRC) protocol specification\".
>
> [4] 3GPP TS 23.011: \"Service accessibility\".
>
> [5] 3GPP TS 22.220: \"Service Requirements for Home NodeBs and Home
> eNodeBs\".
>
> [6] 3GPP TS 25.467: \"UTRAN architecture for 3G Home Node B (HNB)\".
>
> [7] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**Acceptable Cell:** A cell that satisfies certain conditions as specified
[2]. A UE can always attempt emergency calls on an acceptable cell.
**CSG whitelist** : A list provided by NAS containing all the CSG Identities
of the CSGs to which the subscriber belongs.
NOTE: This list is known as Allowed CSG List in Rel-8 Access Stratum
specifications.
**Available PLMN:** A PLMN for which the UE has found at least one cell and
read its PLMN identity.
**Barred Cell** : A cell a UE is not allowed to camp on.
**Camped on a cell:** UE has completed the cell selection/reselection process
and has chosen a cell. The UE monitors system information and (in most cases)
paging information.
**Camped on any cell** : UE is in idle mode and has completed the cell
selection/reselection process and has chosen a cell irrespective of PLMN
identity.
**Closed Subscriber Group (CSG)** : A Closed Subscriber Group identifies
subscribers of an operator who are permitted to access one or more cells of
the PLMN but which have restricted access (CSG cells).
**CSG Cell** : A cell, part of the PLMN, broadcasting a CSG Indicator that is
set to TRUE and a specific CSG identity. A CSG cell is accessible by the
members of the closed subscriber group for that CSG identity.
**CSG Identity (CSG ID)** : An identifier broadcast by a CSG/Hybrid cell or
cells and used by the UE to facilitate access for authorised members of the
associated Closed Subscriber Group.
**CSG member cell** : A cell broadcasting the identity of the selected PLMN,
registered PLMN or equivalent PLMN and for which the CSG whitelist of the UE
includes an entry comprising cell's CSG ID and the respective PLMN identity.
**DRX cycle:** Individual time interval between monitoring Paging Occasion for
a specific UE.
**Equivalent PLMN list:** List of PLMNs considered as equivalent by the UE for
cell selection, cell reselection , MBSFN Cluster selection MBSFN Cluster
reselection and handover according to the information provided by the NAS.
**Home NodeB (HNB)** : A HNB is a customer-premises equipment that connects a
3GPP UE over UTRAN wireless air interface to a mobile operator's network using
broadband IP backhaul.
**HNB Name** : The Home NodeB Name is a broadcast string in free text format
that provides a human readable name for the Home NodeB CSG identity.
**Home PLMN:** A PLMN where the Mobile Country Code (MCC) and Mobile Network
Code (MNC) of the PLMN identity are the same as the MCC and MNC of the IMSI.
**Hybrid cell** : A cell broadcasting a CSG identity which is accessible as a
CSG cell by UEs which are members of the CSG and as a normal cell by all other
UEs.
**Non-CSG Cell** : A cell that is not a CSG cell, e.g. a macro cell.
**Process:** A local action in the UE invoked by a RRC procedure or an Idle
Mode procedure.
**Radio Access Mode:** Radio access mode of the cell, FDD or TDD.
**Radio Access Technology:** Type of technology used for radio access, for
instance UTRA or GSM.
**Registered PLMN:** This is the PLMN on which certain Location Registration
outcomes have occurred.
**Registration Area:** (NAS) registration area is an area in which the UE may
roam without a need to perform location registration, which is a NAS
procedure.
**Reserved Cell** : A cell on which camping is not allowed, except for
particular UEs, if so indicated in the system information.
**Restricted Cell** : A cell on which camping is allowed, but access attempts
are disallowed for UEs whose access classes are indicated as barred.
**Selected PLMN:** This is the PLMN that has been selected by the NAS, either
manually or automatically.
**Serving cell:** The cell on which the UE is camped.
**Strongest cell:** The cell on a particular carrier that is considered
strongest according to the layer 1 cell search procedure [7]. As the details
of the layer 1 cell search are implementation dependent, the precise
definition of \'strongest cell\' is also implementation dependent.
**Suitable Cell:** This is a cell on which an UE may camp.
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[1] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [1].
AS Access Stratum
BCCH Broadcast Control Channel
CM Connection Management
CN Core Network
CSG Closed Subscriber Group
DRX Discontinuous Reception
E-UTRA Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
FDD Frequency Division Duplex
GPRS General Packet Radio Service
GSM Global System for Mobile Communications
HCS Hierarchical Cell Structure
HNB Home NodeB
IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity
MCC Mobile Country Code
MM Mobility Management
MNC Mobile Network Code
NAS Non-Access Stratum
PCH Paging Channel
PI Page Indicator
PICH Page Indication Channel
PLMN Public Land Mobile Network
RAT Radio Access Technology
RRC Radio Resource Control
SAP Service Access Point
TDD Time Division Duplex
TMGI Temporary Mobile Group Identity
UE User Equipment
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System
UTRA UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 Overview
A Home NodeB may provide restricted access to only UEs belonging to a Closed
Subscriber Group (CSG). One or more of such cells providing restricted access,
known as CSG cells, are identified by a unique numeric identifier called CSG
Identity. To facilitate access control, a UE with CSG subscription would have
an CSG whitelist, which contains one or more CSG Identities associated with
the CSG cells on which the UE is allowed access. The UE uses the CSG whitelist
along with the CSG Identity and associated PLMN ID broadcast by the CSG Cells
in CSG cell selection and reselection.
A HNB can also be operated as a hybrid cell. A hybrid cell is accessed as a
CSG cell by a UE whose CSG whitelist contains the cell's CSG ID and associated
PLMN ID and as a normal cell by all other UEs. Members of the CSG are expected
to receive preferential access according to [5].
NOTE: Although pre-Rel-9 UEs are able to camp on hybrid cells (which would be
regarded as normal cells for access) there is no possibility for these UEs to
identify a hybrid cell as a CSG cell even though the cell's CSG identity and
associated PLMN ID are in the UE's CSG whitelist.
In addition, manual selection of CSG Identity is introduced, which enables the
human user to manually select a CSG Identity for UE to camp on.
This document provides high level descriptions and procedures of the mobility
features to support CSG deployment in the current Release. The following areas
will be covered in the subsequent chapters:
  * Identifiers associated with the CSG framework
  * Manual selection of CSG Identity
  * Measurement rules for CSG Cells
  * Cell reselection to a CSG cell, from a CSG cell, and between CSG cells
  * Handover to a CSG cell, from a CSG cell, and between CSG cells, where applicable
  * Measurement rules, (re)selection and handover procedures for hybrid cells.
# 5 CSG Identification
One or more Closed Subscriber Group (CSG) cells are identified by a unique
numeric identifier called CSG Identity or CSG ID. A UE belonging to a CSG has
the corresponding CSG ID and associated PLMN ID in its CSG whitelist. The CSG
whitelist is maintained and provided by NAS. The CSG ID is broadcast in system
information by the CSG cell or hybrid cell, and used by the UE for cell
(re)selection and handover purposes.
A cell may optionally broadcast the CSG Indicator, whose presence and value of
TRUE indicates the cell is a CSG cell. The absence of the CSG indicator in a
cell which broadcasts a CSG identity indicates that it is a hybrid cell.
A CSG cell or hybrid cell may broadcast the HNB Name, a textual identifier, in
system information. The HNB Name can be used to aid the human user in manual
selection of a CSG ID.
At the physical layer, a CSG cell is identified by its carrier frequency
(UARFCN) and Primary Scrambling Code (PSC). A set of PSCs could be reserved
for CSG deployment and this reserved PSC range may be signalled in system
information. The PSC of a CSG cell belongs to the reserved PSC range if
broadcast.
On the mixed carrier frequency shared by both non-CSG cells (UMTS macro cells)
and CSG cells, CSG cells broadcast in system information the PSC range
reserved by the network for CSG cells. The non-CSG cells may also broadcast
the reserved PSC range. The reserved PSC range is only applicable to the
UARFCN within the PLMN where the UE received this information. The UE
considers the last received reserved PSC range to be valid within the entire
PLMN for the duration of 24 hours. The UE may use the reserved PSC information
for CSG cell search and (re)selection purposes, according to UE's
implementation.
NOTE: In shared network scenario, aligned PSC ranges are beneficial in the
shared carrier frequency across the involved PLMNs. Furthermore, in
deployments where cells broadcast different primary PLMN (with or without
multiple PLMN IDs), it is beneficial that CSG and non-CSG cells will broadcast
same PSC ranges. Moreover, it is beneficial if a CSG cell, if listed in system
information and associated with a PLMN, is associated with the primary PLMN of
the serving cell.
Non-CSG cells and CSG cells may broadcast indications of one or more carrier
frequencies used for dedicated CSG deployment. This information may be used by
a UE to avoid unnecessary measurements on that frequency even when cell
measurement rules would require measurements of this carrier frequency.
Indications of which carrier frequencies are dedicated to CSG-only deployment
may be signalled in system information and are applicable only in the cell
where this information is broadcast.
# 6 CSG Selection
## 6.1 Manual CSG ID Selection
Manual CSG ID selection enables a human user to select a CSG ID. In manual CSG
ID selection the UE may scan all frequencies in the supported frequency bands
and display a list of found CSG IDs or the corresponding HNB Names if
broadcast by the CSG cells or hybrid cells, and indications as to whether the
found CSG IDs and associated PLMN IDs are contained in the UE's CSG whitelist.
When the user selects an entry in the list, the UE selects any CSG cell or
hybrid cell among the ones with same CSG ID and PLMN ID. The UE may normally
camp on the chosen cell if it is a CSG member cell or a hybrid cell.
During manual CSG ID selection a UE is allowed to perform Location
Registration procedure on a CSG cell that is not a CSG member cell.
Based on the outcome of a Location Registration procedure initiated on a CSG
cell, the UE's CSG whitelist is updated.
The UE is allowed to _not_ support manual CSG ID selection in connected mode.
# 7 CSG Cell Reselection
## 7.1 Measurement Rules for CSG Cells
To measure CSG member cell(s), a UE applies an autonomous search function, per
UE implementation, regardless of which RAT the UE is camping on. The
autonomous search function determines when and where to search for the CSG
member cells.
Autonomous search procedure is disabled by the search function if UE's CSG
whitelist does not exist or is empty.
On a mixed carrier, a UE may avoid measurements of any CSG cells that are
known by the UE not to be CSG member cells.
A UE may avoid measurements of any CSG cells that are known by the UE not to
be CSG member cells on the carrier frequency dedicated to CSG deployment.
## 7.2 Reselection to CSG Cell
The cell reselection criteria described in this section is applicable when the
UE is in the following call states: Idle Mode, Cell_PCH and URA_PCH states,
but not Cell_FACH, unless otherwise stated.
### 7.2.1 Criteria for Intra-frequency Cell Reselection
For intra-frequency reselection from a non-CSG cell to a CSG member cell, the
UE follows the same cell ranking rules as those defined for the UTRA case in
[2]. The UE may ignore not allowed CSG cells in the ranking. The UE applies
reselection parameters broadcast by the serving cell. A UE may normally camp
on a CSG member cell.
### 7.2.2 Criteria for Inter-frequency Cell Reselection
For inter-frequency cell reselection, the UE considers the frequency where its
CSG member cell is on to have the highest priority value, irrespective of
network configured frequency priorities, as long as the CSG member cell
remains best ranked on that frequency.
### 7.2.3 Criteria for Inter-RAT Cell Reselection
Inter-RAT reselection to a CSG member cell is supported when the UE is camped
on another RAT. The UE requirements are defined in the specifications of the
concerned RAT.
## 7.3 Reselection from CSG Cell
### 7.3.1 Criteria for Intra-frequency Cell Reselection
For intra-frequency reselection from a CSG member cell to a non-CSG cell, the
UE follows the same cell ranking rules as those defined for the UTRA case
defined in [2].
### 7.3.2 Criteria for Inter-frequency Cell Reselection
For inter-frequency reselection from a CSG member cell to a non-CSG cell, the
UE follows the same cell ranking rules as those defined for the UTRA case
defined in [2].
### 7.3.3 Criteria for Inter-RAT Cell Reselection
For reselection from a CSG cell to a GSM or E-UTRA cell, the UE follows the
respective procedures defined in [2].
## 7.4 Reselection from CSG Cell to CSG Cell
For reselection between CSG member cells, the UE follows the same cell ranking
rules as those defined for the UTRA case in [2].
## 7.5 Parameters for CSG Cell Reselection
No new parameters are defined for CSG cell ranking. The same cell reselection
parameters defined for the UTRA case in [2] are used for CSG cell ranking
purposes, if configured. The operator may configure the cell reselection
parameters, such as Qoffset and Qhyst, to bias the reselection of CSG cells.
# 8 CSG and Hybrid Cell Handover
## 8.1 Handover to CSG/Hybrid Cell
Handover to a HNB/HeNB follows the framework as specified in [3], [6].
Handover to a HNB/HeNB is different from the normal handover procedure in
three aspects:
1\. **Proximity Estimation** : in case the UE is able to determine, based on
UE implementation, that it is near a CSG member cell, the UE may provide to
the SRNC an indication of proximity. The CSG proximity indication may be used
as follows:
a. If a measurement configuration is not present for the concerned
frequency/RAT, the SRNC may configure the UE to perform measurements and
reporting for the concerned frequency/RAT.
b. The SRNC may determine whether to perform other actions related to handover
to HNB/HeNBs based on having received a proximity indication (for example, the
SRNC may not configure compressed mode gaps for the UE to detect the HNB/HeNB
on a different frequency/RAT unless it has received a proximity indication).
2\. **PSC/PCI Confusion** : due to the typical cell size of HNB/HeNBs being
much smaller than macro cells, there can be multiple HNBs/HeNBs within the
coverage of the SRNC that have the same PSC/PCI. This leads to a condition
referred to as PSC/PCI confusion, wherein the SRNC is unable to determine the
correct target cell for handover from the PSC/PCI included in the measurement
reports from the UE. PSC/PCI confusion is solved by the UE reporting the cell
identity of the target HNB/HeNB.
3\. **Access Control** : If the target cell is a hybrid cell, prioritization
of allocated resources may be performed based on the UE\'s membership status.
Access control is done by a two step process, where first the UE reports
whether the target cell is a CSG member cell based on the UE's CSG whitelist,
and then the network verifies the reported status.
Mobility from SRNC to a CSG/hybrid cell from network perspective is described
in [6]. The following two sections describe the radio aspects. The SRNC in the
call flows of these sections can be an RNC or a HNB.
### 8.1.1 CSG/Hybrid Cell Intra-frequency Measurement Procedure
Figure 8.1.1-1: Intra-frequency Measurement Procedure of CSG and Hybrid cells
1) The SRNC configures the UE with a measurement having \"CSG Proximity
detection\" as measurement type.
2) The UE sends an \"entering\" CSG proximity indication when it determines it
may be near a CSG member cell (based on UE implementation).
3) If a measurement configuration for CSG/hybrid cells is not present, the
SRNC configures the UE with relevant measurement configuration which includes
the PSCs that the UE must measure and the PSCs for which SI acquisition should
be performed. The network may use the CSG proximity indication for intra-
frequency case to minimize the time during which measurements for CSG/hybrid
cells are configured.
4) The UE sends a measurement report including the measured PSC, Cell
Identity, CSG ID and CSG membership indication of the target HNB to the SRNC
(e.g., due to a triggered intra-frequency event 1d). The UE can acquire MIB
and SIB3/SIB4 of intra-frequency target HNB cells in parallel with reception
of the serving cell transmissions in CELL_DCH. No measurement gaps are
required for reading MIB and SIB3/SIB4.
5) SRNC can then proceeds with the handover processing as described in [6].
After sending an \"entering\" CSG proximity indication (step 2), if the UE
determines that it is no longer near any CSG member cell (on the reported
proximate RAT and frequency), the UE sends a "leaving" CSG proximity
indication to the SRNC. Upon reception of this indication, the SRNC may
reconfigure the UE to stop measurements configured.
The PSC confusion is resolved by steps 3 and 4. The SRNC can request SI
acquisition and reporting for any PSC, not limited to PSCs of CSG or hybrid
cells.
### 8.1.2 CSG/Hybrid Cell Inter-frequency/Inter-RAT Measurement Procedure
Figure 8.1.2-1: Inter-frequency Measurement Procedure of CSG and Hybrid cells.
1) The SRNC configures the UE with a measurement having \"CSG Proximity
detection\" as measurement type.
2) The UE sends an \"entering\" CSG proximity indication when it determines it
may be near a CSG member cell (based on UE implementation). The CSG proximity
indication includes the RAT and frequency of the cell.
3) The SRNC configures a measurement on the concerned frequency/RAT to measure
CSG/hybrid cells. Compressed mode gaps, if required by the UE, are also
activated to allow UE to perform measurements on the reported RAT and
frequency. The network may also use the proximity indication to minimize the
requesting of handover preparation information of CSG/hybrid cells by avoiding
requesting such information when the UE is not in the geographical area where
its CSG member cells are located.
4) The UE sends a measurement report including the measured PSCs/PCIs.
5) The SRNC configures the UE to perform SI acquisition and reporting of a
particular PSC/PCI.
6) The UE performs SI acquisition using autonomous gaps, i.e., the UE may
suspend reception and transmission with the SRNC to acquire the relevant
system information from the target HNB/HeNB.
7) The UE sends a measurement report including Cell Identity, CSG ID and CSG
membership indication.
8) SRNC can then proceed with the handover processing. The handover processing
for inter-frequency handover to a CSG/Hybrid cell is described in [6].
NOTE: The above steps also apply to inter-RAT mobility from UMTS cell to HeNB.
After sending an \"entering\" CSG proximity indication (step 2), if the UE
determines that it is no longer near any CSG member cell (on the reported
proximate RAT and frequency), the UE sends a \"leaving\" CSG proximity
indication to the SRNC. Upon reception of this indication, the SRNC may
reconfigure the UE to stop measurements on the reported RAT and frequency.
In the above procedure, step 2 may not be performed in case the UE has not
previously visited the HNB, e.g., when the UE first visits a CSG/hybrid cell.
The PSC/PCI confusion is resolved by steps 5, 6 and 7. The SRNC can request SI
acquisition and reporting for any PSC/PCI, not limited to PSCs/PCIs of CSG or
hybrid cells.
## 8.2 Handover from CSG Cell
In Cell_DCH state, the handover procedure from a CSG member cell to a non-CSG
cell is expected to be the same as the procedure specified in [3].
## 8.3 Handover from CSG Cell to CSG Cell
In Cell_DCH state, handover between CSG member cells with the same CSG ID is
expected to be the same as the procedure specified in Section 8.1.
In Cell_DCH state, handover between CSG member cells with different CSG IDs is
expected to be the same as the procedure specified in Section 8.1.
# 9 Support of Hybrid Cells
## 9.1 Measurement Rules
To measure for hybrid cells with a CSG Identity and its associated PLMN ID
belonging to an entry in the UE's CSG whitelist, measurement rules of Chapter
7.1 apply. Otherwise, normal measurement rules apply.
NOTE: The autonomous search for hybrid cells does not imply that UE need to
constantly check the CSG ID of all cells it sees.
## 9.2 Reselection
In case the UE has CSG ID and its associated PLMN ID of the hybrid cell in its
CSG whitelist, cell reselection procedures will be the same as for a CSG cell
as described in Chapter 7.2.
For all other UEs, cell reselection procedures will utilise normal cell
reselection rules.
###### ## Annex B (informative): Void
#