# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the transport bearers for the DCH/E-DCH data
streams on UTRAN Iur and Iub interfaces. The corresponding Transport Network
Control plane is also specified. The physical layer for the transport bearers
is outside the scope of the present document.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.427: \"UTRAN Iub/Iur interface user plane protocol for DCH data
streams\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation I.361 (1995-11): \"B-ISDN ATM layer specification\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation I.363.2 (2000-11): \"B-ISDN ATM Adaptation Layer
specification; Type 2 AAL\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation I.366.1 (1998-06): \"Segmentation and Reassembly
Service Specific Convergence Sublayer for the AAL type 2\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.1 (1999-12): \"AAL type 2 signalling protocol
(Capability Set 1)\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation E.191 (2000-03): \"B-ISDN addressing\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation X.213 (1995-11): \"Information Technology - Open
Systems Interconnection - Systems Interconnection - Network Service
Definition\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2110 (1994-07): \"B-ISDN ATM adaptation layer -
Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP)\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2130 (1994-07): \"B-ISDN signalling ATM adaptation
layer - Service Specific Coordination Function for Support of Signalling at
the User-Network Interface (SSCF at UNI)\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2150.2 (1999-12): \"AAL type 2 signalling
transport converter on SSCOP)\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2210 (1996-07): \"Message transfer part level 3
functions and messages using the services of the ITU-T Recommendation
Q.2140\".
[12] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2140 (1995-02): \"B-ISDN ATM adaptation layer -
Service Specific Coordination Function for Support of Signalling at the
Network Node Interface (SSCF at NNI)\".
[13] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2150.1 (1999-12): \"AAL type 2 signalling
transport converter on broadband MTP\".
[14] IETF RFC 791 (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[15] IETF RFC 1483 (1993-07): \"Multiprotocol Encapsulation over ATM
Adaptation Layer 5\".
[16] IETF RFC 2225 (1998-04): \"Classical IP and ARP over ATM\".
[17] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[18] IETF RFC 2960 (2000-10): \"Stream Control Transmission Protocol\".
[19] IETF RFC 3332(2002-09): \"Signalling System 7 (SS7) Message Transfer Part
3 (MTP3) -- User Adaptation Layer (M3UA)\".
[20] ITU-T Recommendation I.630 (1999-02): \"ATM protection switching\".
[21] ITU-T Recommendation Q.Imp2210 (1996-07): \"Implementor\'s guide (03/99)
for Recommendation Q.2210 (07/96)\".
[22] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2 (2000-12): \"AAL type 2 signalling protocol
(Capability Set 2)\".
[23] IETF RFC 1661 (1994-07): \"The Point-To-Point Protocol (PPP)\".
[24] IETF RFC 1662 (1994-07): \"PPP in HDLC-like Framing\".
[25] IETF RFC 2507 (1999-02): \"IP header compression\".
[26] IETF RFC 1990 (1996-08): \"The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)\".
[27] IETF RFC 2686 (1999-09): \"The Multi-Class Extension to Multi-Link PPP\".
[28] IETF RFC 2509 (1999-02): \"IP Header Compression over PPP\".
[29] IETF RFC 2460 (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[30] IETF RFC 2474 (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services
Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[31] IETF RFC 768 (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[32] IETF RFC 3153 (2001-08): \"PPP Multiplexing\".
[33] IETF RFC 2364 (1998-07): \"PPP over AAL5\".
[34] IETF RFC 3031 (2001-01): \"Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture\".
[35] Void
[36] ITU-T Recommendation E.164 (1997-05): \"The international public
telecommunication numbering plan \".
[37] IETF RFC 3309 (2002-09): \"SCTP Checksum Change\".
[38] 3GPP TS 25.414: \"UTRAN Iu Interface data transport & transport
signalling\".
[39] 3GPP TS 25.401: \"UTRAN overall description\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following term and definition
applies:
**ALCAP:** transport signalling protocol used to setup and tear down transport
bearers
## 3.2 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
AAL2 ATM Adaptation Layer type 2
AESA ATM End System Address
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
CPCS Common Part Convergence Sublayer
CPS Common Part Sublayer
DCH Dedicated Channel
E-DCH Enhanced DCH
HDLC High level Data Link Control
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
IP Internet Protocol
LC Link Characteristics
M3UA SS7 MTP3 User Adaptation layer
ML/MC Multi-link / Multi-class
MPLS Multiprotocol Label Switching
MTP Message Transfer Part
NNI Network-Node Interface
NSAP Network Service Access Point
PPP Point to Point Protocol
PT Path Type
SAAL Signalling ATM Adaptation Layer
SAR Segmentation and Reassembly
SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SSCF Service Specific Co-ordination Function
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
SSCS Service Specific Convergence Sublayer
SSSAR Service Specific Segmentation and Reassembly sublayer
STC Signalling Transport Converter
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UNI User-Network Interface
# 4 Data Link Layer
## 4.1 ATM Transport Option
ATM shall be used in the transport network user plane and transport network
control plane according to ITU-T Rec. I.361 [2].
## 4.1.1 Protection Switching at ATM Layer
If redundancy of pathways at ATM Layer between RNC and Node B is supported, it
shall be implemented using ATM Protection Switching according to ITU-T Rec.
I.630 [20].
## 4.2 IP Transport Option
A UTRAN node supporting IP transport option shall support PPP protocol IETF
RFC 1661 [23] with HDLC framing (IETF RFC 1662 [24]).
NOTE: This does not preclude the single implementation and use of any other
L2/L1 protocols (e.g. PPPMux/AAL5/ATM (IETF RFC 3153 [32]), (IETF RFC 2364
[33]), PPP/AAL2/ATM, Ethernet, MPLS/ATM (IETF RFC 3031 [34]), etc.) fulfilling
the UTRAN requirements towards the upper layers.
A UTRAN node supporting IP transport option and having interfaces connected
via low bandwidth PPP links like E1/T1/J1 shall also support IP Header
Compression (IETF RFC 2507 [25]) and the PPP extensions ML/MC-PPP (IETF RFC
1990 [26], IETF RFC 2686 [27]). In this case the negotiation of header
compression (ITU-T Rec. I.630 [20]) over PPP shall be performed via IETF RFC
2509 [28].
# 5 Iur and Iub Data Transport for DCH and E-DCH Data Streams
## 5.1 Introduction
The Frame Protocol for DCH and E-DCH data streams (TS 25.427 [1]) is the user
of the transport layer specified in the present document.
There are two options for the transport layer of the DCH and E-DCH data
streams in Iur and Iub:
1) ATM based transport (ATM Transport Option)
2) IP based transport (IP Transport Option)
The following figure shows the protocol stacks of the two options.
{width="5.830555555555556in" height="1.770138888888889in"}
> Protocol stack for ATM transport option Protocol stack for IP transport
> option
Figure 1: Transport network layer for DCH data streams over Iur and Iub
interfaces
## 5.2 ATM Transport Option
Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) (ITU-T Rec. I.361 [2]) and ATM Adaptation
Layer type 2 (AAL2) (ITU-T Rec. I.363.2 [3], ITU-T Rec. I.366.1 [4]) are used
as a transport layer for DCH and E-DCH data streams on Iur and Iub interfaces.
Service Specific Segmentation and Reassembly (SSSAR) sublayer for AAL2 is used
for the segmentation and reassembly of AAL2 SDUs.
## 5.3 IP Transport Option
UDP (IETF RFC 768 [17]) over IP shall be supported as the transport for DCH
and E-DCH data streams on Iub and Iur interfaces. The data link layer is as
specified in chapter 4.2.
An IP UTRAN Node shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460[29]). The support of IPv4
(IETF RFC 791[14]) is optional.
NOTE: This does not preclude single implementation and use of IPv4.
IP dual stack support is recommended for the potential transition period from
IPv4 to IPv6 in the transport network.
The transport bearer is identified by the UDP port number and the IP address
(source UDP port number, destination UDP port number, source IP address,
destination IP address).
The source IP address and destination IP address exchanged via Radio Network
Layer on the Iur/Iub interface shall use the NSAP structure. See sub clause
6.1.8.2 of TS 25.401 [39].
IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 [30]) shall be
supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points
shall be configurable by O&M. Traffic categories are implementation-specific
and may be determined from the application parameters.
# 6 Transport Signalling Application for DCH and E-DCH Data Streams
## 6.1 Introduction
This chapter specifies the ALCAP protocol(s) to be used in Iur and Iub
interfaces for DCH data streams.
## 6.2 ALCAP in ATM Transport Option
AAL2 signalling protocol Capability Set 2 (ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [22]) is the
signalling protocol to control AAL2 connections on Iub and Iur interfaces.
ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [22] adds new optional capabilities to ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.1
[5].
Binding ID provided by the radio network layer shall be copied in SUGR
parameter of ESTABLISH.request primitive of ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [22].
User Plane Transport bearers for Iur interface are established, in all normal
cases released and optionally modified by the ALCAP in the Serving RNC. The
binding identifier shall already be assigned and tied to a radio application
procedure when the Establish Request message is received over the Iur
interface in the Drift RNC.
User Plane Transport bearers for Iub interface are established, in all normal
cases released and optionally modified by the ALCAP in the Controlling RNC.
Binding identifier shall already be assigned and tied to a radio application
procedure when the Establish Request message is received over the Iub
interface in the Node B. In case of a Reset initiated by the CRNC, the ALCAP
in the Node B shall release the transport bearers involved in the impacted
Node B Communication Contexts. The Node B shall also initiate release of the
user plane transport bearers for the removed dedicated channels that were
remaining within the cell when the cell is deleted.
AAL2 transport layer addressing is based on embedded E.164 or other AESA
variants of the NSAP addressing format (ITU-T Rec. E.191 [6], ITU-T Rec. X.213
[7]). Native E.164 addressing (ITU-T Rec. E.164 [36]) shall not be used.
The Link Characteristics parameter (LC) shall be included in the Establish
Request message and in the Modification Request message of AAL2 signalling
protocol.
If there is an AAL2 switching function in the transport network layer of the
interface, the Path Type parameter (PT) may be included in the Establish
Request message of AAL2 signalling protocol for prioritisation at ATM level.
If the value in either the Maximum CPS-SDU Bit Rate or the Average CPS-SDU Bit
Rate of the Link Characteristics(LC) in AAL2 signalling messages as specified
in reference ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [22] is 2048 Kbit/s, it shall be interpreted
as bit rate 2048 Kbit/s or higher.
NOTE: Separation of traffic (e.g. HS-DSCH, E-DCH) that is using this modified
interpretation of Link Characteristics in ref. ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [22] from
other traffic is highly recommended. Otherwise the potential bursty nature of
this specific traffic in combination with its unknown bit rate may decrease
the QoS of all traffic within the same AAL type 2 path.
## 6.3 ALCAP in IP Transport Option
An ALCAP protocol is not required in case both UTRAN nodes are using the IP
transport option.
Application of ALCAP in IP to ATM interworking case is defined in chapter 9 of
this Technical Specification.
# 7 Signalling Bearer for ALCAP on Iub Interface
## 7.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the signalling bearer for the ALCAP on Iub interface.
## 7.2 Signalling Bearer in ATM Transport Option
SAAL-UNI (ITU-T Rec. Q.2110 [8], ITU-T Rec. Q.2130 [9]) is used as the
signalling bearer for the AAL Type 2 Signalling protocol on Iub interface.
Signalling Transport Converter for SSCOP is applied ITU-T Rec. Q.2150.2 [10].
The following figure shows the signalling bearer protocol stack for the ALCAP
on Iub interface.
Figure 2: Signalling bearer for ALCAP on Iub interface
## 7.3 Signalling Bearer in IP Transport Option
An ALCAP protocol is not required in case both UTRAN nodes are using the IP
transport option.
# 8 Signalling Bearer for ALCAP on Iur Interface
## 8.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the signalling bearer for the ALCAP on the Iur
interface.
## 8.2 Signalling Bearer in ATM Transport Option
There are two protocol stacks specified for Iur ALCAP Signalling Bearer in ATM
option - one based on MTP-3B (ITU-T Rec. Q.2210 [11], ITU-T Rec. Q.Imp2210
[21]) and SAAL-NNI (ITU-T Rec. Q.2140 [12], ITU-T Rec. Q.2110 [8]) and the
other based on SCTP (IETF RFC 2960 [18]). Signalling Transport Converter for
MTP-3B is applied (ITU-T Rec. Q.2150.1 [13]). MTP-3 User Adaptation Layer
(M3UA) for SCTP is applied in IETF RFC 3332 [19]. Classical IP over ATM is
specified in IETF RFC 2225 [16]. Multiprotocol Encapsulation over AAL5 is
specified in IETF RFC 1483 [15].The checksum method specified in IETF RFC 3309
[37] shall be used instead of the method specified in IETF RFC 2960 [18]. The
following figure shows the signalling bearer protocol stacks for the ALCAP on
Iur interface.
Figure 3: Signalling bearers for ALCAP on Iur interface
## 8.3 Signalling Bearer in IP Transport Option
An ALCAP protocol is not required in case both UTRAN nodes are using the IP
transport option.
# 9 Interworking between ATM and IP Transport Options
## 9.1 Introduction
This clause specifies the interworking between IP and ATM transport options. A
UTRAN node supporting IP transport option shall provide interworking to a
UTRAN node supporting only ATM transport option.
## 9.2 Interworking Alternatives
For interworking with a UTRAN node supporting only ATM option, the UTRAN node
supporting IP option shall additionally support at least one of the following
interworking mechanisms:
1) ATM&IP dual stack. An ALCAP protocol is not required in this interworking
solution.
Annex A of TS 25.414 [38] shows an example of protocols for the case the
ATM&IP RNC/CN-node has no ATM connectivity.
2) An Interworking Function (IWF), either internal or external to the UTRAN
node. AAL2 signalling protocol Capability Set 2 (ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [22])
shall be supported as ALCAP protocol between the Interworking Function and the
UTRAN node supporting ATM transport option.
Annex A of TS 25.414 [38] shows an example of a protocol stack for the bearer
control protocol between the RNC/CN IP Node and its IWF for the case when the
IWF is an external unit to the RNC/CN node. Other protocol stacks for this
case are not precluded.
#