# Foreword
This Technical Specification has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document specifies the standards allowed to implement Layer 1 on
the Iub interface.
The specification of transmission delay requirements and O&M requirements is
not in the scope of this document.
In the following 'Layer 1' and 'Physical Layer' are assumed to be synonymous.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TS 25.411: \"UTRAN Iu interface Layer 1\".
[2] ATM Forum AF-PHY-0130.00 (1999-10): \"ATM on Fractional E1/T1\".
# 3 Definitions and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
3GPP TS 25.411 [1] apply.
# 4 Iub Layer 1
The Iub Layer 1 shall comply with the requirements of chapter 4 in TS 25.411
[1].
In addition, for the Iub Layer 1, it shall be possible to use n 64 kbit/s time
slots within the scope of \"ATM on Fractional E1/T1\" as specified in ATM
Forum AF-PHY-0130.00 [2], and to allow the co-existence of this interface with
other interfaces on the same physical medium.
#