# Foreword
This Technical Specification (TS) has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# 1 Scope
The present document shall provide a specification of the UTRAN RNC-Node B
(Iub) interface Data Transport and Transport Signalling for Common Transport
Channel data streams.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
  * References are either specific (identified by date of publication, > edition number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
  * For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
  * For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the > case of a reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), > a non-specific reference implicitly refers to the latest version > of that document _in the same Release as the present document_.
[1] ITU-T Recommendation I.363.2 (2000-11): \"B-ISDN ATM Adaptation layer
specification: Type 2 AAL\".
[2] ITU-T Recommendation I.366.1 (1998-06): \"Segmentation and Reassembly
Service Specific Convergence Sublayer for the AAL type 2\".
[3] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.1 (1999-12): \"AAL type 2 signalling protocol
(Capability Set 1)\".
[4] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2110 (1994-07): \"B-ISDN ATM adaptation layer -
Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol (SSCOP)\".
[5] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2130 (1994-07): \"B-ISDN signalling ATM adaptation
Layer - Service Specific Coordination Function for Support of Signalling at
the User Network Interface (SSCF at UNI)\".
[6] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2150.2 (1999-12): \"Signalling transport converter
on SSCOP and SSCOPMCE\".
[7] ITU-T Recommendation I.361 (1995-11): \"B-ISDN ATM layer specification\".
[8] ITU-T Recommendation I.630 (1999-02): \"ATM protection switching\".
[9] ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2 (2000-12): \"AAL Type 2 signalling protocol
(Capability Set 2)\".
[10] ITU-T Recommendation E.191 (2000-03): \"B-ISDN addressing\".
[11] ITU-T Recommendation X.213 (1995-11): \"Information Technology - Open
Systems Interconnection - Network Service Definition\".
[12] IETF RFC 768, (1980-08): \"User Datagram Protocol\".
[13] IETF RFC 2460, (1998-12): \"Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6)
Specification\".
[14] IETF RFC 791, (1981-09): \"Internet Protocol\".
[15] IETF RFC 2474, (1998-12): \"Definition of the Differentiated Services
Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers\".
[16] IETF RFC 1661, (1994-07): \"The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)\".
[17] IETF RFC 1662, (1994-07): \"PPP in HDLC-like Framing\".
[18] IETF RFC 2507, (1999-02): \"IP header compression\".
[19] IETF RFC 1990, (1996-08): \"The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)\".
[20] IETF RFC 2686, (1999-09): \"The Multi-Class Extension to Multi-Link
PPP\".
[21] Void
[22] 3GPP TS 25.401, \"UTRAN Overall Description\"
[23] 3GPP TS 25.426, \"UTRAN Iur and Iub Interface Data Transport & Transport
Signalling for DCH Data Streams\"
[24] IETF RFC 3153, (2001-08): \"PPP Multiplexing\".
[25] IETF RFC 2364, (1998-07): \"PPP over AAL5\".
[26] IETF RFC 3031, (2001-01): \"Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture\".
[27] ITU-T Recommendation E.164 (1997-05): \"The international public
telecommunication numbering plan\".
[28] IETF RFC 3376 (2002-10), \"Internet Group Management Protocol, Version
3\".
[29] IETF RFC 3810 (2004-06), \"Multicast Listener Discovery Version 2 (MLDv2)
for IPv6\".
[30] IETF RFC 3544, (2003-07): "IP Header Compression over PPP".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the following abbreviations apply:
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the following terms and definitions
apply.
**ALCAP:** \"ALCAP\" is a generic name for the transport signalling protocol
used to setup and tear down transport bearers.
**IP UTRAN node** : An UTRAN Node supporting the IP Transport Option
## 3.2 Symbols
Void.
## 3.3 Abbreviations
AAL ATM Adaption Layer
AAL2 AAL Type 2
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode
CPCS Common Part Convergence Sublayer
CPS Common Part Sublayer
DSCH Downlink Shared Channel
FACH Forward Access Channel
FP Frame Protocol
HDLC High-level Data Link Control
HS-DSCH High Speed Downlink Shared Channel
IP Internet Protocol
LC Link Characteristics
PPP Point-to-Point Protocol
PT Path Type
RACH Random Access Channel
RNC Radio Network Controller
SAAL Signalling ATM Adaption Layer
SAR Segmentation And Reassembly
SSCF Service Specific Co-ordination Function
SSCOP Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol
SSCS Service Specific Convergence Sublayer
SSSAR Service Specific Segmentation And Reassembly
STC Signalling Transport Converter
UDP User Datagram Protocol
UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication Network
UNI User-Network Interface
USCH Uplink Shared Channel
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
## 3.4 Specification Notations
For the purposes of the present document, the following notations apply:
[FDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
\"[FDD]\" applies only to FDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the
heading preceding the tag \"[FDD]\" and the section following the heading
applies only to FDD.
[TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the tag
\"[TDD]\" applies only to TDD, including 3.84Mcps TDD, 7.68Mcps TDD and
1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading indicates that the heading preceding
the tag \"[TDD]\" and the section following the heading applies only to TDD,
including 3.84Mcps TDD, 7.68Mcps TDD and 1.28Mcps TDD.
[3.84Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
tag \"[3.84Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[3.84Mcps TDD]\" and the
section following the heading applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD.
[1.28Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[1.28Mcps TDD]\" and the
section following the heading applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD.
[7.68Mcps TDD] This tagging of a word indicates that the word preceding the
tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. This tagging of a heading
indicates that the heading preceding the tag \"[7.68Mcps TDD]\" and the
section following the heading applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD.
[FDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the \"[FDD
- \" applies only to FDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying only to FDD
are enclosed separately to enable insertion of TDD specific (or common)
paragraphs between the FDD specific paragraphs.
[TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following the \"[TDD
- \" applies only to TDD including 3.84Mcps TDD, 7.68Mcps TDD and 1.28Mcps
TDD. Multiple sequential paragraphs applying only to TDD are enclosed
separately to enable insertion of FDD specific (or common) paragraphs between
the TDD specific paragraphs.
[3.84Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
the \"[3.84Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 3.84Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
paragraphs applying only to 3.84Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the 3.84Mcps
TDD specific paragraphs.
[1.28Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
the \"[1.28Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 1.28Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
paragraphs applying only to 1.28Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the 1.28Mcps
TDD specific paragraphs.
[7.68Mcps TDD - ...] This tagging indicates that the enclosed text following
the \"[7.68Mcps TDD - \" applies only to 7.68Mcps TDD. Multiple sequential
paragraphs applying only to 7.68Mcps TDD are enclosed separately to enable
insertion of FDD and TDD specific (or common) paragraphs between the 7.68Mcps
TDD specific paragraphs.
# 4 Data Link Layer
## 4.1 ATM Transport Option
ATM shall be used in the transport network user plane and the transport
network control plane according to ITU-T Recommendation I.361 [7].
## 4.1.1 Protection Switching at ATM Layer
If redundancy of pathways at ATM layer between RNC and Node B is supported, it
shall be implemented using ATM Protection Switching according to ITU-T
Recommendation I.630 [8].
## 4.2 Data Link Layer for IP Transport Option
An RNC or Node B supporting IP Transport Option shall support the PPP protocol
with HDLC framing (IETF RFC 1661 [16], IETF RFC 1662 [17]).
NOTE: This does not preclude the single implementation and use of any other
L2/L1 protocols (e.g. PPPMux/AAL5/ATM (IETF RFC 3153 [24], IETF RFC 2364
[25]), PPP/AAL2/ATM, Ethernet, MPLS/ATM (IETF RFC 3031 [26]), etc.) fulfilling
the UTRAN requirements towards the upper layers.
An RNC or Node B supporting IP transport option and having interfaces
connected via low bandwidth PPP links like E1/T1/J1 shall also support IP
Header Compression (IETF RFC 2507 [18]) and the PPP extensions ML/MC-PPP (IETF
RFC 1990 [19], IETF RFC 2686 [20]). In this case, negotiation of header
compression (IETF RFC 2507 [18]) over PPP shall be performed via (IETF RFC
3544 [30]).
# 5 I~ub~ Data Transport for Common Transport Channel Data Streams
## 5.1 Introduction
This subclause specifies the transport layers that support Common Transport
Channel (FACH, RACH, PCH, DSCH, HS-DSCH, USCH [TDD]) data streams.
There are two options for protocol suites for transport of RACH, FACH, USCH
[TDD], DSCH and HS-DSCH Iub data streams:
> 1) ATM Transport Option
>
> 2) IP Transport Option
The following figure 1 shows the protocol stacks of these two options:
Figure 1: Protocol stack for the transport of RACH, FACH, PCH, DSCH [TDD],
USCH [TDD] and HS-DSCH Iub data streams
## 5.2 ATM Transport Option
ATM and AAL2 (ITU-T Rec. I.363.2 [1] and ITU-T Rec. I.366.1 [2]) are used at
the standard transport layer for Iub RACH, FACH, PCH, DSCH [TDD], USCH [TDD],
HS-DSCH data streams.
The Service Specific Segmentation and Reassembly (SSSAR) sublayer is used for
the segmentation and reassembly of AAL2 SDUs (i.e. SSSAR is only considered
from ITU-T Recommendation I.366.1 [2]).
## 5.3 IP Transport Option
UDP (IETF RFC 768 [12]) over IP shall be supported as the transport for RACH,
FACH, PCH, DSCH [TDD], USCH [TDD] and HS-DSCH data streams on Iub Interface.
The data link layer is as specified in chapter 4.2
An IP UTRAN node shall support IPv6 (IETF RFC 2460 [13]). The support of IPv4
(IETF RFC 791 [14]) is optional.
NOTE: This does not preclude single implementation and use of IPv4.
IP dual stack is recommended for the potential transition period from IPv4 to
IPv6 in the transport network.
The transport bearer is identified by the UDP port number and the IP address
(source UDP port number, destination UDP port number, source IP address,
destination IP address).
The source IP address and destination IP address exchanged via Radio Network
Layer on the Iur/Iub interface shall use the NSAP structure. See sub clause
6.1.8.2 of TS 25.401 [22].
IP Differentiated Services code point marking (IETF RFC 2474 [15]) shall be
supported. The mapping between traffic categories and Diffserv code points
shall be configurable by O&M for each traffic category. Traffic categories are
implementation-specific and may be determined from the application parameters.
IP multicast (IETF RFC 3376 [28], IETF RFC 3810 [29]) may be supported for
FACH data streams on Iub Interface if the security of RAN will not be
compromised. This can be guaranteed in a closed IP based RAN.
# 6 I~ub~ Transport Signalling Application for Common Transport Channel Data
Streams
## 6.1 Introduction
This subclause specifies the transport signalling protocol(s) used to
establish the user plane transport bearers. The protocol stack is shown in
clause 7 (figure 2).
## 6.2 Transport Signalling in case of ATM Transport Option
Q.2630.2 as developed by ITU-T [9] is selected as the standard AAL2 signalling
protocol for Iub. ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.2 [9] adds new optional
capabilities to ITU-T Recommendation Q.2630.1 [3].
Binding ID provided by the radio network layer shall be copied in SUGR
parameter of ESTABLISH.request primitive of ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [9]. The
binding identifier shall already be assigned and tied to a radio application
procedure when the Establish Request message is received over the Iub
interface in the Node B.
User Plane Transport bearers are established and in all normal cases released
by the ALCAP in the Controlling RNC. The Node B shall initiate release of the
user plane transport bearers for the removed common channels that were
remaining within the cell when the cell is deleted.
AAL2 transport layer addressing is based on embedded E.164 (ITU-T Rec. E.164
[27]) or other AESA variants of the NSAP addressing format (ITU-T Rec. E.191
[10], ITU-T Rec. X.213 [11]). Native E.164 addressing (ITU-T Rec. E.164 [27])
shall not be used.
If there is an AAL2 switching function in the transport network layer of the
interface, the Link Characteristics parameter (LC) shall be included in the
Establish Request message and in the Modification Request message of AAL2
signalling protocol.
If there is an AAL2 switching function in the transport network layer of the
interface, the Path Type parameter (PT) may be included in the Establish
Request message of AAL2 signalling protocol for prioritisation at ATM level.
If the value in either the Maximum CPS-SDU Bit Rate or the Average CPS-SDU Bit
Rate of the Link Characteristics (LC) in AAL2 signalling messages as specified
in reference ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [9] is 2048 Kbit/s, it shall be interpreted
as bit rate 2048 Kbit/s or higher.
NOTE: Separation of traffic (e.g. HSDPA) using this modified ITU-T Rec.
Q.2630.2 [9] from other traffic is highly recommended. Otherwise the bursty
nature of the HSDPA traffic in combination with the unknown traffic volume per
connection for bit rates exceeding 2048 Kbit/s may decrease the QoS of all
traffic within the same AAL type 2 path.
## 6.3 Transport Signalling in case of IP Transport Option
An ALCAP protocol is not required in case both UTRAN Nodes (RNC and Node B)
are using the IP Transport Option.
# 7 Signalling Bearer for ALCAP on I~ub~ Interface
## 7.1 Introduction
This subclause specifies the signalling bearer protocol stack which supports
the ALCAP.
## 7.2 Signalling Bearer in ATM Transport Option
SAAL-UNI is the standard signalling bearer for the AAL Type Signalling
protocol (ITU-T Rec. Q.2630.2 [9]) on Iub (ITU-T Rec. Q.2110 [4], ITU-T Rec.
Q.2130 [5]). The protocol stack is shown in figure 2.
Figure 2: Transport Network Control plane protocol structure on Iub in case of
ATM Transport Option
The signalling transport converter (STC) relevant for Iub is ITU-T
Recommendation Q.2150.2 [6]. The AAL5 Common Part contains CPCS and SAR.
## 7.3 Signalling Bearer in IP Transport Option
An ALCAP protocol is not required in case of both UTRAN Nodes (RNC and Node B)
are using the IP Transport Option.
# 8 Interworking between ATM and IP Transport Options
An RNC or Node B supporting IP transport option shall provide interworking to
an RNC or Node B supporting only ATM transport option. The interworking
alternatives are defined in TS 25.426 [23].
#