# Foreword
This Technical Report has been produced by the 3^rd^ Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP).
The contents of the present document are subject to continuing work within the
TSG and may change following formal TSG approval. Should the TSG modify the
contents of the present document, it will be re-released by the TSG with an
identifying change of release date and an increase in version number as
follows:
Version x.y.z
where:
x the first digit:
1 presented to TSG for information;
2 presented to TSG for approval;
3 or greater indicates TSG approved document under change control.
y the second digit is incremented for all changes of substance, i.e. technical
enhancements, corrections, updates, etc.
z the third digit is incremented when editorial only changes have been
incorporated in the document.
# Introduction
During the application of HSPA, some questions occurred and needed to be
solved, such as how to solve the problem the discontinuous CQI feedback will
create, how to increase the control channel efficiency and how to increase the
HSPA resource efficiency. Due to the fact that multi-carrier HSPA is backward
compatible with HSPA, the same questions also exist in multi-carrier HSPA. In
order to solve these questions, the SI "HSPA Feedback and Signalling
Efficiency Enhancements for LCR TDD" is approved at the RAN#54 meeting.
This TR summarizes all the study results of the SI "HSPA Feedback and
Signalling Efficiency Enhancements for LCR TDD".
# 1 Scope
The present document summarizes the study results of the SI "HSPA Feedback and
Signalling Efficiency Enhancements for LCR TDD". The study results focus on
the following three study items.
(1) CQI feedback enhancement
  * Evaluate the impact the discontinuous CQI feedback will create
  * If needed, find out how to solve the problem the discontinuous CQI feedback will create
  * Evaluate how much gain will be obtained with the new methods.
(2) HSPA control channel efficiency optimisation
  * find out the new methods for increasing the HSPA control channel efficiency.
```{=html}
``` \- Evaluate how much gain will be obtained with the new methods.
(3) HSPA signalling enhancements for more efficient resource usage
  * find out the new methods for more efficient HSPA resource usage
  * Evaluate how much gain will be obtained with the new methods.
# 2 References
The following documents contain provisions which, through reference in this
text, constitute provisions of the present document.
\- References are either specific (identified by date of publication, edition
number, version number, etc.) or non‑specific.
\- For a specific reference, subsequent revisions do not apply.
\- For a non-specific reference, the latest version applies. In the case of a
reference to a 3GPP document (including a GSM document), a non-specific
reference implicitly refers to the latest version of that document _in the
same Release as the present document_.
[1] 3GPP TR 21.905: \"Vocabulary for 3GPP Specifications\".
[2] 3GPP TS 25.211: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (FDD)\".
[3] 3GPP TS 25.212: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (FDD)\".
[4] 3GPP TS 25.213: \"Spreading and modulation (FDD)\".
[5] 3GPP TS 25.214: \"Physical layer procedures (FDD)\".
[6] 3GPP TS 25.215: \"Physical layer -- Measurements (FDD)\".
[7] 3GPP TS 25.221: \"Physical channels and mapping of transport channels onto
physical channels (TDD)\"
[8] 3GPP TS 25.222: \"Multiplexing and channel coding (TDD)\".
[9] 3GPP TS 25.223: \"Spreading and modulation (TDD)\".
[10] 3GPP TS 25.224: \"Physical layer procedures (TDD)\".
[11] 3GPP TS 25.225: \"Physical layer -- Measurements (TDD)\".
[12] 3GPP TS 25.321: \"Medium Control (MAC) protocol specification\".
# 3 Definitions, symbols and abbreviations
## 3.1 Definitions
For the purposes of the present document, the terms and definitions given in
TR 21.905 [x] and the following apply. A term defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same term, if any, in TR 21.905
[x].
**example:** text used to clarify abstract rules by applying them literally.
## 3.2 Symbols
For the purposes of the present document, the following symbols apply:
\ \
## 3.3 Abbreviations
For the purposes of the present document, the abbreviations given in TR 21.905
[x] and the following apply. An abbreviation defined in the present document
takes precedence over the definition of the same abbreviation, if any, in TR
21.905 [x].
CQI Channel Quality Indicator
CRRI Code resource related information
DL Downlink
DPCH Dedicated Physical Channel
E-AGCH E-DCH Absolute Grant Channel
E-DCH Enhanced Dedicated Transport Channel
E-HICH E-DCH HARQ Acknowledgement Indicator Channel
E-PUCH Enhanced Uplink Physical Channel (TDD only)
E-TFC E-DCH Transport Format Combination
HSPA High Speed Packet Access
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access
HS-PDSCH High Speed Physical Downlink Shared Channel
HS-SCCH Shared Control Channel for HS-DSCH
HS-SICH Shared Information Channel for HS-DSCH
L1 Layer 1 (physical layer)
L2 Layer 2 (data link layer)
L3 Layer 3 (network layer)
PCCPCH Primary Common Control Physical Channel
PRRI Power resource related Information
RNC Radio Network Controller
TBS Transport Block Size
TDD Time Division Duplex
TDM Time Division Multplexing
UE User Equipment
UL Uplink
UMTS Universal Mobil Telecommunications System
UTRAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network
# 4 CQI feedback enhancement
## 4.1 Simulation assumptions for discontinuous CQI reporting
The cell parameters for evaluating the impacts of the discontinuous CQI
reporting are listed in the following table.
Table 1: Cell parameters
* * *
Parameters Values Bandwidth 1.6MHz Cell structure wrap-around/three sectors,
same frequency network Inter-site distance 500m UL: DL timeslots 2: 5
Transmission power of HS-PDSCH 30dBm Antenna types three sectors, directional
antenna UE Noise figure 7dB Propagation model Cost231 Hata model Shadow fading
standard deviation 8dB Scheduling algorithm PF Channel model PA3, VA30, VA60
Number of HS-SCCHs 1, 2 Number of UEs in each cell 1，4，8，16 Traffic model HTTP
Power control On Beam forming On Synchronization control On
* * *
## 4.2 Simulation results of existing CQI reporting method
Based on the simulation assumptions in Table 1, the simulation results for
both discontinuous CQI reporting (noted as D-CQI) and continuous CQI reporting
(noted as C-CQI) for PA3 are presented in Table 2, where D-CQI uses the
measured CQI value on HS-PDSCH for scheduling while C-CQI assumes the ideal
CQI value for scheduling. It is observed that the gain of C-CQI over D-CQI
increases with the increase in the number of UEs in a cell.
Table 2: Simulation results for D-CQI and C-CQI
* * *
                             1UE per cell   4UEs per cell   8UEs per cell
Throughput for D-CQI 574kbps 1082kbps 1139kbps Throughput for C-CQI 575kbps
1127kbps 1221kbps Gain of C-CQI over D-CQI 0.17% 4% 7%
* * *
## 4.3 New CQI reporting methods
The new methods for improving discontinuous CQI reporting are proposed below.
### 4.3.1 Method 1
When an HSDPA UE is not scheduled, it can't obtain the CQI from HS-PDSCH
according to the existing CQI reporting method. But it has other DL channels,
such as DPCH, E-AGCH, E-HICH and HS-SCCH. It can receive PCCPCH. UE can obtain
the CQI information from one of the other DL channel it has or it can receive.
Then UE can obtain the CQI information from another DL channel than HS-PDSCH
and send it to NodeB through the paired or assigned UL channel, where the
paired or assigned UL channel is defined as below.
1) paired UL channel for DL DPCH is: UL DPCH or non-scheduled E-PUCH;
2) paired UL channel for E-AGCH is: scheduled E-PUCH;
3) paired UL channel for E-HICH is: non scheduled E-PUCH;
4) paired UL channel for HS-SCCH is: HS-SICH;
5) assigned UL channel for PCCPCH: configured by RNC and informed by RNC to
both NodeB and UE.
UE can obtain the CQI information from another DL channel than HS-PDSCH
through the following steps:
> Step 1: obtain the received power of the corresponding DL channel: Ps
>
> Step 2: obtain the average power of the interference over the assigned DL
> timeslots by RNC: Pi. Typically, RNC assigns the DL timeslots included in
> the HS-PDSCH resource pool to UE.
>
> Step 3: obtain the SNR of the corresponding DL channel: SNR=10lg(Ps/Pi)
>
> Step 4: obtain the CQI information from SNR
>
> Step 5: send SNR directly or the CQI information to NodeB through the paired
> or assigned UL channel
### 4.3.2 Method 2
In order to improve discontinuous CQI reporting, _a new DL reference channel
(signal) for CQI measurement can be introduced. The detailed method is
described as below._
_Downlink reference channel (signal) can be introduced for HSDPA UEs to
perform CQI measurement. Each UE can be assigned a dedicated reference channel
(signal) or a common periodic reference channel (signal) that is TDM shared
among UEs. For example, standalone midambles can be used as reference signal._
_The reference channel (signal) can be transmitted by Round Robin algorithm
among all the UEs thus all the UEs get equal chances to perform CQI
measurement based on reference channel (signal). An optimal scheme is that the
transmission of reference channel (signal) is based on the scheduling of the
UE's HS-PDSCH. Before scheduling the UE's HS-PDSCH, the Node B sends reference
channel (signal) to the UE, and the UE performs CQI measurement and feeds back
the result to the Node B. Then the Node B transmits the UE's HS-PDSCH based on
the latest CQI feedback._
_As in the current HSPA, HS-SICH can be used to feed back the CQI measured
based on the reference channel (signal) while the timing between reference
channel (signal) and CQI feedback should be further considered and evaluated._
### 4.3.3 Method 3
Another method to improve discontinuous CQI reporting is to shorten CQI
feedback delay by scheduling implementation. The detailed method is described
as below.
_The Node B can shorten the CQI feedback delay by_ appropriate _scheduling
implementation._
_One scheme is that the Node B can firstly transmit HS-PDSCH with a small TBS
to the UE. After the UE feeds back CQI based on this HS-PDSCH, the Node B
schedules HS-PDSCH with a larger TBS to the UE thus the latter HS-PDSCH
transmission can benefit from the updated CQI information._
_Another similar scheme is that when a UE is to be scheduled, the Node B
schedules the UE in a continuous way so that the UE can receive HS-PDSCH in
several or tens of_ consecutive _subframes. In this way, most of the UE's HS-
PDSCH transmissions can make use of the latest CQI feedback._
## 4.4 Analysis and suggestions for future study
Whether or not the new methods are introduced need further study on the
following aspects:
(1) Gain and complexity of the new methods
(2) Impact on the 3GPP specifications and legacy UE and UTRAN implementation
# 5 HSPA control channel efficiency optimization
## 5.1 Target scenario for HSPA control channel efficiency optimization
For multi-carrier HSPA, the mapping relationship between the traffic channel
and the associated control channel limits the control channel efficiency. The
traffic channel and associated control channel are on the same carrier for
multi-carrier HSUPA. The mapping relationship between the traffic channel and
associated control channel is configured by RNC for multi-carrier HSDPA. When
no UE is scheduled on one carrier, the control channel associated with the
traffic channel on this carrier is spare. But it can't be used for the traffic
channel on another carrier.
## 5.2 New methods for HSPA control channel efficiency optimization
In order to solve the problem in the target scenario above, the carrier number
field is suggested to add on HS-SCCH/E-AGCH to indicate to UE the scheduled
carrier.
## 5.3 Analysis and suggestions for future study
The new method in section 5.2 can achieve flexible scheduling across carriers.
But it has significant impact on the L1 specifications. The potential gains
should be provided to justify the specification changes.
# 6 HSPA signalling enhancements for more efficient resource usage
## 6.1 Target scenarios for HSPA signalling enhancements
Three downlink target scenarios and one uplink target scenario for HSPA
signalling enhancements for more efficient resource usage are listed as
follows.
**[DL Scenario 1:]{.underline}**
The non-rectangular HS-PDSCH resources consist of channelization codes in TS0
and other downlink timeslot(s). Only partial channelization codes in TS0 can
be used as HS-PDSCH resources and the available channelization codes are semi-
static. An example of HS-PDSCH resource pool in DL Scenario 1 is illustrated
in Figure 6.1.
Figure 6.1 HS-PDSCH resource pool in DL Scenario 1
**[DL Scenario 2:]{.underline}**
The non-rectangular HS-PDSCH resources consist of channelization codes in the
timeslot where DL DPCH and/or DL control channels are configured and other
downlink timeslot(s). Only partial channelization codes in the timeslot where
DL DPCH and/or DL control channels are configured can be used as HS-PDSCH
resources and the available channelization codes may vary in different
subframes due to e.g. TDM of DPCH or increase/decrease of DPCH configuration.
An example of HS-PDSCH resource pool in DL Scenario 2 is illustrated in Figure
6.2.
Figure 6.2: HS-PDSCH resource pool in DL Scenario 2
**[DL Scenario 3:]{.underline}**
The non-rectangular HS-PDSCH resources consist of three rectangular resources,
i.e. channelization codes in timeslot 0, the timeslot where DL DPCH and/or DL
control channels are configured and other downlink timeslot(s). The available
channelization codes in TS0 are semi-static while the available channelization
codes in the timeslot where DL DPCH and/or DL control channels are configured
may vary in different subframes. An example of HS-PDSCH resource pool in DL
Scenario 3 is illustrated in Figure 6.3.
Figure 6.3: HS-PDSCH resource pool in DL Scenario 3
**[UL Scenario 1:]{.underline}**
The non-rectangular E-PUCH resources consist of OVSF codes in the timeslot
where UL DPCH and/or UL control channels are configured and other uplink
timeslot(s). Only partial OVSF codes in the timeslot where UL DPCH and/or UL
control channels are configured can be used as E-PUCH resources and the
available OVSF codes may vary in different subframes due to e.g. TDM of DPCH
or increase/decrease of DPCH configuration. An example of E-PUCH resource pool
in UL Scenario 1 is illustrated in Figure 6.4.
Figure 6.4: E-PUCH resource pool in UL Scenario 1
## 6.2 New methods for HSDPA signalling enhancements
The new methods for HSDPA signalling enhancements are given in the following
sections.
### 6.2.1 Method 1
In DL scenario 1 and DL scenario 2, the non-rectangular resource consists of
two rectangular resources: the first rectangular resource includes the entire
or partial resource in some DL timeslots while the second rectangular resource
includes some OVSF codes in the DL timeslot where DPCH and/or control channels
are configured.
In method 1, the timeslot information field on HS-SCCH keeps the existing
meaning unchanged but is used to indicate the timeslot information for the
first and second rectangular resources. The channelization code set
information field on HS-SCCH can be divided into two parts with one part
indicating the code information of the first rectangular resource and the
other part indicating the code information of the second rectangular resource.
For example, the part for the first rectangular resource has 0 or 2 bits to
indicate the code information of the first rectangular resource with the
minimum HS-PDSCH resource allocation grid as 1 SF=1 code (0 bits) or 1 SF=2
code (2 bits). The other part uses the left bits to indicate the code
information of the second rectangular resource.
When the part for the first rectangular resource has 0 bit, the other part can
use the entire code set information field to indicate the start and end codes
of the second rectangular resource. When the part for the first rectangular
resource has 2 bits, the other part can use the left bits to indicate the node
number of the second rectangular resource.
The code set information field has at least 6 bits. Therefore the other part
has at least 4 bits. Assume the node number indicated by the other part is n,
the HS-PDSCH resource allocated to UE can be defined as: (1) equal to this
node or (2) equal to B-n where B stands for 8 SF=8 OVSF codes in each timeslot
and B-n stand for all the left OVSF codes with the node n excluded. When RNC
configures the component timeslots of the second rectangular resource to both
NodeB and UE, RNC can select one definition between the above two definitions
and inform NodeB and UE of its selection.
Because only some SF=8 OVSF codes can be used in the second rectangular
resource, the node with SF=1 or SF=16 will not be used. Only 8 SF=8 nodes, 4
SF=4 nodes and 2 SF=2 nodes can be used in the second rectangular resource.
The total number of the available nodes is 14. In addition, two special nodes
can be defined to indicate 3 SF=8 OVSF codes with one for the first 3 SF=8
OVSF codes in each timeslot and the other for the last 3 SF=8 OVSF codes in
each timeslot. The other part of at least 4 bits can indicate to UE any node
among the above 14 available nodes and 2 special nodes.
In the HSDPA commercial use, when a timeslot is scheduled to a UE, all the
codes in this timeslot is allocated to this UE at the most scenarios.
Therefore, it's suggested that the part for the first rectangular resource is
0 bit.
Based on the above analysis, method 1 is summarized as below.
  * In DL, the component timeslots of the second rectangular resource are informed to both NodeB and UE by RNC.
  * In DL, the detailed timeslot and code information of the second rectangular resource are dynamically informed to UE on HS-SCCH through re-defining the channelization code set information field on HS-SCCH.
  * In DL, the channelization code set information field on HS-SCCH is used to indicate the start and end code of the second rectangular resource with the constraint that in the first rectangular resource all the codes in a timeslot are allocated to UE when this timeslot is scheduled to UE.
### 6.2.2 Method 2
Method 2 is applied to all DL scenarios. The detailed description is as below.
  * The channelization-code-set information (CCS) field on HS-SCCH only indicates the channelization code resource allocation in the specific timeslot.
  * The specific timeslot is the one with the maximum timeslot number in all the downlink timeslot scheduled to the UE in this subframe.
  * For the other timeslots except TS0, all the codes are allocated to the UE when the timeslot is scheduled.
  * For TS0, the CCS information is signalled to the UE via higher layer signalling.
  * In addition, the specific timeslot can be limited to a timeslot set. If the scheduled specific timeslot belongs to this set, the above non-rectangular resource allocation scheme is used. Otherwise, the legacy allocation method is effective, i.e. the CCS field in HS-SCCH indicates the same channelization code resources in all allocated timeslots.
## 6.3 New methods for HSUPA signalling enhancements
When a non-rectangular resource is allocated to UE in UL, how to define the
E-TFC selection and power grant needs studying. Therefore, in this section,
E-TFC selection and power grant for non-rectangular resource allocation are
defined first and then the new methods for HSUPA signalling enhancements are
given.
### 6.3.1 E-TFC selection and power grant
In order to be backward compatible with the existing E-TFC selection
procedure, it's better to send only one TB through non-rectangular resource
and reuse the existing E-TFC selection procedure to determine the size and
modulation scheme of this TB.
At present, the PRRI field on E-AGCH is used to send the power grant to UE,
where the power grant corresponds to the power offset of an SF=16 OVSF code.
It's better to keep the power grant definition unchanged in non-rectangular
resource allocation. But due to the fact that the different nodes may be
allocated to UE in the different UL timeslots, the E-PUCH transmission power
of each of the two rectangular resources needs to be calculated independently.
Based on the above analysis, the E-TFC selection and power grant for the non-
rectangular resource allocation is defined below:
  * In UL, only one TB is sent through non-rectangular resource. Reuse the existing E-TFC selection procedure to determine the size and modulation scheme of this TB.
  * In UL, the power grant definition that the power grant corresponds to the power offset of an SF=16 OVSF code keeps unchanged in non-rectangular resource allocation.
### 6.3.2 Method 1
Method 1 is described as below.
In the target scenario for UL, the non-rectangular resource consists of two
rectangular resources: the first rectangular resource includes the same node
in some UL timeslots while the second rectangular resource consists of the
partial OVSF codes in the UL timeslot where DPCH and/or control channels are
configured. It's better for RNC to tell NodeB and UE the UL timeslot where the
second rectangular resource is configured. The detailed timeslot and code
information of the second rectangular resource are dynamically indicated to UE
by E-AGCH.
In detail, the timeslot information field on E-AGCH keeps the existing meaning
unchanged but is used to indicate the timeslot information for the first and
second rectangular resources. The CRRI field on E-AGCH can be divided into two
parts with one part indicating the node information for the first rectangular
resource and the other part indicating the node information for the second
rectangular resource. For example, the part for the first rectangular resource
has 0 or 2 bits to indicate the node of the first rectangular resource with
the minimum E-PUCH resource allocation grid as 1 SF=1 code (0 bits) or 1 SF=2
code (2 bits). The other part uses the left bits of the CRRI field to indicate
the node of the second rectangular resource.
In the HSUPA commercial use, when a timeslot is scheduled to a UE, the node
with SF=1 is allocated to this UE at the most scenarios. Therefore, it's
suggested that the part for the first rectangular resource has 0 bit.
When the part for the first rectangular resource is 0 bits, the entire CRRI
field can be used to indicate the node of the second rectangular resource.
Because SF=1 and SF=16 can't be used in the second rectangular resource, only
8 SF=8 nodes, 4 SF=4 nodes and 2 SF=2 nodes can be used. There are totally 14
available nodes. Two special nodes can be defined to indicate 3 SF=8 OVSF
codes with one for the first 3 SF=8 OVSF codes in each timeslot and the other
for the last 3 SF=8 OVSF codes in each timeslot. The CRRI field can indicate
to UE any node among the above 14 available nodes and 2 special nodes.
Based on the above description, method 1 is summarized as below.
  * In UL, the component timeslots of the second rectangular resource are informed to both NodeB and UE by RNC.
  * In UL, the detailed timeslot and code information of the second rectangular resource are dynamically informed to UE on E-AGCH through re-defining the CRRI field on E-AGCH.
  * In UL, the CRRI field on E-AGCH is used to indicate the node of the second rectangular resource with the constraint that in the first rectangular resource all the codes in a timeslot are allocated to UE when this timeslot is scheduled to UE.
### 6.3.3 Method 2
Method 2 is described as below.
  * The code resource related information (CRRI) field on E-AGCH only indicates the channelization code resource allocation in the specific timeslot.
  * The specific timeslot is the one with the minimum timeslot number in all the uplink timeslot scheduled to the UE in this subframe.
  * For the other timeslots, all the codes are allocated to the UE when the timeslot is scheduled.
  * In addition, one reserved bit in E-AGCH can be used to indicate whether the method above is used.
## 6.4 Capability reporting
In order to keep backward compatible, UE/NodeB supporting non-rectangular
resource allocation needs to report its capability to RNC. The following
methods can be considered to report the capability:
  * UE/Node B reports the capability through RRC/NBAP signaling
When NodeB supports non-rectanguar resource allocation, RNC shall forward the
related UE capability information to NodeB. For the UE supporting non-
rectangular resource allocation, NodeB supporting non-rectangular resource
allocation can schedule the non-rectangular resource to it.
When NodeB supports non-rectangular resource allocation, RNC shall inform UE
supporting non-rectangular resource allocation of the related configuration
information to make UE analyze the control information on HS-SCCH/E-AGCH
correctly.
  * bundle non-rectangular resource capability of UE with the UE release information
With this method, RNC recognizes the non-rectangular resource capability of UE
through its release information.
## 6.5 Analysis and suggestions for future study
In order to improve UE peak rate and throughput, the new methods for HSPA
signalling enhancement for more efficient resource usage are recommended to be
specified. Further study should focus on the following aspects:
(1) Complexity of the new methods
(2) Impact on the 3GPP specifications and legacy UE and UTRAN implementation
#